EMIT pp22-35 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 24 Governance continued DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited financial leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts statements for the year ended 30th June 2016. of interest and other shareholder information is available on the Companys website at www.
co. uk There have been no material changes other than those reflected in these Management of the Company financial statements to this information requiring disclosure.
Any The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMorgan Funds Limited information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD JPMF, a company authorised and regulated by the FCA.
The active will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange through a primary management of the Companys assets is delegated by JPMF to an information provider.
affiliate, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The Manager is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank As an authorised AIFM, JPMF will make the requisite disclosures on which, through other subsidiaries, also provides marketing, banking, remuneration levels and polices to the FCA at the appropriate time.
dealing and custodian services to the Company.
Management and Performance Fees The Manager is employed under a contract which can be terminated on one years notice, without penalty, unless notice is given as a The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum of result of poor investment performance, in which case the contract the Companys total assets less current liabilities up to 800 million can be terminated on six months notice, without penalty.
If the and at the rate of 0.75% thereafter.
The fee is calculated and paid Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the monthly in arrears.
Investments on which JPMAM earns a fee are balance of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
excluded from the calculation and therefore attract no additional management fee.
The Board, through the Management Engagement Committee, conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an annual basis.
Until 30th June 2015, the Manager was entitled to receive a The evaluation includes consideration of the investment strategy performance fee equivalent to 10% of any outperformance of the and the process of the Manager, performance against the Companys net asset value NAV per share on an undiluted total benchmark and a relevant peer group over the long term and the return basis over the Companys benchmark index, the MSCI support the Company receives from JPMF.
The Company has Emerging Markets Index with net dividends reinvested, in sterling consistently outperformed its benchmark index over the long term terms.
With effect from 1st July 2015 the performance fee and as a result of the evaluation process, the Board confirms that it arrangement was terminated.
is satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Directors The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the year The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive are detailed on pages 22 to 23.
AIFMD Details of Directors beneficial shareholdings may be found in the JPMF is the Companys alternative investment fund manager Directors Remuneration Report on page 33.
No changes have been AIFM.
It is approved as an AIFM by the FCA.
For the purposes of reported to the Directors shareholdings since the year end.
the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment fund AIF.
In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all Directors JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day management will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, with the of the Companys portfolio to JPMAM.
The Company has appointed exception of Nigel Kenny who will stand down from the Board, being BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited BNY as its eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment.
BNY has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the Committee, having considered their qualifications, performance and Companys custodian.
BNY is responsible for the oversight of the contribution to the Board and its committees, confirms that each custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its cash flows.
Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to the role and the Board recommends to shareholders that they be investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material reappointed.
changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of each AIF.
An Investor Disclosure Document, which sets out information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, 24 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 EMIT pp22-35 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 25 Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Director Indemnification and Insurance At the year end, the following had declared a notifiable interest in As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors the Companys voting rights: have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholders Ordinary shares % The indemnities were in place during the year and as at the date of Lazard Asset Management LLC 30,374,287 23.9 this report.
City of London Investment An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which Management Company 24,374,472 19.0 indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain liabilities Wells Capital Management 6,968,032 5.2 arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against Derbyshire County Council 3,890,000 3.1 fraudulent or dishonest actions.
Subsequent to the year end, the following notifications have been received by the Company: Disclosure of information to Auditors In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Shareholders Ordinary shares % Company at the time when this report was approved: City of London Investment a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant Management Company 23,838,180 18.9 audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of Lazard Asset Management LLC 28,941,882 22.9 which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and The Company is also aware that approximately 5.7% of the b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of savings products managed by JPMorgan Asset Management and any relevant audit information and to establish that the registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
rights are not exercised by the beneficial holders, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the savings products, under certain The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in circumstances JPMorgan Asset Management has the right to accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies exercise those voting rights.
That right is subject to certain limits Act 2006. and restrictions and falls away at the conclusion of the relevant general meeting.
Independent Auditors The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of  LLP have expressed their willingness to Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a resolution to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are contained in proposing their reappointment and authorising the Directors to the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to Act 2006. shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Companies Act 2006 Requirements Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding The following disclosures are made in accordance with the their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Companies Act 2006.
Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover bid: Capital Structure and no agreements between the Company and its Directors The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside front concerning compensation for loss of office.
4R Voting Rights in the Companys shares Listing Rule 9.8.
4R requires the Company to include certain Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the date of information in the identifiable section of the Annual Report or this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual General across reference table indicating where the information is set out.
The Directors confirm that there are no disclosures to be made in this report.
25 EMIT pp22-35 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 26 Governance continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED date prior to the publication of this document.
The authority also Annual General Meeting sets minimum and maximum prices.
NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action If resolution 13 is passed at the AGM it is the Companys current you should take, you should seek your own personal financial intention to hold in Treasury any shares it may repurchase pursuant advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other to the authority granted to it for possible re-issue at a premium to financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and NAV.
This policy is kept under review by the Board.
The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Annual Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will General Meeting on pages 63 and 64.
Repurchases of ordinary be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM : shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share, i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining shares as and when pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 market conditions are appropriate.
The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to issue up to 6,291,215 new ordinary shares for cash up to an aggregate Recommendation nominal amount of 1,572,804 such amount being equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital excluding Treasury The Board considers that resolutions 11 to 13 are likely to promote shares as at the last practicable date before the publication of this the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the document.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors the Company in 2017 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares which amount in aggregate to36,500ordinary shares representing or to sell Treasury shares to investors when the Directors consider approximately 0.03% of the voting rights of the Company.
that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
As issues are only made at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys Corporate Governance administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a greater Compliance number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for investment The Company is committed to high standards of corporate in line with the Companys investment policies.
This statement, together with the Statement of The Company currently holds 6,539,224 shares in the capital of the Directors Responsibilities on page 35, indicates how the Company Company in Treasury.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the has applied the principles of good governance of the Financial Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 63.
Reporting Council 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of Corporate ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the UK Corporate resolution 13 Governance Code and provides a framework of best practice for The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys issued investment trusts.
ordinary share capital, granted by shareholders at the 2015 AGM will expire on 16th May 2017, unless renewed prior to that time.
The The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of Directors consider that the renewing of the authority is in the corporate governance and considers that the Company has interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate a discount to the underlying NAV enhances the NAV of the Governance Code and of the AIC Code throughout the year under remaining shares.
Resolution 13 gives the Company authority to repurchase its own Role of the Board issued ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that A management agreement between the Company and the Manager could be purchased to a maximum of: 18,861,062 ordinary shares, sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This representing approximately 14.99% of the Companys issued includes management of the Companys assets and the provision of ordinary shares as at 3rd October 2016 being the latest practicable accounting, company secretarial, administrative and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved for the approval 26 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board annual general meeting, in accordance with corporate governance for decision has been approved.
This includes determination and best practice.
The Board does not believe that length of service in monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and policy and itself necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment its future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the but, when making a recommendation, the Board takes into account capital structure, appointment and removal of third party service the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, providers, review of key investment and financial data and the including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
Companys corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts of formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for interest and, following the introduction of The Bribery Act 2010, has inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
confirms that the procedures have operated effectively during the year under review.
Induction and Training Anatole Kaletsky is a founding partner and chief economist of On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all Gavekal Dragonomics, whose clients include JPMorgan.
The Board Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are does not believe this connection influences Mr Kaletskys provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that affect independence as a Director of the Company.
the Company and the Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering issues and developments The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and additional relevant to investment trust companies.
Regular reviews of the meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is Directors training needs are carried out by the Chairman by means provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to of the evaluation process described below.
allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent Meetings and Committees professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
This The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to is in addition to the access that every Director has to the advice and committees.
All Directors are members of the committees, with the services of the Company Secretary, JPMF, which is responsible to exception of the Chairman who attends the Audit Committee by the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that invitation.
applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The table below details the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year, there were Board Composition five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, a Management The Board, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of six non-executive Engagement Committee meeting, a Nomination Committee meeting Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as independent of and a Remuneration Committee meeting.
the Companys Manager, including the Chairman.
The Directors have Management a breadth of investment knowledge, business and financial skills and Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination experience relevant to the Companys business and brief Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 22 and 23.
Director Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of Sarah Arkle 52 1 1 1 the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which Anatole Kaletsky 52 1 1 may be found below.
The Senior Independent Director leads the Nigel Kenny 52 1 1 1 evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is available to Richard Laing 52 1 1 1 shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through 1 Percy Mistry 31 11 1 discussion with the Chairman.
Andrew Page 52 1 1 1 2 Alan Saunders 52 1 1 1 Tenure 1 Retired 31st December 2015.
Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General 2 Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 30th October 2009.
Mr Saunders Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is now attends by invitation.
required that they be appointed by shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment is subject to the performance evaluation carried out each year and the approval of shareholders at each 27 EMIT pp22-35 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 28 Governance continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee Board Committees The Audit Committee, chaired by Nigel Kenny and whose Nomination Committee membership is set out on pages 22 and 23, meets at least twice The Nomination Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of each year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that they all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that the have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience to carry of the Committee.
At least one member of the Committee has out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable recent and relevant financial experience.
Richard Laing will succeed candidates for appointment when necessary.
The appointment Nigel Kenny as Chairman of the Audit Committee following Mr. process takes account of the benefits of diversity, including gender.
Kennys retirement at the forthcoming AGM.
With the retirement of Nigel Kenny at the forthcoming AGM, an independent third party, Trust Associates, has been employed to The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Manager conduct the search for a new Director.
Trust Associates have no in relation to the half year and annual accounts and the Companys connection with the Board or the Manager.
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of the receives information from the Managers Compliance department Board, its committees and individual Directors to ensure that all and also reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its cost Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external to the work of the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation of the auditors.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the independence and Board considers the balance of experience, skills, independence, objectivity of the auditors and is satisfied that the auditors are corporate knowledge, its diversity, including gender, and how it independent.
The Audit Committee also has the primary works together.
In the year under review, an independent evaluation responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the was undertaken by Lintstock, an independent consultancy.
reappointment and the removal of external auditors.
Lintstock, who have no connection with the Company or the Manager, produced a report at the conclusion of the process which During its review of the Companys financial statements for the year was then discussed by the Board.
The evaluation of individual ended 30th June 2016, the Audit Committee considered the Directors is led by the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director following significant issues, including those communicated by the leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
Auditors during their reporting: Remuneration Committee Significant issue How the issue was addressed The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of Going concern The Directors have considered the Companys all of the Directors and meets annually to review the levels of investment objective, risk management policies, remuneration of the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit capital management policies and procedures, the Committee, the Senior Independent Director and other Directors.
nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash This takes into account the level of fees paid to the directors of the flow projections.
As a result, they have determined Companys peers and within the investment trust industry generally that the Company has adequate resources, an to ensure that high quality individuals are attracted and retained.
appropriate financial structure and suitable Recommendations are made to the Board as and when appropriate.
management arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Alan Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in Saunders, consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed review the performance of the Manager.
investments in note 1 to the accounts on pages 45 to 47.
Controls are in place to ensure that valuations are The Committee conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on appropriate and existence is verified through an annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the custodian reconciliations.
investment strategy and process of the Investment Manager, noting Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken consistent outperformance of the benchmark over the long term, investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 e to the and the quality of support that the Company receives from JPMF.
As a result of the evaluation process, the Board confirms that it is Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the Sections 1158 and under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years interests of shareholders as a whole.
1159 Corporation Tax commencing on or after 1st October 2012 has been Act 2010 Section obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility 1158 and 1159 criteria is monitored on a regular basis.
28 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 EMIT pp22-35 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 29 The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial projections, the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place preparation of the financial statements.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they consider that there is reasonable evidence to As a result of the work performed, the Committee has concluded continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial that the Annual Report for the year ended 30th June 2016, taken statements.
They have not identified any material over a period of as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the at least twelve months from the date of these financial statements.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, and has Relations with Shareholders reported on these findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Responsibilities on page 35.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and performance and reports formally to Representatives of the Companys Auditors attended the Audit shareholders quarterly each year by way of the annual report and Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report & Accounts accounts and the half year report.
These are supplemented by the were considered and also engage with Directors as and when daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net required.
Having reviewed the performance of the external asset value of the Companys shares and the Companys level of Auditors, including assessing the quality of work, timing of Gearing.
communications and work with the Manager, the Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their reappointment.
All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged to The Board supported this recommendation which will be put to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in Board reviews and approves any non-audit services provided by the person to meet shareholders and answer their questions.
In independent auditors and assesses the impact of any non audit addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Manager who work on the ability of the auditors to remain independent.
The only reviews the Companys performance.
The Companys brokers, the non-audit work carried out by the auditors this year was in relation Investment Manager and the Manager hold regular discussions with to their member firms work on the Companys tax return in larger shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware of their Pakistan.
The Board has resolved that such non-audit work does not views.
The Chairman and Directors make themselves available as impact the independence of the auditors.
Details of the auditors and when required to address shareholder queries.
The Directors fees paid for audit and non audit services are disclosed in note6 on may be contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are page 49.
 have audited the Companys shown on page 69 or via the Companys website.
financial statements since its launch in 1991 and were reappointed The Companys annual report and accounts is published in time to following an auditor review in 2013.
The Companys year ended give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual 30th June 2016 is the current Audit Partners second of a five year General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in maximum term.
The Company will need to appoint a different audit advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit questions via the firm to succeed  in 2020.
Companys website or write to the Company Secretary at the Terms of Reference address shown on page 69.
A formal process is in place for all The Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Management letters to the Directors to be immediately forwarded.
As part of this Engagement Committees all have written terms of reference which process, any feedback from shareholders is also communicated to define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of which are the Board.
available on the Companys website and for inspection on request at Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be the Companys registered office and at the Companys Annual published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual General Meeting.
Going Concern Risk Management and Internal Control The Directors believe that having considered the Companys The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at least investment objective see page 18, risk management policies see annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of pages 55 to 60, capital management policies and procedures see risk management and internal control and to report to shareholders pages 60 to 61, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure 29 EMIT pp22-35 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 30 Governance continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED that they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, management and internal control by monitoring the operation of which the Board has identified as including business, financial, the key operating controls of the Manager and its associates as operational, compliance and risk management.
follows: The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives management and internal control which is designed to safeguard regular reports from the Managers Compliance department: the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations of its ensure that financial information used within the business, or custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself independently published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed reviewed: and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but reviews every six months an independent report on the risk not absolute, assurance against fraud, material misstatement or management and internal controls and the operations of the loss.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMF and that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of its associates, the Companys system of risk management and risk management and internal control for the year ended 30th June internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided 2016 and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and by the Manager and its associates, including the operating controls Accounts.
established by them, to ensure that they meet the Companys The Board confirms that any failings or weaknesses identified business objectives.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, during the course of its review of the system of risk management evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company and internal control were not significant and did not affect the see Principal Risks on pages 20 and 21.
This process has been in Company.
place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts, and it accords with the Financial Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Reporting Councils guidance.
The Company does not have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM through department of the Manager.
This arrangement is kept under review.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on corporate governance, voting policy and social and The key elements designed to provide effective risk management environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the and internal control are as follows: Board.
Details on social and environmental issues are included in Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the the Strategic Report on page 20.
Board of key investment and financial data, including management Corporate Governance accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our performance comparisons.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and custodian investment performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, whose companies in which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of responsibilities are clearly defined in a written agreement.
corporate governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure and voting structure of the companies in which we Management Systems The Managers system of risk management invest, as well as the board balance, oversight functions and and internal control includes organisational agreements which remuneration policy.
These analyses then form the basis of our proxy clearly define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control voting and engagement activity.
These are monitored by the Managers Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance with Proxy Voting FCA rules.
JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, keeps So far as is practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings called by under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk companies in which we are invested.
30 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 EMIT pp22-35 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 31 Stewardship Engagement JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: monitor their investee companies: establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: and report to clients.
JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from JPMAMs website: http: www.
co. uk governance, which also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting record.
By order of the Board Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Funds Limited, Company Secretary 4th October 2016 31
