EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 3 Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Performance After a period of prolonged weakness, emerging markets rallied strongly from January onwards but were still down on the year in local currency terms.
However, in sterling terms, investors received a positive return as a result of the sharp fall in sterling in the week after the UKs EU referendum.
Taking account of those currency fluctuations, for the year to 30th June 2016, your Company produced a return on net assets of 12.7%.
This compares very favourably with the benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index in sterling terms, which returned 3.5%.
Stock selection was again the most significant positive factor, adding approximately 7% in relative performance over the past 12 months, thus further enhancing the Companys excellent long term performance record.
The graph on page2 illustrates that the Company is significantly ahead of the benchmark over three, five and ten years.
The return to ordinary shareholders was 9.3%, reflecting a widening of the discount over the year, from 10.7% to 13.2%.
The post-referendum fall in sterling widened the discount out by increasing net assets in sterling terms.
The share price tends to follow these fluctuations with a lag.
As I explained in the Companys half year report, the Board had always emphasised capital growth as its investment objective.
Given that the benchmark we aim to beat is a total return benchmark i. e. capital gains plus income reinvested, we restated that policy to a total return objective.
I would reiterate that this has not, and will not, result in any change in the way in which the portfolio is managed.
Revenue and Dividends Historically, the Company allocated 100% of its management fees and finance costs to the Companys revenue account.
As disclosed in the half year report, the Board reconsidered this policy in the light of the investment returns from the Companys portfolio and the expected split of returns between capital and income in the coming years.
As a result, it decided to charge 70% of the Companys management fees and finance expenses to capital with effect from 1st July 2015.
On this revised basis, the revenue return per share for the year was 9.49p on the old basis it would have been 5.1p.
This change in expense allocation will increase the potential for dividend increases over time, but of course dividends will still fluctuate in line with underlying earnings.
As a result of the increased earnings per share, we propose to increase the dividend from 6.0p to 9.0p.
This is subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM.
This increase reflects, on a one-off basis, the change in allocation policy.
Our earnings are affected by currency fluctuations and future dividends will be in line with earnings.
Discount and Share Repurchases We continue to monitor closely the share price and therefore the discount of our share price to the net asset value.
The share price rose 5.6% over the year, from 587.0p to 635.0p at the year end.
The discount ranged between 8.5% and 14.7%, averaging 11.4% through the year.
The Boards policy on discount management remains unchanged it is prepared to take action to try to ensure that the discount does not exceed 10% for an extended period, but only if the discount is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
As we have done in the past, we are prepared to buy shares in at discounts of between 8% and 10% in order to achieve this, subject to those caveats.
During the first six months of the financial year, the Company repurchased a total of 200,000 shares into Treasury.
However, as reported at the half year, volatility then picked up and sentiment deteriorated, markets were far from orderly and we stepped back from further purchases.
