EMIT pp22-35 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 22 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Alan Saunders Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee A Director since May 2002.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2015.
An Independent Investment Consultant with Allenbridge Epic Investment Solutions Limited.
Mr Saunders was formerly Chief Economist at Royal Dutch Shell and also held senior investment roles in both Lazards and the Private Banking Division of UBS A. G. He is currently independent investment adviser to Dorset County Council Pension Scheme and is a trustee of two corporate pension schemes.
He sits on the Insurance Investment Strategy Committee of Lloyds Bank Insurance and on the With Profits Committee of Scottish Widows and Clerical & Medical insurance companies.
He also sits on the Performance Oversight Committee of CBRE Global Investors, the UK property fund managers.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Shareholding in Company: 6,000 Ordinary shares.
Anatole Kaletsky A Director since September 2003.
Chief Economist of Gavekal Dragonomics, a Hong Kong based company which provides economic analysis and asset management services to financial institutions around the world and Committee Member of Open Society Foundations Investment Committee.
Formerly Editor at Large at The Times of London.
Economic commentator for Reuters and the New York Times.
Connections with Manager: Mr. Kaletsky is a founding partner and Chief Economist of Gavekal Dragonomics, whose clients include JPMorgan.
Shareholding in Company: 10,000 Ordinary shares.
Nigel Kenny Chairman of the Audit Committee, Senior Independent Director A Director since September 2008.
A founding partner of emerging markets private equity company Sabre Capital.
He is currently an independent non-executive director of UC Rusal Ltd, the worlds largest producer of aluminium and alumina products, and a non-executive director of First City Monument Bank Plc, a bank listed on the Nigerian stock exchange.
He was previously an independent non-executive director of PartyGaming Plc.
Between 1992 and 2002 Mr Kenny held a number of senior positions at Standard Chartered Bank, including Group Head of Operations, Corporate and Institutional Banking and Finance Director.
Prior to that he spent 14 years with Chase Manhattan Bank.
Shareholding in Company: 3,500 Ordinary shares.
22 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 EMIT pp22-35 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 23 Sarah Arkle A Director since September 2013.
Non-executive director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc, Henderson Group plc and a member of the Newnham College Cambridge Investment Committee.
She was previously an advisor to the South Yorkshire Pension Fund and was Chief Investment Officer of Threadneedle Asset Management where she held a number of other senior positions.
Richard Laing A Director since January 2015.
Non-executive director of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, Miro Forestry, Leeds Castle Foundation and 3i Infrastructure plc.
He is also a trustee of The Overseas Development Institute and Plan UK.
Previously finance director of fide La Rue plc and from 2000 until 2012 worked for CDC Group plc where he was finance director and latterly chief executive officer.
Formerly a non-executive director of London Metal Exchange, Aureos Capital, Madagascar Oil Limited and Emerging Markets Private Equity Association, where he was chairman of the Advisory Council.
Andrew Page A Director since January 2015.
Chairman of Northgate plc, senior independent director of Carpetright plc and a director of The Schroder UK Mid Cap Fund plc.
He was senior independent director at Arena Leisure plc from 2008 until 2012.
He retired as chief executive of The Restaurant Group plc TRG in September 2014 after thirteen years with TRG.
Prior to joining TRG, he held a number of senior positions in the leisure and hospitality industry including senior vice president with InterContinental Hotels.
Andrew trained and qualified as a chartered accountant with KPMG following which he was a corporate financier with Kleinwort Benson.
Shareholding in Company: 5,000 Ordinary shares.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Considered by the Board to be independent 23
