EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 5 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT Results In June, with a week to go until the end of your Companys financial year end, I was preparing to write a report explaining why emerging markets had been a tough place to be invested, for anyone who measures returns in sterling.
But the referendum on the UKs EU membership led to a sharp fall in the pound, so all foreign assets became suddenly more valuable: in the end emerging markets finished the twelve months to 30th June 2016 with a modest gain, the benchmark index producing a return of 3.5%.
By comparison, the Companys total return on net assets was 12.7%.
The total return on the share price was a little less, at 9.3%, because the discount to NAV widened during the year, in spite of periodic repurchases of shares.
The investment manager contribution, which describes the return from the portfolio before all costs relative to the return of the benchmark index, was 10.2%.
This is a good result from our perspective.
More than two thirds of this difference in returns came from our choices of individual stocks within countries.
Some of those companies in banking and IT services which I highlighted in last years report were among the contributors to this years performance, but other good outcomes came from a diverse range of investments in companies engaged in activities from fuel distribution in Brazil to the production of shampoo and washing powder in Indonesia, with many other things in between.
The past year This was a year with plenty of macroeconomic noise, but few consistent trends.
Commodity prices fell and then later rallied: the Chinese stock market, which had soared in the first half of 2015, fell sharply from the summer onwards: the US raised interest rates, but only once and only by a little: emerging market currencies weakened and then recovered.
If I were a football commentator I might say that it has been a year of two halves.
The first six months were marked by ever-increasing gloom about the prospects for emerging markets, for reasons which I set out in the interim report written at the half-year stage.
And yet as so often, the more pessimistic everyone becomes, the more the markets already reflect their fears, so any change for the better immediately drives prices higher.
From their low point in mid-January, emerging markets rose by more than 30% in sterling by the end of June.
Admittedly this was partly due to the decline of sterling, but other things gradually improved: commodity prices stopped falling: emerging market currencies recovered: even in the political arena, things began to shift and change in countries like Argentina and Brazil.
China remained something of a laggard during this rebound, but some Chinese companies have seen their share prices reach all-time highs in the last few months and the general divergence between new industries like internet services and old industries like cement and construction has become ever more marked.
Against this background the results from the portfolio were really too diverse to capture succinctly.
Good companies often prosper when times are difficult and many of the businesses owned in the portfolio reported excellent results during the last year regardless of the general economic context in which they operated.
This is exactly what we had hoped for, so it was encouraging to see it playing out in practice.
We like investments that are very specific stories, where our investment case rests on a belief that a company enjoys a sustainable advantage over its competitors and can grow its intrinsic value over time by outperforming or displacing others.
Such opportunities exist in many industries and many countries, but to capture them we need a particular mind-set, which prioritises certain 5 EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 6 Strategic Report continued INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED factors in the decision-making process: and we also need to keep explaining what we do, which is the subject of the next part of this commentary.
What you can expect Our clients cannot choose the products that suit them unless we can tell them, before they make their choice, what to expect.
I hope that shareholders are familiar with the investment approach that we have applied to your Companys portfolio, but even so, it is worth restating very simply three things that you can expect from the portfolio that we manage on your behalf.
First, you can expect low turnover of investments: we do not trade the portfolio aggressively and we own the same stocks for long periods of time.
I think this approach makes sense for two reasons.
The first reason is that all transactions carry a cost, so the more we change the portfolio, the bigger the drag on investment returns and in the long run this really matters: I do not think that passing ever-greater amounts of money to intermediaries is in your interests as shareholders.
The second and more positive reason is that we want to capture the power of compounding, which in the long run dwarfs everything: so we have to stay invested in companies long enough to benefit from it: this means years and sometimes even decades, not months or weeks.
I never start the year with a level of investment turnover in mind and I do not expect it to be the same every year either: this past year the portfolio was very stable, even by our past standards.
Second, you can expect that we will often own the same kinds of businesses.
Because we are always looking for the same attributes in our investments, we tend to find them repeatedly in some areas and rarely if ever in others.
We like companies with good economics return on capital, cash generation, good duration strong competitive position, low risk of obsolescence and good governance good capital allocation, protective of shareholders interests.
More simply, you could say that we want be able to answer yes to three questions: does a company generate value?
can it go on generating value?
and will the value accrue to the shareholders?
Because we are always looking for these characteristics, your portfolio has had very persistent biases towards certain industries and countries, and is likely to do so in the future.
I comment in more detail below about the kinds of investments we typically like.
Third, and perhaps most important, you can expect that the portfolios results will not be the same as the benchmark index.
Sometimes they will be worse: but we cannot take a long term view of investments while simultaneously worrying about the short term and we are always going to choose the long term over the short term, because we think that in the end we will provide better outcomes this way.
I believe we should always reiterate this point, and the most important time to communicate it is not when performance has been bad, but when it has been good.
So although it is great to be able to report a year of solid outperformance, you should not expect that we can match the last years relative performance every year, though of course we will do our best: and we wont change our approach when short term performance is more difficult, any more than we would when it is going well.
What we have invested in In last years commentary I wrote about some of the clusters of investments that we have in the portfolio, including IT services and certain bank shares.
There are other similar exposures that form important parts of the portfolio: we have roughly a quarter of the 6 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 7 PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30TH JUNE 2016 %% Contributions to total returns Benchmark 3.5 Asset allocation 2.9 Stock selection 7.0 Gearing Cash 0.3 Investment Manager contribution 10.2 Portfolio return 13.7 Management fee Other expenses 1.2 Share buyback 0.2 Return on net assets 12.7 Return to ordinary shareholders 9.3 Source: B-One JPMAM Morningstar.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
A glossary of terms and definitions is provided on page 66. portfolio invested in the consumer sector, mostly in companies producing or selling staple products like food and beverages.
Successful consumer brand companies are one of the best fits against our investment criteria: they tend to be cash generative, they tend to last a long time and they are relatively immune both to inflation and to interference by governments.
It is not an accident that in both the developed world and in emerging markets, consumer staples as a sector has consistently delivered better results than broader market indices and you can expect that we will continue to have plenty of money invested in this area.
Of course no industry stands still and the companies we invest in have to adapt to the effects of technology and competition: but the ability to create brand value and produce pricing power is an unusual and valuable feature in a business and the portfolio contains several investments with dominant market positions and long brand heritage which should be able to translate these strengths into cash flows for many years to come.
Among other things, the portfolio holds shares in the leading beer companies in both Latin America and India: both Ambev and United Breweries can trace their roots back to the nineteenth century, a good sign of corporate durability.
They also both have a market share in their home country which is bigger than all their competitors combined.
In both cases, management still needs to deliver and stay ahead of the pack: but companies like these have a formidably strong base from which to face the future.
7 EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 8 Strategic Report continued INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED While the future looks good for consumer product companies, life is becoming more complicated for retail companies: over the years we have successfully owned retail businesses in several countries including Mexico, South Africa and Turkey where the formal retail industry has emerged over the last couple of decades to dominate a previously informal and highly fragmented retail landscape.
But the internet is opening up new ways of delivering products as well as services and we can expect more change to come.
For some kinds of retail business this is not a serious threat: the basis of a convenience store business is convenience: consumers who need to pick up a couple of items on the way home are not going to order a pint of milk or a loaf of bread online for delivery later.
We have been invested for several years in the leading convenience store operators in Taiwan President Chain Store and Russia Magnit, believing them to be very cash-generative and stable businesses with large and growing competitive advantages.
Fast food chains the portfolio owns shares in the leading companies in both Hong Kong and the Philippines are also relatively resilient, but there are other parts of the retail industry where the challenges will be harder to deal with: so it would not be surprising in the long run to see our consumer exposure more heavily slanted towards products rather than services.
What we are thinking about There are also areas we are very interested in but which do not feature heavily in the portfolio today: one obvious example is healthcare.
This is an industry which, like consumer staples, has delivered much better returns over the long run than overall equity markets, whether you look at the developed world or at emerging markets.
Given demographic trends and ageing populations, demand growth seems very likely to continue for a long time: the challenge for us is only at the individual stock level can we find businesses making good returns and can we navigate the policy uncertainty and political sensitivities which beset the industry in many countries?
Nowhere is this more relevant than in China, where fundamental reforms of the healthcare system are required, which may create both big winners and big losers: at the moment, most companies in the Chinese healthcare sector combine significant policy risk with relatively high valuations, but this can always change.
Innovation continues to change the landscape of the pharmaceutical industry too and countries like Korea are becoming serious players in the biotechnology industry, with a lot of entrepreneurial activity evident.
So there is plenty to interest us here and if we can find compelling individual stocks, we could have significantly more exposure to this industry in the future.
Entrepreneurial activity in the biotech sector brings me to the last thing that I want to mention, which is the need to make sure that we have exposure to entrepreneurial value creation in the portfolio.
Entrepreneurs build businesses and entrepreneurial wealth creation is different from the activity of maintaining and developing an existing franchise: it involves more risk: almost by definition it rejects the existing consensus: it is often the product of a single dominant personality.
These things usually make me instinctively cautious as an investor: over-confidence is a common trap to fall into and the benefit of hindsight can easily distort ones view of the likely chances of success.
Nevertheless, some of the portfolios big successes in the past have come from backing entrepreneurs and when the risk reward payoff looks very interesting, we will continue to do this.
One of the most difficult things in making investment decisions of all kinds, I think, is to frame the decision clearly in the first place, and then to hold on to the original premise at times when it is not working.
The more volatile and unpredictable the business, the harder this is to do and this applies especially to the most entrepreneurial businesses, so we need to be really clear about what our view is based on.
When we invest in entrepreneurial businesses and the internet sector is an obvious example of this, though not the only one we will not always 8 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 9 know what the final outcome looks like: often, we are taking a view based mostly on people, in conjunction with a promising opportunity to do something better than the existing players.
But as J. P. Morgan himself is said to have remarked in a phrase which nicely summarises the tension between risk and opportunity that exists in every investment, go as far as you can see: when you get there, you will be able to see farther.
The year ahead I am often asked about my view of emerging markets and while I usually manage some response, in truth I find this an impossibly broad question: it is rather like being asked for my view of the world.
Taking this down to the level of individual countries does not help much, because even unappealing countries can have some big winners at the corporate level, while the most successful economies will always have their share of outright failures.
So the best answer that I can offer is that I am optimistic about the future because there is always opportunity: all we need to do is to see it.
Sometimes this appears relatively difficult, at other times it can seem easier.
From my perspective, all the important judgements are made about individual companies.
I meet corporate managers and owners regularly and am often impressed by what they achieve, sometimes working in more challenging and difficult business environments than we can easily imagine.
I am also fortunate to have the resources of a large organisation and a large team to help me.
Opportunities, like buses, tend to arrive in groups and when I do not see any coming, I tend to leave the portfolio more or less unchanged: but in the long run, there will always be winners as well as losers, which is really all that we require in order to look positively at the future.
Austin Forey Investment Manager 4th October 2016 9
