OUR STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE Delivering value to clients OUR PRIMARy FOCUS The chart below shows three-year investment performance for our ten biggest Jupiter is focused on delivering value to our funds, each of which has more than 1bn of clients through investment outperformance assets.
This shows the benefit of our strategy after fees.
Clients typically see three years to diversify by product type, with a range of as the key period for measuring investment 1 different bond, equity and multi-asset funds performance.
At 31 December 2016, 23 of contributing to our strong investment our mutual funds, representing 66% of our performance this year.
INVESTMENT mutual fund AUM, had delivered abovemedian performance over three years 2015: OUTPERFORMANCE 27 mutual funds, representing 68% of mutual fund AUM.
Within this, 61% of our mutual fund AUM achieved first quartile performance.
Over one year, 21 mutual funds representing 55% of mutual fund AUM were first or second quartile 2015: 31 mutual funds, representing 84% of mutual fund AUM.
Investment performance in our largest mutual funds m This chart breaks down the AUM, 2016 net flows and three year investment performance for mutual funds with AUM in excess of 1bn.
66% 4th 3rd 2nd 1st AUM at yTD 3 years of our mutual fund Fund name Dec 2016 net flows returns quartile quartile quartile quartile Dynamic Bond 6,209m 1,776m 12% AUM performing European 3,780m 56m 37% above the median Strategic Bond 3,407m 542m 13% Merlin Income 3,169m 958m 15% over three years Income Trust 2,283m 26m 27% Merlin Growth 1,961m 222m 32% European Growth 1,655m 302m 30% Merlin Balanced 1,655m 101m 29% Three year performance UK Special Sits 1,525m 26m 27% percentage of our AUM above median % 61 UK Growth 1,446m 148m 9% 5 2016 Source: Jupiter Performance Analytics Equities Multi asset Fixed income 34 The bars in the graph show our current quartile ranking and the vertical bar shows our position as at 30 June 2016 2015 34 21 2014 30 1st Quartile 2nd Quartile 20 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The charts below demonstrate our ability to This culture helps avoid concentrations of generate outperformance after fees against risk and managers are able to employ their the market and passive funds.
This is an own individual strategies.
As an illustration, illustration focusing on our equity funds: in the run up to the UKs referendum on EU it is not intended to be a comprehensive membership, our investment managers and comparison.
The first chart compares the analysts were empowered to position their performance of 17 Jupiter equity-only funds strategies as they saw appropriate and against other active funds, index funds and within the Risk Management framework.
benchmark huggers, which are notionally As a result, our funds did not respond to the active funds whose performance is highly Brexit decision in a uniform way.
Whilst some correlated with their index.
Over five years, funds were negatively impacted, others we have outperformed other active funds were more neutral or were positively in sectors where we have a presence and impacted.
significantly beaten indexed funds and We continued to recruit experienced benchmark huggers, after accounting investment professionals during 2016. for fees.
Specifically, we hired a Head of Investments, The second chart compares the annualised Alternatives who has responsibilty for performance of a range of individual Jupiter developing our capability in this funds against their sectors.
These are the  asset class.
We also eight largest equity funds that have a five recruited a lead emerging market debt year performance history.
When compounded manager, adding significantly to our over five years, this outperformance after expertise in this area.
fees adds considerable value for our clients.
Careful succession planning is crucial for Equivalent three year charts would maintaining our investment performance.
In May, Dan Carter became lead manager External research also demonstrates the of the Jupiter Japan Income Fund, having quality of our investment performance.
previously been the funds deputy manager.
In January 2017, Ignites Europe analysed Our product specialists play an important Morningstar ratings, which measure role in communicating with distribution risk-adjusted performance relative to peers.
partners and other third parties and also Jupiter ranked fifth out of the 50 largest freeing up fund manager time to enable active fund houses in Europe.
them to focus on their core deliverables.
Our culture is a key differentiator for us, We added three product specialists in the enabling us to attract, motivate and year, to support strategic areas of growth: retain talented individuals, which in turn UK equities: global emerging markets and drives outperformance.
We give autonomy Asia: and fixed income and multi-asset coupled with personal accountability, and funds.
These hires bring our product encourage independence of thought specialist team to full strength.
Five year AUM weighted performance % Five year fund performance after fees % 15 20 18 13.5 18 13.3 17 16 12.0 16 11.8 14 14 14 13 13 13 13 10 13 12 12 11 11 10 10 10 10 8 7 5 6 6 5 4 2 2 0 0 JupiterActive Index Benchmark Jupiter Jupiter Jupiter Jupiter Jupiter UK Jupiter Jupiter Jupiter Jupiter Jupiter Funds Funds Huggers European Strategic Income European Special UK European Absolute India Japan ex-Jupiter Bond Trust Growth Situations Growth Special Return income Situations Source: Morningstar Direct as at 31 December 2016 Returns are annualised, base currency, to 31 December 2016 Jupiter Fund Index Source: Morningstar Direct.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 OUR STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE ASSET GROwTh In 2016, we had positive flows of 0.2bn in segregated mandates.
We won business Turning performance into fund inflows drives in the UK and Germany, and are gaining our growth.
Despite a backdrop of market traction in Asia.
We see opportunities to uncertainty and restrained activity for much expand our presence in the institutional of 2016, our mutual fund franchise delivered 2 market, both in the UK and internationally.
net inflows of 0.9bn for the year.
This was We are investing further in the build out of lower than in 2015, but the 9% increase in our institutional proposition, and this will EFFECTIVE gross inflows was encouraging, despite the continue into 2017. lower net impact.
DISTRIBUTION To enter new geographical markets, we Sales performance continued to benefit from draw on our existing relationships with large our strategy of geographical diversification, distribution partners such as international with around half of gross inflows and all of banks.
Once we are established, we add local our net inflows coming from our international distribution around these global networks, in operations.
As a result, our SICAV AUM line with our strategy to diversify our business continued to grow and stood at 9.4bn at by client type.
In 2016, we opened a branch 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: in Italy, which is one of the largest markets in 6.9bn, representing 26.8% of our mutual Europe for cross-border mutual fund flows.
We have hired two senior salespeople in Italy, The table below breaks down our net flows who bring with them extensive relationships by product type: with key distribution partners in the Italian market.
We also opened a branch in Spain, Net inflows outflows by product m 2016 2015 with our former tied agent in the country becoming a Jupiter employee, and recruited Mutual funds 859 2,099 1.0bn a second salesperson to work alongside him.
Segregated Net inflows mandates 207 230 Our growth in Germany, Switzerland and Investment trusts 19 74 Austria demonstrates the success of our geographical expansion strategy.
We now 1,047 1,943 have 2.8bn of AUM in these three countries, The most significant inflows to our mutual compared with just 0.6bn five years ago.
funds came in fixed income and absolute In Germany we continued to expand our return strategies.
In the UK, we continued distribution this year, with our salespeople Net inows m to see strong gross inflows, but these also visiting banks and financial advisers around suffered outflows in fund of funds and the country, and attending conferences and 1,047 2016 European strategies.
Our UK gross sales roadshows.
In Switzerland we have new staff market share in fixed income strategies who are focused on the Zurich market.
2015 1,943 increased from 5.4% in 2015 to 8.8% in 2016, In Asia, private banks continued to be our and from 6.8% in 2015 to 9.1% in 2016 in 2014 860 main distribution partners and provided us cross-border markets.
We have been with strong inflows.
During 2016, a large promoting our absolute return strategy international bank, appointed at the end and it resulted in our UK gross sales market of 2015, became our largest distribution share rising from 0.6% in 2015 to 2.2% in partner in Asia.
We continue to target the 2016: a SICAV was launched in 2016 for retail market in Hong Kong and successfully the cross-border markets.
signed two retail distribution partners this Our AUM increased by 3.8bn through market year.
In addition, we ran outdoor and digital and exchange rate movements, resulting in campaigns to raise the profile of our brand.
total AUM at the year end of 40.5bn During the year, we continued to enhance 31 December 2015: 35.7bn.
The table below our investment offering in sectors with breaks down our AUM by product type: accessible scale, where we believe we Assets under can add value through investment management by 31 December 31 December product bn 2016 2015 outperformance.
New products included the Asian Income Fund, a UK Dynamic Growth Mutual funds 35.2 31.2 Fund, a Global Ecology Diversified Fund and Segregated an Absolute Return SICAV to complement mandates 4.2 3.5 the successful unit trust.
The Asian Income Investment trusts 1.1 1.0 Fund was the most successful equity unit 40.5 35.7 trust launched in the UK during the year, with assets of 0.3bn at the year end.
Our distribution strategy is built around our distribution partners.
In the UK, we continue Our strategy of product diversification has to evolve our sales team to ensure it works proved highly successful in recent years.
This allows us to At the end of 2016 we had ten funds with focus appropriate resource on our larger assets of more than 1bn, with total assets relationship partners, while ensuring we between them of 27.1bn.
This compares provide the right level of support across all with six funds over 1bn at the end of 2012, our distribution partners.
We have also with assets of 12.5bn.
Our growth in fixed looked to increase the number of products income has been particularly notable.
At selected by distribution partners, by the year end, assets in our Strategic and effectively communicating the breadth and Dynamic Bond Funds totalled 9.6bn, quality of our product range.
compared with 0.2bn five years earlier.
22 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SCAlABlE OPERATING MODEl Efficient operations depend as much on people as they do on systems and Our adjusted EBITDA margin was down processes.
During the year, we hired slightly at 49% in 2016, 2015: 51% but experienced people to augment our existing remains in line with our target across the talent.
The new hires were primarily in cycle.
This reflected the resilience of our 3 investment operations, to support growing business model, despite changeable market areas such as fixed income and institutional conditions during the year, and some business, and within our technology EFFICIENT increases in fixed costs.
This has enabled us to reduce the our office move, the full-year impact of OPERATIONS number of consultants and contractors we the costs associated with the Groups employ, improving efficiency and helping us management of its SICAV funds and to retain knowledge and skills within Jupiter.
investment in our operating model, including regulatory change.
We also implemented a We have also continued to invest in our number of cost discipline measures in the IT infrastructure.
This included further year to help maintain our profitability.
More enhancements to our virtual servers, to information on our performance can be increase cost efficiency, as well as ongoing found in the Financial Review.
investment in scaling our network and in cyber security.
Our key focus in 2016 was defining the requirements for the next stage of We continue to use third party outsourced development of our scalable operating service providers for critical parts of our platform.
This development programme fund operations.
will take place through 2017 and into 2018.
Our move to the Zig Zag building at the 49% The tools we will introduce will enhance end of 2015 is delivering the benefits we flexibility, supporting growth in our product expected.
It offers a high-quality working Adjusted EBITDA suite and enabling us to respond efficiently environment and has considerably improved to changing regulation.
This helps our It will also streamline the sharing of data people to exchange ideas, which is a key across our business functions and introduce part of our investment culture, as well as an enhanced set of tools which will use that helping our functions to work effectively data to perform functions throughout the together.
investment and client service lifecycle.
For Corporate Fitness is our approach to EBITDA margin % example, it will give our fund managers helping our people work in a better, faster better portfolio modelling tools and make and more agile way.
It includes principles 49 2016 it easier and faster to change investment and guidance to help them manage their weightings across multiple portfolios.
In time and work life balance and to delegate 2015 51 addition, it will enhance our risk oversight, effectively.
It also encourages our people to giving us an immediate and comprehensive focus on the output and impact of their 2014 51 analysis of all our risk positions.
Corporate Fitness is now fully While we will begin the implementation embedded into our culture and is working phase in 2017, there will be a required period well.
As part of this agenda, we continue to of bedding in and parallel running the look at how we support working parents systems, which will lead to dual payments on and women returning from maternity leave.
As we move into 2018 and 2019, these dual payment costs will fall away and the scale benefits of the improved platform are expected to drive financial benefits as further business growth can be supported.
During 2016, our other focus was on the data clean up required ahead of our platform development.
This was also necessary for meeting new regulatory requirements such as MiFID II and EMIR.
At their heart, we see these regulatory changes as being data management initiatives.
We strongly believe in embedding solutions to these initiatives within ongoing business activity, rather than through one-off pieces of work.
We therefore established a central team to oversee the implementation of greater focus on single, golden sources of data.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23 OUR STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE ShARING ThE REwARDS OF Our talent agenda helps our people to GROwTh flourish, ensuring they receive the training and development necessary for their role.
Jupiters business looks to create value for We continued to embed and enhance the shareholders through growing dividends curriculum during the year.
We are also and capital appreciation.
Successful 4 running more bespoke training, including delivery on the three strategic objectives a sales academy which we piloted in 2016. of investment outperformance, effective More than 100 people have also been VAlUE distribution and efficient operations through our line management training, to contributes to the successful delivery of our CREATION continue to enhance their management fourth objective, as this will ensure a growing skills.
More information on our training pool of available profit for shareholders.
and development approach can be Alongside this, we have a remuneration found under Workplace in the Corporate philosophy that enables us to align Responsibility section.
employees interests with the interests of During the year we focused on clients and shareholders, an important implementing the actions from our last facet of any business that is reliant on its employee opinion survey.
This included people for corporate success, which also establishing a new employee focus group improves our ability to offer investors a called Bridging the Gap, which is sustainable return.
empowered to create initiatives in areas The rewards of profitability and growth are such as career development.
For example, shared with our investors through ordinary the group is currently piloting an initiative dividends, supplemented by special called Pitch for Projects, which will allow dividends which vary as our residual people to learn skills and get experience 27.2p earnings vary.
We ensure the sustainability by working on short-term assignments.
Dividends per share of our delivery to shareholders of the We have also put considerable effort ordinary dividends by running a sustainable into improving communication, for balance sheet over the cycle.
This balance example through: sheet approach is designed to provide twice yearly town halls, where everyone investors with progressive returns from the is invited to hear presentations from ordinary dividend as well as giving us a different parts of the business: comfortable surplus over and above our legal or regulatory capital requirements.
lunches where the Chief Executive meets Dividends per share p with groups of people from across the 14.7 12.5 business to ask their views: and 2016 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING 14.6 TAlENTED INDIVIDUAlS other events open to everyone to attend, 2015 10.9 where subject matter experts explain Underpinning our strategic objectives are 13.2 6.6 items ranging from career development 2014 4.9 the people who work within the firm.
relies on its people to create value for Ordinary Special Return of private client proceeds investors and we believe every person Recruitment continued to be an important across the firm matters.
In addition to the changes to people create the culture and values of the the leadership team, we further expanded organisation, which are key to the successful our investment management team and delivery of value.
For example, the culture brought in other skilled people to support of autonomy coupled with personal our growth and to implement regulatory accountability fostered within the investment changes.
At the end of the year, we room permeates across the whole employed 497 people, up from 452 at organisation, improving both talent retention 31 December 2015.
We enhanced our and acquisition.
We aim to maximise the workforce planning through our budgeting potential and performance of everyone process, giving us a better understanding within the organisation and recruit talented of our people and skills requirements going people to support the in-house talent we forward.
Turnover within our investment already have.
team remains low and across Jupiter as a whole is in line with the industry average, There are numerous examples of our focus at approximately 10%.
on commitment to developing people, moving them across and through the We documented our corporate values organisation.
For instance, we continue to for the first time in 2015 and continued to be part of the Investment 2020 programme, embed them this year.
To ensure that our which provides opportunities for people to values are reflected throughout the join Jupiter from a more diverse range of organisation, we are enhancing our backgrounds than may have traditionally induction programme for all staff and been the case.
We run an annual talent embedding the values in our core assessment, which we completed in people processes.
November, and have enhanced our talent and development process, with a focus on development plans for individuals.
24 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR VAlUES Our primary responsibility is to our clients who entrust their savings to our management.
We aim to protect and grow their assets and provide an excellent service.
Every employee can make a difference to Jupiter.
We value individual talent and independent thought and seek to give freedom to employees to deliver.
We do this within a team framework where respect, high standards and innovation are key to our high-performance culture.
We aim to make a positive contribution to society as managers of other peoples money.
We seek to do so by increasing the value of our clients savings, in the way we run money and by behaving in an ethical manner.
We believe that if we live by our values, Jupiter will be a profitable and sustainable company which provides fair returns to clients, employees and shareholders.
We aim to ensure our people share in the 5% rewards of our growth, while effectively managing risk.
During the year we 4 embedded our enterprise risk management 28% framework in all our HR processes, 1 particularly reward.
We also ran an internal communication campaign to explain the full range of benefits we offer to our people.
Distribution This contributed to our nomination for an of available profit 3 award for the take up of our share plan.
2016 53% 2 DISTRIBUTION OF VAlUE TO 14% STAkEhOlDERS We continue to distribute available profit in a balanced manner, benefiting both our people and shareholders while also investing for future growth.
1 Sta reward 2 Corporation tax As a result, the distribution pattern of 3 Shareholders dividends available profit for 2016 across the 4 Retention for investment stakeholder groups was consistent with 2015, as shown in the graphics opposite.
Jupiter shares the rewards of growth with 7% shareholders through a progressive ordinary dividend and through special dividends.
Our ordinary dividend policy targets a payout 4 28% ratio across the cycle of 50% of underlying 1 earnings per share.
In 2016, the Board is declaring ordinary dividends totalling 14.7p per share, up from 14.6p per share in 2015.
Distribution This represents 1% growth, in line with the 1% of available profit increase in underlying earnings per share.
2015 3 The payout ratio resulting is 50%.
49% 2 The Boards policy is to retain up to 10% of 16% pre-variable compensation earnings each year, for investment in future growth.
The balance is then available to return to shareholders through special dividends.
The Board has therefore declared a special 1 Sta reward dividend of 12.5p per share 2015: 10.9p, 2 Corporation tax bringing total dividends for the year to 3 Shareholders dividends 27.2p, an increase of 7% on 2015.
4 Retention for investment Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25
