OUR BUSINESS MODEL Creating value for our stakeholders Jupiter is an active fund manager, WHAT WE DO focused on delivering value to clients through investment outperformance after fees.
Clients access this outperformance via mutual funds, segregated mandates and investment trusts.
WHO WE SERVE WHO WE SERVE Our mutual fund clients are typically individual investors, who Jupiter require investment products to meet their savings and retirement needs and for whom value creation is critical.
We do not engage Investment Strategies delivered via: with these investors directly.
Instead, we access them through our distribution partners such as financial advisers and wealth l Mutual funds: managers.
This intermediated approach, which is a feature of all Unit Trusts the markets we operate in, is significantly more efficient for us SICAVs than engaging directly with customers.
It allows us to target our l Segregated mandates marketing and brand building and develop strong relationships with distribution partners, while maintaining a straightforward l Investment trusts customer service model.
Platforms are an important form of intermediation.
These online Fee and services enable advisers and individuals to invest in selected funds commission expenses from different providers, and to access consolidated reporting and analytics tools.
In the UK, around 47% of annual flows into mutual funds are through platforms, up from 37% in 2010.
We are very Distribution partners focused on building our relationships with the biggest platforms and making our funds available through them.
Fund of funds, Platforms, Global financial institutions, Residual There are also important influencers in the mutual fund market, Asset direct Advisers, manager such as research consultants and rating agencies.
Their retail fees Wealth managers, book recommendations affect the demand for our products.
Jupiter Life companies works with them to ensure they fully understand our offering and can make appropiate recommendations.
Institutions access our investment expertise through mutual funds, as well as through segregated mandates.
The route to accessing Platform, advisory, and attracting institutions to our investment products is generally fees etc through their investment advisers, who play a major role in helping their clients to select which fund managers to choose.
Clients l Individuals including ISAs, personal pensions, general accounts l Institutional investors including pension funds, sovereign wealth funds etc Flow of product Flow of fees 04 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION AUM by client geography 100 UK Europe Asia RoW 75 50 25 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 EUROPE Source: Jupiter Performance Analytics Austria France Germany Italy Portugal Spain Sweden Switzerland UK Jupiters distribution presence Where we operate The UK is our largest market, although we have been expanding our distribution internationally in financial centres in Europe and Asia, either through our own teams Hong Kong or through agency relationships.
Our Singapore investment strategy teams and core Taiwan infrastructure are based in London.
ASIA While the popularity of passive management is increasing, the market for active management is substantial and also continues to grow.
To continue to be successful, we develop our products, distribution channels and geographical reach and provide products which are clearly distinguishable from the passive alternatives.
This approach enables us to retain and attract clients and access substantial pools of potential client assets.
Agency relationship The inputs to our business model Our business OUR OUR OUR OUR OUR model depends PEOPLE RELATIONSHIPS BRAND PLATFORM FINANCIALS on the following 71 members of the Strong relationships A highly recognised Our single, scalable Attractive cash flows resources and investment team, with our distribution brand which reflects platform, in which generated from our relationships: working in a culture partners, consultants our position and we continually invest, business provide the of individual and other advisers, reputation for active supports our means to reinvest responsibility aligned who provide clear asset management investment for growth and with investment channels to our management team drive shareholder freedom, driving clients: constructive and our operations value and returns investment engagement with and gives us outperformance and regulators: clarity of operational leverage product innovation communication to and supported by shareholders our 426 other employees Annual Report and Accounts 2016 05 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our primary responsibility is to the can share ideas and information, while clients who entrust their savings to us.
remaining individually accountable for the This is enshrined in our corporate performance of their funds.
We invest in values, which are set out in the Our our people to continue to develop their Strategic Performance section.
capabilities and ensure we have succession 1 plans in place to advance talented An essential part of meeting our managers.
We balance this with bringing in responsibility to our clients is delivering new people with specialist skills, giving us INVESTMENT value through long-term investment strength in depth and enabling us to expand outperformance, after all fees.
Our people OUTPERFORMANCE the breadth of investment strategies we offer.
and positive culture are central to this.
We believe that talented investment Jupiter has a strong investment track professionals who are free to pursue their record, which helps us to attract and retain own investment styles within a collegiate client assets.
The need for a track record environment can make a positive difference acts as a barrier to entry in the active fund for clients.
For a firm of our size, this allows management market, since it takes several us to combine the best aspects of boutique years to build a track record that is attractive fund managers with the supporting systems, to clients.
processes and risk management framework Clients also benefit from our clear focus that our scale provides.
We are a With no house view to constrain them, single business with no distractions from our fund managers actively seek the our core purpose.
best investment opportunities through fundamental analysis with a focus on good stewardship.
We organise our investment professionals into strategy teams, so they In January 2017, Ignites Europe analysed Morningstar ratings, which measure riskadjusted performance relative to peers.
Jupiter ranked fifth out of the top 50 largest active fund houses in Europe.
We continue to expand our distribution Successful distribution requires the right channels in the UK, focusing on products.
We create products that appeal financial advisers and wealth to clients in multiple countries and that can managers.
The Jupiter brand is highly deliver superior returns over the medium recognised, giving us a competitive to long term, avoiding me too products 2 advantage in the UK market.
where we have no competitive advantage.
The breadth of our product range means Our strong position in the UK provides a that clients can choose products which EFFECTIVE stable and profitable base from which we meet their needs and suit current market DISTRIBUTION can continue to grow.
we adopt a follow the client approach.
We use our pre-existing strong relationships By providing value and strong service to with large fund distribution partners, such our clients over the long term, we retain as international banks, to gain a foothold in the assets entrusted to us and attract new new countries.
Our relationships with these assets, underpinning our revenue growth.
distribution partners also enhance our credibility with other intermediaries, helping us to grow in each market over time.
06 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our operating model is organised to support infrastructure, including the costs of ensure that as much of our growth in services provided by our outsourced service revenues as possible drops through to providers.
These costs include IT systems, available profit and operating cash flow.
rent, administration and brand investment.
Operating on a scalable platform is critical In 2016, we focused on defining the next 3 to this.
In addition to providing operational stage for further investment in our operating leverage, such a platform enables us to platform.
Through 2017 we will be EFFICIENT expand distribution, allows fund managers implementing some significant changes.
to work effectively and supports the addition This will drive a modest short term uptick in OPERATIONS of new products and investment strategies.
costs that over time will achieve efficiencies We continually invest in our platform to and more operating scale to facilitate ensure it continues to meet the needs of further growth.
our business as it grows and supports Part of investing in our operating platform regulatory compliance.
is implementing the changes necessary to respond to changes in regulation.
Through NET REVENUE 2016 and into 2017 this focus is on MiFID II, Net revenues are the fees we earn, less UCITS V and the Senior Managers Regime.
payments to our distribution partners for These investments in our operating platform their services to clients.
Fees are typically are undertaken whilst maintaining our focus based on a percentage of assets, although on efficiency and cost discipline.
some funds earn performance fees for above-target returns.
By attracting inflows AVAILABLE PROFIT across the cycle and outperforming against Deducting fixed costs from net revenue the market, we are well-positioned for net leaves us with available profit for management fee growth year on year.
Our high conversion rate of available profits to cash FIXED COSTS ensures we have sufficient liquidity to do so, Fixed costs comprise salaries and the costs while maintaining a strong and sustainable of running our operating platform and balance sheet.
We are committed to using available 10% profit, defined as our net revenue less fixed costs, to benefit all our stakeholders, every year.
4 28% 1 Our distribution or deployment of available 4 profit is determined principally by our compensation strategies for staff and our How we distribute VALUE dividend policy.
Although the Board retains available profit CREATION the flexibility to change how we use available profit, our current distribution 3 2 approach distributes rewards as follows: 48% 14% 1.
VARIABLE STAFF REWARD 28% People are critical to creating value within our business model.
Remuneration is one tool we use to attract, retain and motivate the high-performing staff we need to drive our growth and long-term success.
Our pay 3. DIVIDEND PAyMENTS TO philosophy has been developed to support SHAREHOLDERS 48% the interests of our key stakeholders, Around half of available profit is paid to namely our clients, shareholders and shareholders as ordinary and special employees.
Under our progressive dividend generally ranges from mid to high 20% of policy, we target an ordinary payout ratio available profit, including social security of 50% of underlying earnings per share.
taxes payable by the Group.
Paying We pay special dividends out of available variable compensation out of available profits not required for other purposes.
profits ensure alignment of employees interests with those of our shareholders.
RETAINED FOR INVESTMENT AND GROWTH UP TO 10% 2.
CORPORATION TAX 14% This is retained cash of up to 10% of We use the actual UK tax rate, currently available profit, which we use to fund the 20%, to estimate the charge for tax on strategic initiatives we expect to drive our profits, as this is not expected to be our growth.
materially different from the Groups effective rate.
As compensation costs are tax deductible, this leads to around 14% of available profit being paid in tax.
