OUR MARKETS Our markets have long-term growth dynamics JUPiTER Well positioned to benefit from growing global demand for savings MARKET dRivERS A number of powerful trends are driving long-term demand for investment products and attractive returns.
Populations are growing and ageing Populations around the world are both increasing and ageing.
According to the United Nations, the number of people aged 60 or over worldwide will increase from 0.9bn to more than 1.4bn by 2030, meaning that one person in six will be over 60, compared with one in eight now.
Virtually all countries are expected to see substantial growth in their populations of older people.
individuals are having to save for retirement These population trends mean that many more people need to fund long retirements.
However, governments and companies are limiting pension provision, due to the cost and impact on their balance sheets.
Therefore, individuals are increasingly required to provide for retirements themselves, using defined contribution pension schemes alongside other forms of long-term savings to build up capital to provide the income they desire.
developing economies are getting richer In addition to ageing populations, emerging economies are enjoying rising wealth.
As their incomes grow and demand for savings products increases, individuals in these countries are increasingly demanding foreign investments, to help them diversify their holdings and to give them access to better quality assets.
Mutual fund providers, pension funds and insurance companies are providing more opportunities for these individuals to achieve their investment goals.
Clients are demanding different products Flows into mutual funds are polarising.
At one end of the spectrum, there is growing demand for low-cost exchange traded and index funds, where returns track an underlying market index.
At the other end, there are significant inflows into high-performance, outcomeorientated active strategies, capable of delivering additional returns.
This is the area in which Jupiter operates, as we believe our active philosophy can add value.
08 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGiC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION These dynamics are increasing the demand for, and provision Specific areas of regulatory change that have a tangible impact of, low cost passive investment products.
Therefore, active asset on our business include MiFID II, the Senior Managers Regime and managers must be able to differentiate clearly their active solutions the results of the FCAs asset management market study.
and returns after fees generated versus passive products in order Jupiter welcomes the FCAs drive towards transparency in fee to continue to attract and retain clients.
charges and the focus on delivering and demonstrating the value Traditional funds, such as long-only, single-geography equity to clients of the investment service provided.
and fixed income funds, have seen sizeable outflows, especially concentrated on funds which stick closely to the benchmark.
This WhAT ThESE TREndS MEAn fOR JUPiTER is a consequence of investors looking for funds that consistently The trends in our markets have important implications for our deliver value for money through outperformance after fees.
strategy and operations: l There continues to be substantial demand for investment products Clients are demanding fee transparency and value for money that offer strong outperformance after fees.
Jupiter must meet this The level of fees can have a significant impact on returns to clients challenge in order to attract greater inflows, retain clients and over time.
That is why Jupiter targets investment outperformance grow revenues.
Demand for different product types means we after all fees.
The importance of fees means that clients want a need to further diversify our active offering.
As the chart below clear understanding of how much they are paying, so they can demonstrates, there is a range of markets that are well-suited to assess whether they are receiving value for money from their asset active asset management.
These are where it is possible for us managers.
Demonstrating that they offer value for money will be to achieve real scale and above-market returns by applying the increasingly important for active managers.
Therefore, we will continue to develop and launch new investment strategies where we have the Regulation is increasing ability to differentiate our active offering.
In addition to offering tax incentives for saving, governments play l Attractive long-term demographics are increasing demand for an important role in our markets by protecting consumers through mutual funds in the UK and in our international markets.
Jupiters primary regulator is the FCA in the UK.
It us the opportunity to further expand our distribution, as we oversees all aspects of our work, from how we run our fund continue to diversify geographically and broaden our client base.
management operations to how we communicate to our clients, l To ensure that we are able to operate in compliance with notable both directly and through our distribution partners.
areas of regulatory change, Jupiter continues to prepare in While we also come under the jurisdiction of other regulators advance and invest in systems, software and people to meet overseas, the high standard of UK regulation means the FCA compliance deadlines.
sets the benchmark for what we do.
When we face overseas l To take advantage of these trends, we need systems that can regulations that are more onerous than in the UK, we comply scale with our growth, support different product types and with the higher standard.
continue to allow us to operate efficiently and in compliance with regulations.
Therefore, we continue to invest in our operating platform.
Opportunities for product development As noted above, we believe there is considerable demand for actively managed products that generate above-market returns for clients after fees.
The opportunities are greatest where product types combine the ability to generate positive returns and the associated demand allows us to generate scale.
The chart below shows this product sweet spot within the shaded area.
March 2013-2016: Fund sector size bn vs. performance dispersion annual % return gap 350 The sweet spot opportunity to achieve real scale and above-market returns Global Equity Europe Equity 300 250 Alternatives UK All Companies High Yield Global Corporate Bond 200 Moderate Allocation US Equity Global Bond 150 Global Emerging Markets Equity Global Emerging Markets Bond 100 Cautious Allocation Flexible Allocation Aggressive Allocation Asia ex Japan Equity 50 5101520 OPPORTUNITY TO GENERATE ALPHA Source: Data sourced from Morningstar Direct and Simfund.
Data as at the end of March 2016.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 09 OPPORTUNITY TO ACHIEVE SCALE OUR MARKETS We operate in large and growing markets, in the UK and internationally.
UniTEd KinGdOM The majority of our clients assets in the UK are held in our unit Domestic AUM bn trust range, unit trusts being a standard UK mutual fund offering.
The wider UK mutual fund industry has 1.1 trillion of assets under 1,145 Fixed income management.
As the accompanying chart shows, flows into mutual Mixed asset 1,015 1,000 963 funds tend to be robust across the market cycle, with consistent Property 892 Other demand for equity products.
763 750 The UK is also a key location for global financial institutions.
The 635 630 high net worth market in which they operate is resilient and growing 519 500 long term.
We estimate that the pool of investible assets managed in the UK is in excess of 4.9 trillion, with a large proportion of these 250 funds channelled through decision-making centres in London.
We do not believe that Brexit will fundamentally impact Londons 0 importance in the future, even if businesses relocate some 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 operations to European centres.
Figures exclude money market funds.
The UK government encourages individuals to invest by providing tax-efficient vehicles, in the form of pension funds and Individual Savings Accounts ISAs.
ISAs currently allow individuals to invest 15,240 a year in cash, funds, bonds or shares, with any resulting income or capital gains being tax-free.
This limit is increasing to 20,000 for the 2017 18 tax year.
Jupiters position In the 2016 Budget, the government announced the introduction The UK is our core market as it is home to the majority of our of Lifetime ISAs, which will allow people aged between 18 and 40 current clients.
Our strong brand and historical presence, deep to save money for buying their first home or for retirement.
The distribution and track record of outperformance after fees mean savings limit is 4,000 per year, with a government top-up of 25%.
that we are well positioned to continue to succeed.
In addition, the government introduced Help to Buy ISAs in Fee transparency and clear demonstration of value for money December 2015, which allow first-time home buyers to save is critical in all markets in which we operate.
In 2015, we simplified up to 200 per month, with a 25% government top-up.
the fee structure of our SICAV range and we have now concluded Individuals can make tax-free contributions to their pension schemes a pricing review of our unit trust range, which is our primary UK within annual and lifetime limits, although these limits have been product range.
In parallel, the FCA has been conducting its Asset significantly reduced in recent years.
In April 2016, the governments Management Market Study and published its Interim Report in pension reforms came into force, giving individuals more freedom November 2016.
We welcome the FCAs objectives around over how they use their pension pots at the point of retirement.
transparency of fees and value to clients.
We must await the final This is creating demand for products that provide income, as an report to know explicitly how to respond to the FCAs transparency alternative to annuities.
objective and whether, as we currently expect, this will be in the form of a combined fee, as outlined in the Interim Report.
Longer lives mean investing for retirement is also becoming more complex.
Individuals now need to accumulate assets during their We have proactively reviewed our unit trust pricing structure and will working lives and shift their investments to income producing be adopting an approach that is aligned with the objectives of the assets at the point of retirement.
Once retired they need to Interim Report.
This approach means moving to a single price for continue adjusting their investments, to ensure they do not outlive the buying and selling of fund units, thereby eliminating box profits their savings.
Many people will also find themselves working at least earned by the Group.
In addition, research costs previously borne part time beyond their retirement dates.
Fund management groups by funds, and therefore, clients, will now be borne by Jupiter without have an opportunity to develop new products to support all these a consequential price change.
These changes are important different phases of retirement and this is an area where we are steps in the evolution of our unit trust pricing structure, increasing actively looking to expand our product range.
transparency and further demonstrating the value we bring to clients as we diversify and grow.
The UK mutual fund market had a mixed year in 2016, with considerable uncertainty ahead of, and subsequent to, the Implementing these changes will take some time.
Through 2017 referendum on EU membership in June.
Total net retail inflows we will work with our service and research providers on the were 4.7bn, down from 16.8bn in the previous year.
Our expectation is that in 2017 we will incur absolute return funds were most in demand.
implementation costs, with the charges being effective from 2018.
10 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGiC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION inTERnATiOnAL Continental Europe includes some of the worlds largest economies International AUM bn and has a substantial mutual fund market.
Assets in European 3,500 Equities CAGR 15.6% p. a. mutual funds cross border UCITS funds total 1.1 trillion, and have 3,304 Fixed income stayed flat since the end of 2015.
Fixed income funds are more 3,000 Mixed asset 2,709 popular than in the UK and make up the largest proportion of these Property 2,557 2,500 Other assets at 41% of total assets.
Equity and multi-asset funds represent 2,287 39% and 11% respectively source: Simfund.
Net flows into UCITS 2,000 1,966 1,769 were positive for the full year at 1.6 billion, with inflows into 1,627 1,500 1,373 absolute return and multi-asset funds but outflows from equity funds.
1,000 Appetite for different products varies between countries.
Although 500 equity funds are the biggest proportion of European assets they are less popular in Italy, for example, where there has been a tradition 0 of cautious investment in government bonds and real estate.
More 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 generally, an environment of negative real interest rates is pushing European investors away from traditional savings products and Source: Simfund.
Figures exclude money market funds, cross-border markets only.
towards products that offer better returns.
Retail and private banks are the main distribution channels in Distribution in Hong Kong is largely achieved through retail banks, continental Europe, followed by financial advisers, insurance while Singapore is dominated by private banks.
Global financial companies, platforms and direct sales.
In France, Spain and institutions have a significant presence in the region, enabling mutual Switzerland, open architecture has developed mainly via funds of fund providers such as Jupiter to leverage relationships developed funds, while in Italy and Germany, financial advisers are taking a in other markets.
Although product preferences in Asia vary by larger proportion of sales, with guided architecture a growing trend.
country, Asian and emerging market equity funds tend to be International fund managers have built good positions in many popular, as are bond funds.
Holding periods tend to be shorter European markets, helped by UCITS passporting.
This allows them than in the UK and Europe.
to run funds on a cross-border basis, without needing a presence in each country where funds are domiciled.
Jupiter has a UCITS Jupiters position passport, allowing us to act as the management company for our Jupiters approach of diversifying the business, including by Luxembourg-based SICAV range.
It remains unclear whether UK geography, has given us a growing presence in key markets in fund managers will retain passporting rights after the UK leaves the Europe and Asia, and our international business provided all of our EU.
This is not expected to be a significant issue for Jupiter, although net inflows in 2016.
Going forward, our focus will be on increasing some restructuring of legal entities may be necessary.
our penetration of the markets we are in, by building on existing After Europe, Asia is the second-largest cross border mutual fund relationships with distribution partners, targeting new intermediaries market in the world, with total cross border mutual fund assets of and continuing to expand the range of funds we offer 0.2 trillion.
Hong Kong is the largest market in the region, followed internationally.
by China, which is growing rapidly, and Singapore.
While there is no Fee transparency and clarity of demonstration of value to clients is common regional framework like European UCITS, there are moves critical in all markets we operate in.
Last year, we simplified the fee towards mutual recognition of funds and regional passporting, structure of our SICAV range.
As outlined on the previous page, we which will further open up these markets.
plan to take a consistent approach to all research costs by bearing them ourselves within Jupiters accounts.
Whilst discussed in the context of unit trust pricing, the change is relevant across all product lines.
