Report of the Board Our Board provides leadership to theGroup by setting and monitoring the implementation of its strategy.
We ensure that the Group has appropriate people, financial and other resources for this.
With our standing Committees, we oversee controls, risk management and senior remuneration.
We also lead the cultural tone for the Group the Group-wide enthusiasm which has always been a key part of our success.
Our aim is to maximise value for shareholders and other stakeholders over the long term.
Our Board leads the Group at This section of the Governance Report summarises thehighest level.
Our principal the role and activities of our Board and is followed byspecific reports from our Nomination, Audit and aim is to ensure ongoing Remuneration Committees.
generation of long-term value Membership of the Board forthe Groups shareholders The Board currently has eight members: andother stakeholders.
myself, John Hughes, as Non-executive Chairman: Dr John Hughes CBE, Hon DSc two Executive Directors, David Buttress Chairman ChiefExecutive Officer and Paul Harrison ChiefFinancial Officer : four Independent Non-executive Directors, GwynBurr, Roisin Donnelly, Andrew Griffith andDiego Oliva: and Board composition one Non-independent Non-executive Director, Frederic Coorevits, who was nominated by a major shareholder and has served since before the Chairman Companys IPO.
For the purposes of assessing compliance with theCode, the Board considers that Gwyn Burr, Independent Executive Non-executive Directors RoisinDonnelly, Andrew Griffith and Diego Oliva Director female areindependent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially Total Board interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
members TheBoard also considers that I, as Chairman oftheCompany, was independent at the time 8 ofmyappointment.
Independent Non-independent We had until 1 March two additional Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Director male Director Directors, Benjamin Holmes and Michael Risman, who were nominated by significant shareholders and were therefore not considered to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
Their stepping down from the Board on 1March 2016 resulted in full compliance with this remaining provision of the Code.
Further details of our current Directors areprovided on pages 42 and 43 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 44 Corporate governance Key matters considered at each main meeting of the Board during the year included: 2016 February Ongoing development of the Groups April mobilefunctionality.
Detailed presentation on people plans Review of potential developments in the intheGroup.
market and how the Group was addressing Review of the Groups brand strategy.
Review and approval of 2015 annual results including announcement and Annual Report.
Approval and finalisation of the notice of AGM Agreement of actions following on from including reappointment of Directors as theBoard evaluation.
recommended by the Nomination Committee.
Board evaluation commented on page 58 Presentation by the external facilitator ofthe Boards evaluation.
June July Review of M&A opportunities.
Review of forecast for the second half of the year.
Consideration of the potential appointment Review and approval of half year results.
of Paul Harrison as CFO and delegation of authority to finalise.
October December two meetings Initial reviews of potential acquisitions ofhungryhouse and SkipTheDishes.
Consideration and approval of the proposed Review of strategic technology investments.
increase of the Groups financing facilities.
Detailed review of marketing led by the Review and approval of the acquisition ChiefMarketing Officer.
Approval to proceed with appointment Review and approval of the proposed ofRoisin Donnelly as an Independent acquisition ofhungryhouse.
Review and approval of the Group budget for2017.
Review of our Menulog business.
Review and approval of updates and procedures in relation to the Modern SlaveryAct.
At every main meeting, the Board also reviews: Report from the CEO.
Minutes and actions from previous meetings.
Confirmation of there being no Director conflicts.
Reports from the Board Committees.
com 45 Report of the Board continued Membership of the Board continued The Board is confident that its membership is The diversity of our Directors provides the Board with appropriate for this stage inthe Groups development adepth and range of experience of both the Groups and is continuing to pursue Board development business and of other international businesses, forthe future.
including other publicly listed companies.
This enables high quality, diverse and relevant input into Board Board and Committee meetings discussions, enriching debates and allowing carefully The Board meets at regular intervals through the year considered judgements to be reached, consensus both at meetings scheduled as part of its annual tobe arrived at and decisions then taken.
corporate calendar and other meetings as required forspecific matters.
At these meetings, it reviews: We provide both support and constructive challenge to management in the review of proposals.
This is achieved business performance: by the monitoring of performance and in the targeting operational matters of particular note for ofachievement of the Groups aims, over both the theBoard: shorter and longer terms.
strategic considerations: All our Directors have a deep interest in ensuring the Group achieves its long-term objectives.
They all devote activities in the Groups industry and any potential sufficient time and attention to their Board duties and acquisition opportunities: responsibilities and take collective responsibility for shareholder communications and feedback: the Boards performance.
A proper balance of influence is preserved without any one individual, or separate reports of proceedings of Board Committees: and groups of people, having unfettered decision-making progress against previously agreed actions.
All the Non-executive Directors bring valuable business acumen to bear on the Boards deliberations In addition to our Executive Directors, members and decision-making process.
We believe there is an ofsenior management are regularly invited to present excellent balance ofskills and experience represented relevant matters to the Board.
Executive Directors and on theBoard enabling the effective and successful members of management may also attend and present management ofthe Company and its business.
at Committee meetings where appropriate, at the invitation of the respective Committee Chairman.
Role of the Board Key activities of our Board include the following: Agrees the Groups strategic aims after considering Aims to ensure that the Group has the necessary recommendations from the Executive Directors.
financial strength and human resources in place topursue the agreed strategy.
The Board reviews matters of strategic importance ateach This includes regular reviews of the financial performance and of its main meetings.
This is usually done in thecontext requirements of the Group, presented by the CFO, along with ofapresentation on a specific matter of strategic interest regular updates from the CEO.
Periodically, it also includes byamember of senior management.
presentations from the Chief People Officer on plans for theongoing development of the management team in In the past year, this has included: thecontext ofthe growth of the Group.
consideration of the ongoing development of both The Groups Chief People Officer also gives regular theconsumer and restaurant experience: presentations to the Remuneration Committee.
consideration of development of the Groups Reviews of Executive management is led by the brandstrategy: and NominationCommittee with the CEO.
review and approval of acquisitions and other new business opportunities such as with the SkipTheDishes andproposed hungryhouse acquisitions.
Non-executive Directors constructively challenge matters when they feel appropriate as part of the Board as a whole reaching an overall consensus in its decision-making process.
As a key part of its debates, the Board reviews and seeks to identify risks at a strategic level.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 46 Corporate governance An outline of Roisin Donnellys induction is on page59 Directors have the right to request that any concerns New Director induction they may have are recorded in the appropriate Board Overview orCommittee minutes although no such requests were made in 2016.
Minutes are circulated for The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, comment by all Directors before being formally isresponsible for ensuring that new Directors have athoroughand appropriate induction.
approved at the next relevant meeting.
Each newly appointed Director has participated in Support to Directors astructured induction programme and has received The Directors have unrestricted access to the Groups acomprehensive suite of resources providing detailed management and advisers.
They also have the opportunity information on the Company.
to visit the Companys operations.
When new Directors Each induction has been based on the individual Directors are appointed, they receive a comprehensive induction requirements and included meetings with facilitated by the Company Secretary.
This induction relevantDirectors, employees and external advisers to includes meetings with key members of management, ensure that each new Director understands theCompanys together with briefings on the Groups business, its governance structure.
industry and public company duties generally.
Access Objective to ongoing training is also available to the Directors asrequired.
To provide our new Directors with the resources they need inorder to be able to maximise their effectiveness in the All Directors also have access to the advice and shortest time practicable.
services of the Company Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the Board and each of its Committees.
Induction process TheCompany Secretary reports to and advises Provision of resources Meetings with members theCommittees directly throughtheir Chairmen on including papers and ofthe Executive team compliance with Board and Committee procedures minutes from previous andsenior management.
and applicable laws and regulations on governance Board meetings and Meetings with external matters.
Directors are alsoable to take external advice keycorporate advisers, as appropriate at the expense of the Company, should theyfeelthis governancepolicies.
Business briefings with Opportunity to visit the Executive Directors different Group sites and and the Chairman.
Reviews Group performance Sets the tone as well as Where appropriate, works with against the agreed strategy oversees implementation the operating management to andconsiders any variations oftheGroups values assist in the achievement of that may become appropriate andstandards.
The Board reviews the operational The Board leads the Group in a way Directors have open and constructive development of the Group and that is intended to maximise business relationships with members of senior itsmarkets to ensure its strategy integrity.
This enables the Groups management who can draw on their remains appropriate.
It considers people and other stakeholders to wide business experience outside as anddecides upon any adjustments operate in a transparent and ethical well as within Board meetings.
This isan important part of ensuring the long-term success of the Group.
Itissupplemented by more detailed reviews of specific areas by the Boardsstanding Committees.
com 47 Report of the Board continued Governance calendar for 2016 The overall calendar of meetings of the Board and its Committees for 2016 is shown below: Full report Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Board main meetings p45 Board conference calls p45 Audit Committee p52 Nomination Committee p57 Remuneration Committee p61 AGM Specific calendars for the Board and its Committees are shown in their individual reports within this review.
Attendance at meetings The attendance of current Board and Committee members at meetings and calls, as compared with the number of meetings held, is shown below: 4 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Attendance 1 1 John Hughes 100% David Buttress 100% 2 Paul Harrison 100% 1 Gwyn Burr 100% Frederic Coorevits 100% 3 Roisin Donnelly 100% 1 Andrew Griffith 94% Diego Oliva 94% 5 Mike Wroe 100% Key: 4 Board seven meetings Remuneration Committee four meetings Board or Committee member not present Audit Committee three meetings Nomination Committee four meetings Non-Committee member invited to attend some or all of a meeting although not any part of a Remuneration Committee meeting at which their own remuneration was decided 1.
Appointed to the Board on 26 September 2016.
Appointed to the Board on 17 October 2016.
Directors do not attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee when the Committee isdeciding matters in relation to their own Remuneration.
Mike Wroe attended all Board and Audit Committee meetings until he stepped down from the Board on26September 2016.
Where a Director is unable to attend a particular meeting, full documentation for the meeting is issued to them, their views are sought in advance and briefings are provided subsequent to the meeting as appropriate.
All Directors on the Board at the time attended the AGM.
There was only one Board meeting held during the year before Benjamin Holmes and Michael Risman stepped down from the Board on 1 March 2016.
Benjamin Holmes attended part of this meeting whereas Michael Risman did not.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 48 Corporate governance Division of responsibilities Whilst the Directors take collective responsibility for the management of the Group, the effective operation ofthe Board benefits from a clarity of responsibilities.
Key elements of this are set out below: The Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its or its Committees decision whichinclude: Group strategy, which is internal controls and risk Board structure, composition reviewed by the Board and management, which are and succession planning, which management regularly during reviewed regularly by the Audit are handled in more detail by the the year: Committee: Nomination Committee: the Groups business plan and accounting policies, which are Executive remuneration policy annual operating budget: reviewed in detail by the Audit and the remuneration of the Committee: Chairman, which are determined major investments, acquisitions by the Remuneration and capital projects, in which shareholder communications, Committee: and the Board monitors their such as announcements of subsequent performance: results, this Annual Report and the remuneration of the the accompanying notice of AGM Non-executive Directors.
to shareholders: Subject to such reserved matters, and any other matters which the Board determines are appropriate for its specific decision as they arise, authority for the operation of the Group is delegated to Executive and other management within a system of defined authority limits.
The matters reserved for the Boards decision are reviewed periodically and updated as considered appropriate.
Another important aspect of the division of responsibilities in any listed company is between the roles of the Chairman and the CEO.
In Just Eat, these roles are separate and distinct with a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company established, agreed and set out in writing: Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director The Chairman is primarily The CEO, together with the CFO, In addition, Andrew Griffith, the responsible for managing the has been delegated appropriate Senior Independent Director, Board, facilitating the effective responsibilities and authorities for isavailable to the other contribution of all Directors, and the effective leadership of the Non-executive Directors and ensuring satisfactory dialogue senior management team and for shareholders, either individually with shareholders and that all the day-to-day running of the or collectively, should they wish Board members are aware of the business, for carrying out the to discuss matters of concern in views of major shareholders.
agreed strategy and for an alternative forum.
implementing specific Board decisions relating to the Groupsoperations.
Standing Board Committees In addition, certain matters have been delegated to three principal Board Committees within clearly defined terms of reference.
These remits, together with the composition of each Committee, are reviewed periodically.
The current terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee A summary of the role of the Audit A summary of the role of the A summary of the key matters the Committee is included on page51 Nomination Committee is included on Remuneration Committee consider page56 isincluded on page61 www.
com 49 Report of the Board continued Directors tenure as of 6 March 2017 Appointment date IPO April 2014 2015 2016 2017 Tenure John Hughes 15 12 2011 3 years since IPO David Buttress 09 07 2013 3 years since pre-IPO Paul Harrison 26 09 2016 01 years Gwyn Burr 12 03 2014 3 years since pre-IPO Frederic Coorevits 10 07 2009 3 years since pre-IPO Roisin Donnelly 17 10 2016 01 years Andrew Griffith 12 03 2014 3 years since pre-IPO Diego Oliva 24 09 2015 2 years Chairman Executive Director Non-executive Director Shareholder relations Annual General Meeting The Board is committed to ensuring that we maintain All shareholders are encouraged to attend, and have good communications with existing and potential the opportunity to ask questions at the Companys shareholders based on the mutual understanding AGM and at any other times by contacting the ofthe Companys objectives.
As well as the Chairman, the CEO and relations programme underpins this commitment.
theCFO, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination TheChairman, the Chief Executive Officer and andRemuneration Committees will be available theChief Financial Officer regularly engage with attheAGM to answer questions relating to the institutional shareholders in order to develop an responsibilities of those Committees.
understanding of their views, which is communicated The Notice convening the 2017 AGM, to be held on back to, and discussed with, the Board.
27April 2017, will be issued along with this Annual Presentations given to analysts and investors covering Report to the shareholders at least 20 working days in the annual and interim results, along with all results advance of the meeting.
This will provide shareholders and other regulatory announcements as well as with the appropriate time, as set out in the Code, to further information for investors, are included on the consider matters.
Separate resolutions will be proposed investor relations section of the Companys website on eachsubstantially separate matter.
Additional shareholder theproxy votes on each resolution will be collated information is also set out inside the back cover.
independently by the Companys registrar and will bepublished on the Companys website after Shareholders are able to contact the Company through themeeting.
the Company Secretary or Head of InvestorRelations at the Companys registered office, listed at the end ofthis report.
Our Senior Independent Director, Andrew Griffith, serves as an additional point of contact for shareholders should they feel that any concerns are not being addressed properly through the normal channels.
He may be Dr John Hughes CBE, Hon DSc contacted through theCompany Secretary.
Chairman 6 March 2017 Disclosures in respect of the DTR requirements underDTR 7.2.
6 are given in the Directors Report onpages 139 to 143 and are included in this section ofthe report by reference.
