Our strategy Our strategic initiatives Our strategy is focused on three interlinking pillars which workboth individually and collectively to drive our vision of creating the worlds greatest food community and being market leader in each country in which we operate.
What we are doing Why its important Stability, security and scalability of We continue to innovate ourcustomer ourplatforms are key to ensuring that offer, harnessing new technology and 1 customer orders get through to our bringing Just Eat access toeven Restaurant Partners.
Improving Over 50 per cent of UKorders were Better information is key to empowering the processed via Orderpad, enabling orderon customers to make informed choices.
its way notification, which helps to drive Reviews, which can only be placed by consumer customer loyalty.
We are commencing those who have completed an order, offer international rollout of thistechnology.
valuable insight and atyear end we had experience 22.5 million reviewsacross all our platforms 31December2015:13.5 million.
Choice across the sector has continued Increasing the number of restaurants from toexpand as we add more great, local which our customers can order 68,500 2 restaurants as well as global brands.
restaurants at year end is important, as Ourmodel allows us to add restaurants isincreasing the dining opportunities and Bringing that do their own delivery, as well as those different cuisine typesavailable.
greater Apart from scale, efficiency and the ability to reach digital customers, part ofour choice attraction to restaurants is our ability tohelp them maximise their profits using Partner Centre, our dedicated business management tooltoaccess valuable datainsight.
Brand investment contributes to customer In the majority of markets, the shift from loyalty, and during the year we brought telephone to online ordering is still in 3 our new vision to life via a major brand itsearly stages, which offers significant relaunch initially in the UK ahead of being opportunity for future growth.
The shift Driving rolled out to other markets.
toapp varies by market and is still growing, with 44 per cent ofGroup orders placed channel inthis way 2015:38 per cent.
shift Shifting customer ordering from offline toonline also benefits our Restaurant Partners as online orders have a higher average order value, whilst evidence to date shows that app users order more frequently than non-app users.
