Financial statements Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Research and development Report and audited financial statements ofthe Company We continue to dedicate resources to the development and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016. of new technologies, in order to improve the consumer experience and enhance our offering to our Restaurant The Directors Report contains certain statutory, Partners.
Expenses incurred are capitalised when regulatory and other information and incorporates, itisprobable that future economic benefits will be byreference, the Strategic Report and the Corporate attributable to the asset and that these costs can Governance Report included earlier in this document.
Strategic Report Change of control A fair review of the Groups performance during the In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement period and of its position at the period end, including other than a scheme of arrangement for the purposes commentary on its likely future development and of creating a new holding company or certain other prospects, is set out in the Strategic Report on events, unvested Executive Director and employee pages4 to 39, while information on principal risks and share awards may in certain circumstances become uncertainties and key performance indicators is given exercisable.
Such circumstances may, although donot on pages 20 to 23 and page 19, respectively.
Allthis necessarily, depend on the achievement of performance information should be read in conjunction withthis conditions or the discretion of the Remuneration report.
The Corporate Governance Report, including Committee.
The Company does not have any agreements the Directors Remuneration Report, on pages 60 to 77, with any Director or officer ofthe Company that would summarises the Companys governance and Directors provide compensation for loss of office or employment remuneration arrangements.
Our people and community resulting from atakeover.
report on pages 36 to 39 summarises the Groups The Group has facility agreements in place with its bank approach to diversity, health and safety, environmental lenders which contain provisions giving those lenders matters and community matters.
All these sections certain rights on a change of control of theCompany.
form part of this Directors Report, into which they areincorporated by reference.
Save as otherwise disclosed above, there are no other significant agreements to which the Company is a party Results and dividends to that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change The audited financial statements of the Group andof of control following a takeover bid.
the Company for the period under review areset out on pages 85 to 134 and pages 135 to 138, respectively.
Financial instruments The Company intends to retain its earnings to expand Our risk management policies relating to credit risk, the growth and development ofits business and, market risk, capital risk and liquidity risk are detailed therefore, does not anticipate paying dividends in within Note 35 of the notes to the financial statements theforeseeable future.
In addition, the overall risk framework and strategy for the Group is included 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM within the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 39.
An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, and the recommendation of Directors in relation Employment of disabled persons to these, is included in the circular to shareholders Our policy in respect of the employment of disabled accompanying this Annual Report.
Resolutions regarding persons is set out in our people and community report the authority to issue shares are commented upon on page 38. later in this report under share capital.
The Companys AGM will be held at The Lincoln Centre, Employee consultation 18Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED at 9.30am Details of employee consultation are set out in our on 27 April 2017. people and community report on page 37. www.
com 139 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings Certain key matters in connection with the Directors At 6 March 2017, the Company had been notified in are shown below: accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency The business of the Company is managed by its Rules of the UK Listing Authority, orwas aware, that Directors, who may exercise all powers of the the following held, or were beneficially interested in, Company subject to the Articles of Association 3per cent or more oftheCompanys shares at that date: andUK legislation.
Directors of the Company are Number of % of voting appointed either by the Board or by shareholders 1 Ordinary Shares rights under the Companys Articles of Association and The Sara Marron Discretionary may resign or be removed in a similar manner.
2 Settlement the SM Trust 121,972,442 17.98 Biographical details of the current Directors are 3 Deutsche Bank AG 40,776,578 6.02 setout on pages 42 and 43.
The Directors interests Wellington Management inthe Ordinary Share capital of the Company and GroupLLP 34,046,995 5.03 any interests known to the Company of their 3 Old Mutual Plc 33,149,472 4.89 connected persons are set out in the Report Munch S. A. R. L. 25,408,291 3.74 oftheRemuneration Committee commencing onpage 60.
Total voting rights attached to the issued share capital of the Company comprising 678,516,011 Ordinary Shares each of 0.01 nominal value, being the 678,516,011 The Company has made qualifying third-party Ordinary Shares in issue at 6 March 2017. indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors 2.
STM Fidecs Trust Company Limited is the holder of registered legal title to the in relation to certain losses and liabilities that they Ordinary Shares beneficially owned by the SM Trust.
may incur in the course of acting as Directors of 3.
As at 31 December 2016: the Company, its subsidiaries or associates, which Deutsche Bank AG held 40,507,540 shares representing 5.98 per cent ofthe voting rights in the Company at that time.
remain in force at the date of this report.
No member Old Mutual plc held 42,514,729 shares representing 6.28 per cent of the of the Board had a material interest in any contract voting rights in the Company at that time.
of significance with the Company or any of its BlackRock Inc held 44,937,970 shares representing 6.63 per cent of the subsidiaries at any time during the year, except voting rights in the Company at that time.
fortheir interests in shares and in share awards The Company received no notifications of interests and under their service agreements and letters indicating a different whole percentage holding at ofappointment disclosed in the Report of the 31December 2016 other than as shown in the Remuneration Committee commencing on footnotes to the table above.
Directors Share capital The Directors of the Company who served throughout Certain key information relating to the Companys the period and up to the date of signing this Annual shares is shown below: Report except where noted were: The Companys shares at the year end comprised Dr John Hughes Chairman CBE, Hon DSc: entirely Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each, which rank equally in all respects.
David Buttress CEO : The rights attached to the shares, in addition to those Paul Harrison CFO conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the appointed 26 September 2016 : Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Gwyn Burr: Articles of Association may onlybe amended by aspecial resolution of theshareholders.
Frederic Coorevits: There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares Roisin Donnelly appointed 17 October 2016 : or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, Andrew Griffith: except: i where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit Diego Oliva: their transfer following the omission oftheir holder, Mike Wroe CFO resigned 26 September 2016 : or any person interested in them, to provide the Company with information requested by it in Benjamin Holmes resigned 1 March 2016 : and accordance with Part 22 ofthe Companies Act 2006 Michael Risman resigned 1 March 2016. the Act : or ii where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the FCAs Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
The Group operates employee share plans as set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee commencing on page 60 and in Note 34 of the financial statements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 140 Financial statements i that Shareholder Party ceases to hold at least Share capital continued 5per cent of the Ordinary Shares: or Shares held by the EBTs abstain from voting.
Save as described above, shares acquired through ii on the occurrence of the Companys AGM held the Companys employee share plans rank pari passu in 2016, such Shareholder Party has ceased with shares in issue and have nospecial rights.
atany time during the Initial Period to hold at least 10 per cent of the Ordinary Shares: and During the year, the Company issued 1,046,601 Ordinary Shares at a price of 574.13 pence per share, b at any time following the Initial Period, where that in connection with its acquisition of SkipTheDishes.
Shareholder Party does not hold at least 10per cent These shares were admitted to the London Stock of the Ordinary Shares.
Exchanges main market on 20 December 2016.
Each Shareholder Party has also agreed not to propose At the year end, the Company had authority the appointment of a further Board representative or exercisable by the Directors to issue up to vote against the election or re-election of a person the 447,660,593 shares subject to certain restrictions.
Board has put forward for election orre-election as a The Company will seek to renew its authority Director of the Company.
toissue shares at the 2017 AGM.
Following the reductions in their respective Shareholder At the AGM on 27 April 2016, shareholders granted Party holdings in Ordinary Shares in the Company and the Company limited authority to make market the subsequent resignations of Michael Risman and purchases of up to 10 per cent of the Companys Benjamin Holmes from the Board on 1 March 2016, issued share capital.
This is a standard authority this Agreement has now lapsed in respect of Board which many listed companies maintain and which appointee entitlement for both Vitruvian Partners and the Company has no current intention of utilising, Index Ventures.
Frederic Coorevits remains a Board however, it will seek to renew this authority again appointee on behalf of SM Trust and will remain so at the 2017 AGM.
until he steps down or the Agreement lapses for one of the reasons stated above.
Save as described under the Board Representation Agreement described below, the Company is not Corporate governance aware of any agreements or control rights between The Company is committed to high standards of shareholders that may result in restrictions on the corporate governance.
Its application of the principles transfer of securities or on voting rights.
of good governance in respect of the UK Corporate Further information regarding the Companys share Governance Code for the period under review is capital, including the changes to this during the year, described in the Corporate Governance Report on isset out in Note 25 of the financial statements.
The Directors responsibility statement in respect Board Representation Agreement ofthis Annual Report and the financial statements At the time of the Companys IPO in April 2014, the appears on page 143.
SMTrust, Index Ventures and Vitruvian Partners entered into an agreement the Agreement with the Company Tax governance and risk management which entitles each such shareholder party and The Company is committed to high standards of tax theirrespective permitted transferees together the governance.
The Groups tax strategy is due to be Shareholder Parties and each a Shareholder Party published on the Companys website within the to appoint one Director to the Board of theCompany.
legislated timetable later this year.
The initial appointees were Frederic Coorevits SMTrust appointee, Benjamin Holmes Index Ventures Going concern appointee and Michael Risman Vitruvian Partners The Companys statement with regard to the going appointee.
The Agreement states that this entitlement concern basis for preparing the financial statements is shall lapse in respect of a Shareholder Party and such included in Principal risks and uncertainties on page 21.
Shareholder Party shall procure that its appointee willresign: Political donations The Company did not make any political donations a during the period commencing on the date of the during the year.
agreement and expiring on the date falling two years thereafter or, if later, the date of the Companys AGM held in 2016 the Initial Period, if: www.
com 141 Directors report continued Greenhouse gas emissions This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation to report greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to Section 7 of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The table below shows our emissions performance for the years ended 31 December 2014, 2015 and 2016.
Our 2016 emissions disclosure has been independently verified by Carbon Credentials against the ISO 14064-3 standard.
GHG source 2016 2015 2014 Scope 1 combustion of fuel and operation of facilities tCO 1,088 1,026 1,154 2 Scope 2 location-based electricity tCO 802 627 1,058 2 Scope 2 market-based electricity tCO 910 n a n a 2 Scope 3 business travel tCO 2,306 771 432 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions location-based 4,196 2,424 2,644 tCO e per m Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions location-based 11.2 9.8 16.8 2 Scope 1 comprises vehicle emissions in relation to operational visits to restaurants.
Scope 2 comprises our energy consumption in buildings.
Scope 3 comprises other business travel.
Data notes: We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse gas emissions in alignment with the WRIs Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside of the UK are reported in tCO rather than tCO e 2 2 sincethe International Energy Agency emission factors for electricity currently account for carbon dioxide emissions only.
This year we have calculated our Scope 2 emissions using the location-based and market-based methods.
Underthe location-based method, we have utilised the UK Government and the International Energy Agency country-specific emission factors for electricity generation.
Under the market-based method, forour European operations, we have utilised the residual mix electricity emission factor published by RE-DISS as we have been unable to obtain tariff specific emission factors from our suppliers, and for all non-European suppliers we have utilised the location-based grid electricity emission factors as residual emission factors have yet to be calculated outside of Europe.
This approach is in line with the data hierarchy outlined in the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.
In line with previous years we have presented our total emissions in relation to revenues, in order to represent how our emissions are impacted by the growth in the business.
Performance Related party transactions with Directors Emissions have increased by 73 per cent which is largely Please refer to Note 36 for details of transactions due to the continued growth of the business, particularly entered into with related parties.
in our markets outside the UK.
In addition, M&A and integration activities such as the acquisition of Menulog Overseas branches in June 2015, the acquisition of businesses in Italy, The Company has no branches outside the UK.
Spain and Mexico in 2016 and an increase in emissions from our leased vehicles resulting from increased sales Events after the balance sheet date activity have contributed to the increase.
The sale of the There have been no significant adjusting or non-adjusting Groups business in Benelux would not have had a events since the balance sheet date.
material impact on total emissions given its size relative to the remaining Group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 142 Financial statements the Company and Group financial statements, which Directors responsibility statement have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the Report and the financial statements in accordance assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the with applicable law and regulations.
UK company law Group and the Parent Company: and requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors the Strategic Report and Directors Report include have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial afair review of the development and performance statements in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the ofthe business and the position of the Company European Union.
Under UK company law the Directors and the Group, together with a description of the must not approve the financial statements unless they principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of Disclosure of information to the auditor the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing Each of the Directors of the Company at the time these financial statements, the Directors are required to: when this report was approved confirms that: select suitable accounting policies and then apply so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant them consistently: audit information of which the Companys auditor make judgements and accounting estimates that is unaware: and are reasonable and prudent: he or she has taken all the steps that he or she state whether applicable IFRSs, as adopted by the ought to have taken as a Director in order to make European Union, have been followed, subject to any himself or herself aware of any relevant audit material departures disclosed and explained in the information and to establish that the Companys financial statements: and auditor is aware of that information.
prepare the financial statements on the going This confirmation is given in accordance with concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume section418 2 of the Act.
that the Company will continue in business.
Auditor The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Deloitte LLP, the Groups auditor, has indicated accounting records that are sufficient to show and itswillingness to continue in office and, on the explain the Companys transactions and disclose with recommendation of the Audit Committee and in reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position accordance with section 489 of the Act, a resolution of the Company and the Group and enable them to toreappoint it will be put to the 2017 AGM.
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act On behalf of the Board 2006 the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Tony Hunter Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are Company Secretary listed on pages 42 to 43, confirm that, to the best of 6 March 2017 each persons knowledge and belief: the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders toassess the Companys and the Groups performance, business model and strategy: www.
