Our Board A diverse and effective leadership team Each of our Directors brings valuable skills and experience thatcontribute to the effectiveness of the Board as a whole.
N Dr John Hughes CBE, Hon DSc David Buttress Non-executive Chairman Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chief Executive Officer John joined as Chairman in December 2011.
He has over 30 years David joined Just Eat in March 2006 to launch its UK business, and experience leading complex, high technology businesses operating was appointed Chief Executive Officer inJanuary 2013.
Beginning his ata global level.
This has included senior executive positions at Thales career in 1998 with Coca-Cola Enterprises, David enjoyed a variety of Group, Lucent Technologies and Hewlett Packard.
John currently serves senior sales roles and won the prestigious Account Manager of the as Chairman ofSpectris plc a role from which he will retire in May 2017 Year award while managing Coca-Colas key UK restaurant customers.
after nine years as Chairman and was, until January 2016, Executive David holds a BA Hons degree in Law and Business from Middlesex Chairman ofTelecity Group plc.
He also serves as a Non-executive University Business School.
In 2014, David was named Entrepreneur Director of Equinix Inc and CSG Systems International Inc. John is an ofthe Year at the Investor Allstars Awards, and was listed as one of adviser to Strattam Capital and Oakley Advisory Limited.
the London Evening Standards top 1,000 influential people.
In 2015 he was named as one of Britains most influential people inthe John holds a BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from the Debretts 500.
David is also aSpecial Adviser at 83North University of Hertfordshire formerly Hatfield Polytechnic from which aglobalventure capital firm.
he was, in 2014, awarded an honorary Doctorate of Science in recognition of his contribution to thecommunications and technology sector David has notified his intention to step down from his role as andto the wider business community.
He was awarded the CBEfor ChiefExecutive Officer and has agreed then to serve a minimum services to international telecommunications in the Queens2011 one-year term as a Non-executive Director.
John will assume the role of Executive Chairman from 1 April until such time as a new CEO is found to replace David Buttress.
Andrew Gwyn David Paul Dr John Griffith Burr Buttress Harrison Hughes CBE Senior Independent Independent Chief Chief Financial Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Executive Officer Chairman Director Director Officer Annual Report & Accounts 2016 42 Corporate governance S Paul Harrison Frederic Coorevits Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Appointed Chief Financial Officer and a Director on 26 September 2016, Fred was appointed a Director in July 2009.
Fred is an adviser for Paul was most recently at WANdisco plc, the Silicon Valley based SMTrust, for which he has been working for more than ten years.
London-listed software company where he was Chief Financial Officer Hemanages SM Trusts portfolio of investments, which focuses on since 2013.
Previously, Paul served as Group Finance Director of FTSE theareas of eCommerce and cloud computing.
Prior to this, Fred 100 international software company The Sage Group plc for 13 years, worked asa Finance Director for i-spire plc andas a Senior Manager having been Financial Controller for three years.
Priorto that, Paul for  transaction services in London.
Fred held a number of senior positions at .
Paul is holds a Masters in Business Administration and a Masters in also Non-executive Director at recruitment consultancy firm Hays plc OrganicChemistry from Louvain Belgium.
Paul holds a BA Hons in Business Studies from Manchester Metropolitan University and is a Fellow of N, I Roisin Donnelly the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Independent Non-executive Director Appointed a Director on 17 October 2016 and appointed to the A, R, N, I Gwyn Burr Nomination Committee on 22 February 2017.
Roisin has had a 30-year Independent Non-executive Director career building market-leading brands with Procter & Gamble in the UK, EMEA, US and global roles.
Most recently, she was CMO for Northern Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Gwyn was appointed a Director in March 2014.
Gwyn is also Europe leading six countries.
Roisin is an experienced digital leader.
Non-executive Director of Sainsburys Bank plc, Hammerson plc, She has experience in acquisitions, divestitures and business turnaround.
DFSFurniture Holdings plc, Metro AG and Ingleby Farms & Forests ApS.
She is a Non-executive Director of Bourne Leisure and aCouncil Member of the Advertising Standards Authority.
She has received awards including From May 2005 to March 2013, Gwyn was Customer Director and a member of the operating board for JSainsbury plc, with responsibility Marketer of the Year and Advertising Age Woman to Watch.
Roisin for brand, own brand customer service, corporate communications graduated from the University of Glasgow MA Hons and is an and corporate and social responsibility and also, from 2010, human Honorary Fellow of the Marketing Society.
Gwyn holds a BSc in Economics and History from the University of Bradford.
A, R, N, I Andrew Griffith Senior Independent Non-executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Andrew was appointed a Director in March 2014.
Andrew has served as Chief Financial Officer of Sky plc since April 2008.
In addition to this role, he was appointed as Group Chief Operating Officer in March 2016 and is responsible for the Sky groups overall future growth plans aswell as the groups advertising businesses across Europe.
Andrew joined Sky in 1999 from Rothschild Group, the investment banking organisation, where he provided financial and strategic advice to corporate clients in the technology, media and telecommunications sector.
He is a Trustee of Riverside Studios in West London, a registered charity.
Andrew holds a degree in Law from The University of Nottingham and is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
A, R, N, I Diego Oliva Independent Non-executive Director Diego was appointed a Director in September 2015.
Diego has extensive experience in global leadership roles in the technology sector, having spent six years as Regional Director of EMEA at Facebook.
He is currently co-founder and Executive Chairman of Glue, a smart home company.
Diego also serves as Limited Partner andAdviser at Earlybird Venture Capital, White Star Capital and Wamda Capital, VC funds.
Diego holds postgraduate degrees from Harvard Business School, Stockholm University and IE Business School and received a Bachelors degree in Economics from Tec fide Monterrey.
A: Audit Committee N: Nomination Committee R: Remuneration Committee I: Independent Non-executive Director S: Nominee of a major shareholder Diego Roisin Frederic Oliva Donnelly Coorevits Independent Independent Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Director Director Director www.
