Market overview We operate in markets ofscale with significant structural growth drivers represent more than one-third of total Group revenues Our marketplace is dynamic, exciting, and in 2016, for the first time, were profitable in aggregate fast-growing and rapidly evolving, at an Underlying EBITDA level.
driven by secular consumer trends In the UK, online ordering has grown faster than GDP, 2 driven by the factors listed to the left.
This channel as people seek greater food shift is similar to the migration towards the use of convenience and develop a theinternet by customers in other highly fragmented markets, such as travel, insurance, entertainment broaderfood palate.
tickets, classified advertising and restaurant bookings.
1 Demand is driven by: Around 51 per cent of takeaway ordersfor delivery are still placed on the telephone, demonstrating the takeaway being viewed as part of the remaining opportunity for JustEat to convert those weeklyroutine: customers to ordering viaour platform.
simplicity, speed and efficiency storing ofcard Whilst the UK is one of the most developed markets details, making it easier to process anorder for inthe world for delivered takeaway food, inaggregate, both customers and restaurants: the 2.5 billion of order value processed through 1 customer desire for choice over 100 JustEat globally represented only 11per cent of cuisinecategories: ourtotal addressable market.
customer reviews, being a trusted source Growth ofinformation: In addition to achieving strong organic growth, we restaurants wanting access to digital customers: willcontinue to consider M&A to achieve our strategic objective of being the market leader in each country in increasing adoption of eCommerce: and which we operate, whilst remaining financially disciplined.
2016 was another acquisitive year for the Group.
InFebruary, we agreed the acquisition of La Nevera Our markets Roja LNR in Spain, PizzaBo hellofood in Italy and The optimal market for Just Eat is one with a strong hellofood in Brazil and Mexico.
These businesses were culture of delivered takeaway food, with a highly highly complementary to Just Eats existing businesses fragmented supply side and where the consumer in these markets, bringing additional scale, focus and iscomfortable transacting online.
This has been new talent to our local operations.
The acquisition of keyinchoosing those territories in which we invest the Spanish business was subject to regulatory approval and Just Eat is now market leader in all our markets from the local competition authority, which was received around the world in which we operate.
Hellofood Brazil was subsequently sold to our were estimated to represent a total addressable market Latin America associate iFood.
In addition, we sold a 1 of 23.1 billion in 2016, of which the UK is the largest 49per cent stake in our enlarged Mexico business to 1 single market at 6.1 billion.
an associate in which we hold a 33 per cent interest, Since the first Just Eat website was launched in giving us a 67 per cent holding on a look-through Denmark in 2001, we expanded globally, now in the basis.
This associate is 67 per cent owned by UK, Ireland, Canada, Norway, Spain, Italy, Switzerland, MovileMobile Commerce Holdings S. L. Brazil, France, Mexico, Australia and New Zealand.
In August, the Group agreed the sale of its Benelux Whilst the UK is the largest of Just Eats operations business to Takeaway.
The Benelux business was interms of number of orders, active customers and not well positioned to drive sustainable profitability Restaurant Partners, ourinternational markets now and the disposal is in line with our strategy to achieve long term growth in each country in which weoperate.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 16 Strategic report Our marketplace is dynamic, exciting, fast-growing and rapidly evolving, driven by secular consumer trends aspeople seek greater food convenience and develop a broader food palate.
We acquired the number two operator in Canada in chain restaurants and delivery via third parties.
SkipTheDishes is a fast growing business with Theopportunities to utilise our scale and significant limited geographic overlap operating a complementary, data resources for the benefit of both our Restaurant delivery-focused business model.
Together we now Partners and customers are huge.
have the attributes to win in the unique Canadian market.
Concurrently, we announced the acquisition A single brand ofhungryhouse in the UK, which remains subject to We operate under the Just Eat brand in the majority approval by the CMA and is therefore not reflected ofour markets.
The remainder operate under the inour 2016 results.
strong local brands they traded under atthe time the businesses were acquired.
Over the medium term What is the future?
weintend to convert our wholly owned markets Given that we see no greenfield opportunity in any totheJust Eat brand.
market of potential scale, we are focused on the significant opportunities for Just Eat to increase 1.
Source: Management estimate based on research performed.
itsorders, revenues and operating profits within 2.
Source: Consumer Foodservice in the UK by Euromonitor and EIU.
ourcurrent markets based on the relatively low customer 3.
On a 100 per cent ownership basis.
In time, thereis also the opportunity to further address the collection market, Our total market opportunity 23.1bn 3 3 Norway Denmark Ireland Switzerland Mexico Canada AUS and NZ France Spain Italy Brazil UK 0.2bn 0.3bn 0.3bn 0.7bn 1.1bn 1.5bn 1.9bn 2.0bn 2.2bn 2.8bn 4.0bn 6.1bn www.
