y g o T l r o u n s h t c e e d t b r g a n i n d d a e L Our business model Creating value for our stakeholders Just Eat operates a scalable business model with a beneficial cash flow cycle, creating value for Restaurant Partners, customers, our people and shareholders, through increasing revenues and profits.
This supports short-term priorities to focus on growth and market leadership, and longer-term priorities including a focus on profit, sustainability and increasing market share.
Our key strengths Consumer demand Our revenue split 94% 5% 1% of total revenues of total revenues of total revenues Commissions and Top-placement Connection fees admin fee revenues fee revenues andother revenues Order driven revenues accounted Restaurants may also pay for promotional One-off connection fees to join the for94per cent of Group revenues top-placement on the Just Eat platform Just Eat network and other services 2015: 91 per cent, comprising which constituted 5 per cent of the such as branded commodity products commission paid by the restaurant Groups revenues 2015: 5per cent.
accounted for 1per cent of the onsuccessful orders and payment Top-placement fees are charged to Groupsrevenues 2015: 4 per cent.
restaurants that want to be listed Connection fees range globally from inaclearly labelled sponsored slot at nilto 750, depending on geography Commission revenues are driven by the the top of search results in a particular and market maturity.
number of orders placed, average order postcode for a period of up to 12 weeks.
value AOV and commission rates, These fees are charged to cover the The number of slots are limited and the which vary by country.
cost of hardware installed into the restaurant must meet certain quality restaurant and the sales and and performance standards.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 14 y t O i l u i t b s a t l a a n c d s i n d g e s p a e e o r p c l n e I Strategic report Total order value processed in 2016 Restaurant 2.5bn Partners Access to Just Eat gives restaurants increased orders of highervalue Number of times UK Partner Centre accessed in2016 Access to a global brand and leading-edge digital technology to maximise their business 14.9m More efficient order processing by reducing time and communication errors Read more in our Operational Partnership programme, providing great review commencing on page 32 products and services to our restaurant estate Provision of operational data through PartnerCentre Reviews on our platforms Customers 22.5m A simple ordering process enabling customers to select from favourite restaurants or previous orders and pay with Net new customers in 2016 securely stored payment card details Convenience of placing an order including 4.2m via apps, gaming platforms, smart TVs and social media platforms Read more in our Operational Huge choice supported by millions review commencing on page 32 ofrelevant customer reviews Reassurance of ordering from a well known brand and having access to customer service through Just Eats online or offlinesupport Compound increase in 1 Underlying EBITDA Our people and 2 310% shareholders Driving long-term value for our shareholders Employees who would Just Eats corporate culture embodies recommend Just Eat ourentrepreneurial spirit asanemployer The growth of the business has provided many opportunities for existing and new 83% colleagues and we continue to invest in developing and retaining our people and strengthening the team Read more in our people and community spread commencing onpage36 1.
Refer to Chief Financial Officers review commencing on page 24 for the full definition of adjusted measures.
Five-year CAGR calculated from 2011 to 2016. www.
