JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 10 At a glance Leader in our markets We positively disrupt markets where wecan become a leader, deliver great outcomes for customers and high-quality returns for shareholders We are a specialist in our chosen markets serving four distinct groups Individuals: Homeowners: Providing retirement income Accessing property wealth People who have built up defined contribution People aged 60 who want to access wealth locked pension savings throughout their career and want up in their property.
a guaranteed income, flexible income or a combination in retirement.
Market value of DC pension savings Property wealth owned by people aged over 50 1 trillion 2.3 trillion Corporate clients: Trustees and scheme Solving problems for companies sponsors: Providing member security and fide-risking pension liabilities We develop scalable retirement-focussed Defined Benefit pension schemes fide-risking their solutions for banks, building societies, life liabilities by securing member benefits with an assurance companies, pension scheme trustees, insurance contract.
other corporate clients and for their customers, clients and members.
Addressable market Integrated retirement services 600 Billion Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 A leader Competitive position: New entrant Developing with products and services 1 Services Benefit & competitive position Justs innovative approach to use individual Defined Benefit fide-risking medical underwriting in this segment Solutions DB delivers better prices for trustees.
Solutions for pension scheme trustees to Marketed remove the financial risks of operating pension schemes and create certainty that members products pensions will be paid in the future.
By using our unrivalled intellectual Guaranteed Income property, Just provides an individually forLife GIfL tailored solution providing customers A solution for a person or couple who want typically with 25% more income compared the security of knowing they will receive to standard products.
Justs Flexible Pension Plan has been Flexible Pension Plan FPP developed to enable people with modest A solution for a customer wanting to retain pension savings access to an affordable greater flexibility of their pension savings service.
The FPP can be used in conjunction and enabling irregular withdrawals.
with GIfL, enabling customers to mix and match to meet their needs.
Justs Care Plans can be tailored to Care Plans the individual and offer a tax-efficient A solution for people moving to residential care solution to making payments to who want the security of knowing a regular residential care providers.
payment will be made to the care provider for the rest of their life.
Justs innovative approach to use individual Protection medical underwriting means we can A solution for people wanting to support provide cover for some of those people with a residential mortgage, for business or medical conditions who may previously inheritance tax planning purposes or simply have been considered uninsurable.
to have financial peace of mind.
Just currently provides a range of lifetime Lifetime Mortgages LTM mortgages enabling people meet a variety Solutions designed for people who want to of needs in later life.
1 Reported in our Insurance segment.
release some of the value of their home.
2 Services Benefit and competitive position HUB Financial Solutions HUB A regulated financial advice service for people HUB has developed an innovative approach Professional who want a personal recommendation on that is enabling people with modest how to use their pension savings, or when pension savings to access an affordable services considering releasing some of the value regulated advice service.
HUB also delivers from their home.
face-to-face nationwide advice at a time and place to suit the client.
Provides a range of business services Support for organisations wanting to deliver tailored to the needs of the organisation whole-of-market shopping around services to ranging from consultancy and software 2 Reported in our Other segment.
source retirement income products for their development to fully outsourced customer See page 42 to learn more about customers, employees or pension scheme HUB Financial Solutions.
service delivery and marketing services.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 12 Strategic Report Market context Changes in consumer expectations, regulatory intervention and competitive landscape are driving growth in our key markets UK markets The solutions for fide-risking can be Defined benefit fide-risking solutions medically underwritten, whereby insurers Introduction use individual members medical and Defined benefit pension schemes have lifestyle information to assess members an obligation to pay a pre-determined longevity as opposed to only relying monthly retirement income based on proxies such as the members age, on an employees earnings history, pension amount and possibly postcode.
tenure of employment and age.
These Medically underwritten pricing is schemes are typically only available typically over 5% better value than in the public sector or older workplace traditional non-medically underwritten pensions schemes.
Operating these pricing source: Hymans Robertson.
schemes has become unattractive and more costly for employers over the last decade and this has created Top-slicing of large an opportunity for guaranteed income pension schemes providers to fide-risk, fully or partially, means the benefits of an employers existing defined benefit obligations to its members.
medical underwriting are even more Defined benefit fide-risking can occur via a Buy-in, whereby a pension scheme pronounced pays a single premium to an insurance company to purchase an income Defined benefit pension schemes with stream that matches its obligations fewer members offer the greatest to its members, but retains legal opportunity for medical underwriting responsibility for those obligations.
This occurs if An alternative is a Buy-out, whereby there are a small number of scheme a pension scheme removes its members, with a high proportion of the obligations by purchasing individual schemes liabilities that are assessed insurance policies to replicate its by using medical underwriting to obligations to some or all of its pension have life expectancies below average.
scheme members, who then become Medical underwriting has become customers of the fide-risking provider.
increasingly prevalent in the defined benefit fide-risking market and its benefits are well understood.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13 Total market Buy-in transactions The open market accounts for 350bn 45% Forecast in next decade of the total GIfL market in 2016 Top-slicing involves targeting the medium term we believe the demand Expected growth in DB pensioners with the largest benefit for fide-risking solutions exceeds the fide-risking transactions entitlements for medical underwriting, current supply available from providers.
50 whether that is the 20 largest pensioner The defined benefit fide-risking market is liabilities in a scheme of 50m or the projected to grow further over the next 40 100 largest pensioner liabilities in a decade with transactions expected to scheme of 2bn.
Traditional insurers double to over 30bn per year.
This level 30 approaches to pricing these members of activity results in only 2% of total tend to be expensive as they dont utilise defined benefit pension assets each year medical and lifestyle data.
As a result, being fide-risked, providing significant 20 they may include an implicit safety headroom for future growth.
The total margin of prudence in their pricing volume of fide-risking transactions 10 which could then be released as extra in 2016 was 8.5bn source: LCP.
profit for the insurer in future.
We dont need to apply this additional charge, Following the result of the UK EU 0 which means that medical underwriting Referendum, the increased financial can unlock more value for the pension market volatility and uncertainty over the scheme.
Top-slicing is now a common terms of the UKs exit from the EU led to Source: LCP, Aon Hewitt, Hymans Robertson practice in the medically underwritten an immediate 120bn rise in the shortfall and RBC analysis Buy-in segment of the market.
of assets held by defined benefit pension schemes to meet their obligations Current market and outlook source: Hymans Robertson.
This has Sales of defined benefit fide-risking resulted in increasing demand for solutions were unaffected by the fide-risking solutions as a high number announcement of Pension Freedoms of DB pension trustees seek to secure in Budget 2014 and continue to show their ability to fulfil future payments significant long-term growth.
There is to their members.
approximately 2tn in defined benefit pension scheme obligations source: PPF, The capacity of companies to deliver which is driving high demand for fidefide-risking solutions is constrained.
risking solutions, with Buy-in transactions Defined benefit pension schemes are forecast over the next decade to be competing for the same resources as a approximately 350bn source: Hymans number of life insurance companies who Robertson.
While insurer capacity will have explored, or are exploring selling increase in the long term, over the their large books of guaranteed income for life business.
Volume of dened benefit transactions bn 2011A 2012A 2013A 2014A 2015A 2016A 2025F JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 14 Strategic Report Market context continued Retirement income market - 20bn to 46bn 50 40 30 20 10 0 Source: Spence Johnson analysis Individual retirement income market Current market and outlook The introduction of Solvency II has Introduction Total market sales of GIfL stabilised meant that insurance companies Guaranteed Income for Life GIfL towards the end of 2015 following the providing Retirement Income products are bought by individual introduction of Pension Freedom and products are now required to make customers to convert some or all of their Choice in April 2015.
Although freedoms provisions for different amounts of accumulated pension savings into a have altered the traditional retirement capital to account for the various risks guaranteed lifetime retirement income.
pattern, research from the Financial inherent in this type of product.
This In the UK, GIfL traditionally offered an Conduct Authority FCA shows that has led to many providers reviewing income payable without reference to consumers continue to value the security their capability to manufacture these the individuals health or lifestyle, and provided by a GIfL.
This is reflected in the products and provide good value to were differentiated only by reference approximate 1% increase in total GIfL customers.
Several insurers have to a limited number of factors such sales to 4.3bn in 2016 compared decided to cease manufacturing their as age, postcode, premium size and, to the same period in 2015 source: ABI.
own products, realigning their focus prior to 31 December 2012, gender.
An towards capitallight products, and individually underwritten GIfL takes Pension customers are encouraged offer GIfL products to their customers into account an individuals medical to compare the GIfL offer provided by sourced from the external market.
conditions and lifestyle factors to their existing pension company to those The open market is becoming determine the applicants life expectancy.
offered on what is called the open or increasingly individually underwritten, external market.
We compete in the whereby consumers with medical open market when these customers conditions or lifestyle factors could People who are choose to shop around: this is our achieve a higher guaranteed income addressable market as we do not have than a standard product.
Individually eligible and purchase an existing base of pension savings underwritten GIfL sales represented an individually customers.
The open market increased approximately 59% of the open market to approximately 45% of the total GIfL underwritten GIfL in 2016 compared to 68% for the same market in 2016 source: ABI.
Several pension typically achieve developments in this market are driving providers, who dominated the standard increases in income of growth in our addressable share: GIfL market, have withdrawn or indicated their intention to cease around 25% compared In 2014, the Financial Conduct manufacturing their own products, to purchasing a GIfL Authority found that 80% of consumers leading to an expectation that the who purchased a GIfL from their which is not open market will increase substantially.
existing provider could have obtained individually As the retirement income market a better deal on the open market.
continues to adjust to the Pension underwritten The regulatory body has subsequently Reforms, sales of pension drawdown proposed amendments in its rules, products have continued to be high.
which would require pension providers The proportion of people purchasing The Association of British Insurers from September 2017 to inform a GIfL having been individually reported that drawdown sales nearly customers of how much additional underwritten is continuing to increase doubled in 2015 to 5bn from 2.6bn in income they could gain from choosing and our view is this will become 2014 as the Pension Freedoms opened to purchase from the best value option the minimum standard for all up this market to smaller pension pots.
providers over the next few years.
This trend has continued in H1 2016 with drawdown sales reaching 3.2bn.
Total retirement income market ows bn 2017F 2018F 2019F 2020F 2021F 2022F 2023F Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 Increasing numbers approaching retirement 18 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028 2030 2032 2034 Source: ONS Ahead of the introduction of Pension The assets held by those in later life Latest HMRC statistics Freedom and Choice, we identified the are increasing.
People aged 65 and increased demand for innovative and over represent 17.5% of the population on the distribution of flexible retirement income products and but hold around one-third of UK total wealth show that developed the new Flexible Pension Plan, personal wealth source: HMRC.
As offering customers access to the the population ages, the value of property represents governments new Flexi-Access Drawdown these assets continues to grow in both approximately 54% regime.
We offer this product through absolute terms and as a percentage of the wealth of those our HUB business to the customer bases of national wealth.
In retirement, many of our corporate partners.
of these customers typically need aged 65 and over financial products that convert their source: HMRC.
Given The majority of middle-Britain assets into income.
We expect that customers do not have a relationship the assets held by people entering the need for retirees to with a professional financial adviser.
retirement will continue to increase supplement low rates The introduction of Pension Freedoms rapidly.
Market intelligence firm Spence of saving or inadequate provides customers with a greater Johnson forecast the at-retirement number of options and results in assets market will reach approximately retirement income, peoples decisions becoming more 671bn in 2023 from 356bn in 2013. property is expected complex.
To support customers in their In the long term we believe the Pension decision making, we offer a retirementto represent an Reforms will result in an increase in the focussed, regulated retirement advice overall size and depth of the individual increasingly important and guidance service through our HUB retirement income market.
means of funding business to the middle-Britain customer bases of our corporate partners.
retirement Lifetime Mortgages While the traditional pattern of how Introduction and when people access their pension A lifetime mortgage LTM allows benefits is changing, the underlying homeowners to borrow money secured structural drivers of growth in the against the equity in their home without individual retirement income market the need to vacate their property.
The remain strong due to the large number amount borrowed is repayable together of people reaching retirement age with accrued interest on the death of every year.
the homeowner or on vacation of the The number of people aged 65 and property due to a permanent move over is forecast to increase from into residential care.
This product can approximately 11.4m in 2015 to over be used by retirees to supplement 13.7m by 2024, and over 16.9m in 2034 savings, top up retirement income or to as illustrated by the chart above.
This trend is underpinned by the baby boomer generation reaching age 65 In the UK, LTM comprises a range of as well as higher life expectancy for products designed for individuals ator both men and women.
This results in-retirement who wish to realise some in increases in not only those of the equity value in their home.
approaching retirement but also the number of people that will be looking for financial solutions in later life.
UK population aged 65 and over m JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 16 Strategic Report Market context continued Growth of equity release market 20102016 by quarter calendar year 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Source: Equity Release Council Current market and outlook Insufficient savings and We believe that this market remains underestimations of life expectancy significantly underpenetrated, given that are leading to significant shortfalls homeowners aged over 50 are estimated between consumers actual and to own property wealth of 2.3 trillion expected private pension incomes.
source: Key Retirement, while only Almost a third of adults plan to approximately 16.7bn LTM advances supplement their retirement income have been made in total from 2002 to using an LTM product source: Equity September 2016, representing a Release Council.
penetration rate of less than 5% source: ERC and internal analysis.
Structural Long-term care solutions drivers support continued long-term Introduction growth in this market.
Care Plans or immediate needs annuities INA are a segment of purchased life In particular: annuities and have not been affected by the Pension Reforms.
A Care Plan offers People are living longer, but for most a guaranteed fixed income paid directly people, these extra years are spent to a registered care provider or an living with some disability.
In the UK, individual for the life of the insured, in those aged 65 are currently expected exchange for an up-front lump sum to spend only approximately half of premium.
Under current rules this income their remaining years in very good or is tax free so long as the income is paid good health source: ONS.
Many directly to the registered care provider.
homeowners are relying on releasing Care Plans are available to individuals home equity to meet their additional entering care facilities or receiving care costs.
As such, Care Plans Consumers are also increasingly provide a form of longevity insurance using LTM to settle outstanding to the individual against the costs of indebtedness.
Approximately 1.3m receiving care until their death.
interest-only mortgages valued at 111bn will fall due for repayment Current market and outlook between 2012 and 2020.
Older There is a substantial market for care in borrowers are more likely to have the UK.
The drivers of the need for care an interest-only mortgage, as these are strong because: constituted the majority of mortgages sold during the 1980s and early 1990s.
Demographic, medical and social However, amongst those aged over 55 factors are all set to drive the need with an interest-only mortgage, just for privately funded long-term care in under half are expected to have a the UK.
The need for residential care significant repayment shortfall source: is estimated to grow by 3% p. a. until previously Financial Services Authority.
2031 and the INA remains the only established product specifically designed to help customers fund the cost of long-term care: Total equity release lending m Q1 10 Q2 10 Q3 10 Q4 10 Q1 11 Q2 11 Q3 11 Q4 11 Q1 12 Q2 12 Q3 12 Q4 12 Q1 13 Q2 13 Q3 13 Q4 13 Q1 14 Q2 14 Q3 14 Q4 14 Q1 15 Q2 15 Q3 15 Q4 15 Q1 16 Q2 16 Q3 16 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Just have been leaders for US care market 15 years $45bn In UK long-term care Self-funded care annually there are currently around 1.6m people International markets US care market aged 85 or over in the UK this is the South African retirement income market The US represents an opportunity for average age at which people go into South Africa has one of the five largest our Group to offer its products in this care homes.
It is expected that this immediate guaranteed income for life significant new market.
Within the care number will more than double over markets in the world, with many segment, the US has a similar backdrop the next two decades: structural similarities to the UK to the UK with a government-funded including legislative frameworks, safety net but significant volumes of around 33% of women aged 65 and products and distribution.
20% of men aged 65 are likely to State social security, tax incentives for enter a care home at some point in Total annual spending is estimated at private retirement provision and an the future: $145bn of which $45bn is self-funded.
increased compulsion to purchase There is widespread acceptance of the post implementation of the Care Act a guaranteed income for life or need to self-fund, with many wishing 2014, local authorities are now required drawdown solution are resulting in to avoid State dependency.
to provide information and support to a retirement market expected to grow individuals on how to fund social care, There are very limited underwritten significantly over the coming years.
and signpost how their residents can guaranteed income for life options The market is dominated by defined access professional financial advice.
available to consumers in the contribution arrangements.
The This is expected to increase awareness US market.
market that could annuitise includes amongst the population of their The target market for our Groups approximately 3bn at-retirement personal accountability to finance their products are US residents in later life of which 90% of at-retirement sales own social care and drive increased receiving, or about to receive, longare currently drawdown and 16bn demand for advice and product term domiciliary or residential care in-retirement currently using drawdown.
solutions: and and able to afford a single premium.
Prudential regulation is moving the INA market has seen significant Our local partner, Genworth, formally from the current regulatory basis to growth in recent years.
Our Group has launched the product in early 2016 with Solvency Assessment and Management a strong pedigree in the market, having a controlled introduction and support SAM on 1 July 2017: SAM is been one of the market leaders for to distributors and intermediaries.
equivalent to the UK Solvency II 15 years.
Additionally, the governmentled reform to retirement legislation is under consultation, aiming to make trustees of all retirement funds responsible for providing default solutions at retirement, with retirement benefit counselling provided by each pension scheme to provide information on default options at retirement.
