n a e r o d t t i a r t f w y e r r e n s m a d n t o n e o c o i i U r n t p I u y l i o l d l o r e a s p t e u e t d d f n i e i v l L c a l i r a d a v n u i e I r G n r o U l f e s m d a e k e c t n s l e a i i r c e i d p r e x E m r F o m S i n a i a n T n r a c g i e e g R a l m n r p e i r i i t s w n O s k t r u y e S S d N o n n u g G n o r o P i t : a m F r e e n t I m s e a y g s n N t x a e N g I A n e v N m e e s C n t JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 06 Strategic Report Business model Our customers are the focus of everything that we do and investing in our resources enables us to provide products and services to help them achieve a fair, fulfilling andsecure retirement Our business model is strong and differentiated and is constructed to enable us to increase our access to customers, select profitable risks and use capital efficiently.
t m I s s e t s n r e t e a A r t n e u i g t s y L c u u b r t e L s M l a b r i E f x n e O i l F D D E O C L d a n M p, a i e r t m c b a i l G v o d e r n d e a N s e c i g n l e I o n n i i t t d T a a t e u L A p e r R E l e P n n o n i O t a u h b c i - r i E t t s l i u L d M B A L d A e t g C a n S i m t i o r t w u r a e y d l n h u g i H Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 07 Scalable operating model Our scalable operating model is focussed on growing our addressable market by increasing our access to customers and serving them profitably.
through the launch of new products and a Multi-channel distribution Highly automated range of regulated retirement advice and Multi-channel approach encompassing both underwriting guidance services.
Fully automated and highly scalable Strong relationships with financial underwriting systems, resulting in efficient Leading service, reputation intermediaries, partners and employee data capture and turnaround times.
benefit consultants EBC to distribute our and brand This differentiates our service delivery, and individual and corporate solutions.
the benefits to financial intermediaries and Our new retail brand, Just, will build on the Our corporate business HUB Financial corporate partners are reflected in our strong heritage of our existing trusted Solutions provides professional services to proud record of Financial Adviser 5 Star brands, Just Retirement and Partnership.
We have an established reputation for our JRPs market leadership in the retirement strong social purpose and delivering income markets positions us well in winning market-leading service quality.
mandates to provide insurance companies Flexible business We are recognised for our innovation and with a range of insourced and outsourced infrastructure championing positive disruption resulting in services for their customers.
better outcomes for individual consumers We have a flexible business model and can and pension scheme trustees.
adapt to changing business requirements.
This is demonstrated by our entry into several new markets in recent periods Superior risk selection Our Group is focussed on delivering profitable growth.
We have superior capabilities to select the risks that help us focus on creating value for shareholders and delivering better outcomes for customers.
Next generation Experienced medical team Unrivalled proprietary data underwriting system: and underwriters Our extensive database means we understand the likely impact of medical PrognoSys A strong in-house medical team of and lifestyle information on life expectancy.
epidemiologists, doctors and bio-statistical Over 20 combined years of collecting, Since 2011 we have enhanced our modellers has enabled us to develop storing and synthesising detailed customer intellectual property IP further by superior pricing and reserving processes.
lifestyle and medical data gives us a developing the PrognoSys programme, We benefit from a deep understanding of significant competitive advantage.
our own specialist automated the whole spectrum of lifestyle, medical underwriting system.
and behavioural factors and their impact This is a powerful tool for pricing and on life expectancy.
reserving that allows the Group to identify Our experienced underwriters enable us and price for the risks we want and provide to apply our proprietary IP in our pricing improved outcomes for customers.
Strong financial model The Group creates value by taking on those risks which we believe can be fairly rewarded.
sufficient to meet payment obligations to Capital efficient model Financial risk management our GIfL and DB portfolios.
Our synergistic suite of products results in Our operating model is complemented by a We follow an enhanced buy-and-maintain an efficient and balanced use of capital.
conservative approach to risk management.
plus investment strategy whereby we The Solvency II regime came into effect on We have strong experience of delivering purchase assets with attractive riskreward 1 January 2016 and Just Retirement Limited accurate longevity estimates coupled with characteristics and hold them to maturity JRL was one of a small number of prudent reserving.
to capture the full risk premium, particularly insurance companies to receive approval The majority of longevity risk for both DB the illiquidity premium.
We replace existing from the Prudential Regulation Authority and GIfL business is held by high quality, held-to-maturity assets with more PRA to use our own internally developed international reinsurers.
attractive held-to-maturity assets where solvency model.
The internal model enables this makes sense, taking into account us to calculate our capital requirements frictional costs.
Investment management more accurately than a standard model and The majority of our financial asset portfolio approval is only granted to companies who strategy is held in investment grade, fixed income have met the PRAs high standards.
securities, such as government and Our investment policy enables us to provide corporate bonds.
The Group also invests in attractive returns to customers and to lifetime mortgages, private placements, optimise risk-adjusted returns for commercial property mortgages and shareholders, while ensuring that cash infrastructure loans.
flows from assets under management are JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 08 Strategic Report Business model continued During the integration process we have The merger has resulted in a Group Scalable operating model taken advantage of our flexible business with extensive mortality datasets and Our scalable operating model is infrastructure by selecting the best underwriting expertise.
The merged focussed on growing our addressable systems from the heritage businesses JRP Group is currently integrating the market by increasing our access to for our IT and service environment while intellectual property and medical customers and serving them profitably.
benefiting from achieving cost synergies underwriting expertise of the two and gaining access to new talent.
The key features Our operating system, progressive The Directors believe that the Groups of our medical and mortality data can distribution strategy, flexible systems integrated IT system and ability to deliver be summarised as follows: architecture, and trusted brand and bespoke systems is a distinct advantage, reputation have allowed us to innovate helping to deliver superior service, The dataset is proprietary in nature and and successfully offer a diverse range industry-leading turnaround times securely held within the Group.
a very limited number of individuals in the research and development team The Group has demonstrated its ability Our Group has trusted brands, markethave access to the full dataset.
In to build strong relationships with leading products, outstanding service particular, there is a strict separation of intermediaries and partners, evidenced quality and a strong social purpose.
We duties and information access between by our proud record of Financial Adviser are recognised as a market leader, for the underwriting and pricing teams.
To date, the Group innovation and for championing positive In circumstances where the Group is has been awarded 21 Financial Adviser market disruption resulting in better obliged to disclose certain underwriting 5 star awards with 12 consecutive awards outcomes for customers.
We differentiate information to its reinsurance partners, in the Life and Pensions category and ourselves in terms of the way we deal such disclosure is limited: nine consecutive awards in the Mortgage with customers, distributors and it has been accumulated over lenders category.
regulators in order to create a strong 20 years, which adds to the statistical brand and culture which we believe significance and narrows the range of Our progressive multi-channel highlight the quality and reliability of underwriting estimates: and distribution strategy is underpinned our expertise within our chosen markets.
by strong brands and award-winning it can be updated on an accelerated service.
Our corporate business, HUB basis.
The medical conditions and Superior risk selection Financial Solutions HUB is a strong lifestyle risk factors of the individuals Our Group is focussed on delivering contributor to the Group growing in purchasing the products on average profitable growth.
We have superior prevalence in an evolving market-place.
shorten the duration between policy capabilities to select the risks that HUB provides professional services to provision and a customers death, help us focus on creating value for businesses such as insurance companies, and result in higher levels of mortality shareholders and delivering better banks and building societies and actively experience for the Group compared outcomes for customers.
seeks to support these businesses to insurance companies offering a introduce a wider range of products to significant proportion of their products Extensive experience in individual their customers.
It provides financial to those customers with a longer underwriting based on medical advice, guidance and information life expectancy.
conditions and lifestyle factors, built up services to the customers of these through over two million person-years businesses and members of pension of experience, is at the heart of the schemes who are not served by business model of the JRP Group.
Individual underwriting enables risks to be selected with greater precision and Our service delivery across the retirement priced more accurately in both the income market is differentiated by our wholesale DB fide-risking and individual automated underwriting capabilities.
We expect, in a short This enables us to select and price period of time, all companies offering individual risks across a wide range of GIfL solutions to customers will utilise medical conditions in an efficient and individual underwriting to ensure they cost-effective way, allowing a majority meet higher regulatory standards to of customers to receive real-time provide their customers with access guaranteed prices.
to the most attractive products from across the market.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 09 Summary of the groups business model Assets Profit Single premium Reinsurance premium Retirement generation Income Reinsurance customer Regular retirement Corporate Mortality profit Adverse mortality protection income payment bonds Investment Gilts spread Profit Expense profit Mortgage advance Cash Lifetime loss Distribution to Mortgage shareholders customer Principal and rolled Reinvestment LTM up coupon in new business A summary of the Groups financial advanced as these are primarily sourced Strong financial model business model is set out above.
directly from customers, rather than The Group creates value by taking on acquiring books of mortgages originated those risks for which we believe we A complementary product set and robust by third parties.
The loan-to-value can be fairly rewarded.
We create this investment policy enable the Group to ratioofthe LTM portfolio is 28% at value by: optimise risk-adjusted returns for 31 December 2016. shareholders.
Accepting the uncertainty of future We have a conservative approach to life expectancy from customers and We ensure that cash flows from our risk management, with reinsurers taking pension schemes exhibiting certain financial asset portfolio are sufficient the majority of longevity risk under our medical conditions and lifestyle to meet the payment obligations arising qualifying new business.
This results in characteristics: from the Groups Retirement Income a lower regulatory capital requirement investing in fixed income and inflationportfolio.
Our LTM product is a key and supports our growth profile, while linked instruments: and component of our capital-efficient enhancing returns through the retention business model.
LTM provide a partial of investment risk.
providing liquidity to homeowners longevity hedge against Retirement who wish to access equity in their Income customers longevity risk, and The Group is primarily managed on an residential properties.
Together economic capital basis, and the economic these factors significantly reduce the capital coverage ratio is 216% at The Groups business model is designed capital required for DB and GIfL products 31 December 2016.
We also ensure that to source these risks as follows: at the point of sale.
we hold sufficient capital to meet our risk appetite in relation to regulatory Using financial intermediaries and The majority of the Groups financial capital requirements.
our HUB business to distribute GIfL asset portfolio is held in investmentsolutions to retail customers, and grade, fixed income securities, such Employee Benefit Consultants as government and corporate bonds.
to distribute our DB solutions to Around 60% of the Groups corporate wholesale clients, both are seeking bond and gilt portfolio is invested in guaranteed income: corporate bonds and gilts with a rating investing the premiums we receive of A or above, and the Group actively in corporate bonds, gilts and cash to monitors the quality of the portfolio.
match our liabilities: and With regard to the Groups LTM portfolio, sourcing LTM via financial we are able to exercise a high degree of intermediaries and our HUB business, control over the quality of mortgages and by providing the mortgage loans to support other equity release providers.
