Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 Strategic report Strategic objectives Deliver growth in profits by increasing our access to customers, choosing the best risks and managing our capital diligently Introduction Following the merger of Just Retirement What we are and Partnership Assurance, we have reviewed and reset our strategic focussing on objectives in line with the ambitions Our Group has three areas of the new Group.
Both predecessor of strategic focus: companies held a strong history in innovation and were champions of 1 UK retail positively disrupting markets to improve customer outcomes and these values retirement income, lifetime continue to underpin our future strategy.
mortgages, long-term care and protection We will use our unrivalled combined In our UK retail business, we believe intellectual property IP to deliver that a guaranteed income for life better customer outcomes in all of and access to professional advice our markets, supported by selective continued to play an important part of diversification, to generate high-quality everyones retirement planning, and returns for shareholders.
We will adopt we will be adapting and developing a measured approach to our growth our individual retirement propositions and the development of our business, and distribution capabilities to focussing first on delivering the promised continue to support and help benefits of the merger and laying the customers up to, atand in-retirement.
foundations, through our strategic enablers, for our next evolution.
Our UK Defined Benefit execution of this strategy will evidence 1 that we are a profitable company with fide-risking a sustainable business model and will In our UK DB fide-risking business, we strengthen our position in the market will continue to establish ourselves as to achieve continued profitable growth.
the leading provider in the small to medium sector of the market, using our longevity IP and expertise to deliver better outcomes for trustees.
1 International US care and South Africa retirement income In our international businesses we will continue to build our presence and establish the Groups UK awardwinning service in these markets.
1 These are areas of strategic focus for the Group and not operating segments.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 22 Strategic Report Strategic objectives continued Strategic objectives Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved Using our resources to influence change and We will use our growing customer insight, Grow our positively disrupt markets to grow our brand, strong relationships with our addressable addressable share is key to the success in distribution partners, regulators and policy all our businesses.
makers to grow our addressable markets.
We markets and will continue to develop our propositions to win broaden our In our UK Retail business, we will support new mandates and better serve our partners growth in the addressable GIfL, LTM and Care across our target markets and distribution distribution reach markets.
We will expand our distribution reach channels.
This will enable us to offer more through our HUB business to enable our life elements of the value chain to a broad range Increasing our profitable insurance and mortgage companies to increase of partners, including life insurance companies, sales through focussing access to, and select the risks we want to write banks, workplace and retail partners as well on growing all our from, the widest possible pool of customers as financial intermediaries and EBCs.
We markets and broadening approaching atand in-retirement.
We will believe our product range and services, maintain strong relationships with financial distribution capabilities and strategic enablers our distribution reach intermediaries and grow access to specialist set us apart in our target markets and will to increase access to mortgage intermediaries.
enable us to access and serve a greater customers number of customers.
Similarly, in our UK DB fide-risking business, we will continue to drive growth in the medically underwritten DB fide-risking market, enabling us to provide more options for pension scheme trustees and providing greater opportunity for the Group to access and underwrite in the DB market.
The Group generates economic value through We will build on the combined strength of Increase our diversified revenue streams, which enable our longevity IP and its use in our selection profitability us to grow our business and provide attractive and pricing of risks in our markets, and focus returns on capital.
By focussing on our strategic on development of our customer insight through superior strengths, including our longevity IP, customer to augment that IP through greater risk selection insight and distribution reach, we can identify understanding of the drivers of, and actual, and secure the highest value opportunities in customer behaviour.
This will enable us to the retirement income and retirement lending target specific customer segments with the Using our IP to identify markets consistent with delivering excellent desired risk profile.
At the same time we will high-value opportunities value for customers and generating high-quality enhance our product offering to attract to deliver excellent returns for shareholders.
customers to the Group and to enable us to outcomes for our capture the desired risks across the market.
customers and increase our profitability We recognise that a priority for our business We will deliver the merger benefits Ensure expenses is to ensure that our growth potential is communicated to the market and identify are aligned with achievable and that we demonstrate our ability and challenge areas of the business where to sustain growth in profits by ensuring our expenditure does not result in acceptable the capital model expenses are aligned to our capital model benefits, and manage our resource allocation and in line with our ambitions.
effectively and in line with our longer-term Efficiently managing our priorities.
We are investing in our digital and resources in line with our change capabilities to increase our capacity capital model to deliver to deliver change within the Group.
sustainable growth in our business We are focussed on achieving capital selfWe will focus on continuing to work with the Improve cost sufficiency that will enable us to continue to regulator on developing our Solvency II andefficiency invest in growing our profits and rewarding our internal model and matching adjustment for shareholders through closely managing the cost our life companies to ensure we achieve the ofcapital of our capital and ensuring we are effective and optimum capital requirements for the Group.
efficient in how we deploy it into the business This approach will support the effective Using our financial and to get the greatest return.
operation of our capital-efficient business capital management model.
We have a clear financial and capital framework to achieve Delivering a profitable business will ensure we management framework to achieve this across capital self-sufficiency are able to continue to invest to maintain our our entire Group.
market leadership in delivering excellent value and outstanding service to our target customers.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23 Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved To enable us to provide excellent service to In line with our measured approach, our Reduce our customers in our UK and international immediate focus is building on and utilising our 5 dependency on businesses by providing a complementary set current businesses and their capabilities, laying of services and products in line with market the foundation for future profitable growth and anysingle business developments.
As customers choose to access diversification through deploying our strategic more of their assets to support their retirement enablers.
As we move forward, we will be line or market planning, we will have the capabilities required looking to adjacent markets that are consistent to recruit these customers and gain access to with our strategic direction and financial Selectively diversifying new sources of assets in our core markets.
framework and where we can apply our our business into new, Selective diversification in these markets will capabilities to meet customer needs.
complementary markets also allow us to increase our capital efficiency, to meet the evolving provide additional future profit streams for the retirement needs of our Group and reduce our concentration risk on customers and increase our core market.
This limited and controlled our capital efficiency diversification will contribute towards reducing the risks of achieving long-term sustainable growth in profits.
Strategic enablers Our colleagues underpin the delivery of all that they can be, so that we can achieve more Developing and aspects of our business performance.
We will as a Group and develop a flexible and strong engaging our continue to thrive as a company by developing organisation with colleagues enjoying a and supporting our colleagues to be the best relevant and fulfilling career.
people Given the enormous changes in our markets brand is our social purpose to help the many Establishing and and recently in consumer behaviour, there is a millions of people with the challenges of later strengthening huge opportunity to introduce a brand that is life who can often be the most vulnerable in differentiated and stands out from other society.
The new brand was introduced in ourbrand financial services companies.
Our new brand, January 2017 and will be implemented Just, has been created to stand out for being throughout the business during the year.
At the core of the Customers experience of our service is be evolving and adapting our service Delivering paramount as it is the embodiment of our proposition.
We think about the customer at acustomer brand, the depth to which we understand the every point in their journey with us so that our needs of customers and how we demonstrate brand values are recognised through every experience built our commitment to evidencing a business that channel and touch point.
As the retirement market and customers within it evolve, so we will understanding thatdelivers our brand promise The Group plans to continue to invest in and development and refine our targeting to Continuously develop our proprietary IP, building on the selectthe most attractive risks.
evolving and strength and extensive experience created by our heritage businesses.
We will combine this enhancing our with our customer insight to drive proposition longevity IP and customer insight We have made strong progress integrating our capabilities to enhance our operational Building our digital two heritage businesses following the effectiveness and equip the Group to adapt capabilities completion of the merger.
As part of our theway we deliver services in the future to integration analysis we have identified ourdiverse retail and corporate customers.
opportunities to transform our digital
