Directors report Information contained elsewhere in the 2016 Annual An additional interim dividend of 12 pence per share was Report and Accounts declared on 24 February 2017 and will be paid on 31 March 2017 The following information can be found elsewhere in the 2016 to shareholders on the register on 10 March 2017.
Annual Report and Accounts as indicated in the table below and is incorporated into this report by reference: Political donations No political donations were made during the year under review.
Information Pages Directors letters of appointment of Directors Post balance sheet events Note 34 The Directors do not have contracts of employment, but hold their on page 141 office in accordance with their letters of appointment and the Likely future developments in the business 20 to 21 articles of association of the Company.
Each Director has a letter of the Company or its subsidiaries of appointment dated 10 February 2014, as amended.
The Directors 62 to 63 Directors were appointed for an initial three-year term, which was to expire in February 2017, renewable thereafter at the discretion Directors interests in shares 76 of the Board.
The initial three-year term was extended by a further Investment Manager and service providers 66 three-year term in December 2016.
The Directors appointments Fair, balanced and understandable statement 61 can be terminated with three months notice and the Company is Going concern statement 61 entitled to make a payment in lieu of the notice period on termination.
The letters of appointment provide that the office of Viability statement 61 a Director can be terminated with immediate effect without notice Statement on review of principal risks 35 to 40 or payment in lieu of notice in certain circumstances including Directors statement of responsibilities 80 fraud, dishonesty or serious misconduct, bankruptcy, in respect of the 2016 Annual Report disqualification as a director or material breach of obligations and Accounts under their respective letters of appointment.
Statement of disclosures of information to 80 the auditor Employees The Company has no employees.
Responsible investments 27 to 33 Share capital Note 28 on page The Group has no employees except in certain of its wholly- 135 to 136 owned operating subsidiaries and accordingly, there are no Financial instruments: Information on the Note 27 on page employee share schemes in place.
Groups financial risk management objectives 130 to 135 and policies, and its exposure to credit risk, Amendment of articles of association liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign There are no restrictions on amending the articles of association currency risk of the Company other than the need to pass a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Management report This Directors report together with the Strategic report on Powers of the Directors pages 1 to 54 form the Management report for the purposes of Subject to the Companys articles of association, the Companies DTR 4.1.
5 R. Jersey Law 1991 and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company will be Corporate governance statement managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the The information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate Company including in relation to the issuing and buying back by governance statement for the purposes of DTR 7.2 can be found the Company of its shares.
on pages 57 to 77 which are incorporated into this Directors report by reference, with the exception of the information Share capital referred to in DTR 7.2.
6, which is located in this Directors report.
The Companys share capital consists of 126,133,407 ordinary no par value shares.
The rights and obligations relating to the Disclosure of information under LR 9.8.
4R ordinary share capital are outlined in the Companys articles of The information that fulfils the reporting requirements under association.
4R relating to the following matters can be found on the pages identified below: At the 2016 AGM held on 27 April 2016, the Directors were granted authorities to allot and issue certain shares for cash on a Information Pages non-pre-emptive basis and to make market purchases of shares Details of any arrangements under which a Director 60 of up to 14.99% of the shares in issue at the time of approval.
ofthe Company has waived or agreed to waive any and Following its announcement on 28 September 2016 of a 100 emoluments from the Company or any subsidiary 76 million share buyback programme, in the period from 4 October undertaking 2016 to 28 November 2016, the Company re-purchased 9,800,531 ordinary shares representing 7.2% of the Companys Details of the investment management agreement, as a 152 to issued share capital at an average price of 1,020p per share contract of significance, subsisting during the period to 153 in the market in accordance with this authority.
The ordinary which the Company is a party and in which a Director of shares repurchased by the Company have been cancelled.
the Company is or was materially interested In 2016, no shares were issued for cash free from pre-emption Results and dividends rights.
Details of share capital movements are given in Note 28 The financial results for the year ended 31 December 2016 can to the consolidated financial statements and further information be found in the consolidated statement of comprehensive on the share buyback can be found on page 52. income as set out on page 86 and in the financial review as set out on pages 50 to 54.
Details of the dividends declared and The Directors intend to seek renewal of these authorities at the paid during the financial year ended 31 December 2016 are set 2017 AGM to be held on 26 April 2017. out in Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
78 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Restrictions on transfer of securities and voting rights The Company has outstanding unsecured corporate bonds in inthe Company issue, which are listed on the London Stock Exchange, and There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the which contain change of control provisions.
Upon a change of Company, save as follows: control of the Company and subject to certain credit rating Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct conditions being met as set out in the relevant terms and Authority the Listing Rules and the Companys share conditions of the bonds, each holder of a bond has the option to dealing code, whereby the Directors of the Company require require the Company to imminently repay the principal amount approval prior to dealing in the Companys shares of the bonds held by such holder.
Pursuant to the Companys articles of association, whereby the Board may decline to register a transfer of shares or Appointment and replacement of Directors otherwise impose a restriction on shares to prevent the The Companys rules on the appointment and replacement of Company breaching any law or regulation Directors are contained within its articles of association.
Except as described in Note 31A to the consolidated financial The Directors have the power at any time, and from time to statements, the Company is not aware of any agreements time, to appoint any natural person other than one disqualified between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on or ineligible by law or under the Companys articles of the transfer of securities in the Company.
association to act as a director of a company to be a Director in accordance with the articles of association.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of securities in the Company.
The notice of the 2017 AGM specifies deadlines for The Company may, by ordinary resolution, appoint any natural appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to person other than one disqualified or ineligible by law or under be passed at the 2017 AGM to be held on 26 April 2017. the Companys articles of association to act as a director of a company as a Director and remove any Director from office.
Securities carrying special rights No person holds securities in the Company carrying special Directors and officers insurance rights with regard to control of the Company.
An appropriate level of directors and officers insurance is maintained by the Company whereby the Directors are Substantial shareholdings indemnified against liabilities to third parties to the extent The Company is aware of the material shareholders shown in Table 1 permitted by the Companies Jersey Law 1991. who were, directly or indirectly, interested in 5% or more of the total voting rights in the Companys issued share capital.
Auditors KPMG has been the Companys external auditor since the Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure Companys incorporation in December 2013.
KPMG has Guidance and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the expressed its willingness to continue as auditor for the financial regulatory information services and on the Companys website.
A resolution relating to KPMGs re-appointment as auditor and authority for the Audit Committee Additional information on share ownership is set out on page 155. to determine its remuneration for the period will be tabled at the forthcoming AGM.
Table 1 Substantial shareholdings Annual General Meeting 1 At 31 December 2016 The 2017 AGM of the Company will be held at 10.00 am at the Number of % of holding in offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 2 Shareholder shares held Company 6AD on 26 April 2017.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. 29,769,435 23.60 the 2017 AGM, together with the explanations, will appear in the Quantum Strategic Partners Ltd. 15,981,750 12.67 notice of the AGM to be distributed to shareholders together with the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Franklin Resources Inc. 11,421,867 9.06 Footnote: Members of the Board, including the chair and the Chair of the 1.
There have been no changes in these interests between 31 December Audit Committee, as well as representatives of the Investment 2016 and 23 February 2017 being the date of approval of this report.
Manager, will be in attendance at the AGM to answer any 2.
Based on the issued share capital of the Company at such date being 126,133,407 shares.
Change of control This report was approved by the Board on 23 February 2017.
Under the Groups financing facilities, any change of control at the borrower or immediate parent company level may trigger a Signed on behalf of the Board by: pre-payment of the outstanding amounts to the lending banks and, in certain facilities, the change of control provisions are extended to include a change of control at the ultimate parent company level as well.
In addition, the Group has a revolving credit facility in the amount of 225 million due August 2017 which remained undrawn as at 31 December 2016, the terms Charlotte Valeur Simon Radford of which require the consent of the majority of the lenders to Chair Director any proposed merger or consolidation of the Company or of any of the borrowers or guarantors under that facility where the Company or relevant obligated entity would cease to be the surviving legal entity from such merger or consolidation.
79 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
