Our five strategic levers 1 2 3 Growing our product range Building strong, customerLeveraging the scale and Kellers goal is to be and entering new markets, focused local businesses expertise ofthe group the world leader in organically andby acquisition geotechnical solutions.
Description Description Description We have a set of target product Ground engineering is a local Keller has globally leading In 2016, we continued segments based on growth, business that demands local expertise and a corporate to make progress in profit and strategic expertise and relationships.
structure that allows us to bring delivering against our considerations.
Wewill continue to focus on the best of Keller to every strategy.
There are and satisfy the needs of our customer engagement.
We also have a set of target customers at local level.
Wewill be investing in the tools five levers: geographies to either and processes tomake this consolidate market position Our businesses evaluate more effective and efficient.
the quality of their customer feedback amongst other Synergies in operating model We maintain a short-list of things.
will be selectively implemented potential acquisitions to help so that we dont lose local us access target markets, Our businesses offer two responsiveness.
routes to value creation: high operational efficiency and Kellers scale provides security Explanation utilisation and or strong for customers andemployees The acquisition of Tecnogeo technical differentiation.
gave us access to broader markets in Brazil and gave Explanation Explanation us strong presence in key Business units in over 40 We have expanded our geographies of So Paulo countries provide local procurement capability to and Rio fide Janeiro.
knowledge of both markets include strong divisional level and ground conditions.
leadership and also harmonised We have successfully our equipment acquisition transferred our diaphragm Business units with robust approach.
walling capability into India divisional and group controls with support from Poland framework.
Group scale has given us the and Bencor.
capacity and customer In the past year we have updated credibility to take on larger and standardised our Keller projects in the Middle East, branding to support the local South Africa and Malaysia.
20 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Growth Customers Scale Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 4 5 Enhancing our engineering Investing in our people and operational capabilities Description Description We are investing in connecting We are investing in developing our global network of engineers the talent of our employees and project managers to share to help deliver world-class best practices onproject solutions to our customers as execution, equipment well as creating opportunities management and maintenance for all to maximise their and technology innovation.
Our global supply chain is We continue to strive for optimised to balance equipment leadership in HSEQ.
Explanation Executive Committee We aim to be a leader and reinforced.
Talent development programme Explanation rolled out to our senior Engineering and Operations management population.
KPIs Performance in 2016 function established, charged with building group capability Global Leadership Team Revenue growth year on year: and expertise, to deliver superior identified and programme of year-on-year sales growth, including solutions and productivity.
acquisitions Global Product Teams Continued strong emphasis 13.9% developing minimum operating on safety improvement.
standards for the group and Return on capital employed: sharing best practice.
underlying operating profit as a net return on capital employed We have improved transparency on our equipment utilisation 15.3% and are driving improved optimisation of fleet.
Operating margins: underlying operating profit expressed as a percentage of revenue 5.4% Accident frequency rate: accident frequency per 100,000 hours: lost time injuries are calculated as any incident over one day 0.34 Staff turnover rate: managerial, professional and technical staff leaving in the period, other than through redundancy or normal retirement, expressed as a percentage of staff in this category 7.0% Keller Group plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Engineering and Operations People
