Chairs introduction Charlotte Valeur Chair, Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc K WE reported a solid financial On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our full-year results for 2016.
The investment management team delivered performance, with strong earnings significant operational wins across the portfolio, delivering its growth and delivery of the annual best leasing results to date: a notable achievement in a year marked by significant political and capital market turbulence.
dividend target of 48.0 pence per share.
In this context, the Group delivered a solid financial In a year marked by material political and performance, growing earnings and delivering on the annual dividend target.
At the same time the team improved the mix capital market turbulence, we undertook of unsecured debt and extended debt maturities whilst keeping an accretive share buyback programme our average cost of debt low.
and continuously assess the best use of The portfolio stands at 2,882.2 million, primarily driven by capital to ensure efficient balance sheet 295.9 million of acquisition and capital expenditure activity and 165.1 million in foreign exchange gain, owing to material Euro management.
The Board is alert that the appreciation relative to Sterling.
This was offset by very potential for increased volatility remains profitable disposal activity and a modest portfolio valuation decline of 8.6 million or only -0.3%.
In this context, the business is on a solid foundation to deliver attractive The team also delivered considerable development projects, achieving practical completion, on time and budget, at both investor returns.
Baggot Plaza, Dublin 4, which is let to Bank of Ireland for 25 years, and Block K, Central Park, Dublin 18, where 166 new PRS units were built adjacent to our existing Vantage scheme.
Notably, we have already let 72% of the units in the three months to December 2016.
Furthermore, the significant refurbishments completions at 111 Buckingham Palace Road, Victoria, London SW1 and Portmarnock Hotel, Co. Dublin, have transformed both properties and are expected to drive income to the bottom line.
The business benefitted from active balance sheet management in the year, utilising both of KWEs unsecured bonds, raising 318.6 million by tapping the 2025 Euro bond by 150 million and the 2022 Sterling bond by 200 million, increasing the bonds outstanding to 550 million and 500 million, respectively.
Together they extended our debt maturities to 6.1 years and locked in additional fixed rate debt.
8 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Along with the rest of the UK listed real estate sector, and Industry achievements despite strong progress across all parts of the business, we In March 2016, the shares of KWE became constituent witnessed a material disconnect between KWEs share price members of the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Global Real Estate Index and the underlying business.
As part of our ongoing Series and the GPR 250 Index Series.
These are both important commitment to balance sheet management, we undertook a specialist indices for our investors, in addition to the FTSE 250 100 million share buyback programme, which was accretive to Index, which KWE has been a member of since 2014. both earnings and NAV per share.
We continue to monitor how we can best deliver sustainable total returns for shareholders The Company is a fee-paying member of EPRA, the European and have distributed 164.4 million in 2016 through a trade body for listed real estate securities, and follows EPRAs combination of dividends and share buybacks.
Best Practice Recommendations for both operational EPRA BPRs and sustainability EPRA sBPRs reporting disclosure.
In Results 2015, we achieved EPRA Silver and Bronze for operational and The Group delivered Adjusted NAV per share of 1,215.9 pence, sustainable reporting disclosures respectively, and aim to further up 3.5% over December 2015.
Adjusted earnings per share improve on this.
were 55.2 pence per share 74.1 million in total and basic earnings per share were 49.1 pence per share 66.0 million For further details on Responsible investments go in total.
To view the Finance review go to pages 50 to 54.
Outlook The investment and occupier markets across our business Dividends remain open and active, illustrated by our record-breaking Dividends of 48.0 pence per share, or 64.4 million were paid leasing and disposal activity, both ahead of preceding valuations during the year, reflecting a dividend cover based on 2016 and delivering attractive returns.
We expect the period of market adjusted earnings of 1.1 times, and a 37% increase on the uncertainty to persist and market volatility to potentially 35.0 pence per share paid in 2015. increase, as it remains too early to ascertain the impact of the UKs negotiations to exit the EU and the impact that will have on The Board announces a quarterly interim dividend of 12.0 pence the UK and the rest of Europe.
The Board remains alert to both per share.
The quarterly dividend will be paid on 31 March 2017 potential risks and opportunities for KWEs business.
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 March 2017.
With 539.7 million of disposals since 2015, the natural evolution away from smaller lot sizes demonstrates that our In the context of the material disposals delivered to date, the wholesale to retail strategy is working.
It has not only improved Board is comfortable with the level of the dividend being both the portfolio quality but also delivered solid occupancy, longer sustainable and offering an attractive dividend yield to leases and attractive profits.
KWE benefits from a diversified shareholders of c. 5%.
The Board will continue to assess the portfolio, both geographically and by sector, low capital appropriate dividend pay-out on a quarterly basis.
commitments and ample liquidity to capitalise on potential opportunities.
This, combined with KWEs unique blend of debt and equity skills, strong market relationships and a wealth of experience working through market dislocations, places the business on a solid foundation.
Charlotte Valeur Chair 9 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
