KPIs, Group and EPRA measures We use the following financial and Yield on cost non-financial metrics to track the implementation of our strategy and our operational and financial performance.
Definition The estimated annual NOI at the date of purchase divided by the purchase price using actual purchasers costs.
Exit yield on sale Definition The estimated annual NOI at the date of sale divided by the sale price using sellers costs.
Link to business model Shows our ability to source assets at attractive entry points.
Links to business model: Performance in 2016 We sold 413.1 million across 89 properties, crystallising a yield spread of 180bps when comparing the yield on cost of 7.6% versus the exit yield of 5.8%.
Sales generating 104 million of total return and an attractive return on cost of 31.8%.
Measures 180bps Yield spread between YOC and exit yield 5.8% Bartley Wood Business Park, Hook, UK Part of the South East office portfolio Exit yield on 2016 sales Acquired July 2015 113,672 sq ft suburban office 22 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Adjusted NAV Adjusted earnings EPRA vacancy Loan to value LTV Definition Definition Definition Definition IFRS net asset value EPRA earnings adjusted ERV of vacant space divided Loan to value is the ratio of adjusted by deducting any by adding back the by ERV of the whole asset net debt gross debt less management fee and performance fee expense.
cash to the total portfolio performance fee accounted value value of investment for in the share-based and development payment reserve.
properties, loans secured by real estate and hotels.
Adjusted NAV per Adjusted WAULT Weighted share earnings per average interest share rate WAIR Definition Definition Definition Definition Adjusted NAV as defined Adjusted Earnings as The weighted average The Groups interest rate above divided by the defined above divided by lease term remaining to first across all drawn facilities number of shares in issue the weighted average break across the portfolio weighted by all drawn debt at the relevant reporting date.
number of shares in issue weighted by contracted at the period end.
rental income, excluding loans, hotels, development and residential properties.
Link to business model Link to business model Link to business model Link to business model Shows that we have an Shows our ability to add Shows our ability to Shows the security of cash affordable and appropriate value to our properties, generate earnings that cover flow, through tenants level of gearing for our through asset management, our dividend payouts, which willingness to occupy our business model and development activities and are a key part of our total properties and to sign up to compared to our target realise profits on disposal.
Links to business model: Links to business model: Links to business model: Links to business model: Performance in 2016 Performance in 2016 Performance in 2016 Performance in 2016 LTV at year end was 42.8% Adjusted earnings per The portfolio vacancy The adjusted NAV per share as a result of financing share were 55.2 pence increased slightly from growth was 1,215.9 pence, activity during the year a 3.5% increase for the year.
This is an the end of 2015 as we which also saw the This was driven by the increase of 15.2% on the brought on development proportion of unsecured debt accretive 100 million share prior period owing to the completions that are not increase to 57% of the total buyback programme, solid benefit of acquisitions along fully let, like Block K. borrowings.
retained earnings as well as with successful leasing Our lease terms remain a small element of foreign levels: partly offset favourable with the WAULT WAIR is 3.0% and the exchange gain.
to first break at 7.1 years, weighted average term with the WAULT to expiry to maturity improved at an attractive 8.9 years.
Measures Measures Measures Measures 55.2p 5.4% 42.8% 1,215.9p Adjusted earnings per share EPRA vacancy Loan to value Adjusted NAV per share 15.2% 7.1years 3.0% 3.5% Adjusted earnings per share WAULT to first break WAIR Adjusted NAV per share growth growth 23 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
