Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Relations with shareholders Approach Debt investors programme The Board is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with During 2016, the senior representatives of the investment investors and recognises the importance of that relationship in management team held ad hoc credit investor and analyst the governance process, and the key role played by the meetings, and undertook a comprehensive deal roadshow investment management team in that process.
as part of the Companys bond offering efforts The investment management team also participated in The Company has a comprehensive investor relations non-deal roadshows organised by brokers and attended programme which aims to help existing and potential investors industry conferences where individual and group meetings understand the Groups business strategy, investments and were held, which provided a good forum to meet both performance.
Investor feedback, as available from the various existing and target credit investors.
These included the investor initiatives detailed below, is regularly provided to the BAML European Credit Conference and the Morgan Stanley Board to ensure an understanding of the objectives and views Fixed Income Real Estate Conference of investors and to continue to deliver on KWEs corporate strategy.
Feedback on investor relations The Board receives detailed feedback on investor relations on a Further details regarding the programme of investor events quarterly basis.
The Investor Relations team received feedback over the past year are set out below.
from analysts and investors during the year and also from the Groups corporate advisors.
The Company secretary and the Institutional investor programme legal and compliance team at the Investment Manager group During 2016, the programme of institutional investor events also received feedback on governance matters directly from included: shareholder bodies.
The information was shared with the Board to help members develop their understanding of shareholders Meetings with principal investors needs and expectations.
Meetings with the investment management team and Investor Relations team took place throughout the year.
Annual General Meeting AGM The geographic spread of the investor programme covered The 2016 AGM provided all shareholders with an opportunity Europe and North America.
The investment management to question the Board and the chair of each of the Boards team conducted the well-established bi-annual investor committees on matters put to the meeting, including the 2015 meetings in February March and August September with Annual Report and Accounts.
The results of voting at the 2016 meetings in London, Dublin, Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam, AGM are published on the Companys website.
Toronto and the US The Board was regularly informed of shareholder views www.
eu investors Institutional shareholders were invited to attend the  agm 2016-agm Companys full year and half year results presentations The Chair, the Senior Independent Director and other The 2017 AGM will be held on 26 April 2017.
The Notice of Directors were available to meet with shareholders AGM can be found on our website.
Investor site-tours and presentations www.
eu investors We hosted an investor afternoon at our largest asset,  agm 111 Buckingham Palace Road, Victoria, London SW1, with equity and debt investors, as well as equity analysts, to showcase the completed extensive reception and Sky Lobby works We also conducted seven ad hoc property tours with investors and analysts, visiting our main assets in Dublin, Central London and Madrid We conducted four sales team meetings and investor seminars during the year, organised by various brokers.
This provided the investment management team with the opportunity to present the KWE strategy and performance directly to both sales teams and target investor groups Industry conferences Industry conferences give the Investment Management team an opportunity to meet a large number of investors on a formal and informal basis.
Conferences attended in 2016 included the JPMC European CEO Conference in London, the Davy Real Estate & Financials Conference in Dublin, the BAML European Real Estate Conference in London, the BAML Global Real Estate Conference in New York, and the Morgan Stanley European & EEMA Property Conference in London 77 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
