Our business model Financial Intellectual Human Social relationships Key inputs Equity provided by The Investment The Investment The Investment our shareholders, Managers deep Managers team of Managers extensive debt provided by our understanding of equity, debt, property relationships with unsecured and our markets and its and finance financial institutions secured stakeholders specialist approach specialists.
and other real estate and ongoing retained to due diligence, owners, and its close profits from development, asset ties with contractors, operations.
and portfolio planners, councils, management.
consultants and its end occupier customers property See Resources and relationships and finance page 24. specialists.
How we unlock value Real estate operators 1.
Bottom up Active asset Debt and investment &portfolio Expert equity local strategy management synergies presence Unlocking value 4.
Rigorous Asset capital repositioning management Strong Excellent pricing relationships discipline Investors Occupiers KW Employees Value we create Accretive acquisitions along High quality commercial and Interesting and challenging for stakeholders with existing portfolio residential property, meeting careers in a growing and providing secure and growing their space requirements, successful business.
income, underpinning business and personal needs.
dividends, value enhancing projects and ongoing Communities Suppliers recycling to crystallising Working with communities in Potential to grow their profits on disposals.
proximity to our major assets.
business through a mutually beneficial long-term See Social responsibility partnership.
16 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information KWE unlocks the value of real estate that has been underStrong pricing discipline managed or under-capitalised by its previous owners.
We use Our distinctive investment strategy opens up a wide range our strong balance sheet to acquire assets, which we source of opportunities for us, meaning we can be highly selective through our excellent relationships with financial institutions, about the ones we pursue and can exercise strong risk-return administrators and other vendors who are not natural real pricing discipline.
We then use our asset management and development skills to release each assets inherent value, for We apply the KW teams expertise and resources to perform the benefit of all our stakeholders.
The key components of our detailed due diligence on everything we buy, whether it is a business model are described below.
single asset or a large portfolio.
This means we develop a deep understanding of what we are acquiring and the value we can How we unlock value add to it, enabling us to determine the appropriate price.
This Our aims differentiates us from private equity firms, who are amongst our We generate sustainable total returns by unlocking the inherent main competitors for the portfolios we acquire.
value of under-resourced real estate.
Excellent relationships Bottom up invstment strategy The Investment Manager and its advisors have excellent, 1.
We apply a bottom up approach to underwriting each strong relationships with financial institutions, as well as other asset we acquire, believing value can be found and potential sellers of under-resourced assets such as government enhanced in a variety of market conditions.
agencies, commercial real estate lenders, receivers, REITs and property funds.
Active asset and portfolio management 2.
We aim to bring practical solutions to our occupiers, These relationships give us a critical advantage in sourcing to meet their evolving space needs, also allowing us attractive investment opportunities, either off-market or with to grow the quantum and duration of our income.
Our ability to expeditiously complete transactions encourages vendors to transact with us and leads Asset repositioning to repeat deal flow.
Many of our properties offer repositioning opportunities where we can undertake development and refurbishment Debt and equity synergies to transform the property to meaningfully improve rents The Investment Manager and its advisors employ debt and and capital values.
equity professionals who work seamlessly together.
Uniquely among our listed peers, this allows us to invest in both direct Rigorous capital management real estate and loans, and to carefully assess the quality of both 4.
We endeavour to keep our balance sheet efficient and the debt and the underlying property asset before making a ensure adequate flexibility to support our real estate purchasing decision.
Acquiring debt at a discount to its market value gives us control The components of the underlying asset.
We can then execute asset management Real estate operators strategies that create further value for our shareholders.
Asset management sits at the heart of our value creation.
During due diligence we produce a business plan for every Our business structure asset, so the asset management team can start implementing Being externally managed has a number of advantages for us.
An experienced in-house development team particular, we have access to the experience and relationships of also helps to generate new thinking about the best way to KWs senior management and to the expertise of KWs substantial develop an asset.
wider team in Europe, at a cost to us that is substantially less then employing those resources in-house.
Our business platform also KWE has permanent capital, so we can take a long-term view benefits from the Investment Managers robust systems and of each assets potential.
An asset that is currently a core part processes, which it continues to enhance, and from our strong of our portfolio may present asset management or development corporate governance, which ensures we meet our compliance, opportunities in several years time.
We will also dispose regulatory and filing requirements in each of the jurisdictions we of assets, for example where we have completed our value operate in.
enhancement initiatives, so we can recycle the proceeds into other opportunities.
See Resources and relationships, page 24 and Expert local presence Leadership, pages 62 to 66.
Having expert people located in each of our markets is crucial for capitalising on local opportunities.
We continue to grow to support our business and the wider KW team has grown to over 90 employees, comprising asset managers, investment specialists, and finance and operations, located in the UK, Ireland, Spain, Jersey and Luxembourg.
This local expert knowledge and presence ensures we take a bottom-up approach to investment and asset management, and gives us the infrastructure to execute large portfolio transactions.
17 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Block K, Vantage, Central Park, Co Dublin, Ireland Practical completion achieved July 2016 166 units of rented residential PRS 1.
Bottom up Active asset investment &portfolio strategy management Unlocking value 4.
Rigorous Asset capital repositioning management 3.
Asset repositioning Unlocking value We took advantage of the opportunity to build 166 at Block K new residential units and 15,000 sq ft of commercial 1.
B ottom up investment space to complement our strategy existing 276 PRS units at The Vantage PRS scheme, Vantage.
This has transformed including Block K, which we Vantage overall, making it one acquired from NAMA in June of the largest PRS scheme in 2014, is located in Sandyford, Dublin with 442 units and 11km from Dublin city centre 34,000 sq ft of commercial in affluent catchment area of space.
The attractive amenity South Dublin.
space and services at Vantage benefit all tenants.
We acquired the podium at Block K as part of our 4.
Ri gorous capital acquisition and our low basis management on the podium has allowed us The development spend of to efficiently develop new 44.9 million was funded from units at an attractive yield existing Group cash reserves on cost.
and the project delivered on time and on budget.
A ctive asset & portfolio management Reflecting the strategy to Practical completion was increase our mix of unsecured achieved at the end of July debt and subsequent to the 2016.
We began letting the successful tap of our Euro new units in October 2016, 2025 notes earlier in the year letting 120 of 166 units by year we repaid the secured debt end and at rents ahead of against the wider Vantage business plans.
Penthouse suite, living area PRS units developed 166 Occupancy at year-end 72% 18 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Penthouse suite bedroom Tenant amenity lounge 19 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
