Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors report The Directors present their report together with the audited , other  than a service contract or a contract for services, with the Company 31December2016.
or any of its operating companies during the year.
This report is required to be produced by law.
The Disclosure and The Companys Articles of Association indemnify the Directors out Transparency Rules and Listing Rules also require us to make  certain disclosures.
or liability in the execution of their duties as Directors, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company maintains The Corporate governance statement, including the Audit  Committee report, form part of this Directors report and is could arise on the discharge of their duties.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts are cross-referenced where appropriate.
Powers of the Directors Taken together, the Strategic report on pages 4 to 43 and this The business of the Company is managed by the Board who may  exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of Transparency Rule 4.1.
the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 .
Specifictreatmentof Results and dividends Directors powers regarding allotment and repurchase of shares is Theresultsfortheyear,  provided under separate headings below.
TheDirectors Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association  Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association may be 9June2017,  made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 on19May2017.
 by way of special resolution.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 12 in number.
Going concern and Viability statement Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by an ordinary Information relating to the going concern and viability statements resolution of shareholders in general meeting following nomination is set out on pages 41 and 42 of the Strategic report and is by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a incorporated by reference into this report.
meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the Directors Financial instruments ,  provided that the individual retires at the next AGM.
A Director may in the Finance Directors review.
be removed by the Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association for example bankruptcy, or resignation, or by a special Post balance sheet events resolution of the Company.
All Directors stand for re-election on an A further 5.9m of insurance proceeds relating to the contract annual basis, in line with the recommendations of the Code.
dispute settled in 2014 was received in February 2017.
This will be recognised as exceptional other operating income in 2017 as the receipt of these insurance proceeds was not considered virtually Employees certain as at 31 December 2016.
The group employed approximately 10,000 people at the end of the year.
Change of control The groups main banking facilities contain provisions that, upon Employment policy ,  The group gives full and fair consideration to applications for discretion to require immediate repayment of the loans on a change employment made by disabled persons, having regard for their of control and cancel all commitments under the agreement.
The policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment of those who become Certain other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal disabled during their employment and the provision of training course of business, include change of control provisions.
There are and career development and promotion, where appropriate.
no agreements providing for compensation for the Directors or Information on the groups approach to employee involvement, employees on a change of control.
equal opportunities and health, safety and the environment can be found in the Sustainability report on pages 36 and 40.
Transactions with related parties Apart from transactions between the Company, its subsidiaries Political donations and joint operations, which are related parties, there have been No political donations were made during the year.
Keller has an no related party transactions during the year.
established policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Directors and their interests The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were Greenhouse gas emissions Directors of the Company can be found on page 50.
The interests Information relating to the greenhouse gas emissions of the  Company is set out on page 39 and is incorporated by reference Ordinary Share capital of the Company and any interests in its into this report.
performance share plan are given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 59 and 78.
The Directors present their report together with the audited  31December2016.
Keller Group plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report continued Percentage Number of of the Companys voting Research and development Ordinary Shares total rights The group continues to have in-house design, development and Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 8,973,708 12.47% ,  Old Mutual Plc 4,242,670 5.96%  Schroders plc 3,632,097 5.07% ground conditions and behaviour.
Most of the specialised ground Aberforth Partners LLP 3,589,696 5.00% improvement equipment used in the business is designed and built Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 3,557,757 4.96% in-house and, where applicable, the development costs are included Norges Bank 2,871,741 3.99% in the cost of the equipment Auditors Share capital The Board has decided that KPMG LLP will be proposed as the groups Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements auditors for the year ending 31 December 2017 and a resolution to in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in appoint KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
note 25: Share capital and reserves.
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which is listed on the London Stock Exchange Annual General Meeting OrdinaryShares.
:  and each Ordinary Share carries the right to one vote at general Piper UK LLP, 3 Noble Street, London, EC2V 7EE at 11.00am on meetings of the Company.
The full wording of the resolutions to be tabled at the meeting is set out in the Notice of AGM.
, nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Articles Disclaimer of Association and the prevailing law.
The Directors are not aware The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to provide of any agreements between shareholders that may result in information to the members of the Company, as a body, and no restrictions on voting rights and the transfer of securities.
person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The Company, its Directors and employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 29: Sharethis document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any based payments.
Shares held by the Keller Group plc Employee such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward-looking Repurchase of shares statements with respect to the operations, performance and The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM .
The involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can authority remains outstanding until the conclusion of the 2016 AGM  but could be varied or withdrawn by agreement of shareholders at anticipated.
The minimum price which must be and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual paid for each Ordinary Share is its nominal value and the maximum Report and Accounts and the Company undertakes no obligation to price is the higher of an amount equal to not more than 5% above update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share .
  Information included in the Directors report an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent  trade of an Ordinary Share and the highest current independent bid governance statement can be found in the Directors report in the for an Ordinary Share on the trading venue where the purchase is sections headed Substantial shareholdings, Repurchase of shares, carried out.
Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association, Appointment and replacement of Directors and Powers of the Directors and is The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use, incorporated into this Corporate governance section by reference.
Other information Allotment of shares and pre-emption disapplication  Shareholder authority was also given at the last AGM for the ,  Directors to allot new shares up to a nominal amount of 2,392,493, of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, so far as they are each equivalent to approximately one-third of the Companys issued aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys share capital excluding treasury shares as at 29 February 2016 and Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that to disapply pre-emption rights up to an aggregate nominal amount he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself of 358,874, representing approximately 5% of the Companys aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the issued share capital as at 29 February 2016.
Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use, these authorities.
Substantial shareholdings Kerry Porritt At27February2017,  Group Company Secretary with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the 27 February 2017 Financial Conduct Authority of the following voting rights of shareholders in the Company: RegisteredOffice: 5thfloor, 1SheldonSquare London W2 6TT Registered in England No.
2442580 80 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
