Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Letter from the Chair Charlotte Valeur Chair, Kennedy Wilson Real Estate Plc Dear Shareholder The Board and strategy KWE continues to follow the strategy set by the Board on its Introduction IPO in February 2014, which we keep under regular review.
I am pleased to introduce this governance report in which, In 2016, we focused on recycling capital by delivering on our among other things, we describe KWEs compliance with the disposal programme, opportunistically acquiring high quality UK Corporate Governance Code, explain how the Board and its assets and executing value-enhancing asset management committees have operated during the past year, and describe initiatives.
From a capital perspective we increased our ratio how effective stewardship is exercised over the Groups of unsecured to secured debt and were pleased to have our activities in the interests of our stakeholders.
As Chair, I am investment grade credit rating reaffirmed.
The Boards decision responsible for ensuring that the Board operates effectively and to undertake a share buyback programme in September 2016 efficiently and that it continues to uphold a high standard of was well received by shareholders and the market.
We have corporate governance for the long-term success of the Group.
built the foundation to support a sustainable business that can This is based on an appropriate level of oversight and challenge, withstand market uncertainty and operate over long-term cycles.
good communication, a focus on risks, a commitment to Despite recent macro events, we are not currently seeing this transparency and ensuring a culture of continuous improvement feed into our underlying markets or operational performance.
in standards and performance across the business.
During the year under review, the Board devoted more of its time to its own and the Companys readiness to act on changes Our regulatory and governance framework across our markets and potential opportunities, as well as its As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock governance and risk management framework.
Exchange, KWE is required to apply the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016 and to comply with KWE is in a robust position, with affordable long-term debt, high all relevant provisions, or explain any non-compliance.
Whilst liquidity levels and ownership of a portfolio of good quality, KWE is a member of the Association of Investment Companies income producing assets.
We continue to plan for the future, AIC and acknowledges the AIC Corporate Governance Guide remaining alert to risks, challenges and opportunities, and for Investment Companies, we have decided to follow, and ensuring we are ready to move quickly if required.
report against, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code to the extent reasonably applicable to an externally There were no changes to the composition of the Board during managed property investment company so as to measure the year, and I would like to thank my fellow Directors for their ourselves against and, where we consider it appropriate, comply ongoing support, wisdom and challenge.
with the highest standard of corporate governance.
Although we are not subject to the UK Companies Act 2006, we have chosen Board effectiveness review to report in line with best practice and the official guidance on its We undertook an external evaluation of the Boards application where appropriate.
KWE is also an Alternative effectiveness in 2016.
The overall conclusion was that the Board Investment Fund AIF for the purposes of the Alternate and its committees operate effectively and efficiently, with a Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD and related high standard of performance throughout the past year.
regulations, as adopted and implemented by the Jersey Financial Services Commission JFSC, and complies with the JFSCs The next Board effectiveness review will take place in 2017 and Codes of Practice for Alternative Investment Funds and AIF will be conducted internally.
You can find the required regulatory and governance disclosures throughout this report.
For further details on the Board evaluation process go to page 69.
To view our statements of compliance go to pages 59 to 61.
57 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Letter from the Chair continued Sustainability Our statements of compliance The Board is mindful of the way that KWE and its priorities fits How we set high governance standards with and supports wider goals in society.
In my view, this wider social perspective is an essential ingredient to be considered by For more information go to pages 59 to 61 any board when making decisions to ensure that longer term viability is properly taken into account.
The risks that could affect KWE specifically, together with broader threats affecting the property sector or the economy as a whole, are outlined Managing risk on pages 35 to 40.
This is supplemented as in last years report by the inclusion of a viability statement, Leadership for which the Board has again chosen to use a three-year How the Board and its committees lead to deliver our strategy time horizon.
For more information go to pages 62 to 66 To view the viability statement go to page 61.
Sustainability in a broad sense was a key topic of discussion at our Board meetings in 2016 and we have issued a separate sustainability report that sets out our approach to responsible investment in the medium term and describes our 2016 activity.
Effectiveness For more details go to pages 27 to 33.
How the Board evaluates itself and ensures it has the right skills and balance Changing risk landscape and year ahead Risk management and the nature of the principal risks facing For more information go to page 69 the Company are discussed by the Board on at least a quarterly basis.
For more details on the Companys risks and uncertainties go to pages 35 to 40.
The legislative environment and market conditions in which any Accountability business operates are constantly changing.
For KWE, the future How the Audit Committee fulfils its oversight responsibilities may be affected by many factors, not least being the UKs terms of trade with the EU.
This will undoubtedly result in a lengthy For more information go to page 74 period of uncertainty during the formalisation of exit terms and may adversely impact occupiers, valuations, investment decisions and stock markets.
Our portfolio and business have shown tremendous resilience to market volatility and uncertainty following the referendum result in June 2016.
We believe the Group is well-positioned to deal with this uncertainty given its strong liquidity position and the significant proportion of Euro Remuneration assets in the investment portfolio: however, the longer-term How we follow appropriate standards in line with best practice impact on the Group is harder to predict.
For more information go to page 76 The Board will continue to work closely with the Investment Manager to ensure that it addresses these risks in a way that is consistent with the Groups strategy and vision.
Thank you On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the investment management team at Kennedy Wilson and all our advisors for Relations with shareholders their work, energy and passion throughout the year, and for the How we constructively engage with our stakeholders results that they have achieved.
I am confident that we have an excellent team at Kennedy Wilson to steer KWE through the For more information go to page 77 challenges and opportunities ahead.
Charlotte Valeur Chair 58 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
