In providing geotechnical Our projects are often for a Our products and services Our business solutions, Keller operates in the short duration and the majority are not just about foundations initial stages of the construction have an average value of less for construction but are most model value chain.
We work across commonly geotechnical chain and construction process the construction spectrum.
solutions to complex varies significantly from project Very often we will joint venture construction projects from to project, Keller is typically the with a main contractor on a bid.
solving for terrain and water first contractor on-site and the pressure in constructing a first off-site.
Ensuring our work Depending on the nature of dam to the foundations for is done efficiently is critical for a project, Keller may provide a major stadium.
our customers in saving them insights into design and other money and providing a sound phases of the construction We are unique given our platform for the remaining process but generally value is market-leading positions work on a project.
created and captured principally derived from combinations of from our groundwork activities.
technology, scale and customer relationship leadership.
Our key resources How we create 1 and relationships 2 and capture value What we need to make our Knowledge and capability sharing business model work: to build the best solutions: Our people High-quality project managers, engineers and operators capable of delivering world-class solutions Demand Capture Solution Design Contracting Project Execution Signoff and Learning Strong local relationships with real trust from our customers Local businesses with Design engineers and cost Commercial teams trained Product-specific operations Project leadership focused giving us insight into market relationships general estimators with local ground in relevant local laws set up teams and equipment with on achieving client sign-off developments and allowing us contractors, consulting knowledge and capacity to contracts that are fair to capacity to deliver efficiently and securing payment.
to drive for high-value solutions engineers and developers create optimum solutions.
and effectively to quality and Highly experienced low staff and knowledge to identify schedule and to respond to Lessons learnt retained turnover means we are more demand.
Kellers market leading Experience of large scale issues arising.
and transferred into rest of reliable than the competition portfolio of products and project contracting and group e. g. Engineering and Specialists, flexible to go A global network to support services.
group scale making Keller a Flexibility to move equipment Operations teams transfer to the toughest problems, cross-border collaboration reliable partner in even the and resources between learning on techniques and ensure the customer gets major projects typically A global network of most demanding markets to match local productivity improvements.
the best of Keller involve cross-border professionals on hand to circumstances.
demand identification and support any team on solution Our technology capture.
Broad coverage for all geotechnical solutions giving us resilience to market changes and supporting us to lead on innovation Keller unique solutions giving improved customer results The Keller value proposition: and Keller profitability see below Engineering Extensive products Building Information leadership and services Modelling BIM capabilities to support digitisation of ground engineering Our market focus Underpinned by functional teams with the capacity Targeting markets that value to support the core value creation stream: geotechnical solutions Selective investment in Health & Safety Finance profitable segments Procurement IT Our financial strength Strong balance sheet 34 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements How we create Who benefits from 2 and capture value 3 that value creation Knowledge and capability sharing We create value for a broad to build the best solutions: range of stakeholders: Customers Local knowledge with global scale and resource Provision of complex geotechnical solutions Demand Capture Solution Design Contracting Project Execution Signoff and Learning Local businesses with Design engineers and cost Commercial teams trained Product-specific operations Project leadership focused Shareholders relationships general estimators with local ground in relevant local laws set up teams and equipment with on achieving client sign-off Dividends contractors, consulting knowledge and capacity to contracts that are fair to capacity to deliver efficiently and securing payment.
Capital growth engineers and developers create optimum solutions.
and effectively to quality and and knowledge to identify schedule and to respond to Lessons learnt retained People demand.
and transferred into rest of Employment portfolio of products and project contracting and group e. g. Engineering and Qualifications A global network to support services.
group scale making Keller a Flexibility to move equipment Operations teams transfer Global and local opportunities cross-border collaboration reliable partner in even the and resources between learning on techniques and major projects typically A global network of most demanding markets to match local productivity improvements.
Communities involve cross-border professionals on hand to circumstances.
Employment demand identification and support any team on solution Construction of facilities capture.
World-class geotechnical Cost effective Operational solutions approaches excellence Strategy Information Technology Human Resources Keller Group plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
