Other statutory information UK Listing Rule disclosures Information required to be disclosed pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R may be found on the following pages: Information Annual report section Page Business review Strategic report 4-43 Dividend Strategic report 13 and 38 Future developments of the Company Strategic report 13, 16, 20 and 21 Corporate responsibility Strategic report 46-53 Greenhouse gas emission Strategic report 49 Employment policies Corporate responsibility 51-52 Principal risks Strategic report 56-57 and 59-62 Directors in office during the year Directors report 66-67 and 71 Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report 96-103 Directors indemnity and insurance Other statutory information 104 Structure of share capital, voting rights and Other statutory information 104-105 major shareholders Policy on derivatives and financial instruments Other statutory information 105 Information required by LR 9.2.
2AR 2 a Other statutory information 105 Relationship agreements Statement on political donations Other statutory information 105 Rules governing appointments of Directors Other statutory information 106 Rules governing changes to the Articles of Association Other statutory information 106 Disclosure of information to auditor Other statutory information 106-107 Statement of capitalised interest Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 129 Contract for the provision of services by major shareholder Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 150 explanatory notes, are set out in a separate Notice of Annual Directors General Meeting which accompanies this Annual Report and In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Accounts.
A summary of the business carried out at the Annual Directors will retire and submit themselves for re-election at General Meeting will be published on the Companys website the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors contracts or letters of appointment are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Share capital During the year, no Director had any interest in any shares or As at 31 December 2016, the Companys issued share capital was debentures in the Companys subsidiaries, or any material interests 458,379,033 ordinary shares of 20 pence each, credited as fully in any contract with the Company or a subsidiary being a contract paid.
As at the date of this Directors Report, the Company holds of significance in relation to the Companys business.
11,677,052 ordinary shares in treasury and the issued share capital of the Company which carries voting rights of one vote per share Directors indemnity and insurance comprises 446,701,981 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
KAZ Minerals maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Further details of the Companys issued share capital are shown in Officers.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of the note 23 commencing on page 136.
Directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted The Companys shares are listed on the London, Hong Kong and by law.
Annual General Meeting A list of the Groups subsidiary undertakings and their principal The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.15pm activities is given in note 36 m commencing on page 163. on Thursday 27 April 2017 at the offices of Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, United Kingdom.
Details of the meeting venue and the resolutions to be proposed, together with 104 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Company has complied with the independence provisions Purchase of own shares included in the relationship agreements and, so far as the Company The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2016 Annual is aware, such provisions have been complied with during the period General Meeting to purchase its own shares on the market under review by the controlling shareholders and their associates.
In the period since the 2016 Annual General Meeting, the Company has not purchased any shares under this Although Eduard Ogay stepped down from the Board with authority.
The Board will seek shareholders approval to renew the effect from 31 October 2014, as he continues to be considered authority to make market purchases of the Companys shares at the to be acting in concert with Vladimir Kim for the purposes of forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the Code, details of the relationship agreement between the Company, Stansbury International Limited and Eduard Ogay Major shareholdings havebeen included.
As at 22 February 2017, the Company had been notified under Rule 5.1.
2 of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of Political donations the following interests in its total voting rights of 3% or more: The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the Number of Percentage United Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political ordinary shares of total voting organisations or incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
of 20 pence rights held as at Name of holder each held 22 February 2017 Policy on derivatives and financial instruments 1 Cuprum Holding Limited 135,944,325 30.43 The Groups objectives and policies on financial risk management, Lafonda Holding Pte Limited 31,293,781 7.01 and information on the Groups exposures to foreign exchange, Lynchwood Nominees Limited 29,969,088 6.71 counterparty credit, commodity price, liquidity and interest rate SIX SIS AG ZURICH risks can be found in note 31 commencing on page 141.
2 Harper Finance Limited 29,706,901 6.65 Legal proceedings 3 Majedie Asset Management Limited 22,381,504 5.01 Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a defendant in any proceedings which the Directors believe will have a material 1 Vladimir Kim holds a 100% interest in Cuprum Holding Limited.
effect on either the Companys financial position or profitability.
2 Oleg Novachuk holds a 100% interest in Harper Finance Limited.
Commitments and contingencies are disclosed in note 32 3 Funds under management of Majedie Asset Management Limited.
Relationship agreements Significant agreements change of control As required by Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2 a, on 23 July 2014, the The following significant agreements contain certain termination Company entered into: i an amended and restated relationship and other rights for the counterparties upon a change of control agreement originally entered into on 26 September 2005 with ofthe Company.
Cuprum Holding Limited, Perry Partners S. A. and Vladimir Kim: and ii a relationship agreement with Stansbury International Limited Each of a $1.34 billion facility agreement and a RMB 1.0 billion facility and Eduard Ogay.
agreement dated 16 December 2011, between KAZ Minerals Aktogay Finance Limited as borrower and China Development In accordance with Listing Rule 6.1.
4DR, each relationship Bank Corporation as lender, contains terms which give the lender agreement establishes that all transactions between the Company the right to cancel any of the commitments provided to KAZ and the controlling shareholder are undertaken on an arms length Minerals Aktogay Finance Limited and declare all outstanding loans, basis and on normal commercial terms, that neither the controlling together with accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued shareholder nor its associates will cause the Company to breach and outstanding immediately due and payable on 30 business days or circumvent the Listing Rules or prevent the Company from notice if the Company ceases to hold directly or indirectly more complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules and that than 50 % of the issued share capital of KAZ Minerals Aktogay neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will Finance Limited and or certain other named subsidiaries.
propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper The terms of a pre-export finance debt facility dated application of the Listing Rules.
20 December 2012, as amended and restated on 29 October 2014, between KAZ Minerals Finance PLC and a syndicate of banks, Under the relationship agreement with Vladimir Kim, inter alia, provide that if any person excluding Vladimir Kim and Oleg there must be a majority of independent Directors on the Board Novachuk or group of people acting in concert secures control and on all its standing committees, and no material transaction may of the Company: i a lender under the facility shall not be obliged be entered into without approval of the independent Directors.
to fund a loan: and ii if a body of lenders representing more than Each relationship agreement will continue as long as the ordinary two-thirds of the amount of the facility so require, the parties shall shares are listed on the premium segment of the Official List and enter into negotiations for a period of not more than 30 days with traded on the London Stock Exchange and will terminate should a view to agreeing alternative terms for continuing the facility.
If the relevant shareholder cease to be a controlling shareholder no alternative basis has been agreed during such period then the asdefined in the Listing Rules.
com 105 Directors report Other statutory information lenders may cancel the commitments of the lenders to lend the Voting rights facility and declare all outstanding amounts due and payable.
Members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
On ashow of hands every member or his her representative who is Each of a $1,844 million facility agreement and a $148.5 million present in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution and facility agreement dated 29 December 2014, between KAZ on a poll every member or his her representative who is present Minerals Finance PLC as borrower and China Development Bank in person or by proxy shall have one vote on each resolution for Corporation as lender, contain terms which give the lender the each share of which he she is the holder.
right to cancel any of the commitments provided to KAZ Minerals Finance PLC and declare all outstanding loans, together with In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 which allows multiple accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued and outstanding proxies appointed by a single member to vote on a show of hands, immediately due and payable on 30 business days notice if the all substantive resolutions at general meetings will normally be put Company ceases to hold directly or indirectly more than 50% of to a poll vote.
Employees who participate in the Companys Share the issued share capital of KAZ Minerals Finance PLC and or certain Incentive Plans SIP and hold shares in the SIP trusts, provide other named subsidiaries.
directions to the trustee to vote on their behalf by way of a form of direction.
The terms of a borrowing base debt facility dated 14 August 2015, between KAZ Minerals Finance PLC as borrower and Caterpillar The Company is not aware of any agreements between Financial Services UK Limited as original lender, provide that if shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
any person excluding Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk or group Dividend rights of people acting in concert secures control of the Company: i Shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but the a lender under the facility shall not be obliged to fund a loan: and amount of the dividend may not exceed the amount recommended ii ifa body of lenders representing more than two-thirds of by the Board.
the amount of the facility so require, the parties shall enter into negotiations for a period of not more than 30 days with a view to Transfer of shares agreeing alternative terms for continuing the facility.
If no alternative There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares other than basis has been agreed during such period then the lender s may certain restrictions as set out in the Companys Articles of cancel the commitments of the lender s to lend the facility and Association.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried declare all outstanding amounts due and payable.
out using CREST and the Board can refuse a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing The terms of a credit facility agreement dated 14 December 2016, the operation of CREST.
between KAZ Minerals Aktogay LLC as borrower and DBK as lender, provide that if there is a change in the ownership structure The Company is not aware of any agreements between of the borrower in an amount of 10% or more of the participating shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer interests of the borrower, to a person or persons other than a of shares.
member of the Group and without the prior written consent of Powers of the Directors thelender, this would trigger an event of default.
The Directors are responsible for the management of the business Going concern of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the Companys reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to Articles of Association.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future which Appointment and retirement of Directors is for this purpose a period of at least 12 months from the date of The Board shall have the power at any time to appoint any person approval of these financial statements.
Accordingly, they continue who is willing to act as a Director, so long as the total number of to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Directors shall not exceed the maximum number prescribed in the consolidated financial statements.
Any Director so appointed shall retire at Articles of Association the next Annual General Meeting following such appointment.
Each The following description summarises certain provisions of the Director shall retire at the Annual General Meeting held in the third Companys Articles of Association and applicable English law calendar year following the year in which he she was elected or last concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This summary re-elected by the Company.
A Director who retires at an Annual is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companys Articles of General Meeting whether by rotation or otherwise may, if willing Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys Articles to act, be reappointed.
of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at Audit information ageneral meeting of shareholders.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Rights attaching to shares Directors Report confirm that so far as they each are aware, there The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are is no relevant audit information being information needed by the defined in the Companys Articles of Association.
106 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS auditors in connection with preparing their audit report, of which Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors all steps that he ought to have reasonably taken as a Director Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to that comply with that law and those regulations.
establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity ofthe corporate and financial information included on the Auditors Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation Having reviewed the independence, objectivity and performance and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation of the auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the inother jurisdictions.
Board that the existing auditors, KPMG, be re-appointed.
Ordinary resolutions re-appointing them as auditors and authorising the Responsibility statement Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2017 Each Director confirms to the best of his her knowledge that: Annual General Meeting.
the Group and parent company accounts, prepared in accordance Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of ofthe Annual Report and the financial statements theassets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance taken as a whole: with applicable law and regulations.
the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent position of the Company and the undertakings included in the company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in theprincipal risks and uncertainties that they face:and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law and and understandable and provides the information necessary for have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair The Strategic Report comprising pages 4 to 62 and the Directors view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and Report comprising pages 64 to 107, and including the sections of the of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Annual Report and Accounts referred to in these pages, have been Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: arerequired to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Susanna Freeman consistently: Company Secretary make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 22 February 2017 state whether they have been prepared in accordance with Registered Office IFRS as adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures th 6 Floor, Cardinal Place disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company 100 Victoria Street financial statements: and London prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis SW1E 5JL unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Registered in England and Wales No.
05180783 parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and of the parent company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities, and have adopted a control framework for application across the Group.
com 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 109 Independent Auditors report 112 Consolidated statement of total comprehensive income 113 Consolidated balance sheet 114 Consolidated statement of cash flows 115 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 108 108 KAZ Minerals Ann KAZ Minerals Annual R ual Repor eport and Accounts 2016 t and Accounts 2016
