Accountability The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that there Ongoing risk management are appropriate and effective procedures, policies and The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Board to processes in place for internal control of financial, operational conduct, at least annually, a review of the adequacy of the and risk management matters to manage inherent business Companys systems of internal control and risk management, risks.
The Board receives regular reports from the Investment and to report to shareholders on that review.
Manager on the Groups business risk profile and key risks.
All key risk, compliance and control activities are performed by The Boards statement on the effectiveness of the the Investment Manager in its capacity as investment manager Companys risk management and internal controls is and AIFM to the Company and are considered by made on page 61. the Audit Committee, with oversight from the Board.
The Board has approved a detailed Risk Register identifying Although the Board believes that it has a robust framework significant strategic, investment-related, operational and of internal controls in place, this framework can provide only service provider related risks, and has in place a monitoring reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material system to ensure that risk management and all aspects of misstatement or loss and is designed to manage, not internal control are considered on at least a quarterly basis.
monitoring system assists in determining the nature and extent of the significant risks the Board is willing to take in achieving Financial reporting and internal control its strategic objectives.
The Investment Manager uses this Risk The Group maintains a control environment that is regularly Register as the basis of its review and management of the reviewed by the Board.
The principal elements of the Groups Groups risk profile, and regularly reports to the Audit control environment include: Committee.
Further details on our risk management processes and the risk assessment and management undertaken by the An established organisation structure with clear lines of Investment Manager in 2016, reporting to and with oversight responsibility, documented approval levels and delegated from the Audit Committee, are set out in the Managing risk authorities section of this report.
A disciplined investment management team and the Boards committees, supplemented by clear subsidiary board and Go to page 35. operating structures, which facilitate regular performance review and decision-making Bribery and corruption policy Thorough and rigorous investment and due diligence The Board has a zero tolerance policy for bribery and corruption processes adopted by the Investment Manager of any sort.
The Board, in operating this policy, gives regular A comprehensive strategic review and annual business training to staff of the Investment Manager group on the planning process Groups procedures on anti-bribery, gifts and travel policy and A robust budgeting, forecasting and financial reporting due diligence on third party advisors, highlighting areas of process vulnerability.
All Kennedy Wilson employees involved with Centralised control systems for cash management KWE and all directors on the boards of the Group companies Well-established and documented monthly internal are required to complete an online anti-bribery training module management reporting and quarterly external reporting annually.
KWEs principal advisors and service providers are cycles to assess performance and identify risks and required to have similar policies and practices in place within opportunities at the earliest opportunity their own businesses.
A financial and property information management system set up for multi-jurisdictional use, ensuring a clear audit trail from Whistle-blowing policy the output of the Groups financial reporting systems, The Company benefits from a formally documented whistlethrough the conversion and consolidation processes, to the blowing policy and related arrangements that allow reporting of Groups consolidated financial statements suspected impropriety on a confidential basis.
The staff of the Comprehensive processes in place for preparing Investment Manager group and all directors on the boards of consolidated accounts to ensure that the accuracy and Group companies are given regular training on the Groups timeliness of internal and external financial reporting approach to whistle-blowing and are made aware of the A focused post-acquisition review and integration avenues that are open to them to report matters of concern.
programme to ensure the Groups governance, procedures, In addition, KWEs principal advisors and service providers are standards and control environment are implemented required to have similar policies and practices in place within effectively and in a timely manner their own businesses.
There have been no whistle-blowing Various policies, procedures and guidelines underpinning the incidents since the Companys inception.
development, asset management, financing and other main operations of the business, together with professional services support including legal, human resources, information services, tax, company secretarial and health, safety and security Risk management framework that spans the whole Group, as detailed above 74 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
