Business model Delivering value to our stakeholders KEY INPUTS EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT MINING 2016 ore output Natural resources Mine extensions Artemyevsky II 3,266 Mt of measured and Project studies underway to extend the Evaluating mine extension opportunities indicated mineral resources life of the Artemyevsky mine in the East at East Region operations.
Exploration drilling Power Koksay Reliable domestic Greenfield exploration drilling in areas Project studies continue on the power supply.
close to the East Region mines.
Water Availability of fresh water from groundwater and surface water sources.
Bozshakol Aktogay Transport Orlovsky Direct links to national rail network.
Artemyevsky Irtyshsky Labour  Approximately 13,000 Bozymchak employees.
End markets What differentiates us Close proximity to China and access to European markets.
High growth Low cost Large scale Bozshakol and Aktogay are ramping The Groups net cash cost in 2016 of Bozshakol and Aktogay are large Finance up production and this will deliver 59 USc lb was amongst the lowest of scale open pit mines and will process $3.8 billion of facilities drawn over 50% annual growth in Group any pure-play listed copper miner.
25 Mt of ore through each of their as at 31 December 2016. copper output from 2015-2018. main sulphide concentrators per year whenfully ramped up.
This is the highest growth rate of anypure-play listed copper miner.
Our scale helps us to drive down thecosts of production.
How we run our business Health and safety Environment Local Safety is our highest strategic priority.
The Group seeks to minimise communities the impact of its activities on KAZ Minerals is a responsible Our aim is zero fatalities and a the environment.
We report all operator and seeks to share the reduction in the rate of injuries material impacts in our Corporate benefits of the development TRIFR at our operations.
responsibility report, see pages 46 to of natural resources with 53 for details.
8 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For more information, see pages 20 Strategy 25 Operating review PROCESSING SALE OF CONCENTRATE DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR Close to market STAKEHOLDERS Bozshakol andAktogay sell almost all copper concentrate to smelters in China.
Zinc in concentrate from the East Region is sold to CIS or China based customers.
Bozshakol and Aktogay TREATMENT SALE OF FINISHED On-site concentrators.
AND REFINING METALS East Region Three associated concentrators.
Shareholders We seek to deliver Bozymchak long-term value for On-site concentrator.
Customers Smelting services Flexibility Our customers in China The Balkhash smelter carries Finished metals can be sold and Europe rely on out smelting of copper concentrate to customers in China or our supplies of metal on a tolling basis.
Aktogay oxide Suppliers On-site SX-EW plant.
We prioritise local content and require suppliers to meet our codes of conduct.
Communities We create jobs and What differentiates us business opportunities for local communities.
We support local Power costs Transport links Clean concentrate social projects.
Our operations in Kazakhstan benefit Our mines are connected to the The copper concentrate produced at from highly competitive power tariffs, existing infrastructure of the national Bozshakol and Aktogay is very low in Our people enabling us to operate large scale rail network which enables us to arsenic and other pollutants.
We invest in our people, facilities at low cost.
efficiently deliver our products It is also high in sulphur content, which helping them to further to customers.
is attractive for Chinese smelters.
Kazakhstan We are a major economic contributor to Kazakhstan.
Our tax How we run our business contributions support the Government in providing Risk management Corporate governance public services and We closely monitor the risks associated with our activities.
KAZ Minerals adheres to the highest standards of infrastructure.
The Group corporate governance and is fully in compliance with the funds social projects in Please see pages 56 to 62 for a detailed analysis of the key risks UK Corporate Governance Code.
com 9 10 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FROM PROMISE TO PERFORMANCE AKTOGAY First production Development from sulphide approved ore 2012 2015 2017 First copper cathode from oxide ore The Aktogay copper deposit is located in the East Region of Kazakhstan and has been developed as an open pit mine with on site SX EW processing facilities and a 25 Mt sulphide concentrator.
Copper production from oxide ore commenced in December 2015 and production from sulphide ore began in February 2017.
The ramp up of Aktogays sulphide operations will benefit from the expertise gained at Bozshakol, due to the two mines having identical sulphide concentrators.
