Alternative Performance Measures continued Loan to Value The comparative information as regards dividends paid for the Definition: Loan to value is the ratio of Net Debt as defined years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 is below to the portfolio value.
presented in Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Rationale: Provides information about the amount of leverage risk in the Group.
Under the terms of certain financial covenants Total accounting return to which the Company is subject and the Companys investment Definition: Percentage growth in Adjusted NAV per share policy, the loan to value ratio is subject to a maximum amount.
as defined above plus dividend per share divided by opening Reconciliations: The reconciliation as at 31 December 2016 Adjusted NAV per share.
and 31 December 2015 is presented in Note 27C v c to the Rationale: Provides information about the total income and consolidated financial statements.
capital performance of the Company over a relevant period.
It is commonly reported by real estate investment companies.
Net Debt Reconciliations: Adjusted NAV per share plus dividend per Definition: Net debt is gross debt less cash and cash share, divided by opening Adjusted NAV per share.
Adjusted NAV per share above for the Adjusted NAV per share Rationale: Key component to the calculation of the Loan to reconciliation in the consolidated financial statements.
Value metric as defined above and is commonly reported by real estate investment companies.
The comparative information as regards total accounting return Reconciliations: The reconciliation as at 31 December 2016 as at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 is presented and 31 December 2015 is presented in Note 27C v a to the in Financial key performance indicators KPI table of the consolidated financial statements.
Dividend cover The comparative information as regards dividend per share for Definition: Ratio of Adjusted Earnings as defined above to the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 is dividends paid.
Rationale: Provides investors an indication of the number of times the Company is capable of paying dividends from the profits earned during the relevant period.
Reconciliations: Adjusted Earnings divided by dividends paid during the period.
See Adjusted Earnings above for the Adjusted Earnings reconciliation in the consolidated financial statements.
Additional disclosures Exchange rate Investment policy Where balance sheet amounts in this document are presented Overview in both and, the amount has been calculated based on an The Company aims to acquire, through the services of the exchange rate of 1 : 0.85352, which was the rate on Investment Manager, real estate and real estate loans in Europe, 31December 2016.
Income Statement amounts were translated initially in the UK, Ireland and Spain, and thereafter in these at the average rate for the year.
jurisdictions as well as other European countries on an opportunistic basis, with the intention of creating value AIFMD disclosures for shareholders.
AIFMD requires certain disclosures to be made in relation to the remuneration on the Investment Managers staff during the The Company will seek to invest in a diversified portfolio of financial year.
The staff of the Investment Manager including commercial real estate including office, retail, industrial, the directors receive remuneration through any one of or a warehouse and distribution, leisure and recreational assets, combination of: fixed fees salary, individual performance based and residential real estate including multi-family, single-family bonus unrelated to the Company and other income from the and multi-tenanted assets.
The Company may also consider Kennedy Wilson group of companies.
investing in mixed-use real estate.
The remuneration arrangements do not generate material The Company will also invest in real estate loans.
The Company conflicts of interests between the staff of the Investment may also invest in a mixed portfolio of real estate and or real Manager and the investors in the Company, nor does the estate loans that may include other non-real estate related remuneration of the staff of the Investment Manager encourage assets as part of the portfolio, provided that following the material risks to be taken by the Investment Manager which completion of the acquisition of any such non-real estate related would be contrary to the Companys risk profile.
For the year assets, the Investment Manager will use its reasonable ended 31 December 2016, the Investment Manager paid a total endeavours to dispose of such non-real estate related assets of approximately 0.4 million in fees, salaries and incentive on commercially acceptable terms as soon as reasonably payments to its staff.
150 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information In addition, the Company may originate real estate loans which Where the Company invests in a mixed portfolio of real estate are either floating or fixed rate and may also securitise pools of and or real estate loans that includes other non-real estate real estate loans.
The Company may also invest in securities related assets as part of the portfolio, the value of the non-real traded on a public exchange and in other public or private estate related assets in the portfolio being acquired, in investment funds, in each case focused on the real estate sector.
combination with any other non-real estate related assets being held by the Company at the time of the applicable investment as The Company will invest its funds in these asset classes in the a result of similar acquisitions, shall not exceed 15% of the real estate sector where it sees an opportunity to create value Companys most recently published NAV, calculated at the time for shareholders.
The Company intends that its portfolio will of investment.
The Investment Manager will use its reasonable comprise a mix of real estate and real estate loans, appropriately endeavours to dispose of such non-real estate related assets on diversified by geography, real estate sector type, asset class, commercially acceptable terms as soon as reasonably practicable.
tenant exposure, tenure and location.
The Investment Manager has been authorised by the Board to exercise its discretion in Gearing managing and diversifying the real estate asset classes The Company intends to use gearing with a view to enhancing identified above within the Companys portfolio to the benefit equity returns whilst maintaining prudent levels of interest cover of shareholders and ensuring that the funds available to the and protecting shareholders funds.
The Investment Manager Company for investment are invested in such real estate assets.
intends to determine the appropriate level of borrowings on a deal specific basis and limit the lenders recourse only to assets Whilst the majority of the Companys assets are expected to of the entity making the acquisition in question, thereby be wholly-owned, the Company will retain the ability to pursue ring-fencing risk.
The Investment Manager does not intend to its investments through a variety of investment structures, impose a particular LTV ratio limit for each investment, but including joint ventures, acquisitions of controlling interests expects that on an overall basis, the Groups LTV ratio will not or acquisitions of minority interests, if considered suitable.
exceed 50% at the time of borrowing i. e. that the Groups aggregate borrowings will not exceed 50% of the aggregate Asset diversification market value of the Groups total assets including cash and No single investment, or aggregate investments secured on in any event, the Groups LTV ratio will not exceed 65% at the a single property, will exceed 25% of the Companys most time of borrowing.
The Board may modify the Companys recently published NAV, calculated at the time of investment, gearing policy from time to time taking into account then excluding the Companys interests in the intermediate holding prevailing economic and market conditions, fair value of the undertakings in the Group.
Groups assets, acquisition and active management opportunities or other factors the Board deems appropriate.
The aggregate value of real estate loans originated by the However, no modification of the Companys gearing policy to Company excluding any loans made to Group entities and allow the LTV ratio to exceed 65% shall occur without prior loans with equity characteristics shall not exceed 10% of the shareholder approval.
Companys most recently published NAV, calculated at the time of origination of any such loan.
Hedging The Company will not enter into derivative transactions for The Company may consider a limited number of property purely speculative purposes.
However, the Companys development opportunities, including land site acquisitions, investments will typically be made in the currency of the country as well as property redevelopment opportunities.
At any point where the underlying real estate assets are located.
In the case in time, the aggregate development and redevelopment costs of Ireland and Spain, this will largely be Euros.
The Company incurred in respect of assets under development and or may implement measures designed to protect the investments redevelopment at that time will not exceed 15% of the against material movements in the exchange rate between Companys most recently published NAV.
For the avoidance of Sterling, being the Companys reporting currency, and Euros, doubt, renovation, restoration, fit-outs, internal reconfigurations, being the currency in which such investments are made.
The maintenance and engineering works and general up-keep of analysis as to whether such measures should be implemented any existing and new investments by the Company will be will take into account periodic interest, principal distributions or classified as refurbishment activities undertaken by the dividends, as well as the expected date of realisation of the Company and do not fall within the ambit of such development investment.
The Company may bear a level of currency risk that and redevelopment limits.
could otherwise be hedged where it considers that bearing such risk is advisable.
The Company will only enter into hedging The Company will invest in real estate and real estate loans, contracts, such as currency swap agreements, futures including mixed portfolios of real estate and or real estate loans contracts, options and forward currency exchange and other that may include other non-real estate related assets, as set derivative contracts, when they are available in a timely manner out above.
and on terms acceptable to it.
The Company reserves the right to terminate any hedging arrangement in its absolute discretion.
151 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Additional disclosures continued FCA investment restrictions Management fee and performance fee The Company currently complies with the investment For the provision of services under the investment management restrictions set out below and will continue to do so for so long agreement, the Investment Manager is entitled to be paid a as they remain requirements of the FCA: management fee and a performance fee.
Further details in this Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries will conduct regard are set out in Note 31 to the consolidated financial any trading activity which is significant in the context of the statements.
Group as a whole but this rule does not prevent the businesses forming part of the investment portfolio from See pages 137 to 140. conducting trading activities themselves The Company will avoid cross-financing between businesses Share issuance arrangements forming part of its investment portfolio The portion of each management fee payable in ordinary shares The Company will avoid the operation of common treasury and each performance fee shall first be calculated by the functions as between the Company and investee companies Investment Manager and notified to the Company as a cash for this purpose investee companies does not include figure but shall be paid by the Company in ordinary shares in intermediate holding companies in the Group accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the Not more than 10%, in aggregate, of the value of the total investment management agreement.
assets of the Company at Admission will be invested in other UK-listed closed-ended investment funds, except for those Discretionary authority of the Investment Manager which themselves have published investment policies to The Investment Manager is responsible for preparing and invest not more than 15% of their total assets in other executing annual business plans for the Groups investments.
UK-listed closed-ended investment funds, and The approved business plans are shared and discussed with the The Company must, at all times, invest and manage its assets Board and the Board is regularly updated about the Investment in a way that is consistent with its object of spreading Managers performance.
investment risk and in accordance with the published investment policy.
Save in the case of matters involving a conflict of interest, the Investment Manager has full discretionary authority, without Definitions Board approval, to make all investment and financing decisions on Company or KWE: Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc.
behalf of the Group and therefore the Board has no role in respect Investment Manager: KW Investment Management Ltd. of the Groups investment or financing decisions in most cases.
LTV ratio: the ratio of the aggregate of any debt incurred by the Company or the Group in respect of any monies borrowed Term and termination by, or advanced to, the Company or the Group, to the The investment management agreement has an initial term aggregate market value of the assets of the business or ending three years from the IPO, at which time it shall be businesses including cash of the Company or the Group, deemed to automatically renew and continue in force in as the case may be.
perpetuity thereafter unless and until it is otherwise terminated Group: the Company and its subsidiary undertakings from as detailed below.
Board: the board of directors of the Company.
The investment management agreement can be terminated by NAV: net asset value, or the total aggregate value of the the Company immediately on written notice to the Investment Companys and its subsidiary undertakings consolidated Manager not to be provided prior to the third anniversary of the assets less liabilities measured in accordance with IFRS and investment management agreement if the termination has been the Groups accounting policies approved by the vote of 75% of the independent shareholders FCA: Financial Conduct Authority.
voting on the relevant resolution, in which case, the Company shall IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted pay the Investment Manager an amount in cash equal to three by the EU.
years management fee calculated by reference to the prevailing EPRA NAV per ordinary share as at the date of termination and a Principal terms of the investment management agreement performance fee calculated to the date of termination.
Other Service instances where the investment management agreement can be The Company is party to an investment management agreement terminated by the Company involve: a a change of control of the with the Investment Manager dated 25 February 2014, as Investment Manager provided that such termination has been amended, pursuant to which the Investment Manager has been approved by the vote of a simple majority of the independent appointed as the Groups investment manager to manage, on a shareholders voting on the relevant resolution: b i an act of discretionary basis, all of the assets and investments of the gross negligence, fraud or wilful misconduct in each case in Group, subject to the Groups investment policy.
The connection with the performance of the services by the Investment Manager is entitled to delegate certain of its functions or duties under the investment management agreement to one or more of its associates.
152 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Investment Manager or ii a material breach of the Groups investment policy, and which in each case is either A incapable of remedy, or B has not been remedied by the Investment Manager within three months of the Company giving written notice to the Investment Manager specifying such act and requiring that it is remedied: and c termination of the investment advisory agreement between the Investment Manager and its investment advisors and its non-replacement by a comparable agreement among the Investment Manager and other members of the KW Group.
The investment management agreement can also be terminated by the Investment Manager if the Company is in material breach of any of its material obligations under the investment management agreement and such breach is not due to the acts or omissions of the Investment Manager, which breach either i is incapable of remedy or ii has not been remedied to the reasonable satisfaction of the Investment Manager within three months of the Investment Manager giving written notice to the Company specifying the breach, and in which case the Investment Manager will be entitled to payment of an amount in cash equal to three years management fee calculated by reference to the prevailing EPRA NAV per ordinary share as at the date of termination and a performance fee in cash calculated to the date of termination.
Other instances of termination by the Investment Manager include a change of control in the Company: if the Board acquires or disposes but not if the independent Directors determine to proceed with an acquisition or disposal pursuant to the conflicts of interest policy of an investment except on the advice of the Investment Manager: if the Board raises new equity or distributes any income or capital of any member of the Group without the consent of the Investment Manager, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed: or if the Company makes a material change to the Groups investment policy without the Investment Managers prior consent, in which case the Investment Manager will be entitled to payment of an amount in cash equal to three years management fee calculated by reference to the prevailing EPRA NAV per ordinary share as at the date of termination and a performance fee in cash calculated to the date of termination.
The investment management agreement can be terminated by any party if the other party becomes insolvent, appoints an administrator or receiver or passes a resolution for winding up otherwise than for the purpose of a bona fide scheme for solvent amalgamation or reconstruction.
In the event of termination of the investment management agreement in accordance with its terms, the Investment Manager shall be entitled to all fees and other amounts payable to it pursuant to the investment management agreement up to the date of termination, including any management fee or performance fee which shall be calculated on a pro rata basis to the date of termination.
153 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
