Strategy in action Diaphragm walls: a first for Keller India Strategic levers 1 Growth 2 Customers 4 Engineering and Operations One advantage that Keller has as Keller Poland also provided a a global company is its ability to team of five to work on site and draw on worldwide experience transfer knowledge to their and expertise to transfer Indian colleagues.
But, as techniques from one market to building diaphragm walls on a another to achieve growth.
busy road is very different to a Keller India did just that in 2016 greenfield site, and the solution to secure its first ever diaphragm used polymer rather than wall contract as part of the bentonite as a drilling fluid, all Lucknow metro project.
the teams developed new skills.
This is one of an estimated 800 Because the site was in the metro stations planned globally middle of one of Lucknows for the next decade.
busiest roads, trucks were only able to deliver concrete at night.
Securing and delivering the Reinforcement cages were project was a real team effort.
prepared at the site but there was Keller Foundations in Australia only a road width of 11metres to and Keller Poland sent their perform the task.
Keller Indias diaphragm wall experts to India experience of adapting to these to help plan and prepare for the local conditions helped keep job.
The global product team productivity high as per the for diaphragm walls was also contract estimate.
involved, drawing on experience from Bencor, which we acquired in 2015 specifically to expand our product knowledge in this area.
22 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Keller India, Lucknow, India Global strength and local focus.
Proving Kellers capacity and credentials for diaphragm walls in India and Asia, this project will help secure other similar projects in the region.
Indeed, we have recently won our first diaphragm wall project in Malaysia.
Keller Group plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategy in action continued A stronger, more unified Keller brand Strategic levers 2 Customers 3 Scale Keller evolved and unified its More practically, unchanged corporate identity this year to for more than 20 years, the emphasise that all its companies previous Keller logo needed are connected and ensure that modernising and didnt work well its brand is recognised around in social media.
styles also all required different artwork, assets and applications.
Keller has a unique ability to offer global strength and local Now, all our geotechnical focus.
For example, our companies will use the two knowledge of local markets diamonds to symbolise global and ground conditions make strength and local focus, and us ideally placed to understand show that theyre all part of one and respond to a particular Keller family.
Non Keller company local engineering challenge.
names that are well-established Our global knowledge base then in their local markets remain, but allows us to tap into a wealth of now all have the words A Keller experience, and the best minds Company underneath.
in the industry, to find the optimum solution.
Emphasising this through our branding and corporate identity is an important part of our strategy to be the world leader in geotechnical solutions.
24 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Global strength and local focus.
Most of our clients contract with us on local and regional projects, and delivering these safely, to a high quality and on time is what builds our reputation and makes us the contractor of choice locally.
At the same time our financial strength, and the resources that we can draw on globally, mean that we can tackle the largest and most demanding projects around the world.
Our branding now emphasises this global strength and local focus that makes us unique.
Keller Group plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategy in action continued Global product teams at work Strategic levers 4 Engineering and Operations 5 People To enhance our engineering We work with our in-house and operational capabilities, equipment business, for ten global product teams GPTs example, to improve the were established, covering each efficiency of our jet-grouting of our major product lines.
Theyre starting to make a real difference on the ground with Reducing the amount of successes on bid assistance: by-product produced is another new design methods: focus area, to improve technology transfer: and sustainability and reduce cost.
The team supports bids and The jet grouting global product projects too.
Working with, team is one example.
The team for example, Keller Canada spent the early part of the year Geo-Foundations on the Yonge consolidating Kellers jet grouting Eglinton Station project to knowledge and capability and assess and optimise the design.
identifying where our best practices and opportunities are.
This knowledge has now been collated into guidance documents and distributed to all our business units.
To help manage risk, the team is also introducing a new safety procedure for protecting colleagues working below the rotary drill head.
26 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Global strength and local focus.
As global product teams become part of our knowledge network, getting information and access to expertise is becoming much easier for everyone at Keller.
Now the team are established, the main thrust going forward will be to transfer knowledge and expertise to the businesses.
We can then expect to see further improvements in work winning, quality and operational efficiency and ultimately profitability.
Keller Group plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategy in action continued Partnering for success Strategic levers 1 Growth 2 Customers 3 Scale Like other business units in the Keller family, Hayward Baker and HJFoundation are increasingly collaborating to secure and deliver contracts that neither would have won on their own.
Hayward Bakers expertise in soil mixing fits perfectly with HJFoundations expertise in deep foundations.
Using strong quality control systems and logistics management, HJ installs deep foundations with continuous flight auger piles and does the excavation, and HBI executes the deep-soil mixing, offering a turnkey dry-hole solution for the client.
In 2016 the team signed multi-year agreements for some $72m and executed projects of around $20m.
28 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements HJ Foundation, Miami Global strength and local focus.
Collaboration across Keller allows us to optimise the solution via the design and selection of the best combination of geotechnical products.
Our customer only has to deal with one company that offers everything, rather than three or four different contractors, making the coordination of projects that much easier.
And because Keller can respond quickly with expert people and specialised equipment, it also means lower costs, faster schedules and higher quality.
Keller Group plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategy in action continued Remote fixes maximise productivity Strategic levers 3 Scale 4 Engineering and Operations As our machinery becomes More than 400 of these machines more technologically advanced, are fitted with sensors that allow so too do the methods we use the team to access the various for diagnosing and solving electronic control units.
Keller has a team that include the programmable logic can fault-find, and often fix a controller the computer that machine almost anywhere in automates processes, the world without leaving frequency inverter which their desks.
controls speed and torque, radar and ultrasonic sensors, The Telediagnostics team in and the M5 system which Renchen, Germany are at the produces production reports.
end of a line telephone and email to help when a piece of When they get a call from Keller machinery isnt working someone on-site who has a as it should be.
problem with their machine, they evaluate the data on the The team is based in our systems to determine the in-house equipment business electronic or mechanical problem.
at Renchen in Germany, which designs and produces the Once a problem is diagnosed, specialist equipment used by the team can talk the caller many of our business units, through steps to remedy the including vibrocats and jet problem, or give them the part grouting rigs.
number so they can order a replacement to arrive the next day.
About three quarters of the time the issue can be fixed there and then.
30 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Global strength and local focus.
In an environment where delivering on time is critical, the Telediagnostics team provides an indispensable service that helps keep our machines up and running and our projects on schedule.
Keller Group plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
