Market overview Improved copper fundamentals Copper Our products Copper is used in a wide range of sectors and industries as it is In 2016, sales of copper generated 69% of Gross Revenues with a good conductor and has many electrical and thermal applications.
the remaining revenues from the Groups by-products of gold, zinc The construction sector continues to be the single biggest and silver.
consumer of copper and together with the consumer product Around 70% of gross copper revenues were from the sale of sector accounts for 55% of demand.
The remaining copper demand copper cathodes, with the remainder from the sale of copper is from electrical networks, transport and industrial machinery.
The sulphide plant at Bozshakol commenced the sale The price of copper is impacted by global supply-demand of copper concentrates in March 2016.
A full year of production fundamentals as well as the activities of financial investors.
The from the sulphide plant, in addition to production from the separate price can therefore be volatile and cyclical, with the outlook for clay plant, commissioned in September 2016, will see an increase in the Chinese economy of particular significance as China currently revenues from copper concentrate sales in 2017.
At Aktogay, the consumes around 48% of refined copper.
Copper is produced sulphide concentrator commenced commissioning in December around the world and derived primarily from mines.
South America 2016 with production of saleable copper concentrate expected in is the biggest producer and together with the US, Australia, China the first quarter of 2017.
The copper concentrate from Bozshakol and the Democratic Republic of Congo supplies over two thirds of includes by-products of gold and silver.
Secondary copper materials, such as scrap, also Production of copper cathodes from oxide ore at Aktogay provide an important alternative source of copper material for began in December 2015 and is sold to customers alongside the the refined copper production process.
cathodes from East Region and Bozymchak.
The operations in the East Region and at Bozymchak produce copper concentrate Global copper consumption by market sector which also contains gold and silver content as by-products.
The copper concentrate from the East Region and Bozymchak is toll Consumer and general 24% Construction 31% processed at the Balkhash smelter into finished products of copper cathode, gold bars and silver bars.
The East Region also produces zinc concentrate.
Transport 11% Gross Revenues by product Silver 5% Other 1% Zinc 10% Industrial machinery 11% Electrical network 23% Copper concentrate 22% Source: Wood Mackenzie, 2015 consumption Gold 15% By-products Gold is used as an investment asset and for jewellery and various industrial and electronic applications.
Copper cathode 47% Silver has similar demand fundamentals to gold but with a higher exposure to industrial applications which results in increased price volatility.
Benchmark prices for both gold and silver are generally based on LBMA quotations.
Approximately 50% of world zinc production is used in the construction sector.
It is also used in industrial machinery, electronics and consumer products.
Pricing of zinc concentrate is based on the LME zinc price, less processing charges.
com 17 Market overview Market environment Average price movement in 2016 Copper price and exchange inventories US$ tonne tonne 000 7000 700 600 6000 500 Copper 12 % 400 Gold 8% 5000 300 Silver 9% 200 Zinc 9% 4000 100 Average price quoted on the LME and LBMA exchanges compared to 2015.
2016 exchange inventories 2015 LME Price 2016 LME Price Source: Bloomberg Source: Bloomberg Copper Outlook 2016 market performance The positive sentiment at the end of 2016 has improved the short Copper began 2016 under pressure from negative market and medium-term outlook for copper.
Whereas previously there sentiment, reflecting continuing concerns over the global economic was a broad consensus that the copper market would move into outlook and Chinese demand.
The LME copper price fell to a six supply deficit at some point between 2018-2020, some analysts year low of $4,311 t in January, following which it recovered to now predict a small deficit occurring from 2017. trade for much of the year in a relatively narrow range of In China, the demand outlook has improved.
Electrical grid $4,500 t-$5,000 t. investment is expected to continue, growth is forecast in the Sentiment turned sharply positive in November with LME copper copper intensive wind and solar power sectors and an extension briefly trading above $6,000 t, a 17-month high, due to stronger of automotive tax cuts into 2017 could further support copper than expected demand, supply disruptions and miners lowering consumption.
In the US, potential future fiscal stimulus and production guidance.
In particular, Chinese demand was stronger infrastructure investment could also raise copper demand.
Whilst than expected, supported by fiscal stimulus and growth in the 2016 has had limited production disruption by historic standards, electrical network, appliance and transport sectors.
The Chinese a number of specific labour and regulatory issues around the manufacturing purchasing managers index PMI was at its highest world have the potential to disrupt supply in 2017. level in four years during November.
Demand expectations also The copper market is expected to remain tight over the next few improved following the US presidential election and the possibility years and it is forecast that a significant market deficit will emerge of infrastructure stimulus and pro-industry policies.
The depletion of existing mines, falling head grades resulted in speculative money entering the market, further and limited capital investment in recent years is expected to result strengthening prices.
in lower levels of production whilst demand is expected to rise.
The copper price ended the year at $5,501 t, below the highs Annual contracts for over 80% of the Groups 2017 cathode experienced in November, impacted by a stronger dollar and volumes have been agreed with Chinese and European customers.
Whilst copper prices and sentiment Copper cathode is sold at a provisional LME price which is adjusted were much improved at the end of 2016, the years average LME to a final price, typically one month after delivery.
As in previous copper price of $4,860 t was 12% lower than the 2015 average years, up to 20% of expected cathode production is not contracted of $5,495 t. and will be available for sale at spot prices to cover monthly The refined copper market remained tight during 2016 and is production variances during 2017. expected to have recorded a small supply surplus, equating to Copper concentrate from Bozshakol and Aktogay has been around 1% of global consumption.
This would represent the sixth contracted to a single trader for 2017.
The counterparty, Advaita consecutive year of supply surplus.
Copper mine production Trade Private Ltd Advaita is part of an independent metals is estimated to have increased by 3.8% during 2016, despite trading group founded in 2014 by former employees of the Group production disruptions during the second half of the year and with significant experience in marketing the metals the Group reflecting growth from new projects that continue to ramp up.
produces to China and Europe.
Advaita also purchases copper Global refined copper consumption was higher than had previously material from companies owned by Cuprum Holding, the entity been anticipated, with growth of 2.0%, up from 1.3% recorded in to which the Disposal Assets were transferred, and is working 2015 due to stronger Chinese demand and tight scrap supply.
with other producers in the region.
The sales arrangement will 18 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS allow the Group to benefit from better sales terms and economies The copper concentrate produced by Bozshakol contains gold of scale on logistics.
The Group will develop the sales strategy and silver which forms part of the copper concentrate sales terms.
for its products jointly with Advaita and through joint marketing Gold bar production from the East Region and Bozymchak will be the Group will continue to maintain relationships with key sold in 2017 to the National Bank of Kazakhstan, as required by end customers.
Kazakhstan, based on the LBMA price at the time of delivery.
Silver bar production will be sold to traders based in Asia for delivery to Copper concentrate is sold on a provisional LME copper price, Europe and Asia under annual contracts based on the LBMA price less treatment and refining charges TC RCs.
The provisional LME plus a premium at the time of delivery.
copper price is adjusted to a final price, typically the average of the month eight weeks after delivery.
Spot Chinese TC RCs fell in Zinc late 2016 in anticipation of a tightening market in 2017 as smelters 2016 market performance seek to secure supply following production disruptions.
The annual Zinc was the strongest performer among the base metals in 2016 benchmark TC RC fell to $92.5 t, a decrease of around 5% from with an average price of $2,095 t in 2016, 9% above the average 2016.
Chinese smelter utilisation rates remain below historical levels price in 2015.
The zinc price has been supported by a lack of mine and China continues to target continued growth in smelting capacity.
supply growth which led to the market for concentrates moving from a small surplus in 2015 into sizeable deficit in 2016 and was also Gold and silver reflected in lower treatment charges.
2016 market performance The average gold price was $1,251 per ounce in 2016, 8% above the Outlook average price in 2015.
Gold finished 2016 where it started the year, The outlook for zinc is positive due to the metals strong at a price of around $1,100 per ounce.
Gold experienced a rally in medium-term fundamentals.
There are no large advanced stage the first half of 2016, reaching a high of $1,325 per ounce on the development projects in the pipeline to replace mine closures back of negative sentiment surrounding the Euro area, the Brexit and cutbacks.
With demand growth expected to outstrip supply vote and the uncertainty of the timing of US interest rate rises.
the market is forecast to remain in deficit in 2017, supported These gains were reversed in the fourth quarter of 2016 due to by a shortage of concentrates, which could translate into higher improved investor sentiment following the US presidential election, zinc prices.
an increase in interest rates and higher bond yields.
The Group has concluded its annual zinc concentrate contracts As a precious metal with similar fundamentals, silver performed for 2017 and will sell three-quarters of zinc concentrate production in line with gold, averaging $17.1 per ounce in 2016, an 9% increase from the East Region within the CIS, with the remaining output from 2015.
The silver price was also impacted by poor investor sold to China.
Pricing of the zinc concentrate sales will be based sentiment arising from an oversupplied market, with miners on the LME zinc price less processing charges which are set on increasing output whilst industrial demand remained soft.
Outlook The gold and silver outlook for 2017 will be dependent upon the US dollar and expected US Federal Reserve interest rate rises, the global economic outlook and inflationary expectations.
Prices could benefit from any increase in inflation or any increase in uncertainty for the global economic outlook, including the Euro zone where elections and Brexit negotiations could impact investor sentiment, or from the possibility of protectionist trade measures in the US following the presidential election.
In the medium-term, silver prices could benefit from a reduction in supply as a proportion of current production is estimated to be loss making at current prices.
