Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Effectiveness Board evaluation 2016 managed or being developed by the Group which enables a Internal evaluations of the Board and its committees were deeper insight into the operations of the business and provides carried out in our first two years of operation as a UK listed Directors with the opportunity to meet with the local asset company.
In keeping with the recommendations of the UK management teams and business advisors.
Corporate Governance Code, an externally facilitated evaluation of Board effectiveness was commenced towards the end of Tenure, annual re-election and independence 2016 and completed in early 2017.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to the strength of the Board.
The evaluation was conducted by Equity Communications The Board collectively shares the view that property is a Limited, a leading specialist consultancy with no other long-term business, and experience gained through one connection with the Group, who were given access to each property cycle is invaluable background for the next.
Moreover, of the Directors and key representatives of the investment depending on our business needs and the progress of the management team and provided with supporting materials property cycle, it may be in the Companys best interests for to enhance the evaluation teams understanding of how some Directors to stay beyond the nine-year time period the Board, its committees and each of the Directors operate.
referred to in the UK Corporate Governance Code a view also In addition to completing detailed questionnaires, one-on-one supported by the AIC at which point some investors or interviews were conducted with each Director and the key governance bodies may begin to question their independence.
representatives of the investment management team, against Any such decision will be taken by reference to the facts as a formalised set of questions.
The overall conclusion from the they exist at the time and fully explained to shareholders.
evaluation was that the Board, its committees and each of the Directors operate effectively and efficiently, with a continuous Accordingly, other than an initial term of three years from the and high standard of performance throughout the past year.
date of appointment as extended from time to time, no limit The high levels of commitment and integrity of fellow Board on the overall length of service of any of the Directors, members are deeply valued by the Directors.
including the Chair, has been imposed.
At the meeting held in December 2016, the initial term of three years for all Directors, The Directors believe that they are able to challenge each other which was expiring on 10 February 2017, was further extended during Board meetings and that the spirit of openness that by another three years subject to each Director being reexists enables everyone to participate fully in discussions.
The elected by shareholders at each AGM.
Directors were observed to take their responsibilities seriously and to be committed to their roles, and the culture of In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate transparency that exists between them is seen as a key Governance Code, the Directors will be standing for re-election strength.
The Board is pleased with the increasing amount of on an annual basis and their biographies, setting out their time being allocated to future issues that may affect the relevant skills and experience, other professional business, whilst at the same time maintaining rigorous commitments, and individual contributions to the Board, oversight of ongoing performance.
We have plans in place to are set out in the Leadership section of this report.
ensure that we keep challenging ourselves to get better.
Board environment and access to appropriate information There was positive comment on the Boards environment and The Board also considered the independence criteria set out in culture of transparency at its meetings in this years external the UK Corporate Governance Code and the extent to which evaluation report.
The Board and its committees receive papers they are appropriate to an externally managed property in a timely fashion and Directors have access to information, investment company.
Taking into account the guidance set out support and advice from the investment management team in the AIC Guide and the Chapter 15 requirements of the UK throughout the year.
Listing Rules, the Board concluded that Mark McNicholas, Simon Radford and Charlotte Valeur are each considered to be Professional development and support independent.
William McMorrow and Mary Ricks are not The majority of the Directors are Jersey residents and each considered independent by the Board because of their Board member is approved by the JFSC which requires them to relationship with the Investment Manager.
undertake 25 hours per annum of continued professional development CPD.
Accordingly, each Director and any other In addition, the Board considered the time-commitment of individual who forms part of the JFSCs span of control for the each of the Directors and was satisfied with the contributions Company, including the Directors of the Investment Manager of all the Directors during the year.
must ensure that the appropriate CPD requirements have been met during the year.
In addition, each Director maintains membership of relevant professional bodies in order to keep themselves abreast of changes in applicable regulation, and conduct and reporting guidance.
The Board has also held several specific knowledge development and working group sessions during 2016 on matters affecting risk profile, corporate reputation, property trends and market updates.
The Directors also receive regular reports facilitating greater awareness and understanding of the Groups business and the legal, regulatory and industry-specific environment in which it operates.
This is complemented by visits to properties owned, 69 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
