Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Letter from the chair of the Management Engagement Committee Evaluation of the Investment Manager and key serviceproviders The Committee discussed the performance of the Companys investment portfolio and its financial performance in 2016.
It was observed that the progress made by the investment management team in successfully delivering on the 2015 business plans for the Groups investments, in spite of recent macro events creating a challenging economic outlook and an uncertain political environment, and the focused, strategic and high quality acquisitions made in 2016, were commendable.
The effective execution of the Groups conservative financial policy in 2016, through effective balance sheet and liquidity management covering share buyback, bond issues, pay down of certain secured debt was also noted.
Charlotte Valeur We also noted that KPMG acted as external auditor to the Management Engagement Committee Chair Investment Manager and its group, and we are satisfied that no conflicts have arisen in this regard.
Committee members and attendance At our meeting held in December 2016, we concluded that the Investment Managers continued appointment on the terms Attendance at agreed in the investment management agreement is in the best Member meetings in 2016 interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Charlotte Valeur 2 2 Following discussions with the investment management team, Mark McNicholas 2 2 we are of the view that the other key service providers to the Company operate effectively with sufficient oversight from the Simon Radford 2 2 Investment Manager, and no changes were recommended.
Dear Shareholder Legal and regulatory compliance Welcome to the report of the Management Engagement We took into account the results of the regulatory compliance Committee which provides an overview of our activities during assessment project undertaken by the Investment Managers the past year.
legal and compliance team in 2016.
Committee responsibilities and how they were discharged Details of the scope of the project are set out on The principal focus of the Management Engagement Committee page 72. in 2016 was: the review and evaluation of the performance of, and the A review of the assessment results report concluded that the retention of, the Investment Manager and the Companys Group had robust procedures for ensuring compliance with other key third party service providers, and to ensure the current applicable regulations, and effective controls for horizon terms of the Companys arrangements with them are fair and mapping, coupled with adequate access to qualified specialist reasonable for shareholders advisors, the investment management team and a dedicated to satisfy itself as to the adequacy of systems and procedures compliance function at the Administrator.
to meet all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to the Company Charlotte Valeur Management Engagement Committee Chair Terms of reference The Management Engagement Committees written terms of reference, which are reviewed on a periodic basis, are available on the Companys website.
eu about-us board-andgovernance board-committees Committee effectiveness During the year, the externally facilitated Board evaluation concluded that the Committee operated well and in accordance with its terms of reference.
75 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
