Complete solutions: Our markets customers want to reduce their 1.
Urbanisation large scale burden of managing complexity developments: and are trusting us to take on this holds for almost all more roles for them, this helps geographies.
It is driving growth make our work more efficient.
and increased complexity in the market.
Technical complexity: developments are constructed the equipment sophistication they require increasingly and products required by the sophisticated solutions.
market are increasing in complexity.
Brownfield marginal land: becoming more digital including typically in developed nations, monitoring and automatic means that Kellers more controls, making us more sophisticated ground efficient and creating barriers improvement techniques to entry.
Infrastructure renewal: creates new demand for us, typically operationally efficient given scale.
Keller Complete Solutions What is a complete solution?
Defined as a project where Keller takes on a role beyond the pure geotechnical contracting and includes use of sub-contractors.
For example, including demolition, earth removal and dewatering in addition to foundation construction.
Why does Keller offer complete solutions?
There are circumstances when our geotechnical work can happen in parallel with other, related, site activities.
In this situation Keller can deliver a complete solution and save the client the burden of managing and coordinating multiple suppliers.
It also provides the economic benefit of having less overhead on the project.
Where does Keller offer this service?
Typically these types of projects happen in urban environments of highly developed economies where time and space are tight and Keller has a strong history of project execution.
As this service requires Keller to take on additional delivery and supplier responsibility we are very selective to avoid excessive risk.
32 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Global strength and local focus.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Industry overview $50bn global market: this is defined at the geotechnical contracting market within the construction industry.
It includes China, Japan, Korea and Russia markets where we dont operate.
If removed, the size drops to $25bn.
It is an estimate based on data from IHS and other local sources.
Typically geotechnical contracting is around 1% of the construction market.
Diverse customer base: Wide variety of projects: typically no single customer variety in terms of scale, is more than 1-2% of group location, end use, geotechnical revenues in a single year.
Scale is from around We mostly serve as a subKeller is the worlds largest A balanced geographic 25k up to more than 10m.
contractor working for a geotechnical contractor with and customer portfolio Locations are spread all general contractor, however, over 10,000 employees Good access to all markets around the globe.
End use also contract directly.
Geotechnical solutions are covers the full range including a small, niche sub-sector Infrastructure Public Buildings, Geographic revenue % Fragmented competition: of construction Power Industrial, Office North America 54 three types of competitor Growing faster than Commercial and Residential.
EMEA 31 with a large variation between construction, reflecting: Geotechnical technique Asia-Pacific 15 geographies.
Type one is the More pressure to build on includes all our ten product global geotechnical contractors brownfield and marginal land groups e. g. bored piling, driven three to four of these, not all More ambitious piles, diaphragm walls, deep-soil present in all markets.
Type two development and mixing, vibro compaction, is the general  projects anchors nails.
Type three is the Unrivalled geographic coverage, local, independent geotechnical working in over 80 countries contractor typically family Clear market leader in the owned businesses.
US, Canada, Australia and South Africa Prime positions in most established European markets Strong profile in many other developing markets Customer segment revenues % Infrastructure Public Buildings 36 Generally work as a Residential 23 sub-contractor for main Power Industrial 22 contractors Office Commercial 19 Typical contracts are Short duration and less than 500k Across the construction spectrum A strong position but plenty of room to grow Global geotechnical $50bn contracting market Geotechnical contracting $25bn markets where Keller operates today Keller today $2.5bn Keller has a 5% global market share Sources: IHS Global Insight 2014, national statistics organisations, Keller accounts and a 10% share of the markets where we operate today.
Keller Group plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
