Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Our statements of compliance UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Application of the Code principles As a Board, we support and are committed to implementing We have structured this section around the main principles of high standards of corporate governance as well as the the UK Corporate Governance Code to enable shareholders to development of corporate governance policies and procedures evaluate how the principles have been applied.
derived from the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Leadership We consider that reporting in line with the principles and The role of the Board provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, with The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success explanations as necessary, and taking account of the AIC of the Group by directing and supervising the Groups Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the investment policy and strategy, and is responsible to AIC Guide where appropriate, ensures full transparency and shareholders for the Groups financial and operational provides clear information for all our stakeholders.
Responsibility for the A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code is publicly development and implementation of the Groups investment available at www.
The AIC Guide can be found at policy and strategy, and day-to-day management is delegated www.
by the Board to the Investment Manager and its group.
The relationship between the Board and the Investment The Board considers that KWE complied throughout 2016 Manager is supportive, cooperative and transparent.
with those provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 that the Board considers to be applicable For further details on the Board go to page 62. to the Company, except as set out below.
The role of the Chair The Board does not have a formally written schedule of reserved The Board is chaired by Charlotte Valeur, who also chairs the matters A.
This is explained as follows: The Board meets Management Engagement Committee and attends the sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
Being meetings of the Audit Committee in her capacity as a member.
externally managed, except for matters involving any conflict The Chair provides the leadership of the Board and is the main of interest, the Board has granted full discretionary authority point of contact between the Board and the business, with input to make all investment and financing decisions on behalf of from the Investment Manager.
The Chair has led the external the Group to the Investment Manager.
However, the Board Board evaluation process and is responsible for the ongoing is responsible for determining the Companys strategy and emphasis on adhering to high standards of corporate investment policy, its corporate governance practices, and is governance by the Company.
responsible for overseeing the performance of the Investment Manager and other service providers.
The role of the Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director is Mark McNicholas who, For further details on the role of the Board go to along with the Chair, is available to shareholders and also acts page 65. as a sounding board for the Chair, and as an intermediary for the other directors with the Chair, when necessary.
The Senior For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in line with Independent Directors role includes responsibility for the Chapter 15 of the UK Listing Rules, the Board also considers Chairs appraisal.
Mark serves as chair of the Nominations that the following provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Committee and attends the other committee meetings in his Code are not relevant to the Company as an externally managed capacity as a member.
investment company with no executive employees and accordingly has not reported on them: Non-executive Directors The Chair promotes an open and constructive environment in the role of a chief executive A.
2.1 the boardroom and actively invites the views of the other remuneration arrangements for executive directors D. 1.1, non-executive Directors.
The independent non-executive D. 1.2 and D. 2.4 Directors on the Board have a diverse range of skills, experience the establishment and role of a remuneration committee and backgrounds, as detailed in their biographies.
2.1 and D. 2.2 executive Directors possess experience from across the globe in investment banking, funds management, real estate finance, The Board further notes that it considers an internal audit property investment and management, private equity investing function to be unnecessary at the moment as the Companys and not-for-profit organisations.
They provide constructive, risk exposure and the effectiveness of the risk management and objective and rigorous challenge to the Groups investment internal control systems are monitored by the Investment management and advisory teams in implementing the Groups Manager.
These are further reviewed by the Audit Committee, strategy.
All Directors have access to the services of the which also acts as a risk committee, with oversight from the Administrator and the Company secretary and may take Board and, where the Board considers it appropriate, the independent professional advice at the Companys expense in Investment Manager groups internal control functions provide conducting their duties.
The Company provides insurance cover the appropriate framework and support.
for its directors and officers.
For biographies of the independent and non-executive Directors go to pages 62 to 63.
59 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our statements of compliance continued Effectiveness Accountability The composition of the Board Reporting The Board comprises five Directors, all of whom are nonThe Board is responsible for ensuring fair, balanced and executive Directors.
The independence of each non-executive understandable reporting of KWEs business model, Director is assessed annually by the Board.
The Board has performance, investment policy, strategy and the risks and confirmed that all of the Directors are standing for re-election at uncertainties relating to its future prospects, with input from the 2017 AGM.
For further details go to page 69.
Go to page 61 for the Boards statement on fair, balanced and understandable.
Time commitment Letters of appointment for non-executive Directors do not set Risk management and internal control out a fixed time-commitment for Board attendance and duties The Board determines the Groups risk appetite and monitors but give an indication of the likely time required.
It is anticipated and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management that the time required by Directors will fluctuate depending on and internal control systems.
the demands of the business and other events.
Go to page 74 for details on the activities of the Development Investment Manager and the oversight of the Audit All Directors are regularly briefed on important developments Committee, which assists the Board with its in the Groups business activities and receive extensive responsibilities in relation to the management of risk.
information concerning its target markets, investments, financial position and risk factors, enabling them to fulfil their duties and Audit Committee and Auditors obligations as directors.
The Directors are also frequently The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the advised on the Groups regulatory requirements and legal Audit Committee, which assists the Board in fulfilling its obligations to ensure it remains in compliance with applicable responsibilities in relation to overseeing the Companys financial law and regulation.
KWE has in place a detailed induction reporting processes, internal control and risk management programme for newly appointed non-executive Directors to framework, and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Board, including one-to-one meetings with the Investment the external auditor and reviewing their effectiveness, Manager and the external auditors to gain familiarity with the independence and objectivity.
The chair of the Audit Committee business, briefings on the duties of directors of a Jersey provides regular updates to the Board.
company, and an introduction to other applicable policies and procedures in place at KWE.
The induction will also cover the To view the letter from the chair of the Audit Board committees that a new Director may join.
For further details on the ongoing development and Directors remuneration training of Directors go to page 69.
As the Company is externally managed, KWE has no executive directors or senior management employees, nor does it operate Evaluation any pension, share option or other incentive plans.
The fees KWE undertakes an annual review of the Board, its committees payable to the independent non-executive Directors represent and individual Directors.
Pursuant to our commitment to compensation in connection with contribution to Board and undertake an external evaluation every three years, the committee meetings and, where appropriate, for devoting evaluation process for 2016 was externally facilitated for the additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group in a first time.
William McMorrow and Mary Ricks have waived their entitlement to receive fees for their respective For further details on the external evaluation go appointments as non-executive Directors on the Board.
For more information on Directors remuneration go Re-election to page 76.
The Directors submit themselves for annual re-election at each AGM if they wish to continue serving and are recommended Relations with shareholders by the Board.
Directors may be appointed by shareholders by Dialogue with shareholders ordinary resolution or by the Board on the recommendation of The relationship with current and potential shareholders and the Nominations Committee and must then stand for re-election investment analysts is given high priority by the Company.
KWE at the next AGM, where they may be re-elected by ordinary has a communication and investor relations programme in place resolution of the shareholders.
to address the needs of investors and analysts, which provides a regular flow of information about the Company, its strategy, Diversity performance and competitive position.
On behalf of the Board, The Board recognises and acknowledges the importance of the representatives of the Investment Manager and the Investor diversity, including gender, nationality, age and educational and Relations team meet regularly with investors and the Board professional background, for its effective functioning and is receives regular input on investor feedback from the investment committed to supporting diversity of business skills, experience management team, the Companys brokers and advisors.
The and background in the boardroom.
Chair and the Senior Independent Director are available to attend one-on-one shareholder meetings if requested or appropriate.
For more information on the Companys diversity policy go to page 68.
For an overview of the Companys approach to shareholder relations go to page 77.
60 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information The Annual General Meeting Viability statement The 2017 AGM will be held on Wednesday 26 April 2017 at The Directors have assessed the Groups viability over a 10.00 am at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops three-year period, with reference to the Groups current position Square, London E1 6AD.
A separate notice convening the and prospects, principal risks and changing competitive meeting will be distributed to shareholders and published on landscape.
Based on the results of this assessment, the KWEs website.
All resolutions for which notice has been given Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will will be decided on a poll.
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of the assessment.
Other statements of compliance Fair, balanced and understandable For further details, including an explanation as to why The Board considers that the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, the three-year period was chosen go to page 72. taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Going concern the Companys position, performance, business model and The Directors are required to consider whether it is appropriate strategy.
to prepare the financial statements on the basis that the Company is a going concern.
As part of its normal business For further details on how the Audit Committee practice, the Directors have assessed the Groups: business approached this on behalf of the Board go to page 71. activities and assets see pages 1 to 54 : financial position and resources see pages 50 to 54 : and exposure to risks, including Statement of effectiveness of risk management and credit risk and liquidity risk see Note 27 to the consolidated internal controls financial statements.
In particular, the Directors have The Board is of the view that KWE operates an effective system considered the annual and longer-term three-year business of internal control, which is maintained and reviewed in plans, as well as the projected 12-month cash flows for the accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Groups portfolio.
The Directors have also considered the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Groups robust liquidity position, comprising cash and the Related Financial and Business Reporting, as applicable.
undrawn corporate credit facility, together with its ability to tap debt capital markets quickly under its bond programme.
In 2016, the Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks faced by the Group, including those that could Following their review of this information, the Directors believe threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or that the Group has adequate resources for the foreseeable liquidity.
For further details on these principal risks go to pages future, being a period of at least 12-months from the date of 35 to 40.
With risk assessment and management undertaken approval of the consolidated financial statements, and it is, by the Investment Manager, supplemented by oversight and therefore, appropriate for the Company to continue to adopt the recommendations from the Audit Committee, the Board going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control statements.
and risk management in place throughout the year, and up to the date of this report, and believes them to be operating effectively.
Responsibility statements As the Companys system of internal controls is substantially For the Directors further statements in respect of reliant on the Investment Manager groups own internal controls their responsibility for the 2016 Annual Report and and processes due to the nature of the relationship in place, Accounts go to page 80. the Boards review took into account the valuable assurance work undertaken by the Investment Manager towards risk management acting investment manager and AIFM to the Company.
In addition, the relevant process, controls and testing work undertaken by KPMG as part of their half year review and full year audit was a key consideration for the Board.
No weaknesses or control failures significant to the Group were identified.
Where areas for improvement were identified, new procedures have been introduced to strengthen the controls and will themselves be subject to regular review as part of the ongoing assurance process.
For further details of the risk management and internal control processes go to page 72.
61 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
