Strategic Report Our markets A positive market environment Kiers markets are largely underpinned by fundamental drivers Thelonger-term trend involves a slightly larger proportion of thatwill endure regardless of short or medium-term economic demand coming from households, supported by rising average adjustments.
These drivers include demographic change, changes income, despite a small decrease in the short-term.
in the way we live and pressure on the UK Governments finances.
The result will be increasing demand on essential infrastructure Investing in infrastructure to support economic growth that Kier is uniquely placed to benefit from.
Following the EU Referendum, UK economic growth is now forecast to be slower than previously expected.
The UK already Solid long-term fundamentals has a number of major transport and energy infrastructure The UK population continues to grow projects in the pipeline and, whilst the new Government is still The UK population is expanding.
Recent projections show the formulating itsplans, it is possible that it may choose to use population reaching 74m by 2039 2015: 65m, withnet infrastructure, construction and maintenance spend to help migrationaccounting for around half of this growth.
The number of people over 85 is forecast Many advanced economies, such as Australia, have taken this toincrease by 140% by 2039, and as people age they are staying approach and prioritised infrastructure investment to stimulate healthier, and therefore able to live independently for longer, the economy.
The short-term effects on demand and long-term remaining part of the active population.
However, when elderly benefits in raising the economys productive capacity are backed people do need care, they tend now to need it later and more up by recent studies by the International Monetary Fund.
intensely, adding strain to the NHS and local authority funding and infrastructure, and consequently driving changes in public policy.
Good transport links are vital to a countrys productivity.
The UKs roads, railways and airports are some of the most congested in Age structure of the UK population, mid-2014 and mid-2039 the world.
Due to the combined effects of population growth and increased travel, the Government has forecast traffic on our Male Female roads to increase by 25% from 2010 to 2030 and McKinsey has Mid2014 Mid2014 Age Mid2039 Mid2039 forecast, over the same period, a 50% increase in rail and travel 100 and a 75% increase in flights departing from the UK.
90 Road miles travelled in England and Wales 80 360 70 340 60 50 320 25% 40 30 300 20 10 280 0 500 400 300 200 100 0 0 100 200 300 400 500 Population thousands 260 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 Source: ONS, 2015 Source: Department of Transport, 2015 The mini baby boom of children born in the early 2000s is nowmoving into secondary education the number of 11-15 In energy, the UK risks a supply crisis without further investment yearolds will rise by 21% by 2025 and in the coming years in more power generation capacity.
Given rising demand, from thenumber of university places needed will increase, adding to economic and population growth, and reduced supply, from the the demand on socialinfrastructure.
closure of coal and nuclear plants, the Institution of Mechanical Engineers is forecasting a supply gap of 40-55% by 2025, Changes in the way we live requires infrastructure and housing beforeinterventions.
provision to adapt 7.7m people in the UK live alone, of whom 4.1m are aged 16-64.
Ongoing pressure on public finances Overall, the total number of households has increased by 7% The UK Governments finances remain under pressure.
Whilst since 2005, increasing the already strong demand for housing.
some clarity on the Governments fiscal strategy is expected in the Autumn Statement, itis likely that austerity in some form Technology is an integral part of our lives as consumers and willcontinue forthe foreseeable future.
In addition, to reduce businesses.
In transport, technology enables more efficient use localauthority expenditure, austerity has also impacted local of motorway road space, and keeps traffic flowing when there is government structures, with increased collaboration between anaccident.
Homes are increasingly smart with technology now councils, combined authorities and the changing role of Local available to control and monitor appliances and utilities remotely.
It is also clear that public bodies need tofind new ways of delivering public services and enhancing the Overall energy demand is expected to increase between 2015 reach of constrained budgets.
and 2035, with electricity usage forecast to increase by 20%.
10 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Vehicle miles billions Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 International opportunities continue In the Middle East, and particularly in GCC countries, there has A resilient business with been a reduction in construction spend asa result of low oil prices.
However, in the UAE, where Kier isfocused, expenditure strong market positions continues to be resilient, with growth forecast at over 6% per annum to 2020.
In Australia, infrastructure spend continues to Kiers Vision 2020 strategy includes an objective to be in the beprioritised by both federal and state governments in order top three in each key market.
We are already achieving this in tostimulate the non-mining economy.
anumber of areas: How this impacts on our markets #1 position in UK strategic highways maintenance Investment in new infrastructure assets across the markets #1 in UK regional building inwhich Kier operates such as health, education, transport, #1 in education construction contract awards energy, housing and utilities will be needed to keep up with #1 in health construction contract awards thepopulation growth.
#3 in UK social housing maintenance #1 in Australian highways maintenance For example in housing, England is projected to add over 5m Source: Barbour ABI, 12 months to June 2016 households by 2039.
With an average annual growth rate of approximately 210,000 households per annum, against industry supply of 143,000 new homes per annum, the current situation UK construction and services market share of excess demand is likely to continue.
The top four companies in the industry share just over The supply demand imbalance is likely to result in house price 10%oftotal industry spend.
Of these, Kier at 3.0% has inflation over the medium term, notwithstanding any short-term thelargestshare.
Particularly with wage inflation subdued, this Kier Group 3.0% means that there will be growing demand for affordable housing.
Competitor 1 2.9% Taken together with the growth in smaller households, we would Competitor 2 2.4% expect housing demand to continue to increase.
Competitor 3 2.3% Rest of the market Local authorities continue to explore ways in which they can increase their spending power on reduced resources byleveraging the investment capability of businesses such as Kier, and extract enhanced value from public assets and services.
Source: ONS, 2015 construction, repair and maintenance, excluding In education, the increase in pupil numbers will require further private housing maintenance investment innew schools and subsequently greater capacity at university level, requiring investment in student accommodation, and homes when they graduate.
Kier can provide the necessary infrastructure at every stage of this lifejourney, from school to a Opportunities young person setting up their ownhousehold.
These are some of the future opportunities we anticipate: In health, rising population numbers and life expectancy will Impact of population growth on housing and social require greater investment in hospitals and care homes.
It will infrastructure also drive different customer service approaches in our Services Government fiscal strategy targets infrastructure growth businesses where our teams interact with the public.
Austerity encourages outsourcing and innovation Weak sterling leads to increased inward investment The National Infrastructure Pipeline, worth 483bn, is critical Housing shortage and affordability tosupport the population and economic growth.
410bn ofthis is Technology combined with increasing road use drives being invested in energy, transport and water, and 58bn in smartmotorways social infrastructure all areas where Kier has a National Infrastructure Pipeline strong presence.
Continued growth in global infrastructure spend The importance of roads to the UKs long-term development was specifically recognised through the Road Investment Strategy RIS1 that runs to 2020 and is protected by legislation.
Highways Risks England is currently developing RIS2, running to 2025.
This approach reflects the fact that the need for the roads is driven by These are some of the potential risks faced by the Group: the long-term and fundamental considerations of demographic Global economic slowdown affecting all territories and economic growth.
Brexit uncertainty impacting investment Political uncertainty and delayed decision-making Weak sterling causes cost inflation Skills shortage Regulatory changes Banks reduce the availability or affordability of mortgages Reduced demand for property assets 11 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
