Board of directors 02 07 09 01 02 04 A R N Vronique Laury Andrew Bon eld Chief Executive O cer Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in December 2014.
Appointed to the Board in February 2010.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
ONE Expertise and experience: Vronique is a highly experienced international retailer Other directorships: Andrew is Finance who has worked in the home improvement Director of National Grid plc.
He is also King sher sector for 27 years in France and in the a committee member of the Hundred UK.
She joined King sher in 2003 and Group of Finance Directors.
01 in her 13 years with the business she has R N Expertise and experience: Andrew brings Daniel Bernard held several key roles including Chief signi cant current finance experience to Chairman Executive of Castorama France, Group the King sher Board.
He was previously Commercial Director, and Commercial Joined the Board as Deputy Chairman Chief Financial O cer of Cadbury plc and Director of B&Q UK & Ireland.
She in May 2006 before being appointed prior to that he was Chief Financial O cer previously spent 15 years at Leroy Chairman on 3 June 2009.
He is of Bristol-Myers Squibb from 2002 to Merlin in various store commercial roles.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
2007, Finance Director of BG Group plc She was named Chief Executive O cer from 2001 to 2002 and Chief Financial Other directorships: Daniel is President on 8 December 2014.
O cer of SmithKline Beecham Plc from of Provestis, his own investment company.
03 1999 to 2000 during an 11 year period He has been Senior Advisor of Karen Witts with the pharmaceuticals group.
TowerBrook Capital Partners since Chief Financial O cer October 2010.
He is the Lead Independent Director of Capgemini and is also Appointed to the Board in October 2012.
Honorary Chairman of the HEC - Audit Committee Other directorships: Karen is a nonA Business School Foundation in Paris executive director of Imperial Brands PLC.
- Remuneration Committee R and a member of the Board of HEC.
Expertise and experience: Karen provides N - Nomination Committee Expertise and experience: Daniel provides signi cant current relevant finance considerable retailing experience and expertise to the Board.
She was previously expertise to the King sher Board.
From Chief Financial O cer, Africa, Middle East, 2010 to 2015 he was Chairman of MAF Asia and Asia Paci c for Vodafone plc.
He was Chairman From 1999 to 2010 she worked at BT plc, and Chief Executive of Carrefour, the most recently as Chief Financial O cer BT Paris-based retail group and worlds Retail, and Managing Director Enterprises, second largest retailer, from 1992 to 2005. and before that as Managing Director Prior to Carrefour, he was Chief Operating Operations, Openreach.
She is a chartered O cer of METRO, Germanys leading accountant and has experience in finance international retailer.
He was previously and management roles at companies such a non-executive director of Compagnie as Paribas, Diageo, Mars Electronics, fide Saint-Gobain until June 2006.
The Observer Newspaper and Ernst & Whinney.
36 King sher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance 08 03 05 06 04 Expertise and experience: Clare brings 05 08 N A N international perspective and expertise Pascal Cagni Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard from a series of high-pro le human Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director resource leadership roles.
She was previously Group People Director of BT Appointed to the Board in November 2010.
Appointed to the Board in February 2016.
Group and Director General of Workforce Other directorships: Pascal is an Other directorships: Rakhi is a nonfor the NHS and Social Care.
She was also independent director of the supervisory executive director of Rightmove plc, Intu a non-executive director of TUI Travel board of Vivendi SA and a member of Properties plc and Be Heard Group plc.
plc and Chairman of its Remuneration the board of directors of the Cond NastCommittee.
Her previous experience also Expertise and experience: Rakhi owned e-commerce website Style.
includes Group HR Director of Tesco plc is a highly experienced director in He is also a member of the board from 1999 to 2006 and HR Vice President digital retailing having spent 11 years of directors of Banque Transatlantique.
of Pepsi Colas West and Central European at Amazon.
Most recently she was operations from 1994 to 1999.
Expertise and experience: Pascal provides Director, UK Media at Amazon, responsible the Board with expertise in the eld of for ranges such as books, music and 07 A N digital and multi-channel retailing.
She was previously Director, UK Anders Dahlvig was formerly the General Manager, Vice Hardlines where she was responsible for Non-Executive Director President of Apple Europe, Middle-East, home, garden and DIY product ranges.
Appointed to the Board in December 2009.
His previous experience Prior to joining Amazon Rakhi held includes roles at Packard Bell, NEC and roles at TomTom and in management Other directorships: Anders is a director Booz Allen Hamilton.
He held the position consultancy in the United States.
of Ori ame Cosmetics AB, H&M Hennes & of non-executive director on the board of Mauritz AB and Axel Johnson AB, and is 09 A R N Egg Banking plc, the online banking arm a member of the Advisory Board of Lund Mark Seligman of Prudential plc.
He actively conducts University Business School.
He is also a Senior Independent Director strategy, consulting and venture capital director of Resurs Bank AB, Pret a Manger activities through c4v.
Appointed to the Board in January 2012.
Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Inter IKEA Systems B. V. 06 Other directorships: Mark serves R N Clare Chapman as an alternate member of the Panel Expertise and experience: Anders brings Non-Executive Director on Takeovers and Mergers, and is a extensive commercial retailing expertise member of the Regional Growth Fund to the Board.
He was previously Chief Appointed to the Board in December 2010. advisory panel.
Executive and President of the IKEA Group She is Chairman of the Remuneration from 1999 to 2009, having spent Committee.
Expertise and experience: Mark provides 26 years with the company.
Prior to substantial expertise to the King sher Other directorships: Clare recently becoming Chief Executive, he was Vice Board in the eld of finance.
He was a joined the Board of Heidrick & Struggles President of IKEA Europe from 1997 to senior adviser at Credit Suisse.
He began International, Inc. and serves as a 1999 and Managing Director of IKEA UK his career at Price Waterhouse and spent Commissioner on the Low Pay Commission.
from 1993 to 1997. over 30 years in the City, including senior roles at SG Warburg, BZW and Credit Suisse First Boston.
At Credit Suisse he was Deputy Chairman Europe from 1999 to 2005 and later Chairman UK Investment Banking from 2003 to 2005. www.
