Directors Report Introduction Share capital This Directors Report and the Strategic Report collectively comprise As at 30 June 2016, the issued share capital of the Company the management report for the purposes of Disclosure and comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 1 pence each.
At that date, 96,067,463 shares in the capital of the Company were in issue.
During the year, 372,607 shares were issued in Information incorporated by reference relation to the scrip dividend alternative and 535,609 shares As permitted by legislation, the following information is incorporated were issued in connection with the SAYE Scheme.
by reference in this report: Subject to the provisions of the articles of association of the Page Company the Articles and the Companies Act 2006 and other Information Reported in number s applicable legislation, shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution Corporate governance Corporate Governance 46 to 65 determine or, if the Company has not so determined, as the Statement inclusive Directors may decide.
Statement of Directors 88 responsibilities Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Directors Board of Directors 52 and 53 Company, other than those that are set out in the Articles or Remuneration Report 72 apply as a result of the operation of law or regulation.
Directors shareholdings The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders and share interests of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Financial instruments Financial Statements 132 to 134 securities in the Company.
note 27 inclusive Substantial holdings Going concern Board statements 48 As at 21 September 2016, the Company had been notified ofthefollowing interests in the share capital of the Company Greenhouse gas Resources and 24 beingvoting rights over such share capital, pursuant to emissions relationships Rule5.1of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Important events Chief Executives strategic 6 to 9 sincethe end of review inclusive Shareholder Interest thefinancial year Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 11.6% Likely future Strategic Report 1 to 45 BlackRock, Inc below 5% developments inclusive Schroders plc 4.8% Results and dividends Chairmans statement 5 1 Subject to rounding.
Political donations Securities carrying special rights The Company made no political donations during the year No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights 2015:nil.
with regard to control of the Company.
Research and development Rights under employees share schemes The Group undertakes research and development activities when As at 30 June 2016, RBC Trustees Guernsey Limited RBC, providing services to its clients.
The direct expenditure incurred asthe trustee of the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust, isnot readily identifiable, as the investment is typically included owned 281,029 shares approximately 0.29% of the Companys in the relevant project.
These shares are made available to satisfy Employees the vesting of LTIP awards and awards of shares to senior The companies in the Group are equal opportunities employers.
management as part of the annual bonus arrangements.
RBC The Group considers applications for employment from disabled does not exercise any voting rights in respect of shares held by persons having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities the trust.
RBC waives its rights dividends in respect of such shares, and encourages and assists, whenever practicable, the recruitment, other than those relating to the annual bonus arrangements.
training, career development and promotion of disabled people As at 30 June 2016, Yorkshire Building Society YBS held and the retention of, and appropriate training for, those who 1,089,225 shares approximately 1.13% of the Companys issued become disabled during their employment.
share capital on trust for the benefit of members of the SIP.
The Group provides information toemployees through newsletters, Atthe same date, YBS also held 16,346 shares 0.02% of the video addresses, the Groups intranet, social mediaand formal issued share capital on trust for the benefit of members ofthe and informal meetings with various groups ofemployees and legacy May Gurney Share Incentive Plan.
YBS does not exercise management.
The Group also conducts engagement surveys to any voting rights in respect of theshares held by the trust.
YBS obtain feedback on matters of importance to employees.
distributes dividends received to beneficiaries under the trust although beneficiaries may authorise YBS to vote in accordance The Group operates the Kier Group plc 2006 Sharesave Scheme with their instructions.
the SAYE Scheme for eligible employees and a Share Incentive Plan the SIP for all employees, which includes a share-matching As at 30 June 2016, the trustee of the May Gurney Limited element.
The Group also makes available adealing service to Employee Share Ownership Trust and the trustee of the May enable employees to buy and sell its shares.
Gurney Integrated Services PLC Employee Benefit Trust held, respectively, 226,115 and 19,045 shares in aggregate, approximately 0.26% of the Companys issued share capital.
86 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 These shares are made available to satisfy awards of shares 2016 each contain provisions under which, in the event of a under the Groups remuneration arrangements.
Neither trustee change of control of the Company, the Company may be required exercises any voting rights in respect of shares held by their to repay all outstanding amounts borrowed.
respective trust and each waivers dividends payable with Certain of the Groups commercial arrangements, including certain respectto such shares.
of its joint venture agreements, contract bond agreements and Restrictions on voting rights other commercial agreements entered into in the ordinary course No shareholder will, unless the Board otherwise determines, of business, include change of control provisions.
beentitled to vote at any general meeting unless all calls or Certain of the Groups employee share schemes contain provisions othersums then payable by it in respect of that share have relating to a change of control of the Company.
Outstanding options beenpaid or if that shareholder has been served with a and awards may become exercisable or vest upon a change disenfranchisement notice.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders There are no agreements between the Company and the Directors of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs as Appointment and replacement of Directors aresult of a takeover bid other than those referred to above.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution Branches or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office Because the Group is a global business, it has activities which only until the next AGM of the Company after his her appointment operate through branches in certain jurisdictions.
and is then eligible to stand for election.
Auditor At each AGM of the Company, one-third of the Directors are required The Board has decided that  LLP will to retire by rotation and may offer themselves for re-election be proposed as the Groups auditor for the financial year ending by the members.
However, at the forthcoming AGM of the 30 June 2017 and a resolution relating to this re-appointment Company all the Directors will offer themselves for re-election in willbetabled at the forthcoming AGM.
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Companys current policy.
Please see pages 52 and 53 for AGM further information about the Directors skills and experience The Companys 2016 AGM will be held at 12 noon on and pages 54 and 55 headed Effectiveness.
18 November 2016 at the Andaz Hotel, 40 Liverpool Street, London, EC2M 7QN.
The Company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given, remove any Director before the expiry of the This Directors Report was approved by the Board and signed on Directors period of office.
its behalf by: Amendment of Articles The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by shareholders, the Companys business is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Hugh Raven Powers in relation to the Company issuing its shares Company Secretary The Directors were granted authority at the AGM on 12November2015 to allot shares in the Company i up to 21 September 2016 anaggregate nominal amount of 318,773 and ii up to an Tempsford Hall aggregate nominal amount of 637,467 in connection with a Sandy rightsissue.
The Directors werealso granted authority to Bedfordshire allotshares non-pre-emptively and wholly for cash up SG19 2BD toanaggregate nominal amount of 95,620.
In addition, at the 2013 AGM, an ordinary resolution was approved which grants the Directors the authority to continue to offer the scrip dividend alternative.
Powers in relation to the Company buying back its shares The Company may only buy back shares if the Articles do not prohibit it from doing so and it has received the requisite authority from shareholders in general meeting.
Although the Articles do not contain any such prohibition, the Company did not request any such authority at its last AGM and does not propose to do soat the forthcoming AGM.
Change of control The Groups loan facility agreements with its UK lending banks, the note purchase agreements entered into in 2012 and 2014 in connection with the Groups US private placements of notes and the Schuldschein loan agreements entered into in May and June 87 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
