Our home improvement ecosystem Our market is a large ecosystem, rather than traditional, separate segments.
Our customers are the millions of home improvers who want They are all our customers.
There is no clear segmentation: to improve their homes, whether they are owners or renters.
On the same project some tasks will be Because most home improvers have limited skills to complete done by the home improvers themselves, and other tasks home projects, outside help is often needed to get things will be done by, and with, their helpers.
This is where they call upon their helpers.
This could be the neighbour who does small jobs, the handy uncle who is willing to get involved, or the small tradesman.
12 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Home improvers Helpers A home improver is anyone who wants to If people are short of money or resources improve their home, whether they be an they look for help with their home owner or a renter.
Three-quarters of the population of Europe visited a home This could come from a family member or neighbour who improvement store last year, and 60% of the population may be more experienced.
For bigger jobs, or where people in Europe did a home improvement project.
lack the skills or confidence, home improvers may call upon a professional tradesperson.
The professionals are also part People have a limited amount of resources to do home of the home improvement ecosystem, not a separate market.
improvement see chart showing average monthly income Indeed 60-90% of light trade businesses shop in home on p10.
For example, across Europe 60-75% of people are improvement stores percentage varying by country.
doing home improvement jobs themselves in order to save They often do this with their customer, not alone.
The result is that it can sometimes take them a long time to complete their project.
60-75% 60-90% of people do home improvement jobs of light trade businesses shop in home themselves to save money improvement stores Homes The tools People have an emotional connection with their For most customers, the tools of their home home.
It is where they raise their families, see improvement project invariably start with digital, friends and express themselves through whether that be researching for ideas and design and decoration.
inspiration, how to do it videos or price comparisons.
Kingshers customer research shows that there are also three reasons why people do home improvement: For example, a third of Pinterests pins are DIY-related and more than half of Pinterest users are looking for DIY.
because their family is changing, their life is changing and Home improvement is something that people want to so their home needs to adapt and evolve: feel and see.
So the second tool in home improvement for functional reasons, to make their home cheaper to projects is our stores.
But there is more we can do to make run, more energy ecient or simply to make it more our stores more inspiring for customers, with better layouts functional: and and product displays and with more advice.
for aesthetic reasons, because they want to have a more comfortable, updated home and a better life.
88% 1 3rd of people do home improvements in order of Pinterests pins are DIY-related to live in a more comfortable house www.
