Strategic Report Strategy in action Wallsend, North Tyneside Kier Living and Services providing affordable housing Working together to getthejob done A joint venture between Kier Services and North Tyneside Council was formed to oversee the building of affordable homes in the North-East.
But when the opportunity arose foratechnically challenging 41-unit scheme at Wallsend, KierLiving took on the project in light of the project size and specialist skill required.
With Kier Services looking after the pre-construction process, including surveys, designs and early procurement, Kier Living took on the role of developer for 31 houses and 10rental apartments.
The project involved demolishing a former police station and recovering a previously buried time capsule for the local constabulary as well as obsolete housing and offices.
The timber frame houses, clad in brickwork, provide excellent insulation levels to keep residents fuel bills down.
16 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Kent County Council Kier Construction and Services providing a wide range of facilities and asset services Kier working across Kent Following Kiers Invest, Build, Maintain approach, a relationship that started in 2008 with the Property divisions investment in the Kent Local Education Partnership LEP has matured such that Kier Construction and Kier Services now manage wide-ranging activities on behalf of Kent County Council KCC.
Kier Constructions regional office in Aylesford is well positioned to cover the building needs of the Council andhas secured the current Kent batch of five Education Funding Agency projects.
In addition, they deliver 5 to 10 smaller jobsa year through the Scape Minor Works framework, towhich Kier was appointed in 2012, creating more new schoolplaces through Kents Basic Needs Programme.
In January 2015, KCC awarded Kier Services a newly created total facilities management contract.
It comprises 116 services across the entire reach of their corporate estate care homes, libraries, council offices and schools around 115 commercial buildings and 700 schools in all.
This is the first time the Council has outsourced the entire range of facilities management services, valued at 30m, across its entire estate, and each premises is able to buy the whole suite or selected services.
17 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategy in action continued Five Pancras Square, London Kier Construction and Services creating a community facility Creating an award-winning facility for Camden Council Kier Construction built Five Pancras Square to house thenew headquarters for London-based Camden Council, including a state-of-the-art leisure centre with two pools, afitness centre, library and caf.
Following the successful completion of the project, the Council also appointed Kier Services to provide on-site facilities management services.
Built over 13 floors, this 68m project won 18 awards, including Sustainable Project of the Yearat the 2015 Construction News Awards, and The PrimeMinisters Better Public Building Award 2015, which recognises publicly funded projects completed on time andon budget that bring real change to a community.
The building was also one of the first inner-city buildings in the UK to achieve a BREEAM the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method Outstanding sustainability rating.
Knowledge of the buildings construction helped Kier ensure a seamless occupation and operation of this important public building with the appropriate asset management strategies.
18 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 3 Sovereign Square, Leeds City Centre Kier Property and Construction building for the future A new office development regenerating the city ofLeeds Kier Property, working with Kier Construction, has created aregeneration project, 3 Sovereign Square afirst-class retail, leisure and office development in theheartof the city.
This BREEAM Excellent building offers 93,240 sq ft of cutting-edge office space over five floors, flexibly designed and substantially pre-let to aUK law firm with international reach.
All-round glazing provides an abundance of natural light, while the ground floor includes 10,400 sq ft of retailspace.
The building will be completed on budget, on time and to the highest quality.
This new development is part of a trio of buildings built around anew green public space that provides a link between the city centre and the newly regenerated South Bank and is seen as key to the citys future economic growth.
The investment was sold oncompletion to Leeds City Council.
19 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
