Strategic Report Divisional review: Construction The Construction division comprises the UK regional building, UK infrastructure and international businesses Education awards continue to be secured under the Education 1 2 Revenue Underlying operating profit Funding Agency framework and in the year, we achieved selected panel member status on a further five schemes worth 156m.
2,025m 47.4m 3 3 2015 : 1,732m 2015 : 38.4m In August 2016, Kier was named as one of the six principal 2 Underlying operating margin Order book supplychain partners on the four-year, 4bn Department of Health ProCure22 framework, the new framework replacing 2.3% 3.4bn ProCure21, building further on the Groups leading position 3 3 2015 : 2.2% 2015 : 3.5bn inthe health sector.
Record revenue of 2bn New framework successes during the year included the South Increased underlying operating margin of 2.3% West Wales Regional Contractors framework, valued at 850m Order book solid at 3.4bn which is used by 27 local authorities and public bodies in Wales.
Kierwas successful on all four Lots tendered, covering contracts from 3.5m to over 15m.
In addition, a position on the The Construction division experienced a record year of growth, 1 3 YORbuild2 Construction framework was awarded in February with revenue up 17% to 2.0bn 2015 : 1.7bn.
The division 2016, with a value of 2bn.
This framework can be accessed benefited from the incorporation of Mouchel Consulting as well as bylocal authorities, public sector bodies and third sector strong growth in the regional building business delivering a 10% organisations across the Yorkshire and Humber region, Sheffield increase in like-for-like volumes.
This resulted in an underlying 2 3 Local Enterprise Partnership LEP area, North East England and operating profit increase of 23% to 47.4m 2015 : 38.4m.
After the year end, Kier was selected as one of five Underlying operating margins increased to 2.3% 2015 : 2.2% framework partners appointed to deliver construction works worth and the working capital position has improved.
The current order up to 750m at Gatwick Airport on each of the Lots tendered book of 3.4bn for secured and probable work, excluding covering low and medium complexity building works and medium framework wins, includes more than 90% of forecast revenue complexity civil works over the next five years.
In addition, Kier forthe 2017 financial year, on increasing volumes.
has been selected for the 500m University of Cambridge framework and secured a place on the 240m Essex UK regional building Construction framework for projects over 2m.
During the year, the split of work across the business was broadly 50 50 private and public sector, reflecting a balanced portfolio We have continued to build on our existing expertise in the and consistent with prior years.
Buoyant sectors included education, health, commercial and defence sectors and we education, student accommodation, aviation, transport, defence havealso penetrated a number of new sectors covering aviation, and bio-tech, the latter particularly within the Cambridge region.
logistics and distribution, bio-tech and science.
Collaborative working on strategic frameworks continues to The Construction division has continued to work with the underpin the day-to-day activity of the business.
Frameworks Propertydivision on delivering developments including provide a steady stream of opportunities and long-term 58 VictoriaEmbankment, London, Sovereign Street, Leeds, relationships with clients with an addressable spend of over a studentaccommodation development in Glasgow and 20bn over the next five years.
In September 2015, Kier won the four-year Scape Minor Works Infrastructure framework for the second time, giving Kier businesses, including The infrastructure business operates across a number of our regional building, housing maintenance and facilities sectors and across a broad range of project values from management activities, the unique opportunity to deliver up to frameworks to larger-scale projects, such as Crossrail.
Key 1.5bn of public sector projects throughout the UK, each valued sectors for the business are transportation, water and the at up to 4m over a four-year period.
At the end of the financial nuclear and energy sectors.
year, nine months into the framework, Scape Minor Works awardstotalled at 60m, with a pipeline of a further 160m In the transportation sector, Crossrail, the Mersey Gateway of projects inpre-construction.
Through this framework, the Group project and the Smart Motorways programme continue to make is workingfor a broad range of public sector clients.
Kiers presence in capital programmes in the UK highways sector continues to grow, complementing Kiers highways maintenance operations.
Key successes in the period include the award of a new 600m highways framework in the East of England, with Kier being one of six contractors appointed to the major works Lot.
1 Group and share of joint ventures.
Stated before non-underlying items see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Reported Construction operating profit from continuing 3 operations was 15.9m 2015 : 37.5m.
3 Restated to reflect the re-allocation of Mouchel Consulting from the Services division to the Construction division.
36 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Our geographical Kier Construction has spreadacross Britain the flexibility isbased around our andexpertise national network of tobuildanything regionaloffices froma250,000 extensionto a250m strategic asset Internationally, our construction activities are focused on the Middle East In the rail sector, CEK, a joint venture partnership with Carillion An 11m infrastructure contract was awarded by the same client and Eiffage, established in June 2015, has pre-qualified for the at its impressive Town Square development in the emirate.
Two maximum four of seven HS2 phase 2 civil engineering packages, further contracts were also secured for Meraas, an existing key each worth about 1bn.
This further expands Kiers involvement customer: a 15m infrastructure project at Al Khawaneej in Dubai in HS2, with CEK already having tendered for all three packages, and the island-wide infrastructure works on Bluewaters island, each worth more than 200m.
The region continues to provide attractive opportunities for the Group in the build-up to Expo 2020.
The two In the nuclear sector, we are working at Aldermaston and Urenco contracts in Hong Kong are nearing completion with discussions and continuing our long track record of working in Sellafield.
ongoing with the client and, as part of the portfolio simplification, We welcome the UK Government approval on Hinkley Point C operations in the Caribbean are winding down, including where we are currently working and look forward to deploying its completion of a contract and the settlement of a small number of proven capabilities further in the energy and nuclear sectors.
Mouchel Consulting Construction outlook Following the announcement of the portfolio simplification, an The Construction division continues to perform strongly having evaluation of the strategic options for Mouchel Consulting, which secured more than 2bn of new contract awards in the last year continues to trade well, is underway.
and delivering an increased margin.
With an order book of 3.4bn, more than 90% of forecast revenue for 2017 is secured.
International Margins and cash generation are expected to improve further as The international business has secured over 100m of new work we maintain our prudent risk management process.
The divisions in the Middle East, mainly in Dubai.
The low oil price is having an regional spread of projects and standing on key frameworks impact on the pipeline of opportunities in the region, albeit our ensures that it is well positioned to take advantage of public and ability to provide clients with access to export credit facilities private sector opportunities that arise across the UK.
In the short supported by UK Export Finance UKEF is proving to be a key term, the regional building business will underpin the divisions differentiator and has enabled high-quality work to be secured.
growth: however, given the political momentum and recognition Anexample of this is the 51m staff accommodation project that the UKs economic growth will be strengthened by improved awarded by Nshmi, a local developer, after year end which is transport systems, power generation and utilities networks, the being funded with the support of UKEF.
scale of the UK infrastructure pipeline provides good visibility over the medium term.
37 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
