e l p o e P S y s t Strategic Report Our business model How we create value for our stakeholders A resilient and agile business model Our Group Visible income streams Our vision is to be a world-class, customer-focused company Our well-matched spread of businesses ensures that we can thatinvests in, builds, maintains and renews the places where develop income streams that are visible inasmuch as they welive, work and play.
We operate across a range of sectors arereliable and dependable looking forward.
The income including defence, education, health, housing, industrials, power, streams are reliable because construction projects are tightly property, transport and utilities.
managed, and real estate and residential housing investments are predominately non-speculative.
They are dependable A compatible set of businesses because Kiers Services businesses, which make up 50% of This broad, complementary set of activities is the foundation Kiers profits, provide day-to-day essential public services.
It means we have the basis to maximise Asset maintenance in areas where spend is mandated by returns by using capital from our cash generative businesses regulation orstatute eg water, strategic highways have to invest in asset-intensive activities.
To achieve this requires contracts with long durations.
These factors enable us to be more certain about returns to Investing to enable our growth ourshareholders over the medium-term while creating and The investment we continuously make in our capabilities  value for our customers.
safety, people, systems gives us that versatility and agility, and is key to optimising the return from our integrated offer.
This allows us to adapt to changing client needs and to offer more to each customer, using the full scope of our Group in theprocess.
It underpins our future growth and ensures that we can take asafe and risk-managed approach tothat growth.
Capital reinvested Capital created Capital employed Construction Property Creating Capital Shareholder Capital customer distribution returns invested value Services Residential Capital created Capital employed Capital reinvested 12 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 e m s y t e f a S
