Strategic Report Divisional review: Services The Services division comprises strategic and local authority highways maintenance, utilities, housing maintenance, KierWorkplace Services and Environmental Services Infrastructure Services Highways maintenance 1 2 Revenue Underlying operating profit Following the acquisition of Mouchel, the integration of the highways management teams has been completed, creating one 1,656m 86.1m team that oversees the combined highways maintenance activity 3 3 2015 : 1,236m 2015 : 57.3m for the Group.
The highways businesses performed well in the 2 Underlying operating margin Order book year.
In Strategic Highways, the five-year Road Investment Strategy funding remains unchanged.
The formal tender process 5.2% 5.3bn for Highways England Areas 1 and 13 and a number of other 3 3 2015 : 4.6% 2015 : 5.8bn Areas, where Kier is not currently the maintenance provider, is underway and these provide further opportunity for the Group Significant revenue growth to 1.7bn specifically where Highways England has lifted the cap on the Strong and increased underlying operating margin number of Areas that can be awarded to one company from four of5.2% to five.
In March a 50m design services contract was awarded Expanded highways capability following the integration by Highways England for Area 7, covering the East Midlands.
ofMouchel Long-term order book of c5.3bn with additional Demonstrating a leading commitment to collaborative working, potential extensions of more than 2.7bn Kier Highways has pioneered an alliance approach with the British Standards Institution for its supply chain partners.
In May 2016, 1 3 the Area 3 team and its suppliers were the first to become Services revenue was up 34% to 1.7bn 2015 : 1.2bn, certified to BS 11000 Collaborative Business Relationships reflecting a robust organic performance by the business and aspart of a new alliance approach.
It is anticipated that this afull years contribution from the Mouchel businesses.
2 3 innovative model will be adopted by other contractors.
In the local Underlying operating profit was 86.1m 2015 : 57.3m, authorities market where the Group has five contracts plus its up50%.
Underlying operating margins improved to 5.2%, operations in London, budget challenges continue for our clients reflecting the organic performance of the division and the and we are working with clients on new approaches to service newlyacquired businesses.
This has been well received by clients, including Surrey County Council which earlier this year extended the Groups The integration of Mouchel has delivered the anticipated cost relationship with the provision of a four-year 160m extension savings of 4m in FY16.
Furthermore, additional savings of 5m tothe existing Surrey Highways contract.
The current local are anticipated in FY17, increasing the forecast annual cost authority highways bidding pipeline has a value of over 2bn synergies from the Mouchel acquisition to a total of 15m in despite the recent quieter bidding cycle.
To achieve the higher level of savings, integration costs have increased by 36m to 50m, with these additional costs In Australia, where we operate seven contracts as part of the having been incurred during FY16.
This has included a 4% DownerMouchel joint venture, expenditure on infrastructure reduction in overall Group headcount with in excess of 850 roles capital spend continues.
Bid opportunities have been developed being removed, mainly through the amalgamation of business in Western Australia and New South Wales and opportunities in units and the consolidation of the managerial and support roles.
the New Zealand market continue to be evaluated.
The Mouchel acquisition remains on track to deliver a return on capital in excess of our target of 15% in FY17.
Infrastructure Services Utilities 3 Following the completion of the AMP6 bidding process and the The order book at 30 June 2016 of 5.3bn 2015 : 5.8bn has successful mobilisation of the Thames Water and Anglian Water reduced by 0.5bn, as expected, reflecting the unwinding of the contracts, work is focusing on the cultural transformation of the longer-term contracts typical of the utilities and highways sectors alliances to deliver more efficiently.
During the year, a 105m which result in a reduction in the order book each year of c. 600m.
five-year extension has been awarded on the Scottish Water More than 90% of targeted revenue for 2017 is secured, moreover, contract for the provision of repair and maintenance services the order book does not include potential contract extensions, forthe waste water network across Scotland.
In addition, two which, if included, would add more than 2.7bn.
extensions for existing contracts with South West Water and Bournemouth Water are in advanced discussion.
After the year end, two new contracts were won: a three-year 50m National Grid Infrastructure Protection Works framework security contract, in joint venture with Siemens, and a 40m trunk mains utility contract for Affinity Water, a new client win.
1 Group and share of joint ventures.
2 Stated before non-underlying items see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial 3 statements.
Reported Services operating profit from 5.6m 2015 : 38.6m.
3 Restated to reflect the re-allocation of Mouchel Consulting from the Services division to the Construction division.
38 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Kier preserves over 2,200 miles By collaborating with the ofcanals and waterways in England andWales, undertakes works Groups development in350,000 homes every year, and carries out750,000 repairs one and construction teams, every 45seconds.
we can collectively manage every aspect of our clients requirements Kier Highways is the UKslargest maintainer ofroad tunnels in theUK, including the BlackwallTunnel Property Services Housing maintenance and blue light.
Key contract awards totalling c100m include a The business continues to be impacted by the social rent 32m contract to deliver repairs and estate management to reduction announced in last years Budget.
This has impacted Southwark Council, a mechanical and electrical services contract onour clients finances and their long-term planning and, with the Royal Shakespeare Company, a 12m contract to provide consequently, resulted in a reduced level of new awards.
mechanical and electrical services to the six Imperial War Museums IWM as well as a 30m repeat award by Wiltshire Our strong partnership with Genesis continues and discussions County Council.
are ongoing about extending the scope of services to include compliance works.
With the anticipated merger of registered Other providers and the increasing need for social housing, we are The operational performance of the Environmental Services starting to see new opportunities for the provision of end-to-end business remains on track, albeit the decline in the commodity services which our Residential and Services divisions can provide prices has resulted, as announced on 4 July, in a provision of with a combined new build and maintenance offering.
35m on losses incurred by the Environmental Services business which will be takenin FY16, providing for all future cash outflows Changes of approach and greater efficiencies with our clients are on two environmental contracts of eight and ten years remaining necessary to address reducing client budgets.
In addition to our duration.
Additionally, in light of the recyclate pricing, the carrying breadth of services, we have developed and are implementing value ofour investment in Biogen, our renewable energy joint animproved front-end IT system to better and more efficiently venture inwhich the Group holds a 50% share, has been reviewed interact with our clients own systems and enable us to drive and resulted in an impairment cost to Kier of 5m in FY16.
Services outlook Property Services Kier Workplace Services The Services division, which accounts for 50% of the Groups The new division, incorporating facilities management, property profit, provides essential, day-to-day, routine services to clients management and business processing, was launched on 1 July and communities.
Many of these budgets are ring-fenced which 2016.
The business provides end-to-end workplace solutions for provides resilience to the Group.
The integration of the Mouchel both public and private sector clients, designed to address a business has been completed and the Services division is growing market seeking the full range of hard and soft facilities benefiting from the complementary capabilities now within the management, asset management and wider business services.
Group, something that our clients are increasingly interested in.
The Services order book of 5.3bn provides good long-term During the year, facilities management contracts were awarded by visibility of our workload with potential extensions adding a a number of organisations in the heritage and arts sector, in local further 2.7bn, and is more than 90% secured for 2017. government and other areas of the public sector such as health 39 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
