Our strategy Following an in-depth review of Kingfishers businesses alongside in-depth studies of our customers home improvement needs, the leadership team announced the ONE Kingfisher plan.
This plan will leverage the scale of the business by creating a unified company, where customer needs always come first.
By this we mean that without the transformation we In March 2015 we announced a set of first sharp decisions, would expect performance to be broadly in line with against which solid progress has been made.
In addition, the the macroeconomic backdrop in our respective markets.
detail of the new ONE Kingsher strategy was developed, Until we have unied our customer oer, we will have limited with the focus over the next five years based on three key expansion, the focus of which, in the medium-term, will be pillars creating a unied, unique and leading home Screwx UK and Europe.
improvement oer: driving our digital capability: and optimising our operational eciency.
We have a framework for action which sets out what we will do and how we will do it, in order to deliver the plan.
In January 2016, we explained the detail of this five year If we do this we will become much more than a retailer.
transformation plan and gave clear long-term financial We will become the leading home improvement company, targets and operational milestones for the first year taking full advantage of our knowledge, know-how, FY 2016 17.
This five year transformation plan aims resources and scale.
to deliver 500 million of sustainable annual profit uplift by year five, over and above business as usual.
Our framework for action What we 1: How we do it: Think of customer will do: needs first We base everything We observe, 2: 3: we do on the reality interpret and create Design a seamless Create a unique and of peoples lives solutions that make customer process leading oer with an good homes integrated supply chain 4: 5: We understand the A successful before Create a leading Be a truly sustainable customer journey to after is our eld customer experience company and how the of action!
in our stores ecosystem works 6: 7: Work as ONE Be low cost always 14 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Our strategic pillars and targets We have identified three strategic pillars on which we will focus our work, over and above business as usual.
These are creating a unified, unique and leading home improvement offer, driving our digital capability and optimising our operational efficiency.
Read more about our work in these areas on pages 16 to 18.
Creating Optimising our Driving our a unied, unique operational digital capability & leading oer eciency 350m 50m 100m 500m Expected to generate 500m sustainable Uplift broadly equates to 5% Consists of two programmes: Biggest opportunity is in annual profit uplift by reduction in cost of goods sold: unifying c. 90% of 1.2 billion Investing in our core the end of year five assumes higher sales from price goods not for resale GNFR e-commerce platforms, reinvestment and a more unique spend combination of cost leveraging our Screwx and leading oer will be oset savings and working in a best-in-class capability by range clearance and simpler, more eective way Brilliant Basics implementation costs Building capability to Very encouraging results from enable us to unlock more the first wave of our unied of our customers complex core essential oer home improvement journeys Read more on page 16 Read more on page 17 Read more on page 18 www.
com 15 Creating a unied and unique oer We will radically reorganise to operate as ONE company, moving to ONE offer and pply chain organisation with unied global functions for the r time.
Arja Taaveniku Chief Oer & Supply Chain Ocer To unlock our potential, however, we need to change.
We will We know that our customer needs are radically reorganise to operate as ONE company, moving to already more similar than different across all ONE oer and supply chain organisation with unied global our markets.
It therefore makes sense to create functions for the first time.
This transition will involve training an offer for our customers that is complete, the skilled and enthusiastic people we have to learn new unified, unique and leading as ONE.
capabilities alongside recruiting deeper competence where we need it, in areas such as design and engineering.
Today, our range is predominantly local.
Our nine buying teams in our nine Operating Companies independently This new organisational structure will enable us to roll out source their own ranges which they merchandise in their own our unied and unique oer over the next five years, a time way.
Supplier agreements sit with each Operating Company frame which will minimise risk.
We have already started with alongside separately managed logistics networks.
As a result, unifying the first 20 categories within our core essentials our oer is largely steered by a large number of suppliers ranges see case study below.
In addition to lower prices, in relatively small volumes, and is similar to other retailers.
the benets to customers will include newer products, Our 7 billion of buying scale is therefore largely untapped.
simpler ranges, better packaging, higher quality and Going forward, we will move to having a unied oer with better sustainability.
the same products presented everywhere in the same way.
This will create opportunities for eciencies as well as We are creating a unied and unique oer investment in a better oer for our customers.
We have identied six leading ranges where we want to be the first choice in customers minds, which include bathroom We will own We will and outdoor ranges.
Based on intellectual control our customer property, design, end to end insights quality and process specications Case study: Core essentials Core essential ranges are the home improvement basics and consumables that our customers see as universal.
These include batteries, light bulbs and sinks, which in total represent around a third of Kingshers total buying scale.
We have started with the first 20 categories representing c. 0.6 billion of buying scale and the early results are very encouraging.
These early results from the first categories support the business case for unifying our ranges, which provide significant benets to customers.
The benets include simpler ranges, newer products, higher quality and lower prices, as well as improved sustainability.
16 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Driving our digital capability There is a significant opportunity to grow digital engagement with our cu omers and b antially increase sales.
Steve Willett Chief Digital and IT Ocer There is also a real opportunity to help more customers Digital trends and disruptive technologies unlock more of their complex home improvement journeys are transforming customer expectations by building a digital platform that will support them along Kingsher believes there is a significant opportunity to grow the whole seven step journey.
We will provide further digital engagement with our customers and substantially details about these plans in due course.
increase sales through a seamless and very strong For Kingsher the first opportunity is to become brilliant at omnichannel oer.
This means making the omnichannel oer of all The home improvement industry lags behind other sectors our businesses as good as the best we have within our in digital sales penetration with best-in-class retail today only business, which is Screwx see case study below.
This reects the complexity of home improvement projects and largely low levels of both customer knowledge and frequency of purchase.
However, for the companies that have invested in digital, sales and digital penetration are growing quickly.
The Brilliant Basics programme will involve improvements Case study: Brilliant Basics in areas such as the search functionality of Kingshers The start-point of the Brilliant Basics plan will be websites, mobile technology, product content information, to use the omnichannel expertise of Screwfix an easier checkout experience, digital marketing and to help bring all of Kingfishers businesses to click&collect.
These initiatives will drive web trac a similar level.
and conversion, driving higher digital and store sales and will be facilitated by the unied IT investment As one of the best-in-class operators in digital retailing, programme currently being rolled out across Kingsher.
Screwx is well placed to provide the benchmark for Kingshers digital plans.
Screwx has seen 26% annual Progress has already been made in this area with the growth in its website trac, 99% annual sales growth in launch of Castorama Russias new website, which is mobile and developed a click & collect oer that means based on Screwxs international platform.
stock is available to customers in stores within five minutes of the order being placed.
Brilliant Basics Digital Click & Mobile Search marketing collect In-store Checkout Content Analytics selling Remind Motivate Enable Extend Needs & Inspire & Plan & Purchase Build & Use & Maintain triggers visualise evaluate & deliver install enjoy & improve www.
com 17 Optimising our operational eciency This programme is not ju about co savings, it is also a programme that will help us to work in a simpler, more effective way across the business.
Karen Witts Chief Financial Ocer Our GNFR spend has been broken down into three waves Over the next five years, the key driver of which will be implemented largely over the next three years.
Kingfishers operational efficiency is going to Wave 1 is well progressed, including categories such as come from our work on goods not for resale media buying, print and paper and mechanical handling GNFR.
These are all the goods and services equipment.
The results of this wave will start to be delivered that we need to run our business that are in 2016 17.
Analysis has started on Wave 2, which includes not sold to our customers, such as paper point-of-sale material, financial services and shop-tting.
for catalogues and the fork lift trucks that are used in our stores.
Kingsher spends 1.2 billion a year on goods not for resale, and, having completed a detailed scoping exercise last year, we believe that around 90% of this spend can be unied.
This programme is not just about cost savings, it is also a programme that will help us to work in a simpler, more eective way across the business, without compromising on quality.
We have also been looking at the total end-to-end costs of Case study: Print and paper these publications, including paper waste, print costs and The print and paper category includes all transport costs.
But lower cost does not mean low quality.
the promotional leaflets, catalogues and For example, by working with our suppliers we have been other marketing publications we produce able to change the printing process for certain publications, for our customers.
driving better quality whilst reducing costs.
We have also been able to consolidate volumes with fewer suppliers Its a category that demonstrates how we can better and thereby improve our bargaining power.
And nally, leverage the scale of the Company by unifying our we have run a joint tender process for our dierent approach to managing GNFR categories across Operating Companies enabling us to better leverage our Operating Companies.
our scale and obtain better commercial terms.
In the past, each Operating Company has taken its own individual approach.
For example, we use promotional yers in all our Operating Companies, but they have dierent sizes, dierent paper grades and dierent printing methods, and we have negotiated with our suppliers at dierent times of the year.
As part of our new approach we have worked together to harmonise our approach to this category.
We are picking the optimal specications, which means we are looking for lowest cost formats that are the most ecient for suppliers manufacturing processes.
18 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Be a truly sustainable company Sustainability is important for our customers because a good home is a more sustainable home one that is green outside and in, resource and energy smart, healthy and comfortable, durable and efficient to run.
We aim to be a truly sustainable company, where social We focus on four priority issues that are important and environmental considerations are part of our culture to our customers and material to our business: timber, and integrated in the way we run our stores, infrastructure energy our customers and our energy, product and processes, how we buy our goods and services, and how innovation and communities.
we support our customers to have more sustainable homes.
We have 53 sustainability targets and are making By integrating sustainability into all we do we can help good progress towards them.
More information our customers create sustainable homes and generate about these is available on our website.
value for our business in four areas: revenue opportunities: See www.
customer preference: supply chain resilience: and eciency and productivity.
Performance in 2015 16 Timber Customer Our energy Product Communities energy innovation We reached 96% 74% of customers We are investing in We are integrating Our companies responsibly sourced rate energy eciency LED lighting, energy sustainability into have supported 1,142 timber and paper in our as an important reason monitoring systems product design and community projects products, on track for our for doing home and renewable energy development, focusing since 2012 13.
Our target of 100% by 2020. improvement.
We have generation in our stores on areas such as saving projects focus on We are also working helped customers save and locations.
This energy and water, issues that matter to with partners to tackle 10.8TWh of energy reduces costs and greener gardening, our customers, local the challenge of through sales of energy emissions while sustainable materials communities and our deforestation with a ecient products and improving energy and closing the loop.
business, including view to protecting and services since 2011 12, security.
We have Currently, 28% of our improving homes, restoring long-term but need to innovate installed solar sales come from building skills and sustainable timber further to reach our photovoltaic panels sustainable home protecting and supplies, including target of 38TWh at two stores and three products 2014 15: enhancing forests.
We have distribution centres to 22%, generating with the RSPB and their expanded our range date, with a generation 2.9 billion for Birdlife partners on of energy ecient LED capacity of 4.1MW.
We the business, and the restoration of the light bulbs, which are have cut our property achieving our 2016 17 Harapan Rainforest now expected to make carbon intensity by milestone ahead in Indonesia.
A breakdown of our carbon footprint is on page 30. sustainable home products are those with a lower environmental impact Case study: Antibes an energy positive store Castoramas Antibes store, re-opened in 2015, is our largest store and our first to be energy positive.
The main building meets passive design standards meaning it will produce more energy than it consumes.
It includes a large rooftop solar panel array and screens in store show customers how much renewable energy is being generated each day.
