Investment Policy Geographic focus The following describes JLIF's investment policy We believe that attractive opportunities for JLIF to enhance which, as noted below, was changed at the returns for shareholders are likely to arise in areas of the world Company's AGM in May 2016 to increase the where PPP is a practiced route for delivering infrastructure investments.
The Company may, therefore, make investments gearing limit from 25% to 35% of Total Assets.
in the European Union, other European countries, Canada, the At the AGM in May 2017, JLIF intends to put to United States of America and the Asia Pacic region.
shareholders an amendment to the investment The Company will seek to mitigate country risk by concentrating policy to expand the geographical limits but on investment opportunities in jurisdictions where JLCM advises that contract structures and their enforceability are reliable, where keeping with the requirement that over 50% to the extent applicable JLCM advises that public-sector or of Total Assets by value are UK-based.
government-backed obligations carry a satisfactory credit rating and where financial markets are relatively mature.
JLIF will ensure that over 50% of the Companys Total Assets, measured by value, General will be in respect of projects based in the UK although this will JLIFs investment policy is to invest predominantly in the equity not require JLIF to dispose of Investment Capital in respect of and subordinated debt issued with respect to infrastructure non-UK projects if this limit is breached as a result of changes in projects that are predominantly PPP projects.
The Company value of the Investment Portfolio.
predominantly invests in projects that have completed construction and that are in their operational phase.
Investment Single investment limit and diversity of clients and suppliers capital in projects that are under construction is limited to 30% of When any new acquisition is made, JLIF will ensure that the the Total Assets of the Fund calculated at the time of investment.
investment or, in the event of an acquisition of a portfolio of investments, each investment in the portfolio acquired does JLIF predominantly invests in projects whose revenue streams: not have an acquisition value or, if it is an additional stake in an are public-sector or government-backed: and existing investment, the combined value of both the existing stake and the additional stake acquired is not greater than 25% are predominantly availability-based where payments of JLIFs Total Assets at the time of investment.
In selecting new received by the Project Entities do not generally depend investments to acquire, JLIF will seek to ensure that its Portfolio on the level of use of the asset, other projects being comprises a range of public-sector clients and supply chain demand-based where payments received by the Project contractors, in order to avoid over-reliance on any single client Entities depend on the level of use of the project assets.
A project is availability-based or demand-based for these purposes if the Investment Adviser deems that 75% or more of payments received by the relevant Project Entity does or Gearing does not, as appropriate, generally depend on the level of JLIF intends to make prudent use of leverage held in JLIF Limited use of the project asset.
Partnership for nancing acquisitions of investments and working capital purposes.
Under the company articles, and in accordance Whilst it is envisaged that further acquisitions will be of with JLIFs Investment Policy, JLIFs outstanding borrowings, operational PPP projects with availability-based revenues, it may excluding intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying be possible that a limited number of projects in construction Project Entities, but including any financial guarantees to support and or with demand-based revenue mechanisms may be acquired.
subscription obligations, will be limited to 35% of JLIFs Total Investment capital in projects whose revenue streams are 11 Assets.
JLIF may borrow in currencies other than Sterling as predominantly demand-based is limited to 15% of the Total part of its currency hedging strategy.
Assets of the Fund calculated at the time of investment.
For the purposes of this restriction, the shadow toll mechanisms for the Origination of investments investments in the M40 and M6 M74 motorway projects and the All of the investments in the Portfolio have similar characteristics A55 road project are not regarded as carrying demand risk due to those set out above and further investment opportunities will to their relative insensitivity to trafc movement.
only be pursued if they also satisfy these criteria.
In addition, the Company may invest up to 10% of its Total Assets It is expected that further investments will include investments calculated at the time of investment in infrastructure assets that that have been originated and developed by members of John are not government-backed PPP assets but that have substantially Laing Group and may be acquired from them.
JLIF has the same risk prole and characteristics as PPP assets.
established procedures to deal with any potential conicts of interest that may arise in relation to any acquisition of assets from John Laing Group.
These procedures include: complete segregation of JLCM, acting on behalf of JLIF, and the John Laing sell side team: a requirement to conduct asset due diligence through third party suppliers acting for JLIF, and for an opinion from an independent expert on the Fair Market Value of the Investment Capital to be obtained: and a requirement for JLIF board approval prior to submitting an offer to John Laing and prior to execution of the Sale and Purchase Agreement.
11 Increased from 25% following shareholder approval at the Companys AGM in May 2016.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 21.
JLIF will seek to acquire further investments going forward both Currency and hedging policy from John Laing and from the wider market.
In selecting the A portion of JLIFs underlying investments may be denominated assets to acquire, JLCM will ensure that these projects have in currencies other than Sterling.
For example, currently some of similar characteristics to the projects in the current Portfolio and the Portfolio is denominated in Canadian Dollars, US Dollars and meet JLIFs investment criteria.
However, any dividends or distributions in respect of the Ordinary Shares will be made in Sterling and the market prices Any proposed acquisition of assets by JLIF from the John Laing and Net Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares will be reported in Group that fall within the overall investment parameters set by Sterling.
Currency hedging will only be carried out to seek to JLIF, including in relation to funding, will be subject to approval provide protection to the level of Sterling dividends and other by the Directors, who are independent of John Laing.
distributions that JLIF aims to pay on the Ordinary Shares, and in The relationship between JLIF and John Laing is governed by order to reduce the risk of currency uctuations and the volatility the Rules, as dened in the Prospectus.
These require that any of returns that may result from such currency exposure.
This may arrangements between a Relevant Person as dened in the involve the use of foreign currency borrowings to finance foreign Rules and JLIF are at least as favourable to JLIF as would be any currency assets, or forward foreign exchange contracts for up to comparable arrangement effected on normal commercial terms three years to hedge the income from assets that are exposed to negotiated at arms length between the Relevant Person and an exchange rate risk against Sterling.
Interest rate hedging may also be carried out to seek to provide JLIF has a contractual right of first offer in accordance with the protection against increasing costs of servicing any debt Amended Existing FOA and the New FOA for relevant Investment drawn down by the Company to finance investments.
This Capital in UK, European and Canadian accommodation and roads may involve the use of interest rate derivatives and similar and certain rail projects of which the John Laing Group wishes derivative instruments.
to dispose and that are consistent with our Investment Policy.
Currency and interest rate hedging transactions will only be It is envisaged that the John Laing Group will periodically make undertaken for the purpose of efficient Portfolio management and available for sale further portfolios of Investment Capital in these transactions will not be undertaken for speculative purposes.
infrastructure projects although there is no guarantee that this will be the case.
Subject to due diligence and agreement on Amendments to and compliance with the Investment Policy price and transaction documentation, JLIF will seek to acquire those projects that t its Investment Policy.
Material changes to JLIFs Investment Policy may only be made in accordance with the approval of the shareholders by way of JLIF will also seek out and review acquisition opportunities ordinary resolution and for so long as the Ordinary Shares are from outside the John Laing Group that arise and will, where listed on the ofcial list in accordance with the UKLA Listing Rules.
appropriate, carry out the necessary due diligence.
If, in the opinion of JLCM, as Operator of JLIF Limited Partnership the The investment restrictions detailed above apply at the time of Partnership, the risk characteristics, valuation and price of the the acquisition of Investment Capital.
In the ordinary course of Investment Capital in the project or portfolio of projects for sale business, JLIF will not be required to dispose of Investment is acceptable and is consistent with our Investment Policy, then Capital and to rebalance its investment Portfolio as a result of a subject to JLIF having funds an offer will be made without change in the respective valuations of Investment Capital.
Minor seeking the prior approval of the Board and, if successful, the changes to the Investment Policy must be approved by the JLIF Investment Capital in the relevant project or portfolio of projects Board, taking into account advice from the Investment Adviser will be acquired by JLIF, following approval by the Board.
Potential disposals of investments Whilst the Directors may elect to retain Investment Capital in the Portfolio and any other further investments made by JLIF over the long term, JLCM will regularly monitor the valuations of such projects and any secondary market opportunities to dispose of Investment Capital and report to the Directors accordingly.
The Directors only intend to dispose of Investments where upon the advice of JLCM they consider that it would be in the best interest of shareholders.
Proceeds from the disposal of investments may be reinvested or distributed at the discretion of the Directors.
