08. Business Model JLIFs business model is to predominantly invest in equity and sub-ordinated debt issued with respect to operational infrastructure PPP projects.
While the Companys Investment Policy allows up to 30% of its Total Assets to be invested at any one time in projects still in their construction phase, JLIF predominantly targets operational projects, as it is ordinarily upon operations commencement that revenues start to be received.
This supports the Companys objective, as described above, to deliver income or yield, as opposed to capital growth to shareholders.
Revenue profit The majority of projects in which JLIF invests 92.5% by value Availability-based projects as at 31 December 2016 have an availability-based payment On availability-based projects the unitary payment is agreed prior to signing mechanism.
This means that the project company receives a of the project agreement at the start of a project, and sized to cover the pre-agreed payment usually on a monthly basis from the publicproject companys costs of construction, operation and nancing.
Given sector counterparty, known as a unitary payment.
This is received JLIF predominantly invests only in operational projects i. e. after the in return for making the infrastructure asset e. g. school, hospital, construction phase is complete, the main costs incurred by the projects police station etc.
available for use and in accordance with the at this time are those relating to maintenance and operation of the asset, contractual specications.
These specications may include, for and costs associated with how the initial construction was nanced.
example, the requirement for certain areas of a building e. g. a As noted, the unitary payment is xed other than in the event of hospital to be maintained within a specic temperature range.
contractually agreed variations to the project or inationary changes.
Where such specications are not met, certain parts of, or in Therefore, if the project company can manage its operating and nancing extreme cases, whole projects, may be deemed by the publiccosts more efficiently i. e. to a level below that originally anticipated at sector client to be unavailable for use.
In this event, deductions the time of signing of the project agreement, while continuing to deliver may be made against the unitary payment received by the project the required level of service under the project agreement, then it will company, thereby incentivising the project company to ensure make an increased profit return.
However, attached to certain cost that this does not happen.
Most of this type of operational risk savings generated by the project company are sharing arrangements.
on a project is passed-down to a specialist facilities management These stipulate that, should cost savings be made, a proportion of these company on a back-to-back basis although liability caps may efficiencies be shared with the public-sector client.
For other costs apply beyond which the risk is retained by the project company.
usually those that are uncontrollable by the project company e. g. change in law should these increase above what was originally anticipated Other projects include a demand-based payment mechanism, when sizing the unitary payment, the pain of such increases are also where the amount of revenue received by the project company shared with the public-sector client.
is based not on the asset being made available for use, but rather on the level of use of the asset.
As at 31 December 2016, JLIF held Where the risk associated with a particular cost has been passed-down to an investment in one asset the Connecticut Service Stations P3 a sub-contractor, the sub-contractor benets suffers from cost savings project deemed to have demand-based revenue risk.
By value, or increases, as opposed to the project company.
Typically, although not this asset comprised 7.5% of the Portfolio.
always, such costs can include lifecycle and routine maintenance costs.
Those costs whose risk of variability is typically retained by the project company include insurance costs, project company management costs and senior debt finance costs.
Investors Demand-based projects Dividends Equity The cost side of a demand-based project is very similar to that of an availability-based project.
The main difference therefore lies on the revenue side.
As noted above, in a demand-based project, revenues are based on the level of use of a project, and therefore are inherently JLIF Limited less certain i. e. riskier.
The profitability of a demand-based project is therefore as much concerned with managing costs as it is about Selective Investment Process maximising revenues.
profitability is driven by the project companys ability to encourage higher use of the asset, as well as wider Equity Distributions macroeconomic demographic factors of which assumptions are made Investment at the time of investment.
Fund Level Active Asset Management profits made by the underlying project companies in which JLIF invests are ultimately returned to JLIF by way of dividends and sub-ordinated debt SPV1 SPV2 SPV3 SPV4 interest and principal repayments collectively known as distributions.
Distributions from the projects comprising the Portfolio are aggregated at Portfolio of low-risk, infrastructure PPP projects the Fund level and distributed to JLIFs shareholders by way of dividends, after accounting for costs incurred in managing the Fund.
The principal costs incurred in managing the Fund are those related to the Investment Adviser, the Board, the Auditor, the Administrator, fees related to JLIFs corporate credit facility, adviser fees related to capital raising activities and regulatory fees, amongst others.
A review of the Ongoing Charges i. e. costs in managing the Fund for 2016 can be found in section 2.2 of the Investment Adviser Report.
The above description is a representative simplication of JLIFs business model and of the project companies in which it invests.
In reality the contracts relating to the projects may be more detailed and complex.
