Board Of Directors All members of the JLIF Board have been in post since the Company was incorporated in August 2010, with the exception of Helen Green who was appointed in April 2014.
Paul Lester CBE, Chairman David MacLellan, Deputy Chairman and Christopher Spencer Senior Independent Director Paul Lester, a resident of the United Kingdom, Christopher Spencer, a resident of Guernsey, is currently non-executive Chairman of Greenergy qualied as a chartered accountant in London in David MacLellan, a resident of the United International Ltd and Knight Square Holdings Ltd. 1975.
Following two years in Bermuda, he moved Kingdom, is the founder and currently Chairman In April 2016 he was appointed non-executive to Guernsey.
Mr Spencer, who specialised in audit of RJD Partners, a midmarket private-equity Chairman of Essentra Plc and also Forterra Plc.
and duciary work, was Managing Partner Director business focussed on the services and leisure Paul was chief executive of VT Group plc, the of Pannell Kerr Forster Guernsey Limited from sectors.
Previously, Mr MacLellan was an executive support services company, from July 2002 until its 1990 until his retirement in May 2000.
Mr Spencer director of Aberdeen Asset Managers plc following acquisition by Babcock International in July 2010. is a member of the AIC Offshore Committee, its acquisition in 2000 of Murray Johnstone where a past President of the Guernsey Society of he was latterly Chief Executive having joined the Mr Lester was group managing director of Chartered and Certied Accountants and a past company in 1984.
Mr MacLellan has served on the Balfour Beatty plc, the international engineering, Chairman of the Guernsey Branch of the Institute boards of a number of companies and is currently construction and services group, from 1997 to of Directors.
Mr Spencer also sits on the board a non-executive director of J&J Denholm Limited.
2002, and chief executive of Graseby plc from of Directors of JPEL Private Equity Limited and He is a past council member of the British Venture 1990 to 1997.
Mr Lester has also held senior SQN Asset Finance Income Fund Limited, each Capital Association and is a member of the management positions at Schlumberger and of which is listed on the London Stock Exchange, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
and Summit Germany Limited, which is listed on the London Stock Exchanges Alternative Mr Lester is a former president of the Society Investment Market.
of Maritime Industries, the BSA and the EEF.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 17.
Talmai Morgan Guido Van Berkel Helen Green Talmai Morgan, a resident of Guernsey, qualied Guido Van Berkel, a resident of Luxembourg, Helen Green, a resident of Guernsey, has been as a barrister in 1976.
He holds a MA in Economics started his career in the financial industry more employed by Saffery Champness, a top 15 rm of and Law from Cambridge University.
He moved than 40 years ago and has held various senior chartered accountants since 1984.
She qualied to Guernsey in 1988 where he worked for Barings positions with Bank Sarasin, Rabobank, Robeco in 1987 and became a partner in the London ofce and then for the Bank of Bermuda.
From 1999 to Group and Citibank.
Over the course of his career, in 1997.
Since 2000 she has been based in the 2004, he was Director of Fiduciary Services and he has worked in The Netherlands, Jersey, Guernsey ofce where she is client liaison director Enforcement at the Guernsey Financial Services Switzerland, Luxembourg and Scandinavia.
responsible for trust and company administration.
Commission Guernseys financial regulatory Mrs Green is a non-executive director of Acorn From 2001 until 2007 Mr Van Berkel was active on agency where he was responsible for the design Income Fund Limited of which she has been the Executive Board of Bank Sarasin in Switzerland and subsequent implementation of Guernseys chairman since 2012, UK Mortgages Limited, and as such he acted as chairman of various law relating to the regulation of duciaries, Aberdeen Emerging Markets Investment Company Sarasin entities across Europe and Asia.
Currently administration businesses and company directors.
Limited and City Natural Resources High Yield Mr Van Berkel is an independent director in a He was also particularly involved in the activities Trust Plc all of which are listed on the London number of Luxembourg, British, Channel Islands of the Financial Action Task Force and the Offshore Stock Exchanges Main Market and Landore and Dutch investment fund ranges and from the Group of Banking Supervisors.
Resources Limited which is listed on the London beginning of 2012 until mid-2015 was chairman of Stock Exchanges Alternative Investment Market.
For the last ten years, Mr Morgan has been BlackRock Luxembourg SA and BlackRock Fund the non-executive chairman or a non-executive Management S.. r. l in Luxembourg as well as director of a number of publicly listed investment chairman of Blackrock Fund Netherlands BV.
He is presently Chairman of NB Private Equity Partners Limited, Sherborne Investors Guernsey B Limited and Global Fixed Income Realisation Limited.
He also sits on the board of BH Global Limited.
