Directors report The directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial Articles of Association statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended The Companys Articles may be amended by the members of the 31 December 2016.
Company by special resolution requiring a majority of at least 75% The Corporate Governance reports on pages 44 to 86 are of the persons voting on the relevant resolution.
deemedto be incorporated into this Directors report the Report Annual General Meeting by reference.
Details of the likely future developments of the business are described in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 43.
This years Annual General Meeting will be held at Etc.
Venues TheStrategic report, Directors report and other sections from the St Pauls, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD on 4 May 2017 Annual Report which are incorporated by reference, collectively at 11.00am.
comprise the Management Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
Dividends Change of name The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 2.0 In anticipation of the merger with certain businesses of Gala Coral pence per ordinary share, making the total of 3.0 pence per share which completed on 1 November 2016, the Company changed for the year.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual itsname from Ladbrokes plc to Ladbrokes Coral Group plc on General Meeting, the final dividend is expected to be paid on 31October 2016.
18May 2017 to shareholders on the register on 7 April 2017.
4 Details of the directors of the Company at the date of this The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Coral Share Ownership Trust, which Reportare shown on pages 6 and 7.
Ian Bull served as a director isused in connection with certain of the Companys employee until 26February 2016, Richard Moross served as a director until share ownership plans, waives dividends on shares in the Trust not 5May 2016 and Sly Bailey and David Martin served as directors allocated to plan members.
There are no other items that are until 21September 2016. required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
Details of the directors service contracts, their share interests and Share capital other details of their remuneration by the Company are contained At 27 March 2017, the Company had been notified, in accordance in the Directors remuneration report.
with the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, of The Chairman and the non-executive directors are appointed, thefollowing holdings of voting rights attaching to the subject to re-appointment, for a specified term of approximately Companysshares: three years, renewable by one additional period of three years Number of % of issued andrenewable thereafter at the discretion of the Company.
Shares share capital Apollo Global Management, LLC 185,409,503 9.69 The Board has in place an established procedure for managing, Anchorage Capital Group, LLC 153,444,074 8.02 andwhere appropriate approving, any conflicts of interest Promontoria Holding 196 B. V. 131,554,318 6.87 Appointment and replacement ofdirectors Playtech plc 127,763,501 6.67 FIL Limited 96,399,249 5.03 Directors are appointed to, or removed from, the Board according UBS Group AG 51,028,972 5.01 to the provisions contained in the Companys Articles of Association The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 91,772,700 4.79 the Articles and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Old Mutual plc 64,617,746 3.43 A copy of the Articles is available to view on the Companys website at www.
The interest disclosed above from UBS Group AG, was disclosed tothe Company prior to the allotment of shares in relation to In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance themerger.
Code, all directors will stand for appointment or re-appointment atthe 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Directors indemnities and insurance Each of the directors has been provided with a qualifying thirdparty indemnity from the Company which remain in force at the date of the Report.
The Company also maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 Governance Directors reportcontinued Further details in respect of the share capital are shown in note 29 Corporate responsibility to the consolidated financial statements which forms part of the The 2016 Corporate Responsibility CR report is available at Report.
Rights attributable to the Companys ordinary shares are as www.
com and should be considered in set out in the Articles and in applicable company law.
Holders of the conjunction with the highlights disclosed on pages 60 to 63 Companys ordinary shares have the right to attend, speak and vote following the Social Responsibility Committee report.
either in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company and the right to participate in any distribution of the Company The processes described in the section Financial reporting, internal which includes, but is not limited to, dividends.
control and risk management systems on pages 48 and 49 applied toCR including human rights issues as appropriate, as did the The Company operates a number of employee share plans which practices described on page 46 for ensuring the Board is supplied are detailed in note 31.
The voting rights of shares held in trust for with appropriate and timely information and training and for share plan participants, as beneficial holders, are exercised at the assisting the directors to update their knowledge.
In addition to direction of the participant.
regular business presentations made to the Board at which CR wasconsidered as appropriate, the Board conducts an annual Directors authority to issue and CRreview and Board members regularly receive CR updates.
CR purchaseshares performance is included in business unit accountability systems At the Annual General Meeting AGM held on 5 May 2016, the and remuneration arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee, directors were authorised to allot ordinary shares up to a nominal in determining executive remuneration, takes into account CR value of 96,181,163 and were further authorised to make market matters as described in the Directors remuneration report.
purchases of up to 101,838,891 of the Companys ordinary shares.
The identification and management of CR issues, the CR reporting At a General Meeting held on 24 November 2015, the directors framework and any associated data has been reviewed by the were authorised to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal Companys CR adviser, Carnstone Partners LLP.
value of 246,480,908 in connection with the merger with certain businesses of Gala Coral.
Details of the Groups disclosure of its greenhouse gas emissions are set out in the Social and Corporate Responsibility report on page 63.
During the year, 896,196,404 ordinary shares were allotted, of which 895,693,209 were in relation to the merger with Gala Coral, Colleague policies and no purchases of shares were made by the Company.
Further The Board values two-way communication between senior details of shares allotted during the year are shown in note 29 to management and colleagues on all aspects of the Companys the consolidated financial statements.
strategy, Company performance, management effectiveness To the extent the authorities granted by shareholders at the AGM andapproach to wellbeing.
are unused, they remain in effect until the earlier of the Annual There is a rolling three-year internal communications strategy General Meeting in 2017 or 30 June 2017. anddelivery plan which includes interventions such as regular Political donations management roadshows, virtual strategy briefings, visits to operating units, responses to the regular colleague opinion survey It is the Companys policy not to make what are commonly and updates on performance.
regarded as donations to political parties and it is not intended to change that policy.
The Companies Act 2006 the Act includes The internal communications channels include a mobile device very broad definitions of political donations and expenditure which platform, face-to-face events, a corporate intranet, phone may have the effect of covering a number of normal business broadcasting, SMS alerts, a Company magazine, leadership and activities that would not commonly be thought to be donations to linemanager briefing packs.
These could include support for bodies engaged in The UK Retail Colleague Forum, which was launched in 2012 as an law reform or government policy review, involvement in seminars evolution of our Staff Council, provides a further mechanism for and functions that may be attended by politicians and job employee dialogue and engagement.
exchanges between industry and government.
In addition, those colleagues who are eligible are also encouraged to At the AGM held on 5 May 2016, the Company and its subsidiaries become involved in the Groups performance through participation were authorised to make political donations not exceeding 50,000 in share schemes.
Retail colleagues also have the opportunity to in total.
No political donations were made during the year 2015: nil.
raise issues with the senior management team by submitting To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the Act, emails for consideration to our speak up mailbox, or by calling on authority will again be sought at the AGM to be held on 4 May 2017 to one of our speak up days.
authorise the Company and its subsidiaries to make political donations.
Throughout the Group, the principles of equal opportunities are recognised in the formulation and development of employment policies.
com It is the Companys policy to give full and fair consideration to Going concern applications from people with disabilities, having regard to their Having assessed the financial forecasts of the business, the particular aptitudes and abilities.
If a colleague becomes disabled, principal risks and other matters discussed in the connection the Companys objective is the continued provision of suitable withthe viability statement on page 41, the directors consider employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with itappropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in appropriate adjustments being made if necessary.
Colleagues with preparing the financial statements as the Company will generate disabilities share equally in the opportunities for training, career sufficient cash to meet its ongoing obligations for at least development and promotion.
12months from the date of signing the financial statements.
Significant agreements The Directors report and the Strategic report were approved by the The agreements between Ladbrokes Group Finance plc LGF a Board and have been signed on its behalf by the Company Secretary.
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and 10 separate banks By order of the Board.
for the provision by the banks of revolving credit and term facilitiesof up to 851 million on a committed basis provide that the banks may give notice of cancellation if a change of control occurs.
On cancellation, the amounts drawn would be immediately repayable.
In the context of a takeover bid, the acquirer would normally arrange substitute facilities.
In addition, LGF issued bonds Geoff Mason in March 2010, June 2014 and November 2016.
The bonds have a Company Secretary Put Event that allows bondholders to exercise put options when 27 March 2017 achange of control occurs.
The put options allow the bondholders to require LGF to purchase the bonds at a price of 101 pence.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Registered Number 566221 Nevada regulator 5th Floor, The Zig Zag Building Shareholders of Ladbrokes Coral are subject to regulation by the 70 Victoria Street Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Nevada Gaming London Commission as a result of the Companys ownership of licensed SW1E 6SQ subsidiaries in Nevada, USA and the Companys registration as apublicly-traded company operating in Nevada.
Information regarding Nevada gaming regulatory requirements is available atwww.
Financial risk management A description of the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to price, credit liquidity and cash flow risk is contained in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements and forms part of the Report.
Auditor and disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the directors in office as of the date of approval of the Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its report of which the auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements contents 91 Statement of directors responsibilities 92 Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc 100 Consolidated income statement 101 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 102 Consolidated balance sheet 103 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 104 Consolidated statement of cash flows 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 105 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies 113 5.
Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets 123 16.
Assets classified as held for sale 124 18.
Interest in associates and other investments 126 20.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 128 25.
Financial risk management objectives and policies 130 27.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures 134 28.
Issued share capital 135 30. Business combinations 136 31.
Notes to the statement of cash flows 137 33.
