Strategic report Board of Directors 1.
John M Kelly, OBE 69 Chairman John was appointed as Senior Independent Director in September 2010 and subsequently asChairman in December 2015.
Skills and experience John brings extensive experience from the gaming and betting industry having previously been a board member of a number of betting companies.
With over 30 years experience as adirector in a wide range of leisure companies, John also has a wealth of experience to draw from 1 6 in his role as Chairman and leader of the Board.
Career history Founder and Chief Executive of Gala Coral Group having led a management buy-in from Bass Plc in1997 and subsequently became Chairman.
After founding Gala Coral, he was a board member at Mecca Leisure Limited, the Chairmanof Trainline.
com and Chairman ofNovus Leisure Limited.
He was also a board member of the Prince of Wales Business intheCommunity charity.
Other roles Chairman of Kings Park Capital LLP Advisory Board 2 7 and Kings Park Capital LLP Investment Committee and co-founder of Dunelmia Partners LLP.
Committee membership Nomination Committee Chairman and Remuneration Committee.
Jim Mullen 46 Chief Executive Officer Jim was appointed as Chief Executive Officer inApril 2015 and as a director in May 2015.
Skills and experience Jims extensive experience in the gaming and betting industry, particularly online gaming, 3 8 brings valuable insight to lead the Group and implement the strategy to grow our recreational customer base and build scale.
Career history Joined the Group in October 2013 as Managing Director of the Digital business.
Prior to joining the Group, Jim was Chief Operating Officer for William Hills digital operations for three years and held senior positions at the Murray Group, Arc Worldwide and News International where hewas Director of Digital Strategy.
Other roles Board member of GambleAware.
Carl Leaver 49 Executive Deputy Chairman Carl was appointed as Executive Deputy Chairman in November 2016.
Skills and experience Carl has a broad range of business leadership and turnaround experience, having driven profitable growth in a variety of consumer-facing industries in the UK and internationally.
com 6 Career history Career history 6.
Annemarie Durbin 53 Prior to the merger with Ladbrokes, Carl was Mark has held senior executive and board Independent Non-Executive Director Group Chief Executive of Gala Coral Group from positions at Abbey National plc, was Group Annemarie was appointed as Independent November 2010.
Before this, he was director Finance Director of Barratt Developments PLC Non-Executive Director in January 2017. ofInternational, Home and Direct for Marks & and has also been a Senior Independent Director Spencer, Chief Executive Officer at DeVere Group of Johnston Press plc and Non-Executive Director Skills and experience PLC, Managing Director of Travel Inn and worked on the boards of LSL Property Services plc, Annemarie brings broad based international for Nomura International having started his Punch Taverns plc and Spirit Pub Group plc.
retail, commercial and institutional banking career with Pedigree Petfoods part of the experience.
She also brings leadership, talent Other roles MarsInc.
development, executive remuneration, property, Non-Executive Chairman of London Square internal audit, crisismanagement, business Other roles Developments Limited, Deputy Chairman continuity, operational excellence and Non-Executive Chairman of Carluccios.
andSenior Independent Director of Yorkshire governance capabilities to the Board.
Building Society, Non-Executive Director of Aviva Committee membership Insurance Ltd and a Trustee of Somerset House.
A qualified lawyer with 25 years international Committee membership banking experience, particularly across Asia, Audit Committee Chairman, Nomination 4.
Paul Bowtell 48 Africa and the Middle East operating at Board Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Chief Financial Officer and Executive Committee level.
Paul was appointed as Chief Financial Officer 9.
Other-roles Non-Executive Director at WHSmith Plc Independent Non-Executive Director Skills and experience andSantander UK PLC, Chair of the FCAs Stevie was appointed as Independent Paul is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive ListingAuthority Advisory Panel and is an Non-Executive Director in September 2016. experience in the leisure industry and across the executive leadership coach and a board UK retail sector and brings significant financial Skills and experience governance consultant.
and commercial knowledge to the Board.
Stevie brings extensive skills in marketing, Committee membership television and advertising as well as broad Career history Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, experience in non-executive roles, particularly Prior to the merger with Ladbrokes, Paul was Remuneration Committee and Social as remuneration chair.
Chief Financial Officer of Gala Coral Group from Responsibility Committee.
Before this, he was Chief Financial Career history Officer of First Choice Holidays PLC and became CEO of Future plc and ClearChannel UK and 7.
Christine Hodgson 52 Chief Financial Officer of TUI Travel PLC after heldsenior executive roles in international Independent Non-Executive Director its merger with First Choice Holidays PLC.
Christine was appointed as Independent He previously held a number of senior positions Non-Executive Director in May 2012.
Christine Other roles with Centrica, WHSmith and Forte and was hasadvised the Board that she will not Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Non-Executive Director at SThree Plc.
beseeking re-appointment at this years Remuneration Committee of the Co-operative AnnualGeneral Meeting.
Other roles Group and Chairs the Inspired Thinking Group, Non-Executive Director and Audit and Risk tech start-up Kino-mo and BBC Children in Need.
Skills and experience Committee Chairman of Capita Plc, from Christine has extensive experience in business Committee membership whichhe will step down on 31 May 2017, leadership, finance, accounting and technology Remuneration Committee Chair, Audit andNon-Executive Chairman of Alua Hotels.
having worked in a number of international Committee, Nomination Committee and organisations.
This brings valuable experience Committee membership SocialResponsibility Committee.
Mark Clare 59 Independent Non-Executive Director Christine was a senior manager at Coopers Senior Independent Director Rob was appointed as Independent &Lybrand and the Corporate Development Mark was appointed as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in November 2016.
Director of Ronson plc before joining Capgemini, Director in September 2016. where she has held various UK and global roles Skills and experience including CEO of Technology Services North West Skills and experience Rob has over 35 years experience in consumerEurope and CFO of Global Outsourcing.
Mark brings substantial operational and facing businesses and extensive leadership financialexperience to the Board and has a experience in large retail companies.
Other roles strong background operating in a regulated Chairman of Capgemini UK Plc and NonCareer history environment and considerable knowledge of Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC, Prior to the merger with Ladbrokes, Rob was customer-facing businesses.
aBoard member of the Prince of Wales Business Non-Executive Chairman of Gala Coral Group in the Community charity and sits on the Audit Career history from November 2010.
Before this, he was Chief Committee of The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Mark was previously Chief Executive of Barratt Executive of Debenhams, Homebase, Harveys Jubilee Trust.
Developments plc, an executive director of Furnishing Group and Halfords, where he was Centrica plc having also held a number of senior also the Chairman.
Rob has also held the roles Committee membership roles both within Centrica plc and British Gas, of Chairman of the British Retail Consortium, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Trustee of the Building Research Establishment Chairman of the charity Graduate Fashion Remuneration Committee and Social and the UK Green Building Council and NonWeekand Trustee of the charity Children Responsibility Committee.
Executive Director of BAA plc.
Mark Pain 55 Other roles Other roles Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Chairman of Grainger plc, Senior Chairman of RAC.
Mark Pain was appointed as Independent Independent Non-Executive Director of United Committee membership Non-Executive Director in December 2015.
Utilities Group plc and Non-Executive Director Nomination Committee.
of Premier Marina Holdings Limited.
Skills and experience Mark is a Chartered Accountant and brings a range Committee membership ofskills and experience infinancial management, Social Responsibility Committee Chairman, strategic planning, business leadership and change.
Nomination Committee and Remuneration He also has over18 years experience as a board Committee.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7 Strategic report Welsh Grand National The Coral Welsh Grand National is an association that started back in 1973 and is Corals longest sponsorship and the longest running jump sponsorship in Britain.
This year Native River, trained by Colin Tizzard and ridden by Richard Johnson, jumped and galloped his 19 opponents into the ground under top weight putting up one of the best ever performances in the race.
The Coral Welsh Grand National is the richest and most prestigious race staged in Wales, and always features in the top20 betting races in the year.
Corals longstanding association with this race, and others in itsportfolio Coral-Eclipse at Sandown since 1976, Coral Cup atCheltenham Festival since 1974, and the Coral Sprint Trophy at Yorksince 1979, demonstrates the Companys unwavering commitment and passion for the sport.
com 8 Today we are the number one bookmaking business, seen on every high street and part of the sporting fabric of communities.
Kristof Fahy, Chief Marketing Officer Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
