The scenarios risks modelled included combinations of: Viability statement The impact of a significant change to the regulatory In accordance with provision c2.2 of the UK Corporate landscapeincluding the 4th AML directive, the findings Governance Code 2014, the directors have assessed the oftheGovernments triennial review and the upcoming prospectof the Ladbrokes Coral Group over a longer period licensetender in Italy thanthe 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
Technological failure in the Online division as well as The directors concluded that three years was an appropriate databreaches on customer data period of assessment given that this is the time horizon for the Loss of major sites and key personnel new Groups strategic planning process and is considered to be Failure to adequately integrate the two businesses post merger the time period for which visibility exists for variations in both Continuous runs of customer-friendly results and delays to industry and customer dynamics, regulatory change and the delivery of the integration and associated synergies.
The scenarios modelled were assessed in the context of the The objectives of the strategic planning process are to further current risk appetite.
The Group has also performed reverse develop the businesses understanding of the market and stress testing over the headroom in the forecasts before customer dynamics, assess the risks and opportunities facing assessing mitigating actions available to the Board, such thebusiness and develop a Group-wide strategy and associated asrestrictions inmarketing and capital expenditure.
The directors have utilised the forecasts, the Based on the results of this analysis, the directors have a Board approved 2017 budget and the current financial position of reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to the Group to assess the potential impact on the business of the continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due crystallisation of the principal risks and uncertainties within the overthe three year period of this assessment.
The Board notes that given the limited The going concern statement is contained on page 89 time since completion of the merger between Ladbrokes and oftheAnnual Report.
Coral the forecasts already contain uncertainty and estimates.
In order to confirm the longer-term viability of the Ladbrokes The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and has been Coral Group, the directors have identified the most significant risk signed on its behalf by the Company Secretary.
events that represent the crystallisation of the principal risks and By order of the Board.
uncertainties see section Principal risks in the Strategic report.
The financial impact of these risk events has been assessed and concluded on with regard to viability, both in isolation and as part of a series of plausible scenarios.
Geoff Mason Company Secretary 27 March 2017 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 Strategic report This tournament is a perfect fit to our expanding portfolio, showing our continued commitment to the sport.
Simon Clare, Coral PR Director ladbrokescoralplc.
com 42 Coral English Open Coral are the title sponsors of the Coral English Open which forms part of World Snookers Home Nations series, which also features events in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Top stars including Ronnie OSullivan, Judd Trump, Mark Selby, John Higgins and the winner Liang Wenbo, were among the 128 players contesting thetitle and 70,000 top prize at the tournament.
World Snooker Chairman Barry Hearn said: We are delighted to be working with Coral on the brand new English Open.
This event will attract a huge television audience on Eurosport and Quest, bringing tremendous exposure for the Coral brand.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43
