p n o i t c A t n e m s s e s s a k s i R n o i t a c f i t n e d i k s i Risks and how we manage them Risk governance and responsibilities Risk management process and methodology The effective understanding, acceptance and management of riskis fundamental to the strategy of the Group and what could The Board materially affect the ability to achieve strategic goals.
Over the Overall responsibility for risk management as an period of the year, Ladbrokes Coral has looked to improve its risk integral part of strategic planning management capabilities and enhance its ability to identify, Formal review of risks twice yearly evaluate and monitor principal risks.
Setting clear policies on acceptable levels of risk Bi-annual assessment of the effectiveness of the We have adopted an integrated and proactive approach to our InternalControls System riskmanagement and responsibilities, and we continue to seek improvement in our ability to detect, understand and debate our risk.
An Enterprise Risk Management ERM Framework has been The Audit Committee established, which includes an assessment of risk appetite and Responsible for assessing the scope and effectiveness tolerance within the Group as a whole.
The level of risk it is considered of thesystems established to identify, assess, manage appropriate to accept in achieving Ladbrokes Coral strategic and monitor risks objectives is reviewed by the Board.
The ERM Framework is the Reviews reports from Internal Audit four times peryear vehicle which defines and delivers risk management across the and external audit  LLP business and includes a risk scoring matrix to ensure a consistent Internal audit function outsourced to Deloitte LLP approach and risk indicators which help to monitor progress.
has an annual audit programme that addresses most of the principal risks as well as other operational and business risks which include periodic monitoring of mitigating actions Continuous Executive Committee Executive directors and senior executives identify key improvement risks and make recommendations on the overallapproach to risk management Reviews overall assessment of likely risks Responsible for enforcing risk management as an integral part of the Groups internal control, planning and approval process The Risk Committee considers identified risks to the business Each key risk is assigned Executive Committee butfocuses on the principal risks.
member ownership For each risk identified within the impact areas the likelihood, consequence, risk owner Executive Committee member Risk Committee andoperational lead are identified by the Risk Committee.
Constitutes Group and divisional executives and The risk owner and operational lead suggest the appropriate senior managers mitigating control and actions which are reviewed for Responsible for maintaining the Plc risk register including appropriateness and monitored regularly by the Risk Committee.
periodic monitoring of the mitigating actions as well as the likelihood and consequence of each risk Throughout the year the risk management approach will be subject Meets four times a year to continuous review and updated to reflect new and developing Business units report into the Risk Committee issues which might impact business strategy.
Emerging or topical risks are examined to understand the significance to the business.
Risks are identified and monitored through risk registers at the Group level and within key business units, ensuring both a top down and bottom up approach.
Post merger and, as a consequence of the Groups increased scale and complexity, to ensure an effective risk management structure the Group has created the Group Executive Governance Committee GEGC.
This reflects the ever-increasing scope of risk and ensures aproper allocation of time to the risk agenda.
The GEGC is scheduled to meet six times per year on an agreed rolling agenda basis.
The Risk Committee will report in to the GEGC.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 R g n i t r o p e R g n i r o t i n o M g n i n n a l Strategic report Risks and how we manage themcontinued Principal risks The risks outlined here are those principal risks that are material Marketplace and Operational changes in the economic tothe Group and assume existing controls are effective.
The risks environment, the European Union, changes in consumer represent a snapshot and, as the environment we operate in is leisurespend and international expansion.
constantly evolving, new risks may arise, the potential impact of Financial availability of debt financing and costs of borrowing, known risks may increase or decrease and our assessment of a risk taxation and pension fund liability.
They do not include all those associated with Group The results of the EU referendum and the Brexit implications activities and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks forrisk within the Group were also considered and it was not presently known to management, or currently deemed less determined that a new principal risk covering this issue was not material, may also have an adverse effect on the business including: required.
However, existing principal risk descriptions, likelihood andimpact scores may be amended as a consequence of Brexit.
Specific risks that are material Remains to Ladbrokes Coral are: Increased Decreased unaltered Change in risk Risks Mitigation Relevance to strategy to the business Betting and gaming industry Taxes, laws, regulations and licensing, Online Growth UK Retail regulatory compliance Pursuing International Opportunities Regulatory, legislative and fiscal regimes for betting Regulatory, legislative and fiscal developments in key and gaming in key markets around the world can markets are monitored closely, allowing Ladbrokes change, sometimes at short notice.
Such changes Coral to assess and adapt quickly to changes in the could benefit or have an adverse effect on Ladbrokes environment and minimise risks to the business.
Coral and additional costs might be incurred in order Ladbrokes Coral engages with its regulators and the to comply with any new laws or regulations relevant trade organisations with regard to the betting in multiple jurisdictions.
and gaming regulatory framework and other issues of shared concern, such as problem gambling.
Ladbrokes Coral has entered into a voluntary code of practice and has a Social Responsibility Committee.
Increased cost of product UK Retail Online Growth Ladbrokes Coral is subject to certain financing Ladbrokes Coral engages with the relevant trade arrangements intended to support industries from associations and the principal bodies of sport and which it profits.
Examples are the horse racing event industries with regard to sports rights payments, and the voluntary greyhound racing levies which including the statutory horse racing levy, animal respectively support the British horse racing and welfare and other issues.
In addition, Ladbrokes Coral enters into contracts for the distribution of television pictures, audio and other data that are broadcast into Ladbrokes and Corals betting shops.
A number of these are under negotiation at any one time.
Operational and bookmaking Trading, liability management and pricing UK Retail Online Growth Delivering synergies Ladbrokes Coral may experience significant losses as Ladbrokes Coral core expertise is trading liability a result of a failure to determine accurately the odds management and it has developed the skills and in relation to any particular event and or any failure systems to be able to offer a wide range of betting of its risk management processes.
opportunities and accept large bets.
There is in place a highly experienced trading team and risks are spread across a wide range of events.
A bookmakers odds are determined so as to provide an average return to the bookmaker over a large number of events and therefore, over the long-term, Ladbrokes Corals gross win percentage has remained fairly constant.
com 38 Remains Increased Decreased Principal risks continued unaltered Change in risk Risks Mitigation Relevance to strategy to the business Operational and bookmaking continued Loss of key locations Online Growth UK Retail Ladbrokes Coral has a number of key sites, in Existing business continuity plans and arrangements particular in Greater London in Rayners Lane and for off-site data storage, alternative system availability Stratford and the head office in Victoria: its premises and remote working for key operational and senior at Europort and Regal House in Gibraltar from where management and, as a consequence of the merger, online betting and gaming operations are based: in willbe the subject of a detailed review.
Tel Aviv, Israel and Manilla, Philippines from where our Digital marketing operates: and our operations inAustralia, Italy, Eire and Manilla.
Recruitment and retention of key employees UK Retail Online Growth and succession planning Delivering synergies Our people are our greatest asset.
We aim to be Performance Management, Development, Reward and an employer of choice for talented and passionate Recognition systems and, as part of the merger, we are people and we need a high level of competence aligning terms and conditions wherever appropriate.
across the business to meet our objectives and respond to changing market needs.
Failure to Integrate Delivering synergies NEW Integration takes longer, the level of synergy savings Prior to the merger, a governance committee Steering reduces and the cost of delivering the synergies Integration Committee was established and chaired by increases.
Difficulties experienced during integration the then CEO of Gala Coral Group.
The main objectives or challenges to realising synergies could potentially of this committee were to plan, as far as possible, result in interruption to business operations, loss of premerger, all integration activities and to ensure customers, suppliers or key personnel: which could that adequate resource and timelines for integration have a material adverse effect on the business, werefully understood.
This committee remains results of operations or financial health of the inoperation and meets fortnightly.
Information technology and communications Technology failure Online Growth UK Retail Delivering synergies Ladbrokes Coral operations are highly dependent Ladbrokes Coral has a level of resilience in place on technology and advanced information systems whichseeks to eliminate single points of failure and there is a risk that such technology or systems withinkey technology locations.
In particular, any damage to, or failure of online systems and servers, electronic point-of-sale systems and electronic display systems could result in interruptions to financial controls and customer service systems.
The Groups technology function is undertaking a significant programme of complex work through the merger.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 Strategic report Risks and how we manage themcontinued Change in risk Risks Mitigation Relevance to strategy to the business Information technology and communications continued Data management Online Growth UK Retail Delivering synergies Ladbrokes Coral processes personal customer Security systems are deployed to protect transactional data including name, address, age, bank details data.
Sophisticated hardware and security mechanisms and betting and gaming history as part of its are used to ensure all sensitive and confidential data is business and therefore must comply with strict fully encrypted.
data protection and privacy laws in all jurisdictions To provide fail-safe integrity of all data, a series of in which the Group operates.
Ladbrokes Coral is storage systems are used to replicate all data processed exposed to the risk that this data could be wrongfully by online services.
In respect of fraud protection, an appropriated, lost or disclosed, or processed in breach extensive programme of data monitoring is in place of data protection regulation.
This could also result in with both prevention and detection audit controls.
prosecutions including potential financial penalties A cyber security programme is in place supporting and the loss of the goodwill of its customers and our ongoing approach to assessing the threats and could deter new customers.
Failure in the supply chain Online Growth UK Retail Ladbrokes Coral is dependent on a number of Infrastructure suppliers, network and third parties for the operation of its business.
telecommunication suppliers and application service The withdrawal or removal from the market of providers are long-term partners in providing an one or more of these major third-party suppliers, infrastructure which seeks to ensure the delivery or failure of third-party suppliers to comply with of sophisticated and high performance transaction contractual obligations could adversely affect processing systems.
There is continual communication Ladbrokes Coral operations.
with these suppliers and providers at an operating level and service level agreements have been established to maintain high service levels.
Marketplace Competition UK Retail Online Growth Ladbrokes Coral faces competition primarily from Ladbrokes Corals performance and competitive other land-based bookmakers, online betting position are continuously monitored and, where exchanges and other online gambling operators.
appropriate, changes are instituted, including in In particular, the online gambling market is relation to marketing, product development, yield characterised by intense and substantial competition management, cost control and investment.
Acquisition and by relatively low barriers to entry for new opportunities, with a view to taking advantage of participants.
In addition, Ladbrokes Coral faces market consolidation, are continuously evaluated.
competition from market participants who benefit from greater liquidity as a result of accepting bets and wagers from jurisdictions in which Ladbrokes Coral chooses not to operate because of legal reasons or otherwise.
Health and safety UK Retail Failure to meet the requirements of the various Ladbrokes Coral has numerous policies and procedures domestic and international rules and regulations in place and introduced an updated Group health and could expose the Company and individual safety policy in 2016.
As a consequence of the merger, employees and directors to material civil a review of policies and procedures is in progress to align criminal action with the associated financial both organisations taking existing best practice from .
either business and or the wider market and rolling these out consistently.
