The Investment Adviser JLIF is advised by John Laing Capital Management JLCM, a specialist infrastructure manager, which is able to draw upon a wealth of experience in infrastructure investments, management and development.
Andrew Charlesworth Gianluca Mazzoni Andrew Charlesworth is a Director of JLCM and Gianluca Mazzoni is JLCMs Deputy Investment JLCMs Investment Adviser to JLIF, responsible for Adviser and Head of Business Development for delivering the JLIFs performance targets.
He has JLIF, responsible for originating deals globally.
He more than 21 years of experience in infrastructure is a Director of JLCM and also sits on the board development and finance.
He has overseen the of the Connecticut Service Stations P3 project, growth of JLIFs Portfolio from 259.0 million at and has more than 19 years experience working launch to 1,217.6 million.
Andrews broad in infrastructure investments.
experience of the PPP market, having acted as Prior to joining JLCM, Gianluca worked for Socit advisor to authorities in procuring PPP projects Gnrale then Access Capital Partners developing and to senior lenders in funding them, has significant experience in the origination and ensured that the investments JLIF has made have execution of global investment opportunities in been accretive to shareholder value, delivering equity infrastructure.
Prior to this Gianluca worked above forecast returns.
in corporate finance, private equity and M&A across Prior to his current role, Andrew led significant a wide range of sectors including infrastructure parts of the primary investment business within as part of The Boston Consulting Group and Bain John Laing Group plc, initially as CEO of Regenter & Co.
He holds an MBA from Bocconi University a John Laing social housing PPP joint venture, Italy and Columbia Business School USA and an then as Local Authority PPP Director and lastly M. Sc.
in Economics and Finance from Universita as the Financial and Commercial Director for the Politecnica delle Marche Italy.
global John Laing Investments business.
Andrew holds the CFA UKs Investment Management Certicate Part 1.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 23.
Joanne Grifn Jamie Pritchard Matthew McLintock Joanne Grifn is JLCMs Director of Investments Jamie Pritchard is JLCMs Director of Asset Matthew is JLCMs Senior Analyst for JLIF, for JLIF, responsible for the sourcing, valuation and Management for JLIF.
His primary focus is responsible for fund and portfolio analysis and execution of acquisitions, development of JLIFs valuation of the JLIF Portfolio, ensuring forecast reporting to shareholders and to the JLIF Board.
business into new PPP markets.
Joanne has over returns from JLIFs investments are delivered Matthew also plays a key role in both reviewing 13 years experience in infrastructure investments and on identication and management of value and executing new investments, capital raising and and serves as a director at both asset and enhancements.
In his role, Jamie also serves portfolio valuations.
Matthew serves as a director corporate levels.
as a director on the board of a number of the on the board of three of the project companies in project companies in which JLIF is a shareholder.
which JLIF is a shareholder and acts as shadow Prior to joining JLCM, Joanne led the finance and With over 16 years experience in infrastructure director on the Intercity Express Programme commercial elements of multiple PPP projects investment gained across both the primary and Phase 1 project.
Matthew has over eight years across most sectors of the infrastructure market, secondary markets, Jamies extensive portfolio experience in infrastructure, both in an advisory both in the UK and internationally.
Previously, Joanne management experience helps deliver value and investor capacity.
worked at Carillion, a  enhancements that underpin underlying growth.
company, and gained significant experience in Prior to joining JLCM, Matthew worked for Jamie also provides support to JLIFs bidding financial modelling for bidding and advising URS Corporation now AECOM as part of their activities with specic focus on valuation, identifying consortia on their investments.
Joanne is an Infrastructure Economics and Strategy team, value enhancements and portfolio structuring.
Associate member of the Chartered Institute advising lenders and sponsors in respect of of Securities and Investment.
Prior to joining JLCM, Jamie worked at Serco plc commercial and technical risk.
Matthew is a leading the commercial and financial structuring Chartered Member of the Institute for Securities of bids, prior to which he worked at Balfour Beatty and Investment.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
