Strategic report Our priorities Ladbrokes Coral brings together some of the best loved betting and gaming brands, with a combined heritage of more than 230 years and the biggest high street presence in the industry.
Added to that is an exciting digital strategy and multi-channel offer that gives us the opportunity to be the customers first choice however, wherever and whenever they choose to bet.
We have an ambition to be a major player in every market we trade in and our international businesses give us a platform for greater growth.
Underpinning our ambition isa commitment to having at our core a focus on responsible gambling and health and safety.
Online UK growth Retail 1 2 The online market continues to grow and in owning two of the Retail remains an attractive and highly cash generative business biggest names in sports betting and gaming we see a real potential forLadbrokes Coral Group, although we accept that the wider to play a leading role and gain market share.
The intention is to bookmaking outlook remains tough for the licensed bookmaking continue to offer customers distinctive products and promotions, sector.
Rising cost bases and regulation have begun to erode the bututilising a best of both strategy to ensure that product profitability of the wider shop estate.
However, the merger allows innovation and technology can be employed across the brands the retail estate of the Group to benefit from greater economies through a develop once, deploy twice strategy.
This focus on ofscale making it more efficient and more sustainable.
Also vital product innovation is particularly important in driving the Groups tothe economics of the retail estate is the ability to attract the multi-channel offer which will be central to generating digital growth.
multi-channel customer and allow them to move between retail and online through the Connect and Grid card offers.
In addition, we will use our marketing expertise and the application of customer analytics to anticipate the actions of players, thereby Relevant Risks: allowing us to present attractive and personalised offers which will Betting and gaming industry also be a major plank of our growth strategy.
Taxes, laws, regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance Increased cost of production Relevant Risks: Betting and gaming industry Operational and bookmaking Taxes, laws, regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance Trading, liability management and pricing Increased cost of production Loss of key locations Recruitment and retention of key colleagues Operational and bookmaking and succession planning Trading, liability management and pricing Loss of key locations Information technology and communications Recruitment and retention of key colleagues Technology failure and succession planning Data management Failure in the supply chain Information technology and communications Technology failure Marketplace Data management Competition Failure in the supply chain Health and safety Marketplace Competition ladbrokescoralplc.
com 16 We want to be a major player in every market in which we operate.
Jim Mullen, Chief Executive Officer and Paul Bowtell, Chief Financial Officer Pursuing international Delivering opportunities synergies 3 4 We have established operations in retail and online in Italy, Scale in both customers and in operations is increasingly attractive Belgium, Ireland and Spain which has allowed the Group for operators to combat the rising burden of regulation and todiversifyreliance away from the UK, where the developed taxation across the sector.
market has greater regulation and taxation pressures.
In delivering on the merger we identified at least 65 million We also have a very attractive and rapidly growing online ofsynergies that could be delivered per annum, particularly in operation in Australia where we continue to pursue an aggressive the second year post merger which would help underpin shareholder growth strategy.
Since the merger completed, we have revised this target to an estimated 100 million per annum by the end of 2019.
Our combined expertise in working with regulators and theoperation of brands and businesses in overseas territories In addition, we also identified that post-merger, there would allowus to be a partner of choice for both existing businesses beimprovements to operations that would drive efficiency and andfor markets looking to regulate their betting and performance as we moved to a best of both approach across gamingoperations.
Relevant Risks: Relevant Risks: Betting and gaming industry Operational and bookmaking Taxes, laws, regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance Trading, liability management and pricing Recruitment and retention of key colleagues Marketplace and succession planning Competition Failure to integrate Information technology and communications Technology failure Data management Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Strategic report We are proud of the contribution we make to sports across the world.
com 18 SPFL Sponsorship In 2015 Ladbrokes made a commitment to seek towin over more recreational customers as part ofthedesire for the brand to build a more sustainable customer base.
Key to this drive was to target the football customer and so, in 2015, we took over sponsorship of the Scottish Professional Football Leagues to help give us a leadership position in a true heartland of the Ladbrokes brand.
Last year, Celtic, Rangers, Dunfermline and East Fife all won their respective Ladbrokes Championships, while East Stirlingshire were sadly relegated from Division 2 and replaced by Edinburgh City.
However, tohelp soften the blow of losing their League status we also stepped in to sponsor them and help them plan for the future.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19
