01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 07.
Market Outlook JLIFs investment policy is to invest predominantly in operational, PPP projects.
The PPP model is used by various governments around the world as a way by which to procure infrastructure assets.
In certain countries, it has been used for a long time and is an established method with a proven history and political support.
Such mature markets include the UK, Canada, much of Western Continental Europe, Australia and Chile.
Other markets, including the US, have only more recently started using the PPP model, although have the potential to grow signicantly over the coming years.
Project regional outlook and current geographic diversication Currently operating 53 Short term projected region 1-3 years 4 5 Medium term projected region 3-5 years Long term projected region -5 years Globally there is a significant need for infrastructure investment, both in more economically developed economies where existing infrastructure assets require upgrading or replacing, and in less developed economies, where the need is driven by the processes of rapid population growth, urbanisation and increasing levels of economic wealth e. g. car ownership.
For a variety of reasons, many governments see the benets that derive from private sector involvement and consider private sector participation as key to meeting their infrastructure needs over the coming decades.
With competition for assets in more established, traditional PPP markets, remaining high, it is becoming necessary to broaden where JLIF seeks out investment opportunities in order to nd new investments that represent good value.
Increasingly this may include slightly more nascent PPP markets, although these will only be considered where the degree of risk is considered reasonable and the Companys interests remain adequately protected.
In the short term, developed markets are expected to continue to present the majority of opportunities.
However, over the longer term as pipelines and regulatory and legal frameworks become more established the best value opportunities may arise in sectors and jurisdictions outside of those that have historically formed the core of JLIFs Portfolio.
JLIF is confident that its investment policy provides sufficient exibility to be able to target and benefit from such opportunities.
These new opportunities are likely to compliment further investments in JLIFs core markets, providing additional diversication across the Portfolio.
To succeed in its core markets, JLIF will need to focus increasingly on originating bilateral deals through developing long-term relationships with greeneld developers sponsors.
The Company believes that the Board and the Investment Adviser have the right resources in play to achieve this.
JLIF Limited North America Latin America United Kingdom Continental Europe Asia Pacic Australia
