GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Sir John Kingman Nigel Wilson Mark Gregory Mark Zinkula Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Chief Executive officer, LGIM Appointed 24 October 2016 Appointed in September 2009 as Appointed in January 2009: Appointed in September 2012 CFO: appointed CEO in June 2012 appointed CFO in July 2013 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: John had a long Whitehall career: Nigel was Senior Independent Mark was appointed Group Chief Mark was appointed to the Board as second Permanent Secretary to Director SID of The Capita Group Financial Officer on 1 July 2013. in September 2012, having been HM Treasury, he had responsibility Plc from 2009 until 2012, and was Mark was previously Chief Executive appointed Chief Executive Officer for the Treasurys economics SID Chairman of Halfords Group Plc Officer, Savings and joined the of LGIM in March 2011.
Prior to that, ministry functions, for policy relating from 2006 until 2011.
He joined he was CEO of Legal & General to business, financial services Legal & General in 1998 and has Investment Management America Previous appointments include, and infrastructure.
He was closely held a variety of Divisional Finance LGIMA and played an integral part McKinsey & Co where clients involved in the UK response to Director roles and served as group in the establishment and successful included BP, Citibank, Cadburys, the financial crisis, handling the Financial Controller, Communications expansion of LGIMA.
Prior to joining Santander, Kingfisher, Courtaulds, resolution of Northern Rock and and Resources Director, Resources LGIMA, Mark was at Aegon Asset Whitbread and Globe Investment leading negotiations with RBS, and International Director and UK Management where he was global Trust : Group Commercial Director Lloyds and HBOS on their 37 billion Service Operations Director.
From head of fixed income.
of Dixons Group plc: Managing recapitalisation.
He was the first 2006, he was Managing Director, Director of Stanhope Properties plc: External appointments: Chief Executive of UK Financial With-Profits.
Prior to joining Chief Executive, Corporate of The Investment Association Investments Ltd. From 2010 to Legal & General, he worked in senior Guinness Peat Aviation G. P. A. : Board member 2012, John was Global Co-Head financial and business development and Managing Director of Viridian of the Financial Institutions Group roles at companies including Capital.
Nigel was also Deputy at Rothschild.
He is a Chief Executive and Chief Financial qualified chartered accountant.
John is a World Fellow of Yale Officer at UBM.
University and a member of the In 2015 and 2016 Nigel was a Prime Ministers Council for member of the Prime Ministers Science and Technology.
External appointments: Royal Opera House Covent Garden Foundation Trustee UK Research and Innovation Non-executive Chair Committee membership key Carolyn Bradley Philip Broadley Lesley Knox Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointed in December 2014 Appointed July 2016 Appointed June 2016 Audit Corporate Governance Nomination Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Remuneration Carolyn was appointed to the Board in Philip was appointed to the Board Lesley was appointed to the Board Risk December 2014.
Carolyn has a strong in July 2016.
She brings a wealth of consumer-focused background having insurance experience having spent international, strategic and financial Committee Chairman worked at Tesco from 1986 until 2013. over 14 years in senior roles in services experience having spent over During this time, Carolyn held a range insurance including as Group 17 years in senior roles in financial of senior positions in various roles Finance Director at Old Mutual plc services, including with Kleinwort including Chief Operating Officer, and prior to that as Group Finance Benson, Bank of Scotland and British Tesco.
com, Marketing Director, UK Director of Prudential plc.
Lesley previously and as Group Brand Director.
currently serves as a member of the served as Chair on the Board of Oxford University Audit and Scrutiny Alliance Trust PLC and as Senior External appointments: Committee and is a member of the Independent Director at Hays plc.
Marstons PLC Code Committee of The Takeover Non-Executive Director External appointments: Panel as well as the Panels Finance The Mentoring Foundation Centrica plc Non-Executive Committee.
He is also a Fellow of the Non-Executive Director Director and Chair of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Cancer Research UK Trustee Remuneration Committee in England and Wales.
Majid Al Futtaim Retail LLC Thomas Cook Group plc Non-Executive Director External appointments: Non-Executive Director Cambridge Judge Business Eastbourne College Incorporated Grosvenor Group Chair School Advisory Board Member 48 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Other Board members during the year were: Stuart Popham retired from the Board on 31 December 2016 Olaf Swantee retired from the Board on 26 May 2016 John Stewart retired as Chairman on 1 June 2016 Lizabeth Zlatkus retired from the Board on 31 August 2016 Rudy Markham Richard Meddings Julia Wilson Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Senior independent Appointed in October 2006: Senior Appointed in December 2014 non-executive director Independent Director until May 2016: Appointed in November 2011: Senior Interim Chairman 1 June Independent Director from May 2016 24 October 2016 Skills and experience: Richard was appointed to the Board in December 2014.
He is a qualified Skills and experience: Skills and experience: chartered accountant and has over Julia was appointed to the Board Rudy was appointed to the Board in 30 years banking and financial in November 2011 and became the October 2006 and served as Interim services experience, most recently Senior Independent Director in May Chairman from 1 June to 24 October having spent 12 years on the Board 2016.
Rudy is a Fellow of the of Standard Chartered, almost eight finance, tax and accounting Chartered Institute of Management as its Finance Director.
She is the Group Accountants CIMA and the include: Group Financial Controller Finance Director of 3i Group plc, Association of Corporate Treasurers.
of Barclays: Chief Operating Officer, which includes responsibility for He was awarded the CIMA Lifetime of Barclays Wealth Management, finance, investment valuations and Contribution to Management Premium Retail and Life Assurance treasury.
She has been a member Accounting Award in 2005.
Former businesses: Group Finance Director of its Board since 2008.
Previously, roles include: Chief Financial Officer, of Woolwich and Senior Independent she was the Group Director of Director of Strategy and Technology Director and Chairman of the Audit Corporate Finance at Cable & and Treasurer of Unilever PLC: Committee of 3i Group plc.
Wireless plc, where she also held Chairman and CEO of Unilever Japan: a number of other finance-related External appointments: Chairman of Unilever Australia: roles.
Julia is a member of the HM Treasury Non-Executive Chairman of Moorfields Eye Hospital Institute of Chartered Accountants Director and Chair of the and Independent Non-Executive of in England and Wales ACA and Audit Committee Standard Chartered PLC.
the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Governing Council of the External appointments: International Chamber of External appointments: AstraZeneca PLC Senior Commerce, UK Member 3i Group plc Independent Director and Chair Deutsche Bank Member of of the Audit Committee the Supervisory Board and Corbion nv Supervisory Board Chair of the Audit Committee Vice Chairman Teach First Trustee United Parcel Service Inc Director Director appointments post year end Toby Strauss Jeff Davies Kerrigan Procter Geoffrey Timms Independent non-executive director Chief Financial officer-elect Chief Executive officer, LGR Group General Counsel Appointed 1 January 2017 Appointment effective 9 March 2017 Appointment effective 9 March 2017 and Company Secretary Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Toby brings extensive insurance Jeff will be appointed Group Chief Kerrigan will be appointed to the Geoffrey has been the Group experience to the Board following Financial Officer on 9 March 2017.
He has been General Counsel since 1999 and, an executive career in UK financial He was previously a senior partner CEO of LGR since January 2013.
He in addition, the Group Company services which included Group of Ernst & Young LLP EY and led was previously head of solutions at Secretary since 2008.
Geoffrey Director of Insurance and Chief their European risk and actuarial LGIM from 2006 to 2012 where he is also a Director of CALA Group Executive of Scottish Widows at insurance services.
Prior to joining was responsible for Liability Driven Holdings Limited and the Bracknell Lloyds Banking Group and, prior EY in 2004, he held a number of Investment and fund solutions for Regeneration Partnership Limited to that, Chief Executive of Aviva senior actuarial roles at Swiss Re defined benefit and defined Prior to joining Legal & General, UK Life.
He is a Fellow of the contribution pension schemes across Geoffrey was a solicitor with Clifford Institute of Actuaries.
Prior to joining Chance and then Clyde & Co.
External appointments: the group, he worked at RBS in the Macmillan Cancer Support financial markets division where he Trustee held several roles.
Kerrigan started his career in 1994 with EY Corporate Finance before moving to Mercer.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and has a PhD in number theory from Kings College, London.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 49
