STRATEGIC REPORT Acting responsibly Making a real difference to peoples lives Our mission is to make a real Delivering financial resilience difference to peoples lives, to help Our core business mission is to them achieve long-term financial help people achieve financial security security and to improve their quality through insurance and by saving for of life within their communities.
Our business culture is based upon Improving social mobility four key principles which determine and equality of opportunities how we aim to conduct our business.
Our aim is to provide products and To be customer led.
We want our services that are accessible to a customers to be at the heart of wide range of social groups through everything we do.
Were committed to improving financial education.
Our To be economically and socially direct investments aim to improve useful.
We want our products, peoples lives across different age services and investments to show groups and social classes.
both economic and social value.
To be fair and transparent.
Trust, transparency and We aim to treat our customers, ethical business behaviour investors, suppliers, communities and We demand the highest standards regulators with integrity and openness.
of ethical behaviour from our board, employees and all our stakeholders.
We value inclusiveness and embrace difference where our Diversity people are engaged and empowered Were committed to diversity in to deliver business results.
gender, ethnicity, religious belief, sexual orientation and disability and What we believe in are working to build a fully inclusive Our four key principles enable us to company that encourages all people develop practical solutions to social to build successful careers appropriate responsibility issues: to their skills and talents.
26 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Right: New Horizons New Horizons are a South-Wales based day-care centre for people with physical disabilities.
The service users of New Horizons told us how we could improve our processes to better take account of the needs of people with vulnerabilities.
The result was that people in the home said they felt empowered by being given a voice when dealing with large companies for the first time in their lives.
com 2016fastread Helping vulnerable customers Measuring our commitment to society Our vulnerable customer committee helps improve our products and Core belief Principle Measure 2014 2015 2016 services we provide to meet the needs Improving social Economically Cumulative total 5.7bn 7.2bn 10.0bn of people with vulnerabilities, such mobility and equality and socially useful direct investments as the elderly, people with disabilities of opportunities and inclusive in UK infrastructure and the recently bereaved.
We want Trust, transparency Fair and Total global tax 794m 947m 1,151m all our employees to acquire an and ethical business transparent contribution understanding of the needs of behaviour vulnerable people.
Diversity Inclusive Female representation 23% 27% 27% Creating a low carbon future on board Were committed to reducing our Helping vulnerable Economically Employees participating n a n a 6,122 impact on environmental and climate customers and socially useful in vulnerable customer risk.
We have set ourselves low and inclusive training carbon targets and have made clean energy a key part of our Creating a low Fair and Total CO emissions 38,035.66 54,161.60 50,381.00 2 carbon future transparent tonnes tonnes tonnes direct investment strategy.
Community Economically Contributions into UK 2.8m 2.6m 3.0m Community development development and socially useful non-profit organisations We encourage people in all our UK and international businesses to Contributions into US $0.9m $0.8m $1.5m support their communities through non-profit organisations volunteering and fundraising.
In this Responsibility Fair and Meeting with boards of UK 590 543 500 way we can reach out to some of the in investment transparent companies on corporate most vulnerable people and groups governance issues in society.
Responsibility in investment As one of the largest investors on the UK stock market and a major global investor, we invest in most sectors and many large companies.
We therefore seek to influence boards to act in an ethical and responsible way, focusing on all aspects of environmental, social and governance issues.
We believe that ethical behaviour can create better returns for investors.
ACTING RESPONSIBLY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Focus on corporate governance standard over time, this means voting ACTIVE OWNERSHIP active ownership against the Chairman.
This applies to As a leading investor, LGIM believes all of LGIMs global equities.
See our Corporate we have a responsibility not just to Governance report: Board composition and quality are our clients but to society as a whole.
critical elements of company success.
com uk en We use our scale and influence to We want to ensure that directors are capabilities corporateencourage the companies in which we contributing to board discussions and  to develop resilient strategies, that their actions are aligned with investment think longer term and consider all of shareholder interests.
To this end, their stakeholders.
We also work we met companies and produced towards improving wider market thought pieces to encourage company standards, policies and regulations directors to consider important because we believe that good factors that can help them become Our Governance team held governance protects and enhances top performers, including diversity, long-term prospects for our clients.
succession planning and more 500 Our independent Corporate Governance effective board reviews.
meetings including team, led by Sacha Sadan, focused on We also want companies to improve three key initiatives in 2016: climate the link between pay and long-term change, board accountability and performance.
Alongside our regular 39% diversity, and executive remuneration.
engagement activities, we asked with companies outside the UK Climate change was a key topic with companies to publish the pay ratio our clients during 2016.
We made a between the median employee 23% Climate Impact Pledge, detailing our and the CEO.
We also published commitment towards engaging with our revised pay principles and UK companies voted against at least one resolution the largest companies who hold the distributed them to the UKs largest key to a low-carbon future.
who do not meet the required 47% discussing environmental and social issues Gender Diversity 25% of the women in our talent workplace.
Our Stepjockey employees are engaged and empowered to deliver business pool have taken on new roles or stairclimbing campaign 2016 Female Male expanded responsibilities encouraged physical health.
results because better business Directors 3 8 decisions come from a diverse 40% of our senior succession Learning and development Senior leaders 57 189 set of views.
We recognise that pool are women Our aim is to create a culture we have more to do, to achieve All business divisions have All employees 3,383 3,479 where talent thrives and our goal of creating an inclusive nominated a sponsor and have 2015 ambition can be fulfilled.
We workplace, where all our an action plan for increasing encourage our people to take Directors 3 8 employees can be themselves, gender diversity in place ownership of their career and realise their potential and deliver Senior leaders 60 191 development and provide a their best performance.
Broadening the agenda in 2017 variety of learning opportunities All employees 3,310 3,390 In 2017 we will continue to work Our diversity and inclusion to support this, including on-thetoward achieving our Women in activities focus on the following job experiences and support Finance targets but also broaden Employee engagement three areas: with professional qualifications.
our agenda to look at how we Over 6,800 people in our businesses Our Learning Hub has thousands can increase the representation in the UK, US and India took part in 1.
Culture creating the right of resources to aid our peoples of ethnic minority colleagues in our annual What Matters Employee culture for diversity and inclusion development, including our business, as well as making Survey, with an overall response to flourish inclusion is one of our e-learning and on-line books, as our work place more inclusive rate of 85%.
The 2016 worldwide business principles well as access to our face-to-face for everyone.
Employee Engagement Index training catalogue.
Communication engaging our increased from 67% in 2015 to 76% Employee wellbeing the skills and knowledge of our leaders and employees in the in 2016.
This increase in scores Our health and wellbeing people through business-aligned diversity agenda with our 50 50 by reflects the hard work undertaken programme encourages initiatives including curriculums 2020 network by our business divisions to support employees to be fit, happy and focused on change management, our people through change by 3.
Insight understanding where well: emotionally, physically wellbeing and resilience, offering an agile, flexible and were now, setting targets and and mentally.
We perform best recruitment and selection working environment, whilst measuring our progress towards by leading healthy, balanced and new ways of working.
equipping them with tools to work becoming more diverse lifestyles.
In 2016 3,100 people positively through change.
This Human rights took advantage of free BUPA focus will continue over next year OUR DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Our respect for human rights health checks.
Mental health as we share our strategic goals ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 is embedded in how we do was a key priority, supporting and ambitions whilst supporting business.
Were a signatory to Mental Health Week and rolling Working towards our targets managers and peoples wellbeing.
the UN Global Compact for all out three mental health first in 2017 our worldwide operations and aid training courses and we joined Inclusion and diversity Four women were promoted are committed to upholding the Governments Expert We strive to be a vibrant business or hired into the most senior globally accepted human Advisory Group for supporting that values inclusiveness and management roles in 2016 rights principles.
good mental health in the embraces difference, where our 28 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ACTING RESPONSIBLY
