STRATEGIC REPORT | GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Q&A Mark Gregory discusses key highlights planning.
These present further ongoing opportunities for us.
The challenge is to continue to execute the strategy efficiently.
Im confident the strong performance of the group is sustainable going forward.
This was the first year that Solvency II has been in use, has it had any impact on the business?
Solvency II was implemented on 1 January 2016.
However, it is important to remember that our actual risk profile did not change, but Solvency II did change the regulatory measurement of those risks.
The main business affected by the Solvency II regime is Legal & General Retirement.
However, our strategy to reinsure WATCH THE VIDEO the majority of longevity risk for Mark Gregory answers new business has mitigated some questions on Legal & Mark looks back at the groups of the increase in capital we would Generals 2016 results.
financial performance in 2016 and otherwise have needed to hold for www.
We continue to ensure com investors video mark all business we write exceeds our Mark, in 2016, theres been a gregory fyr2016.
asp own returns on capital hurdle rates.
continued strong growth by the The dividend policy changed in group in cash and earnings.
How March 2016, so why did you move sustainable is this going forward?
Its been another great year, with Last March we announced we operating profit up 7% at 1.6 billion, were moving to a new dividend IFRS profit after tax up 7% to policy because our previous one 1.3 billion, adjusted earnings per share was time-dated.
The Board adopted EPS up 19% to 22.2p and net release a policy that will deliver a progressive from operations up 12% to 1.4 billion.
dividend, reflecting the groups We had many achievements throughout medium-term underlying business the year, with our businesses making growth, including net release from good progress.
This was against a operations and operating earnings.
backdrop of a number of external challenges, the unpredictability of the In August, at the Interim results we markets reaction to Brexit and the US announced an implementation change elections.
We have built our business to our dividend payments.
From 2016 model and our strategy around six core onwards, the interim dividend will be drivers of growth, which are largely formulaic, being 30% of the prior unaffected by those sort of economic years dividend.
This means we will and political shocks.
Instead they are make a discretionary decision once a driven by long-term macro trends such year for the final dividend, reflecting as ageing populations and the need to the long-term nature of the business.
encourage more saving and retirement 30 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT How do you view the groups financial year ending 31 December debt strategy and debt capacity?
PwC will continue to audit the Ive really enjoyed group for 2017, subject to approval at Its important to maintain an the AGM.
my time here and appropriate level of gearing within the group: in doing so we consider The group has talked a lot about truly believe that Im the implications on our capital structure, its decluttering programme.
What leaving the company our credit rating and our liquidity did you achieve in 2016 and what requirements.
We use a balance of are your future plans?
During short-dated Euro Commercial Paper and my long career with Over the last two years, decluttering long-dated debt to meet our borrowing has involved disposing of a number Legal & General, Ive and operational requirements.
We of operations we no longer regard as consider a variety of debt instruments.
been fortunate to have core.
These include our SIPP business, We have flexibility in our debt strategy Suffolk Life: Cofunds: and our overseas had a wide variety of given considerable regulatory headroom insurance businesses in Ireland, and adequate rating agency headroom roles: running large France, Germany, Egypt and the Gulf.
within our existing capital structure.
We We have also reached an agreement functions such as our aim to have a diversified range of debt in principle for the sale of our business UK customer services, investors.
We prefer benchmark size in the Netherlands, subject to Works issues and ensure that we diversify being CEO of our Council advice and regulatory approval.
the maturity and call dates.
In the same period, we announced Savings business and The group has for some time significant capital investments.
talked about responsible, These included putting funds in UK transparent tax management.
infrastructure assets, writing record During that time Ive Why is this important to you?
volumes of new annuity business and had the pleasure and investing in technologies such as clean Responsible tax management privilege to work with energy and in innovation funds such is the right thing to do from both an as Accelerated Digital Ventures and terrific people.
Id like ethical and business perspective.
Paying taxes responsibly fits with our to say thank you wider business purpose.
We believe Looking forward, IFRS 4 Phase II, to employees right that if our tax affairs are sustainable, or what is now known as IFRS 17, well-governed and transparent, we has been a long awaited change across the group and in can deliver value to shareholders and to the accounting standards for particular, the finance meet our objectives on tax for other insurance companies and is due community, for their stakeholders, including tax authorities, to be implemented in 2021.
Tax is are the important facts to know tireless hard work and important to many people.
we want them to understand how After many years it looks like the we manage our tax affairs, we publish Mark Gregory International Accounting Standards CFO of Legal & General a range of tax information including Board IASB will issue IFRS 17 this our group tax strategy.
The new rules will apply to all this on a voluntary basis for a number of the groups insurance products of years and have sought to make and will change the profile of how and improvements each year.
We very when we recognise profits over the much welcome the new UK life of an insurance contract.
Whilst requirement that all large companies the standard is not expected to apply follow suit.
until 2021, this will mean we will In December 2016 you have to produce a balance sheet as announced a change in auditors.
at 31 December 2019 under the new What was behind this?
We have begun our implementation project to build The Competitions and Markets our technical interpretations and the Authority require mandatory renecessary system developments, tendering of auditors every 10 years in a timely and efficient way.
and the EU require mandatory audit firm rotation.
Following a tender process, were proposing that KPMG become our new auditors for the GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Q&A LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 31
