OTHER INFORMATION Directors report The Directors report required under the Companies Act 2006 Interests in voting rights comprises this Directors report, and certain other disclosures Information on major interests in shares provided to the in the Strategic Report and the notes to the Group Consolidated company under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Financial Statements, including: Rules DTR of the UK Listing Authority is published via a Regulatory Information Service and on the companys website: An outline of important events that have occurred during www.
As at 31 December 2016, the the year pages 32 to 39 company had been advised of the following significant direct An indication of likely future developments pages 12 to 28 and indirect interests in the issued share capital of the company: Employee engagement page 28 Post-balance sheet events note 44 Total Number interest Articles of Association of ordinary % of in issued 1 The companys Articles of Association may only be amended shares of 2.5p capital share capital by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 353,497,431 5.9 Indirect The Companys Articles of Association were last amended at BlackRock, Inc. 300,077,786 5.0 Indirect its AGM held on 26 May 2016.
Woodford Investment Conflicts of interest Management LLP 298,198,185 5.0 Direct In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Board Invesco Limited 297,097,017 5.0 Indirect has adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure and Schroders Plc 296,651,093 5.0 Indirect authorisation if appropriate of conflicts of interest, and No changes to the interests have been disclosed between these have been followed during 2016.
Powers of directors Dividend The directors as detailed on pages 48 and 49 may exercise The company may, by ordinary resolution in a general meeting, all powers of the company subject to applicable legislation declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights and regulation and the companys Articles of Association.
of the members, but no dividend can exceed the amount Share capital recommended by the Board.
The directors propose a final As at 31 December 2016, the companys issued share capital dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 10.35 pence comprised 5,954,656,466 ordinary shares each with a nominal per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend value of 2.5 pence.
Details of the ordinary share capital can be of 4.0 pence per ordinary share paid to shareholders on found in note 38 to the Group Consolidated Financial 22 September 2016, will make a total dividend for the year of Statements.
Subject to shareholder approval At the 2016 AGM, the company was granted authority by at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 8 June 2017 to shareholders to purchase up to 594,903,940 ordinary shares, shareholders on the share register on 28 April 2017 provided being 10% of the issued share capital of the company as at that the Board of directors may cancel payment of the dividend 29 March 2016.
In the year to 31 December 2016, no shares at any time prior to payment in accordance with the articles of were purchased by the company.
This authority will expire at association, if it considers it necessary to do so for regulatory the 2017 AGM.
As such, a resolution is proposed in the Notice capital purposes.
of AGM seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
Related party transactions At the 2016 AGM, the directors were given the power to allot Details of related party transactions are set out in note 41 to the shares up to an amount of 49,575,328, being 33% of the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
issued share capital of the company as at 29 March 2016.
This Rights and obligations attaching to shares authority will also expire at the 2017 AGM.
As such, a resolution The rights and obligations relating to the Companys ordinary is proposed in the Notice of AGM seeking shareholder approval shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
A copy of the to renew this authority.
Articles of Association can be requested from the company A further resolution is proposed, as set out in the Notice of secretary at the companys registered office.
AGM, that will, if approved by shareholders, authorise the Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and directors to issue shares up to the equivalent of 10% of the vote at general meetings.
In a vote on a show of hands, every companys issued share capital as at 31 March 2017 for cash member present in person or every proxy present, who has without offering the shares first to existing shareholders in been duly appointed by a member, will have one vote and on a proportion to their holdings.
poll every member present in person or by proxy shall have one Detailed explanatory notes to these resolutions are set out in vote for every ordinary share held.
These rights are subject to the Notice of AGM.
any special terms as to voting upon which any shares may be Other than the above, the directors have no current intention issued or may at the relevant time be held and to any other of issuing further share capital and no issue will be made provisions of the Companys Articles of Association.
Under the which would effectively alter control of the company without prior approval of shareholders in a general meeting.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 231 OTHER INFORMATION Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association, directors Change of control have the power to suspend voting rights and, in certain There are no agreements between the company and its directors circumstances, the right to receive dividends in respect of or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or shares where the holder of those shares fails to comply with employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy a notice issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. or otherwise in the event of a takeover bid, except for those relating to normal notice periods.
The rules of the companys The Board can decline to register a transfer of any share which share plans contain provisions under which options and awards to is not a fully paid share.
In addition, registration of a transfer of participants, including executive directors, may vest on a takeover an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set or change of control of the company or transfer of undertakings.
out in the uncertificated securities rules and where the number The company has a committed 1 billion bank syndicated credit of joint holders exceeds four.
The Board may also refuse to facility which is terminable if revised terms cannot be agreed register the transfer of a certificated share unless: with the syndicate of banks in a 30-day period following a change a the instrument of transfer is duly stamped and is left at the of control.
As at 6 March 2017, the company has no borrowings Companys registered office or such other place as the Board under this facility.
There are no change of control conditions in may from time to time determine accompanied by the the terms of any of the companys outstanding debt securities.
certificate for the share to which it relates and such evidence The terms of the companys agreements with its banking as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the counterparties, under which derivative transactions are transfer or to make the transfer: undertaken, include in some instances the provision for b the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class termination of transactions upon takeover merger depending of share: and on the rating of the merged entity.
There are no other committed c the number of joint holders does not exceed four.
banking arrangements either drawn or undrawn that incorporate any change of control conditions.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, all or any of the rights attaching to an existing class of shares may Use of financial instruments be varied from time to time either with the consent in writing Information on the groups risk management process is set out of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value on pages 41 to 43.
More details on risk management and the of the issued shares of that class excluding any treasury shares financial instruments used are set out in notes 16 to 18 of the or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
general meeting of the holders of those shares.
Indemnities Shares acquired through the employee share schemes rank The company has agreed to indemnify, to the extent permitted equally with all other ordinary shares in issue.
Zedra Trust by law, each of the directors against any liability incurred by a Company Guernsey Limited, as trustee of the Legal & General director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of Employees Share Ownership Trust, held 0.3% of the issued their office.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnities as defined share capital of the company as at 6 March 2017 in trust for in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 have been granted, the benefit of the executive directors, senior executives and to the extent permitted by law, to certain trustees of the employees of the group.
This includes shares held as nominee companys pension schemes.
The indemnities were in force on behalf of Legal & General Share Scheme Trustees Limited, throughout 2016 and remain so.
Copies of the deeds of as trustee of the Legal & General Employee Share Trust, which indemnity are available for inspection at the companys is in the process of being wound up.
The trustee of Legal & General registered office and will also be available at the AGM.
Employees Share Ownership Trust has waived the right of that trust to receive dividends on unallocated shares it holds.
The Requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
4 voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Information to be included in the annual report and accounts trustee.
The trustee may vote or abstain from voting, or accept under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 may be found as follows: or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way it sees fit, Relevant Listing Rule Page without incurring any liability and without being required to give LR 9.8.
Under the rules of the Legal & General LR 9.8.
4 13 232 Group Employee Share Plan the Plan, eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held Political donations in trust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited, which No political donations were made during 2016. held 0.3% of the issued share capital of the company as at 6 March 2017.
Voting rights are exercised by the trustees on receipt of the participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
232 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER INFORMATION Forward-looking statements Disability The Directors report is prepared for the members of the Our policies support the employment, promotion and career company and should not be relied upon by any other party or development of disabled persons, as well as supporting for any other purpose.
Where the Directors report includes employees who become disabled during the course of their forward-looking statements, these are made by the directors employment.
We make reasonable adjustments, as required in good faith based on the information available to them at the under the Equality Act 2010, for disabled employees, including time of their approval of this report.
Such statements should be seeking redeployment in the event that reasonable adjustments treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying are not possible.
We offer appropriate training, including training such forward-looking statements.
in relation to equality, and will make adjustments to this training where required.
Insurance The Company has arranged appropriate directors and officers Independent auditors liability insurance for directors.
The companys independent external auditor has expressed its willingness to continue in office and the Audit Committee Greenhouse gas disclosures GHG has recommended its reappointment to the Board.
Resolutions Global GHG Emissions Data to reappoint  LLP as auditor to the Company and to authorise the directors to determine its Jan Jan remuneration are proposed for the forthcoming AGM.
tCO e Emissions from Dec 2015 Dec 2016 2 The Audit Committee undertook a tender process in respect of Scope 1 & 2 electricity and gas external audit services during 2016, more details on which are based on the scope of Legal & Generals UK CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme disclosed provided in the Audit Committee report on pages 61 to 65. emissions, Overseas property emissions 12,196.10 13,134.45 KPMG LLP will be proposed for appointment by shareholders Scope 2 electricity sourced from at the 2018 AGM.
a renewable tariff 38,218.73 32,883.96 Scope 3 Business travel Directors interests includes road, rail & air travel for LGAS, The Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 68 to 97 France, Netherlands and USA 3,746.77 4,362.59 provides details of the interests of each director, including details Total CO scope 1,2, 3 2 of current incentive schemes and long term incentive schemes, based on the scope of Legal & Generals UK the interests of directors in the share capital of the company and CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme disclosed emissions, Overseas property emissions and details of their share interests, as at 28 February 2017. reported travel emissions 54,161.60 50,381.00 Going concern statement Intensity ratio: kgCO e 2 Emissions per policy 5.02 4.54 After making enquiries, the directors considered it appropriate to Fugitive Emissions 877.60 1,812.66 prepare the financial statements of the company, and the group, on the going concern basis.
Please refer to our CSR report for further breakdown and analysis of emissions.
Viability Statement Methodology Please refer to the Group Board viability statement on page 43.
We have reported on the emission sources required under Annual general meeting the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report The Companys AGM will be held at 11am on Thursday, Regulations 2013.
25 May 2017 at The Honourable Artillery Company, We have used the GHG reporting protocol for calculating Armoury House, City Road, London EC1Y 2BQ.
our GHG emissions and applied the emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016.
DIRECTORS REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 233 OTHER INFORMATION Statement of directors responsibilities The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and and Accounts, including the Directors Remuneration Report provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess and the financial statements, in accordance with applicable law the groups and the companys performance, business model and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Each of the directors who held office at the date this report was statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors approved, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of have prepared the group financial statements in accordance directors section, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as the companys financial statements, which have been adopted by the European Union EU, and the company financial prepared in accordance with UK GAAP UK Accounting statements in accordance with United Kingdom UK Generally Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosures Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP UK Accounting Framework, and applicable law, give a true and fair view Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosures of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of Framework, and applicable law.
Under company law, the the company: directors must not approve the financial statements unless the group financial statements, which have been prepared they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit or and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the group and the company for that period.
In preparing profit of the group: and these financial statements, the directors are required to: the Strategic report includes a fair review of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply development and performance of the business and the them consistently: position of the group and the company, together with a state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have description of the principal risks and uncertainties that been followed for the group financial statements and UK it faces.
Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been In the case of each director who held office at the date this followed for the company financial statements, subject report was approved: to any material departures disclosed and explained in the a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit financial statements: information of which the groups and companys auditors are make judgements and accounting estimates that are unaware: and reasonable and prudent: b they have taken all the steps that they ought to have state whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of UK Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced any relevant audit information and to establish that the groups Disclosures Framework, have been followed, subject to and companys auditors are aware of that information.
any material departures disclosed and explained in the The Directors report and Strategic report were approved by group and the company financial statements respectively: the Board, and signed on their behalf.
and By order of the Board prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the group and the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and G J Timms the company and enable them to ensure that the financial Company Secretary statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the groups and the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
234 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT
