STRATEGIC REPORT What makes us different Our business is built on understanding people.
How long they live, what risks they are comfortable with and their changing needs throughout life.
We aim to see things before others do and create far-sighted approaches to better manage our assets and meet our customers needs.
Our skills and experience give Pensions Insurance us the ability to Real assets build scale in Retail funds fund assets Breadth of capabilities Corporate pensions Pensions risk transfer Real assets Insurance Responsible and economically Acting responsibly useful Community partnerships Investment stewardship Infrastructure 10 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Attracting funds Pensions Insurance premiums Retail asset management Our distinct capabilities Helping pension schemes, As the UKs No 1 life insurer Our UK retail fund investment in managing assets and their members and retired we collect premiums through business has become a top insurance risk attract people is a crucial part of our group protection schemes, five business for net sales, funds from a wide range of business.
We help customers individual life insurance and giving retail investors access institutions and individuals, and pension schemes in many general insurance plans.
Our to our renowned index, multi not only in the UK but also ways.
We manage mandates mortgage club is the UKs asset and fixed-interest funds.
Were a top 10 from institutions and pension largest stand-alone distributor global player by assets under schemes.
We provide pension of mortgage products and management, which drives buy-ins and buyouts and were one of the biggest UK growth in fee income, individual pension plans.
Our scale gives us added power to offer customers low costs.
Pensions risk transfer Securing payments Moving to defined Managing mortality and We offer DB pension schemes to employees with contribution longevity risk investment solutions at every bulkannuities DC pensions are the future We believe our mortality stage oftheir schemes life Our buy-in, buyout and for the private sector and the expertise is a key contributor cycle.
Our pension derisking longevity insurance solutions public sector in the US as to our success in life insurance, capabilities include matching mean that we can assume well as the UK.
We have two annuities, pensions and lifetime scheme liabilities and assets some, or all, of a firms liability million DC customers across mortgages.
Our longevity using LDI solutions and for paying pensions.
Our 9,500 schemes, with UK DC science and mortality teams longevity risk management.
annuity portfolio is now assets of57.1 billion and a have built up unparalleled 54.4 billion strong.
rapidly growing US DC expertise in modelling risk.
A real commitment Active ownership Socially useful Real assets Our commitment to being We aim to improve the Our products benefit people We create real assets that responsible is embedded into performance of the companies across all wealth groups and generate better investment our business in everything we invest in through are not just for the wealthy.
returns for our long-term we do.
From our investments responsible board behaviour Some of the biggest names in money and help build towns, which create a better society, and commitment to good retail such as Tesco and John businesses, jobs and to our community work environmental, social and Lewis trust us with their communities through and our goodvalue products governance practices.
which are designed to our insurance products mean give people independence people can maintain financial and financialsecurity.
WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 11
