STRATEGIC REPORT What we do We are a diversified group whose business model combines asset management and risk expertise We combine our asset and credit management capabilities with our deep understanding of longevity risk the science of life expectancy.
Asset management Longevity expertise Our unique space Were one of the Were recognised as a Combining asset worlds largest asset leading longevity and management and risk managers and are experts mortality expert.
expertise allows us to in managing credit risk.
help clients fide-risk We have a deep understanding of longevity risk and the science pensions.
Our investment expertise covers of life expectancy, through a wide a wide spectrum of asset classes Were able to do this because range of expertise across statistical including equities, fixed income, we understand both the asset analysis, demography and actuarial commercial property and cash.
and liability side of pensions.
modelling, epidemiologists and experts in medical science.
We believe no other company in the world can partner with clients on their full derisking journey.
Top 10 global asset manager One million people where we provide Market leaders in global risk transfer pension income No 1 in the UK Around 3,000 institutional clients No 1 in UK retail life insurance A leading global provider of LDI World No 5 in Index funds with a 26% market share 45% market share in the UK UKs No 1 pensions investment manager Five million UK individual insurance 55% of our defined benefit pension Over two million DC pension customers customers clients have been with LGIM for 0.7 million retail investment customers over 10 years Two million employees in UK group protection schemes Four million people covered in India 1.2 million US term life customers 8 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT PENSION fide-RISKING More information onthe pension fide-risking life cycle canbefound on page 15 External influences on our business External influences on Our long-term strategy is driven by ourbusiness six global growth drivers.
However, in the short and medium term, global Brexit Before the EU referendum, our Board political and economic factors create met to analyse potential outcomes, opportunities for growth and present seeing Brexit as a distinct possibility.
risks which need to be managed.
We believe that Brexit has had a limited impact on our business and that the UK continues to present outstanding prospects for investment Growth drivers and business growth.
As a UK and US focused business, our exposure GLOBAL DEMOGRAPHICS Ageing populations mean that pension to risks from the EU marketplace is minimal and there are compelling savings need to last longer.
The number of people in the UK aged 75 and over is opportunities to invest outside the EU.
projected to rise to nearly 10 million by 2040.
It is uncertain to the degree that Brexit may affect the legislative GLOBALISATION OF ASSET MARKETS frameworks for our retail, corporate Global wealth assets exceed $70 trillion.
and investment business and may Our share is around 1.5%, so were exporting affect employment law and financial more of our skills internationally.
We anticipate European Solvency II regulations will remain in CREATING NEW REAL place until 2019, when the UK will be PRODUCTIVE ASSETS able to prioritise regulatory changes Theres an urgent need to invest in for financial services.
Pension assets need to be invested over Global politics the very long term and we can improve We are keeping a close watch on the returns and benefit the economy by possible impacts on our business and investing in this way.
financial markets arising from the new US president and administration.
REFORM OF THE WELFARE STATE We are also aware of any instability Many families that rely on state benefits in equity markets arising from struggle to survive financially following forthcoming elections in Germany, death, disability or long-term sickness.
France and the Netherlands which Greater use of private insurance can could potentially destabilise markets.
help to build financial independence.
The global and UK economy 2016 was marked by a gradual TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION improvement in growth, with interest Consumers are increasingly seeking rate rises put on hold.
In 2017, global digital access and low-cost solutions inflation could move higher, matched for financial services products.
by interest rate hikes in the US.
The UK market has remained resilient PROVIDING TODA YS CAPITAL since the EU vote, although the In recent years, equity investment capital has weakness in sterling could fuel been in short supply.
Institutional funds need inflation and could potentially stable long-term returns.
Investing in start-up impact growth prospects.
It remains businesses creates the companies of the to be seen whether the impending future and stimulates economic growth.
withdrawal from the EU single market in 2019 could weaken business, investment and employment growth.
WHAT WE DO LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 9
