STRATEGIC REPORT A strategy for the future Our strategy Our strategy Achieve market Diversify by Improve returns Drive earnings Build a truly Build economic leadership in increasing and change growth through digital business growth and global pensions assets and peoples lives amarket leading to drive earnings by fide-risking earnings by creating insurance efficiency and investing in internationally real assets business engage with Britains future customers Growth driver Growth driver GLOBAL DEMOGRAPHICS GLOBALISATION OF ASSET MARKETS CREATING NEW REAL PRODUCTIVE ASSETS REFORM OF THE WELFARE STATE TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION PROVIDING TODA YS CAPITAL Rationale Rationale DB pensions are in crisis with an Global wealth assets exceed $70trillion.
We seek to invest the groups 54.4 billion Many families will struggle to survive Consumers often choose companies Investment capital has been in short estimated 560 billion of private sector Were successful in the UK and the pension annuity assets in higher performing financially following death, disability that can offer low prices and digital supply in recent years.
Yet the UK deficits exacerbated by low interest US, but weve just around a 1.5% share risk-adjusted classes.
We believe that the market will economy needs jobs, long-term rates: and the ageing population, globally and were exporting our skills can offer better and more predictable insurance cover can safeguard financial favour businesses that build low-cost, infrastructure, better housing and illustrated by the projected doubling internationally.
returns to shareholders and can create independence.
investment capital to fund businesses.
of over 75s in the UK between 2015 economic benefits.
What we do What we do We offer investment solutions at Were expanding our international Because we need to invest annuity assets, We provide life insurance cover for Our digital strategy for customers We invest the groups regulatory every stage of a schemes life businesses in the US, Europe, the Gulf for example, for 20, 30 or 40 years to match death, critical illness and long-term allows insurance customers to obtain balance sheet to create new jobs, cycle.
From the growth phase, and Asia, using our asset management pension liabilities, we invest our principal sickness and disability for individuals quotes, apply for policies and review and businesses and homes.
We partner through fide-risking with LDI and and risk management skills.
balance sheet in housing, infrastructure and and companies.
We aim to work closely renew them using mobile and digital with alternative asset management bulk annuities, right to the setting SME finance to create new matching assets.
with government to provide better technology.
We are increasing efficiency groups, lend funds to mid-sized UK up of new DC schemes.
in our admin operations through building businesses and work with property low cost digital processes.
developers to drive urban regeneration.
Progress Progress 45% share of LDI market, $146.5bn AUM in the US 10 billion of 15 billion 26% share of individual life Sales of lifetime mortgages through Achieved 1.2 billion commitments worldwide market leader commitment reached protection UK market our digital platform exceeded 600m through partnership in Pemberton Four of top five US DB pension SME fund Auto-enrolment boosts DC fund clients Entered 600 million build-to-rent Retail protection direct sales Investment partnership with Fintech customers to 2.2m joint-venture schemes in up 7%, GI direct sales up 20% auto-enrolled pension provider Modular homes business launched Won US DC mandates Walthamstow, Salford and Bristol Acquisition of 2.9bn UK Aegon Mortgage Club sold 1 in 5 Low cost model, with average of Infrastructure projects: Second distribution agreement annuity portfolio Invested as part of major schemes in UKmortgages 80% life insurance straight-through Bracknell, Newcastle in Japan London Gateway Port 400m, Salford processing 750m ICI pension buy-in Top 10 player in US term life market Partnership with NTR, financing International AUM of 177bn, up45% 246m and Newcastle 350m with 1.2 million customers 10 onshore wind farms 12 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy is unchanged.
It still inspires us to help people achieve financial security and makes us economically and socially useful to society.
And its still underpinned by long-term growth drivers that continue to hold true, despite any short-term economic and political turmoil.
Our strategy Our strategy Achieve market Diversify by Improve returns Drive earnings Build a truly Build economic leadership in increasing and change growth through digital business growth and global pensions assets and peoples lives amarket leading to drive earnings by fide-risking earnings by creating insurance efficiency and investing in internationally real assets business engage with Britains future customers Growth driver Growth driver GLOBAL DEMOGRAPHICS GLOBALISATION OF ASSET MARKETS CREATING NEW REAL PRODUCTIVE ASSETS REFORM OF THE WELFARE STATE TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION PROVIDING TODA YS CAPITAL Rationale Rationale DB pensions are in crisis with an Global wealth assets exceed $70trillion.
Progress Progress 45% share of LDI market, $146.5bn AUM in the US 10 billion of 15 billion 26% share of individual life Sales of lifetime mortgages through Achieved 1.2 billion commitments worldwide market leader commitment reached protection UK market our digital platform exceeded 600m through partnership in Pemberton Four of top five US DB pension SME fund Auto-enrolment boosts DC fund clients Entered 600 million build-to-rent Retail protection direct sales Investment partnership with Fintech customers to 2.2m joint-venture schemes in up 7%, GI direct sales up 20% auto-enrolled pension provider Modular homes business launched Won US DC mandates Walthamstow, Salford and Bristol Acquisition of 2.9bn UK Aegon Mortgage Club sold 1 in 5 Low cost model, with average of Infrastructure projects: Second distribution agreement annuity portfolio Invested as part of major schemes in UKmortgages 80% life insurance straight-through Bracknell, Newcastle in Japan London Gateway Port 400m, Salford processing 750m ICI pension buy-in Top 10 player in US term life market Partnership with NTR, financing International AUM of 177bn, up45% 246m and Newcastle 350m with 1.2 million customers 10 onshore wind farms A STRATEGY FOR THE FUTURE LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 13 STRATEGIC REPORT Making sure pension promises are kept Tackling the trillion pound pension crisis by taking the risk out of paying company pensions Defined benefit DB pension fide-RISKING PENSIONS schemes continue to pose problems for companies.
We help them take Pension derisking helps the risk out of their pension pension trustees secure and obligations at all stages of a protect their members schemes lifecycle.
benefits enabling companies to manage down DB pension Only 13% of UK DB schemes are still liabilities.
Read more at open to new members, yet 1.3 trillion www.
com of fund assets remain in UK private pensionrisktransfer sector schemes.
Liabilities continue to weaken companies balance sheets.
According to PwC, UK private sector pension deficits increased by an estimated 90 billion in 2016 to Managing the risks 560billion.
In the public sector, Taking on the responsibility for pension scheme liabilities pension liabilities have reached exposes us to the risks that 1.5 trillion.
members may live longer than anticipated or that we We help pension trustees to offer experience defaults in the their members the reassurance of investments held to meet knowing that their pension income those liabilities.
As well as our capabilities to evaluate and is safeguarded.
As an asset manager price for longevity, we actively that specialises in managing insurance use reinsurance to manage risk, we believe were better placed aggregate exposures.
Our credit experts in LGIM assess than our competitors to achieve this.
14 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Rolls-Royces long-term risk Pension fide-risking life cycle management strategy In late 2016, we completed a Legal & General Retirement 1.1 billion buyout with the Vickers Group Pension Scheme, part of Index & Investment the Rolls-Royce Group, covering Active Longevity multi-asset LDI Buy-in Buyout in real over 11,000 members.
fixed insurance funds assets This buyout is a great example of a long-term fide-risking strategy paying off.
The transaction demonstrated Legal & General Legal & General how we work with pension schemes Investment Management Capital at all stages of their journey, guiding them to more successful outcomes than may have initially been thought Index and LDI Active xed Longevity Buy-in Buyout Real assets multi-asset Through LDI, a As a pension insurance A buy-in is often In a buyout, We invest the possible.
It underlines that the funds pension scheme scheme matures, Once a scheme the first step we take over capital that backs objective of buyout is fully achievable With index and manages its it will begin to has managed that a scheme responsibility our buy-in out even when markets appear volatile.
multi-asset liability risks, transition its interest rate, will take in for meeting all business in The Vickers scheme was a longfunds, pension such as interest portfolio into ination and transferring full of a scheme's projects, such standing LGIM client.
We supported schemes invest rate and ination investments investment risk, risk to us.
The as infrastructure, efficiently in a risk.
LDI is that more longevity risk is buy-in, a pension trustees can housing and urban the trustees over many years, starting wide range of often a pension closely match often its most scheme receives then wind up regeneration.
in 2007 with an LDI mandate to asset classes.
schemes first the scheme's pronounced insurance over the scheme and Our ambition to fide-risk the scheme which ultimately These funds are step in managing liabilities, such as risk exposure.
a specified the company be a socially and culminated in a full buyout.
The often used earlier risk and ensuring bonds.
Through Through longevity proportion of can remove the economically in a pension that members active xed insurance, its liabilities.
liability from its relationship enabled us to provide useful investor schemes benets are income mandates pension schemes balance sheet.
lies at the heart certainty to the scheme during the journey plan better protected.
schemes target protect against of our business.
LGIM to target outperformance the risk that continues to manage 12 billion in outperformance in their bond their members assets for the for the trustees of the versus its portfolios.
main Rolls-Royce UK pension fund.
Finally, for those schemes that Working together helps solve the DB pension schemes would like to fully settle their liabilities, problems that others cant We work with pension schemes at all we can buy out the schemes Our key advantage over other financial stages of their journey, ensuring they liabilities, taking them off the services groups is that we bring keep making progress towards their companys balance sheet and together the expertise from a traditional ultimate objectives.
This avoids delays assuming responsibility ourselves asset manager and a specialist risk where providers are not joined up.
Our clients can benefit from a fully integrated fide-risking We are the market leader for managing The UK leader in pensions solutions approach.
Our clients benefit from the DB pension assets, with a 32% market We developed one of the UKs first expertise and skills right across our share.
55% of our clients have been LDI strategies in 2001 and have grown asset management, retirement and with us for at least 10 years.
into the largest LDI manager in the real assets businesses.
Our innovative and effective solutions UK, with a 45% market share in 2016. mean DB pension schemes stay with LDI solutions are now 46% of LGIMs Pensions risk transfer: at all stages of their lifecycle: assets under management and a huge growth opportunity we have 120 solutions specialists In 2016, we completed 3.7 billion of 1.
In a schemes growth phase we help who work closely with our client pension buy-in and buyout business.
them achieve growth with an asset mix relationship, investment, insurance We completed a number of substantial based around our index funds.
and retirement teams to design the deals with important clients, such as 2.
As schemes mature and cash flow most effective solutions.
Rolls-Royce and ICI, a transaction which becomes more difficult, our LDI we completed despite the turbulence solutions help achieve a better balance created by Brexit.
Buyouts either bring between liabilities and assets.
new assets in or keep assets within the 3.
The majority of UK pension schemes Legal & General Group.
say self-sufficiency is their main long-term objective.
Our Solutions team move them towards this aim, with a more fixed interest based investment strategy.
MAKING SURE PENSION PROMISES ARE KEPT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 15 STRATEGIC REPORT Auto enrolment: a huge success Auto-enrolment has been a successful government strategy where by the end of December 2016, 7.1 million employees were automatically enrolled in the UK.
We now have over 2.2 million DC pension customers, the majority of whom have been auto-enrolled.
Our view is that the key to success Widening auto-enrolments reach in this market is relationship building.
Auto-enrolment is now reaching the Its no surprise that We help trustees, sponsoring very smallest employers, including companies and their advisers make those with only one or two employees.
solving the DB pensions informed decisions, rather than Our marketing strategy is based around problem is a key priority adopting a sales-driven process three areas: based solely on price.
In fact, our belief for CFOs.
SMEs Our digital strategy allows is that companies often find that price small contract based schemes to Hymans Robertson, July 2016 is often less than expected and they integrate their payroll data directly look to increase the amount of risk with our back office systems.
Our they transfer to us through buy-ins and With around 2 trillion in DB liabilities investment and partnership with buyouts.
In 2016 we won four out of still sitting on companies balance SmartPensions digital first approach the six main industry awards for sheets, a massive potential market has helped automate our systems pension fide-risking.
will exist for many years to come.
We aim to maintain the competitive The new world of DC schemes 2.
Escalation Contribution levels advantages that we have over our Were well placed to benefit from the will rise substantially in April 2018 and competitors in this market: rapid growth of the UK DC market, 2019, with total contributions going 1.
We are a diverse financial services which is expanding by 13% per annum.
This should enable group, not a monoline business We have a 16% market share of the DC us to build scale by growing assets.
market with over 57 billion in assets.
Our asset origination and sourcing 3.
Winning large schemes We aim for capabilities enable us to offer pension The market is moving irresistibly from our low charges and quality of service schemes attractive pricing DB to DC.
Auto-enrolment is a key to give us a distinct advantage over driver for growth in DC, where by 2020 other companies.
We have a panel of 11 reinsurance there is estimated to be over ten million 200,000 employee Tesco scheme.
partners that bring another dimension people auto-enrolled in the UK, with to what we can offer clients minimum contribution levels of 8% of 4.
Were financially strong and stable Using digital processes to make salary.
We can offer investment only pension saving achievable for all 5.
Were committed to this business for solutions as well as bundled solutions.
Achieving excellence in technology the long term, taking a long-term view continues to underpin our overall Within the DC market, better strategy.
Our investment in the digital when working with pension schemes economics and governance is SmartPension platform illustrates 6.
We make economically and socially our desire to invest in high-achieving, driving client demand for bundled innovative technology that has useful investments propositions, and by 2025 it is a positive impact on the wider 7.
Were a global fide-risking business estimated that over 80% of UK assets UK economy.
with considerable scale and capacity will be bundled.
Were able to offer SmartPension has built a powerful both bundled and investment only digital platform which has made auto 8.
We continue to innovate, helping enrolment scalable and affordable solutions, allowing us to support clients schemes put in place the arrangement for small employers and their with a broad range of requirements.
that suits them best employees with minimum cost and disruption, thereby making saving for the future achievable for more UK workers.
16 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 MAKING SURE PENSION PROMISES ARE KEPT STRATEGIC REPORT Contributing to the UK economy Investing long term into Britains future Why we invest in real assets Our 15 billion direct We have over 6 billion of shareholder investment programme funds and over 54.4 billion in annuity In 2014 we made a commitment to assets.
This is capital which supports invest 15 billion in direct investments our long-term insurance business.
and have already put in 10 billion By moving our investments from over the medium-term into long-term traded assets such as government and projects.
The need for greater corporate debt to direct investments, investment in the UK is apparent: we can deliver higher future profits There is an estimated 11 billion through a better risk-adjusted return annual shortfall in the money on capital as well as increasing the needed to overcome the amount of capital we invest.
housing crisis At the same time we can demonstrate Around 100 billion of investment our commitment to being economically is needed to regenerate our and socially useful by helping to close towns and cities the UK investment funding gap.
This According to a government gap in UK investment affects: firstly estimate, between 2014 and the UKs ability to build homes, where 2020, 40 billion to 50 billion the UK is only building around half could be spent on renewable the new accommodation we need: electricity generation capacity secondly, the UKs need for urban SMEs need an estimated regeneration to improve lives of our 125 billion to create the new communities right across the UK: businesses and jobs to make thirdly we need to invest in small Britain competitive businesses to create real jobs and improve productivity and incomes.
The government and the banks have not had the capacity to fund these projects, but there is a large amount of institutional cash available.
INVESTING LONG TERM MONEY TO GROW THE UK ECONOMY In 2016, Legal & General Retirement put 2 billion into direct investments to match their long-term annuity liabilities.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 17 STRATEGIC REPORT The importance of build-to-rent friendly construction techniques to Its important to improve housing build higher quality, energy efficient, To address the housing supply across all tenures and were lower cost housing.
Constructed using committed to both the build-to-sell cross laminated timber, the first homes crisis at least 300,000 and build-to-rent sectors, providing are due to be completed later in 2017. new homes are high-quality private properties as How our major cities benefit well as affordable and social housing.
needed annually for the from urban regeneration In 2016 we entered the-build-to rent In 2014 and 2015 we launched major foreseeable future.
market through a joint venture project urban regeneration projects in Bracknell, House of Lords Building more with PGGM.
This has created a housing Salford, Cardiff and Leeds as well as homes report, July 2017 pipeline of nearly 800 new homes key projects in Liverpool, Wakefield, across all projects, with a total capital Plymouth and Canning Town.
In 2016 commitment of over 250 million.
In we increased our investment into Walthamstow, East London, we East London with plans to create over 10.0bn launched a major development which is 40,000 jobs and 11,000 new homes.
Put into direct investment schemes since expected to deliver 440 new homes, in We have jointly invested in a number 2014 as part of a 15 billion commitment Salford we acquired a site from English of projects including DP Worlds new to rebuild Britain.
Cities Fund and in Bristol we acquired a 400 million London Gateway port on build-to-rent development site planning the Thames estuary, a new 246 million to provide 168 one, two and three Transport for London building in bedroom new homes.
Stratford and a 63 million 26-storey student accommodation development Creating modern modular homes for Queen Mary University.
The UK needs to build around 300,000 new homes a year, yet is barely Improving the nations achieving half that figure.
Part of the infrastructure reason is linked to the shortage of In June 2016 we announced plans materials and skilled labour.
In 2016, of a partnership with Newcastle City we started building our modular Council and Newcastle University housing business based in Yorkshire.
to build and jointly finance the 350 We are using sustainable, durable million Newcastle Science Central modern materials with environmentally development.
This will create Cardiff: a city of the future In September 2015 our joint venture partnership with Cardiff-based developer, Rightacres, planned the delivery of a 400 million Central Square master plan for the City of Cardiff Councils regeneration scheme.
The scheme is set to create over 10,000 local jobs and facilitate significant economic growth.
It includes a new 83 million HQ for BBC Wales accommodating 1,200 employees.
Our commitment to Cardiff not only includes urban regeneration and housing projects but extends to employing 1,400 people in our Cardiff office.
com 2016fastread 18 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CONTRIBUTING TO THE UK ECONOMY STRATEGIC REPORT 4,000 jobs, 500,000 square feet of office space and 450 new homes and is being delivered through the Governments Regeneration Investment Organisation.
Successful partnerships that help rebuild Britains economy Our joint equity partnership with Pemberton has enabled 1.2 billion of long-term capital to be raised, providing much needed finance to small and medium-sized enterprises across the UK and other EU countries.
A second fund by Pemberton has been set up to lend 500 million to UK mid-sized businesses.
Bracknells remarkable A successful partnership with Dutch transformation pension fund manager, PGGM, has Managing the risks In 2014 we began completely Property market, lending and loan helped provide increased levels of transforming Bracknell town centre default risks are inherent to our which was showing signs of ageing capital for our build-to-rent projects investment strategy.
We have, over and was in need of regeneration.
in Salford, Bristol and Walthamstow the years through our Real Assets Work continued in 2016. team, built significant expertise in by creating a 50:50 joint venture.
Combined with our The new development in the north of credit capability were able to assess Bracknell Town Centre will comprise Clean energy the risks in each transaction and the almost 600,000 square feet of new We have helped develop a clean quality of security that we may take.
retail and leisure space, which energy platform by partnering with Through selective partnering, were represents an investment of over also able to draw on sector expertise 200 million.
Retailers signed up NTR to jointly invest into a 250 million to reduce execution risks.
include Fenwicks, Marks & Spencer, fund for onshore wind projects in Primark, Waitrose and H&M.
The project Were also building 1,000 new homes became operational in 2016 and 2017. at Crowthorne, near Bracknell and are providing additional funding for infrastructure projects at the Crowthorne site, including a primary school, community centre, care home and over 100 acres of public UK home building volumes green open spaces.
Tim Wheadon, Chief Executive Bracknell Forest Council, said: 324,420 What this does is to fulfil a massive need in the borough.
Im looking forward to the residents actually coming into the town centre and seeing the fruition of the vision weve had.
207,470 David Ogles, a Customer Support 170,730 Officer involved in the construction project spoke with enthusiasm about the new development: Ive lived in Bracknell for 32 years now and its very long overdue.
Well get more people back into Bracknell.
uk government   Table 241: permanent dwellings completed, by tenure, United Kingdom, historical calendar year series.
CONTRIBUTING TO THE UK ECONOMY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 19 STRATEGIC REPORT Reaching out to worldwide markets Expanding our US businesses and bringing our capabilities to growing markets Its a great time to expand our Expanding our US DC business INTERNATIONAL GROWTH businesses in attractive markets The US DC market represents a great across the world.
opportunity for us, with a total market Our globalisation growth size of $10 trillion in AUM.
Were driver inspires international Our investment management business already seeing demand for our index expansion in insurance, has 894 billion $1.1 trillion in global strategies and are well positioned to asset management, pension assets making us the tenth largest offer a range of retirement income risk transfer and real assets.
However solutions as the US DC market www.
we only have around a one per cent continues to diversify.
html share of global invested wealth assets which were assessed in 2016 as being Growth beyond the UK and US around $70 trillion.
In 2016 we deepened our existing relationships in Europe and the Gulf, We believe the key to growing our with significant appointments across assets is to diversify and export our US Infrastructure our index, active fixed income and skills and experience into areas of the In the US, were now making multi-asset businesses.
The launch of world which are already established direct investments to match longour ICAV see glossary on page 238 markets or which are expanding dated liabilities.
In August 2016 in August 2016 is enabling us to widen LGIM completed their first US rapidly.
Our international business infrastructure transaction.
In the our client reach internationally via these already accounts for 20% of our first ever educational private-public pooled funds.
Our 2017 focus is to AUM and we intend to increase partnership we undertook to establish more strategic partnerships to double the size of the University of this percentage substantially.
California to accommodate 10,000 build market share in US, Europe, the students and expand its research Our success in growing US markets Gulf and Asia.
We aim to build on our and teaching programmes.
The Our US investment management pooled and segregated solutions in key extension comprises 1.2 million business was founded in 2006 and square feet of academic, classroom markets to reach a wider client base.
and laboratory facilities as well as we started marketing our active fixed Our 2017 focus is to establish more housing and dining units.
income and LDI capabilities to US DB strategic partnerships to build market schemes in 2009.
We are a leading share in US, Europe, the Gulf and US pension solutions provider with an Asia.
We aim to leverage pooled and established active fixed income track segregated solutions in key markets record and more recently a strong across a wider client base and focus reputation in index strategies.
We on DC and retail distributions solutions.
have $146.5 billion assets under management as at 31 December 2016.
Reaching into Asia Pacific and emerging markets US pension plans are just getting Our strategy in Asian markets continues started on their fide-risking journey to focus on building relationships and there will be lots of opportunities with large sovereign and institutional to grow our DB business further.
We are entering growing markets such as China and 20 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT more established markets such as into the US market in October 2015 Japan.
In 2016 we started to establish with our $450 million agreement with $1.6 trillion a Japanese operation, recruiting a new the US subsidiary of Royal Philips.
US pension liabilities in 410 of the largest Fortune 1000 DB schemes totalled over Head of Japan, and we now have a Later in 2016 we wrote a further five $1.6 trillion at the end of 2016.
Source: regional office in Tokyo.
We are also deals totalling $383 million.
WillisTowersWatson, February 2017. developing our trading and fund We expect the demand for pension management capabilities in Hong Kong.
risk transfer deals to increase rapidly Our overall strategy is to look for in the US and intend to be a major Managing the risks opportunities in countries that have player as we steadily grow our position As we continue to internationalise relatively low barriers to entry.
our businesses, were alert to the risks presented from differing legislative The US is a key market for Pensions risk transfer in the US and regulatory environments, and cultural values.
We seek to manage Legal & General and were positioned In April 2016 we entered into our these operational risks through for growth.
Our rapidly growing second US pension risk transfer deal.
combining our well established investment management business, The Pension Plan for Lay Employees operating platforms with local expertise in our chosen markets, our US life insurance company, our and Sisters and Brothers within the alongside continued investment in US pension risk transfer operations Diocese of Palm Beach concluded our system capabilities, business and our real assets business are all a deal for approximately $65 million.
We began providing retirement payments under a group annuity contract to the Dioceses retirees.
This followed our successful entry Making our Insurance business global In the UK were the market leader in retail life insurance, achieved through a multi distribution strategy, scale, underwriting and reassurance capabilities and a strong focus upon technology to deliver excellence in service.
We want to leverage the expertise that has made us the UKs No 1 life insurer and apply that expertise to build a direct-to-consumer business that complements the already successful US broker term life business.
We are top 10 player in the US term life market, with 1.2 million policies and $1.2billion in gross written premiums.
REACHING OUT TO WORLDWIDE MARKETS LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Building financial resilience for all Our winning retail businesses help people achieve financial independence Putting customers in control Many people are unprepared Our market-leading life In 2016 we upgraded My Account for financial shocks insurance business allowing customers to take control With the savings ratio in the UK at of changing details online and via Many people in the UK are unable mobile devices, for insurance, a record low at 3.8%, we believe that to withstand the financial impact of investment and pension plans.
insurance can be the best answer to a death, long-term sickness, disability We had over two million customer avoiding financial shocks.
Our retail or unemployment in the family.
Not visits to the site by the end of life insurance business has been the September, with 450,000 new only are people faced with living on market leader for over 10 years and customers signing up to the service.
dramatically reduced incomes but the has a 26% market share.
With over My Account enables auto-enrolled cost to the state is huge.
Over 100 five million customers, we continued pension customers and holders of million days a year are lost to sickness, ISAs and unit trusts to monitor fund our success in 2016 due to our with mental health problems being performance and change funds.
multi-distribution channel strategy, Insurance customers can view their a significant contributor.
Macmillan our scale, experience in underwriting policy details, payment schedules Cancer Support reports that 83% of and download documents online.
and dedication to delivering digital people diagnosed with cancer suffer In addition, all customers can solutions to improve customer update their address, marital status a net loss of nearly 600 a month experience.
Our group protection and contact details or send us a during the course of their illness.
business provides insurance cover for over two million employees in over 3,300 corporate schemes.
Improving financial education in schools It has been common for children to leave school with little knowledge of how finance works.
We have been working with schools in London, Surrey and South Wales to teach children the harsh realities of managing money.
How to organise a monthly budget, the importance of saving and insurance and how taxation works.
16 million More than 16 million adults in the UK have savings of less than 100, a study by the Money Advice Service MAS has found.
22 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Providing workplace protection Were firmly committed to the Our multi-channel, workplace health and wellbeing market, investing in our business multi-product business and improving the employee and uses technology to employer experience through digital developments.
Were fully engaged deliver great customer with government through the Working service with cost and Lives paper, as well as specific dialogue around products and services scale efficiencies that may help support and alleviate the Bernie Hickman, welfare bill.
Developing additional CEO, Legal & General Insurance products and services that help treat mental wellbeing in the same way as physical wellbeing in the workplace is 80% equally important.
Were supporting, On average, 80% of our customers receive sponsoring and developing capability an immediate decision at point-of-sale that to help employers, employees and they can be accepted for life cover, without advisers with tools to keep people any further questions.
happily and healthily in work.
Digital innovation drives efficiency Our direct insurance business now Financial independence makes up over 18% of our protection People often lack confidence when business.
We aim to build a best in faced with decisions about their class digital marketing function finances.
In 2016 the Financial Conduct enabling cost effective customer Authority published the results of their acquisition.
This digital eco-system Financial Advice Market Review in will enable customers to research, the light of concerns that the market buy and service their products through for financial advice in the UK was any digital medium they choose.
not working well for all consumers.
Our technology drives our excellent Jackie Noakes led our response to customer service with market leading this review as one of the Expert Panel point of sale decisions, making it ever Members.
Jackies focus was on how easier for customers and advisers all consumers can get easier access to do business with us.
Its because to the help they need.
of our digital approach that we have successfully partnered with a wide range of distributors.
BUILDING FINANCIAL RESILIENCE FOR ALL LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Diversifying in general insurance reach of this business is shown In 2016 we remained a leading online through our database of over 10,000 Im delighted with the provider of household insurance cover.
We also help We now obtain 39% of new customers customers through our surveying excellent progress through online transactions.
An business where in 2016 we arranged weve made in growing extension of our buy-to-let product in approximately 520,000 valuations, to the online and broker channels has up 8% on 2015. and diversifying our provided new opportunities in this business in 2016.
Our Investing in digital retail funds market.
While our key focus is on On 1 January 2017, we sold Cofunds, focus on embedding household and buy-to-let, we have our digital investment fund platform.
extended the range of the general digital technology into The groups digital savings strategy insurance products we offer which has now been simplified to help our business has been now include pet and travel cover.
consumers save for the future, using a key enabler for our We work closely with bank and building funds offered by our investment society partners to help people find management business.
We are starting growth strategy.
In 2016 we to see momentum in our retail savings Cheryl Agius signed strategic distribution agreements business, which was ranked 13th in Managing Director, General Insurance with a number of partners including the market when it was transferred Coventry and Skipton Building societies to LGIM in 2014. as well as Sainsburys Bank.
In addition, Technology and changing consumer our partnership with Prestige will deliver behaviour are transforming the 85 million gross written premiums savings market, with increasing over five years.
convergence between pensions and The UKs largest mortgage club other forms of savings such as ISAs.
Our mortgage club has relationships Consequently, were developing a with 67 different lenders who help our direct proposition which will build on distribution partners find appropriate relationships with existing customers mortgages for their customers.
In as they move through their working 2016 53 billion of mortgages were lives into retirement.
facilitated by our mortgage club, representing a 20% share of the UK mortgage market.
The wide 24 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUILDING FINANCIAL RESILIENCE FOR ALL STRATEGIC REPORT Our fast-growing lifetime Our successful lifetime mortgage mortgage business business was recognised in 2016 by Managing the risks In providing insurance products we We entered the lifetime mortgage both Mortgage Strategy and Your have to make assumptions about how market in the second quarter of 2015, Mortgage, who both named us as long people may live, how healthy writing over 200 million of business in Best Equity Release Lender.
Some they will be, or events that could give a higher rate of claims than wed the first year.
Since then weve tripled reasons for our success are: normally expect.
We seek to price and this to over 600 million, with more than underwrite our insurance products to 1.
Our competitive interest rates 12,000 accounts.
Market opportunities take account of these risk factors, and 2.
Our financial stability and brand use reinsurance to manage significant are still very attractive, with 1.5 trillion exposures.
Leading the way in providing digital of housing equity held by over 55s.
underwrite lifetime mortgages to application services in this market reflect our assessment of the outlook Our proposition is to help elderly for the housing market, long-term 4.
The strength of our distribution, people boost their retirement funds for interest rates, longevity and the enhanced by our recent partnership quality of mortgage security.
a variety of purposes: paying off loans, with Santander home improvements, improving their quality of life, helping their families or 5.
Having our own Surveying Services using for home care costs.
Our average business means customers benefit customer is 71 years old, using the from seamless service money raised to pay off existing mortgage debt.
How Jim and Gill used a lifetime Our granddaughter was looking mortgage to help their family.
for a house and no way could they save the deposit, which is the reason Jim and Gill celebrated their 52nd we did it for her.
wedding anniversary in March 2016 Jim and Gills granddaughter, and saw using the equity in their Becca, said: Its made a massive home as a way to help their difference to our lives weve got granddaughter take a first step on our own independence.
Lifetime mortgages can be a excellent way to Our desire is that people have the transfer wealth across generations.
peace of mind in their retirement years of knowing that they will have Jim said: The reason that we a sustainable income that will meet wanted to get the lifetime mortgage their needs and expectations as was to help a member of our family.
they live out their final years.
Youre using the value of your house to help your family.
That is See the video: what it is all about.
com videos BUILDING FINANCIAL RESILIENCE FOR ALL LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 25
