Strategic report Doing business responsibly A sustainable and responsible 1.
HOW WE RUN OUR BUSINESS approachto doing business is We must run our business in a responsible and sustainable manner, integral to everythingwedo complying with laws and regulations, managing and mitigating risks and delivering sustainable returns for customers and shareholders.
Responding to a changing Britain 2016 was a year of significant change in Britain and considerable change worldwide.
As Britain faces an uncertain period it is vitally important that we help people, businesses and communities to address the challenges they face: challenges related to housing, employability, savings, business growth, international trade, financial exclusion and disadvantage.
Ensuring good governance A responsible approach We have an effective top-to-bottom governance structure, providing an environment in which colleagues are encouraged Doing business responsibly is fundamental to our strategy to andsupported to do the right thing and to work responsibly.
This become the best bank for customers, our Helping Britain Prosper governance structure includes our Group Board and the Board-level Plan, our Code of Responsibility and all of our Group policies and Responsible Business Committee and cascades to every part of our standards and the future success of the business.
In 2016 we established an Executive level Responsible We are committed to sustainable development and delivering a Business Management Committee which reports to the Chief prosperous Britain for all.
This includes working with others to deliver Executive and is responsible for recommending and implementing relevant areas of the United Nations agenda, such as the Sustainable the Groups Responsible Business strategy.
Read more about the Development Goals.
As signatories to the UN Global Compact we Responsible Business Committees activity in 2016 on page 79. have pledged toembed their 10 principles, including human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, into the way we operate.
Beyond regulatory compliance Our first annual Communication on Progress will be published online Operating responsibly requires running our business in ways that in April 2017. meet relevant legal and regulatory requirements.
In addition, we havea number of internal policies and procedures related to doing We aspire to conduct business in a way that values and respects business responsibly including our Ethics Policy.
We support the UNs thehuman rights of our colleagues, suppliers, customers and the wider development agenda, including the Guiding Principles on communities we operate in.
We welcome the Modern Slavery Act Our responsible approach is reflected by our continued presence and increased transparency and will publish our first Transparency inthe FTSE4Good Index and our position in the CDP Climate A list Statement on or before 30June2017.
in recognition of our transparent reporting and efforts to reduce ouremissions.
Engaging with stakeholders We know that engaging with different stakeholder groups is extremely Focusing on what matters most important.
It enables us to understand the issues they face and their expectations of the Group.
Their contributions influence our In 2016 we undertook a comprehensive materiality survey to analyse and rank the responsible business issues that our stakeholders strategic thinking and also help us to shape our corporate reporting.
deem most important to our business.
Using a range of internal and We held more than 1,100 meetings with investors in 2016.
We external sources, we identified 30 economic, social, environmental regularly engage SRI ESG investors as well as mainstream investors and governance issues across eight key categories and asked and investment analysts to provide them with information on our stakeholder groups to share their views: colleagues, customers, performance, strategic plans and how we do business responsibly.
investors, community groups, government and legislators and This year we held a number of responsible business webinars and special interest groups and opinion formers.
roadshows with investors and analysts and undertook a governance In 2016 many of the same issues as 2015 emerged as the most lunch for major investors at which responsible business was actively discussed.
We also briefed ratings agencies about our performance material, with human rights, colleague diversity and wellbeing, economic impact, and data privacy and security growing in against our Conduct Risk Appetite Metrics.
Read more on page 145. importance.
The top material issues are as follows: 1.
ECONOMIC IMPACT OUR STAKEHOLDER PANEL 4.
HUMAN RIGHTS, DIVERSITY AND WELLBEING Weve had a Panel in place since 2012 but in 2016 we established a smaller and more focused Independent Stakeholder Advisory Panel.
It will provide informed and constructive external challenge and advice on our Responsible Business strategy and programmes, including the Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
'The Stakeholder Panel will be powerful in helping us to stay focused on our priorities, to advise us and to challenge us to think innovatively about emerging issues. '
com ResponsibleBusiness Sara Weller, Chairman, Responsible Business Committee for more information 20 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Responsible lending and investment 2.
BUILDING TRUST We recognise the need to address climate change, protect biodiversity, support local communities and ensure human Our Group strategy highlights our intention to build the best team rightsare protected.
We assess and manage social, ethical and in a responsible culture where colleagues put customers first.
To environmental risk in our lending activity and the Group is a embed this culture, we need to be clear about how we expect signatory to the Equator Principles, which provide a framework colleagues to behave at work.
fordetermining, assessing and managing environmental and socialrisk in project finance transactions.
We do not finance any activities prohibited by international conventions supported by the UK government, such as the OsloConvention on Cluster Munitions and the Ottawa Treaty onAnti-Personnel Landmines.
Consequently, we will not enter intocredit or investment relationships with businesses believed tobe inbreach of these conventions.
The management of risk for investment funds offered to customers by Scottish Widows is effected through a robust and comprehensive end to end governance and oversight reporting process, including aResponsible Investment Governance Framework.
This covers the ongoing engagement process with fund managers, monitoring of mandate adherence and onward reporting through Investment Building a more responsible culture Committees and Boards.
The Group is a signatory of the We have established a clear and simple view of the culture we Stewardship Code and the UN Principles of Responsible Investment.
want tobuild, which is based on our Values.
Throughout 2016, we continued to reinforce these Values and the behaviours that define them, through our Group Culture plan.
We have created a Culture Dashboard, which helps us to monitor progress and a Group 3.
ECONOMIC IMPACT Customer First Committee, which ensures that Customer, Culture We contribute to the UK economy through our products and and Conduct remain key considerations.
We also encourage services, and through the commitments in our Helping Britain colleagues to share their concerns, without fear of reprisal, if they Prosper Plan.
We also make a positive economic impact as a major believe the codes, policies and procedures that support our employer and purchaser.
They can do this in a number of ways, including through our Speak Up service which is managed independently of the Group.
During 2016, 286concerns were raised with the Speak Up team and 171 progressed to investigations.
Of the investigations completed by year end 57percent were upheld and remedial action was taken where appropriate.
We have a comprehensive Anti-Bribery Policy in place which complies with laws and regulations wherever we operate, and which applies to all directors, colleagues, and anyone else acting on our behalf.
Allcolleagues, including contractors, complete annual anti-bribery training and are encouraged to report confidentially any instances of suspected bribery.
The Group is a member of Transparency International UKs Business Integrity Forum, a network of major international companies committed to anti-corruption and high ethical standards in businesspractices.
Sustainable business performance and growth Making our business more transparent During 2016 we have made good progress against our strategic We are committed to conducting our business responsibly and priorities whilst delivering strong financial performance.
Our cost dealing transparently and fairly with any queries or concerns our leadership and lower risk positioning provide competitive stakeholders may have about our business.
Our differentiated, UK focused business model continued to deliver for customers and shareholders.
We maintain regular dialogue with colleagues to assess their views.
We measure our progress in building our culture along with Operating sustainably and responsibly is critical to the long-term colleagues pride in the Group through our colleague surveys.
The success of the business and creating value for our stakeholders, Best Bank for Customers and the Building the Best Team surveys and benefits the wider UK economy.
are conducted by an independent third party and provide aclear view of colleagues thoughts and feelings.
We use the results to inform Making an economic contribution to Britain We make a significant direct and indirect contribution to the decisions about the Groups future direction and to support improvement of each teams performance.
The 2016 results show that economy.
We employ approximately 75,000 colleagues full time equivalent.
We are helpingto create additional jobs and bring colleagues are engaged and they believe collaboration and working in an agile way are improving.
We asked colleagues if they think talented people into ourbusiness through our Graduate and Apprenticeship Schemes.
Weve created more than 4,000 LloydsBanking Group isa responsible business.
87 per cent of them agreed that The behaviour of the people I work with is consistent apprenticeships since we launchedour Apprenticeship scheme inOctober 2012.
We run asector-leading and award-winning with LloydsBanking Groups Valuesand Codes of Responsibility.
programme, offering a broad range of apprenticeships at all levels, We regularly provide colleagues with information on the Groups including a degree-level apprenticeship in IT and Digital.
In 2016, performance and matters that concern their role, such aschanges in weprovided a further 1,000new roles, a third of which have been the economic and regulatory environment, organisational changes offered toexternal candidates from the UKs most disadvantaged and reward and remuneration.
Colleagues are offered share areas.
Wehave committed tocreate 8,000 new apprenticeships by schemes as part of wider incentive arrangements, to encourage 2020, as part of our Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
shared ownership of the business.
Details of how rights relating to the control of the company attaching to such shares are exercised, which are incorporated by reference in the strategic report, are available on page 234.
21 Strategic report Doing business responsibly continued Our approach to tax The Group continues to be one of the largest contributors to 4.
SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS FAIRLY UKtaxrevenues.
We were ranked as the highest payer of UK We serve a diverse customer base through many different channels.
taxesinthe mostrecent PwC Total Tax Contribution Survey for Ensuring our products and services are accessible and suitable to the100Group which is broadly the FTSE100 and some large the individual needs of our customers is at the heart of everything UKprivate companies, having paid 1.8 billion in 2015. we do: consistently offering the best experience, providing products and services when they need our support.
In 2016, we paid 2.3 billlion in tax.
We are also a major tax collector, gathering 2billion on behalf of HMRC in 2016 2015: 2.2billion.
Our approach to tax is governed by a Board-approved Tax Policy which we have discussed with HMRC.
We comply with the HMRC Code of Practice on Taxation for Banksand the Confederation of British Industrys Statement of tax principles.
We do not interpret tax laws in a way that we believe is contrary to the intention of Parliament, and we do not promote tax avoidance products to ourcustomers.
Tax paid in 2016: 2.3 billion Corporation tax: 676m Bank levy: 253m Bank surcharge: 118m Irrecoverable VAT: 710m Protecting our customers Employers NIC: 375m We protect our 25 million customers including those who bank Business rates, stamp duties and other levies: 163m digitally, using state of the art security measures, including secure log-on and log-off features as well as systems that detect possible anomalies in calls we receive and highlight fraudulent payments in real time.
We help customers keep themselves safe by providing best practice information and championing public information campaigns, such as Take 5.
We are a strategic partner of Get Safe Online, a joint initiative Helping businesses trade between the government, the National Crime agency and many During 2016, we helped more than 10,000 of our clients to start public and private sector organisations.
In 2016, we made a exporting for the first time, exceeding our Helping Britain Prosper significant contribution to the Joint Fraud Task Force, which brings Plan target of 5,000 businesses a year.
This puts us on course to together government, law enforcement and industry partners to set exceed our target of helping 25,000 businesses export for the first a strategic direction for fraud prevention measures.
Task Force has spearheaded the Banking Protocol, enabling bank colleagues to request immediate police support when they believe that customers are being targeted by fraudsters.
We will champion OUR TRADE PORTAL the Protocols national rollout in 2017.
Tackling money laundering and terrorist financing Businesses who want to trade internationally can use our new We take steps to make sure our products are not used for criminal International Trade Portal to access a wealth of practical purposes such as money laundering and terrorist financing, in liaison information and advice.
We also make it easy for them by with legislators and regulators.
We undertake due diligence on linking with 100 partner banks outside the UK and we have customers throughout the duration of their relationship with us, and launched a marketing campaign promoting the benefits of monitor unusual activity on all accounts using advanced technology doing business internationally.
to detect potential criminal activity.
If we spot anything suspicious we take immediate and appropriate action.
All our colleagues are aware of our Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Policy and have access to training to help them understand what is Supporting manufacturing and infrastructure required ofthem.
In 2016 we exceeded our target to support 10 billion of infrastructure projects within the Groups National Infrastructure Widening financial inclusion and supporting Plan.
Projects supported include finance provision for the Port of vulnerable customers Dover, with the creation of its new cargo terminal, the Beatrice We want to do more to help customers who are financially excluded Offshore Windfarm, one of the largest private investments ever or at risk of becoming so.
Our financial inclusion strategy, launched made in Scottish infrastructure, and the creation of a wood pellet in 2014, focuses on four themes: providing accessible products and power plant inTeesside which will generate enough electricity to services that meet customers needs: improving awareness and power 600,000homes.
understanding of the impacts of financial exclusion across the bank: We'five provided 1.2 billion of new funding support to UK working in partnership with and signposting to other organisations manufacturing businesses in 2016.
We have also committed a that might be better suited to meet customer needs: and continuing 5million sponsorship over five years to the Lloyds Bank Advanced to invest in financial education.
Manufacturing Training Centre, where over 1,000 apprentices, Opening a basic bank account can be the first step towards financial graduates and engineers will acquire valuable specialist inclusion for many customers.
In 2016, we provided almost 350,000 manufacturing skills by 2020, to help secure a pipeline of 2015: over 300,000 new basic bank accounts and also helped newtalentinto UKmanufacturing.
70,000 customers upgrade from basic to more mainstream products.
We also recognise that not having the right ID can be amajor barrier to opening an account, so we aim to treat each customer as an individual, and ensure our colleagues have ways to accept many different forms of ID, in order to help them onto the banking platform.
We know we have more to do to achieve this level of personal service.
22 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CREDIT UNIONS 5.
HUMAN RIGHTS, DIVERSITY AND WELLBEING As part of our commitment to help financially disadvantaged We believe that everyone should have the opportunity to reach people across Britain, we announced a further 1 million to theirfull potential at Lloyds Banking Group whatever their role support 21 credit unions in January 2016, the third stage of our orbackground.
Our aim is to build a bank that represents modern 4million four year commitment.
Our support should allow Britain where colleagues' talents are recognised, and their human each credit union to lend additional funds, resulting in an rights are respected.
We aim to align our activity and policies with increase in sustainable sector lending of around 20 million international best practice and recognised standards, such as the from 2014 to 2017.
UN Declaration on Human Rights.
Digital technology also offers an important opportunity to make financial services more accessible.
Almost 6 million adults in the UK have never used the internet and just under 50 per cent of charities and more than 1 million small and medium-sized businesses lack basic digital skills.
Increasing digital capability is one of the most important factors that will drive financial inclusion over the coming years, so we aim to use our expertise and reach to promote wider understanding and access, as shown in our Lloyds Bank Consumer Digital Index which surveys 1 million customers.
We have improved our services for customers who are disabled or have suffered bereavement and work with third sector organisations such as Macmillan to support customers affected by cancer.
We provide assistance for customers with mental health problems or dementia, and run dementia awareness training for branch and Promoting equal opportunities and telephony colleagues.
This year, we also reviewed our digital services, Inclusion & Diversity together with the charity Abilitynet, to ensure we provide the best We widen and promote Inclusion & Diversity I&D through service for our 4 million vulnerable customers who bank with us online.
ourGroup Executive Committee, executive level I&D sponsors, quarterly I&D forum and I&D Operational committee, which Improving customer experience and satisfaction oversees implementation of our strategy.
During 2016, Improving our customers experience of and satisfaction with we launched a new Group-wide everyone campaign to explain ourproducts and services is central to our Customer Journey the relevance and importance of inclusion to all colleagues, Transformation CJT initiative.
CJT involves rethinking and introduced our new Family Matters network for parents and redesigning customer journeys to meet our customers evolving carers and re-launched our REACH Race, Ethnicity and Cultural needs, particularly as digital becomes more mainstream in the Heritage network.
We became the first UK company to include gender dysphoria We have improved the customer experience in branch and online using digital.
We opened more than 40,000 savings accounts in our inour Private Medical Benefit provision and were ranked number one private sector employer in the Stonewall Top 100.
The Group branches using digital technology this year, saving customers as much as 20 minutes of their time.
We introduced processes to make was also named a Times Top 50 Employer for Womenand Top 10 Employer for Working Families.
banking faster and easier, including selfie verification for account applications and video meetings and live webchat support for Occupational health, safety and wellbeing mortgage and remortgage applicants.
Our in-house customer We provide access to comprehensive online tools to support innovation labs tested more than 30 new technologies and services common health topics, such as fitness, smoking, diet and mental with our customers in 2016 including smart customer alert services health.
We also issue monthly colleague newsletters on relevant and new ways to upload documents digitally.
issues and support national health and wellbeing campaigns such as National Worklife Balance Week.
In November we held a Dealing with customer complaints Mental Health and Wellbeing week.
We are now working with our In 2016 we emphasised the need to identify, understand and eradicate new charity partner, Mental Health UK, to create an environment the root causes of customer complaints.
We encourage colleagues to which is fully inclusive and supportive of colleagues living with share ideas about how to remove the issues that drive complaints and mental health conditions.
When customers do complain, we resolve complaints as quickly as possible, focusing on achieving fair Working in partnership with external, market leading specialists, we outcomes.
Where a complaint is referred to the Financial Ombudsman support colleagues health and wellbeing by providing access to an Service, they tend to agree with our decisions in the majority of cases.
Occupational Health Service, an Employee Assistance Programme EAP and company paid private medical cover.
Colleagues can We welcome the changes the Financial Conduct Authority has made to complaint classification and reporting, which came into obtain independent advice through the EAP and also have access toour award-winning Issue Resolution Scheme.
These changes ensure a transparent approach to complaints reporting, ensuring that businesses are clear on the root causes of customer dissatisfaction, and that the volume of complaints that businesses receive are contextualised tothe size of the organisation.
The impact were making The impact were making Gold rated 86% 25,000 by the Business Disability Forum of colleagues believe members of our five for our work with customers the Group is an inclusive colleague diversity and colleagues place to work networks 23 Strategic report Doing business responsibly continued launched a Personal Learning Calendar which focuses on a relevant Our inclusion and diversity data topic each month such as delivering the best customer experience.
2016 2015 An average of 77 per cent of the colleagues who participated in this Gender years Building the Best Team Survey, responded favourably to Board members Male 10 10 questions about training confirming that they believe they get the Female 3 3 training and development needed to do their job effectively and meet customer demands.
This is an increase of 2 per cent from last 1 Senior managers Male 5,019 5,561 year, putting us 15 per cent abovethe UK average.
Female 2,317 2,405 Throughout 2016, we continued to support colleagues studying for 1 Colleagues Male 32,669 34,602 professional qualifications and contributedto the developing work Female 43,519 46,920 of the Banking Standards Board, including their independent research into, and subsequent Report on, Professionalism Ethnicity inBanking.
Percentages of colleagues from Supporting line managers and senior leaders an ethnic minority 7.9% 6.8% We have continued to develop our Line Manager Academy to Ethnic minority managers 6.4% 6.4% meetthe changing needs of our line manager population.
During Ethnic minority senior managers 4.8% 3.7% the year colleagues attended Academy training programmes more than 3,200 times.
Our Leadership Academy provides senior leaders Disability with relevant development solutions.
In 2016 we developed five new Percentage of colleagues who Programmes for the Academy which together attracted almost disclose they have a disability 2.2% 1.1% 300attendees.
In March 2016 we launched our Strategic Leaders Sexual orientation Programme which supports our senior 175 leaders in the Group withthe aim of driving the culture we need to be the best bank Percentage of colleagues who forcustomers.
disclose they are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender 1.5% 1.2% Support for disabled colleagues We are committed to being a more disability confident employer.
1 Colleague scope of reporting: UK payroll headcount includes established and fixed term contract colleagues.
Excludes parental leavers, Non-Executive Directors, More than 5,000 colleagues disclosed a disability in our most recent contractors, temp, agency and internationals.
We also potentially serve around six million Seniors Managers: Grades F customers affected by disability or long-term health issues.
We are Managers: Grade D-E recognised as a leading employer for disabled people with cutting Data source: HR system HR Online.
Apart from gender data, all diversity information is edge practices for customers and colleagues: in 2016 we won a based on colleagues voluntary self-declaration.
As a result this data is not 100 percent Business Disability SMART Award for the third year running for our representative: our systems do not record diversity data for the proportion of colleagues workplace adjustments process and were highly commended for who have not declared this information.
We have a range of programmes to support colleagues who become disabled or develop a RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS long-term health condition.
Our workplace adjustments process, which includes physical equipment, has supported over 18,000 PERFORMANCE colleagues to date.
In addition to the issues highlighted as most material by our Since 2002 we have been running Personal Development and stakeholders, we also report annually on other aspects of Career Development Programmes for disabled colleagues.
1,500 responsible business, which we regard as integral to our operations.
ofour colleagues have completed this programme to date.
Developing and rewarding our colleagues We aim to appoint the best person available into any role and to We want to ensure that every colleague feels valued and attract talented people from diverse backgrounds.
We encourage empowered to thrive in a truly inclusive business.
We offer a and give full and fair consideration to job applications from people competitive and fair reward package that supports our aims as a with a disability and are unbiased in the way we assess, select, responsible business.
After a detailed review in 2015 of the variable appoint, train and promote people.
We offer a guaranteed interview pay arrangements used to incentivise customer-facing colleagues, scheme for candidates who declare a disability and meet the variable pay for colleagues in the Retail division is no longer linked minimum requirements of the role.
We continue to run a work to individual or branch level sales or product targets.
To build on aDisability Work Experience Programme in partnership with these changes, a single variable pay arrangement was introduced Remploy.
This is one of the largest disability-focused work for these colleagues in 2016.
Customer-facing colleagues in Retail experience initiatives in the financial services sector.
are now incentivised by reference to balanced scorecard metrics Agile working with clearly identified performance descriptors, in line with the As a founder member of a group of leading employers supporting Group annual bonus plan approach.
These changes ensure that workforce agility in the UK, weve been looking closely at ways to colleagues are rewarded for action and behaviour which puts become more agile as an organisation over the past 18 months.
We have recognition agreements with two trade bring agile working to life we launched a Getting Smart about Agile unions, Accord and Unite, which collectively negotiate and consult Working campaign, which had a high profile across the whole on behalf of around 95percent of our colleagues.
Our most recent survey indicates that over 26,000 of our Learning and development colleagues work in an agile way.
In 2016 weve also implemented a All colleagues have access to our learning management system, new job sharing website, a new approach to agile hiring and agile Discover Learning, and with the launch of our Career Development working training for all colleagues.
Resource Centre it is now even easier for them to access learning materials to develop in their current roles or for career moves.
During 2016, colleagues logged-in more than 11 million times: The impact were making overall, almost 480,000 days of formal training were undertaken, an average of 6days per colleague.
In addition, 30,000 active learners use e-learning provided by one of our partners, Skillsoft.
26,000 4,000 We launched the Groups Digital Academy, a suite of learning modules available to all colleagues supporting our aim of creating colleagues work members of our colleague the most digitally capable workforce in Financial Services.
In the firstsix months this received 15,500 colleague visits.
We also in an agile way disability network 'Access' 24 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Managing and reducing our Supporting communities and tackling environmental impacts social disadvantage Our ability to help Britain prosper is inextricably linked to wider We are an integral part of communities across the UK and believe environmental issues.
Man-made climate change and global we are in a unique position to help them prosper through our trends, such as resource scarcity, extreme weather and rising community programmes and investment.
These programmes energyand commodity prices, have an impact on our stakeholders arefocused on three themes: education, employability and and our own operations.
We are committed to managing our direct enterprise.
Our total community investment in 2016 was over environmental impact and reducing our greenhouse gas emissions.
63million which includes our colleagues time, direct donations We manage our impacts through our Environmental Action Plan, and the money we give to ourindependent charitable Foundations.
which focuses on reducing risk and creating value through The Foundations receive a share of the Groups profits annually.
Our emissions THE FOUNDATIONS This year our overall carbon emissions, measured in CO equivalent 2 tonnes CO e, have decreased by 12.95 per cent year-on-year 2 andby 38.83 per cent against our 2009 baseline.
This is mainly We want to do more to help tackle disadvantage through our attributable to the reduction in consumption of gas and electricity independent charitable Foundations.
Our England and Wales which make up the largest proportion of our emissions and our Foundation is the UKs largest corporate foundation.
Read more about our emissions 1985, we have given almost 600 million to tackle disadvantage inthe Directors' report on page 81. in communities across the UK.
This brings the total raised over our two year using actual data to replace estimations.
partnership to more than 12.5 million.
The money we have raised Emissions in tonnes CO e in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard 2004.
2 will make asignificant impact across the UK.
We are in the process of transitioning to the revised Scope 2 guidance.
Criteria used to measure and report Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions is provided in the In 2017 we will begin a two year partnership with Mental Health UK, Lloyds Banking Group Reporting Criteria statement available online at a collaboration of four national mental health charities.
isto raise 4 million to help develop and launch the first helpline Scope 1 emissions include mobile and stationary combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
dedicated to supporting people experiencing mental health and Scope 2 emissions have been calculated using a location based methodology, money management issues.
We plan to use the partnership to as set out by the GHG Protocol.
further improve the awareness and management of mental health within the organisation, and to help our frontline colleagues to Supporting the low carbon economy improve their service to customers.
We continue to develop products and services to support customers transition to a lower carbon, more resource efficient Engaging with our stakeholders economy.
Since 2014 we have launched two Environmental, Social Working with our suppliers and Governance ESG bonds totalling 500 million.
Lloyds Bank We are working together with our suppliers and others in our supply became the first UK bank to develop an ESG deposit scheme chain to ensure we source goods and services in ways that are inresponse to client demand to invest in products that create responsible, sustainable and mutually beneficial.
comprises around 4,000 companies supplying us mainly with In March 2016 Lloyds Bank launched its innovative 1 billion Green services, ranging from HR and recruitment through to marketing Loan Initiative for commercial real estate lending.
The initiative the and legal advice.
We also buy products to enable us to operate our first of its kind in the UK provides clients with loans at discounted banking services such as IT hardware and property-related goods.
margins to help incentivise energy efficiency and finance investment In 2016, we reduced our supplier expenditure to 5.3 billion from in green buildings.
We completed the first tranche of deals in the 5.8 billion in 2015.
94 per cent of this was spent with suppliers second half of 2016, totalling 72 million, and have helped borrowers based in the UK.
like HPH, a Bath-based property company with a diverse property Supporting regional prosperity portfolio, to fund energy efficiency projects.
We have now set a Our Group Ambassador Programme supports our ambition to target in our Helping Britain Prosper Plan to fund 10 million square enable social and economic prosperity in all parts of the UK.
Our feet of commercial real estate to become more energy efficient by tenAmbassadors, who are all senior colleagues, have a mandate 2020, the equivalent of sevenLondon Shards.
from the Group Chief Executive to support economic and social In 2016 our UK-based team was responsible for financing renewable development across the whole of the UK.
They work with politicians, projects with a combined capacity of more than 1.78GW.
Globally, government officials, regional development agencies andlocal our investments in renewable energy are in excess of 7.4GW in enterprise partnerships as well as local councils to help achieve this.
capacity and cover solar, offshore and onshore wind, waste to In 2016 the Ambassadors have worked on three core themes: energy and biomass.
housing, the rural economy and agriculture, and education and skills In 2016 Lloyds Bank played a key part in financing a major offshore with a supporting focus on digital.
wind farm off the Norfolk coast, with operations in Grimsby.
Race Bank will provide enough energy to power 400,000 homes with a The impact were making potential capacity of573MW.
It is anticipated the project, when in operation, will create more than 100 jobs associated with building and maintaining turbines for the Humber region.
Indicator is subject to limited ISAE3000 revised assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2016 97% Annual Responsible Business Reporting.
Deloittes 2016 assurance statement and the 2016 Reporting Criteria are available online at www.
of supplier invoices paid within 30 days 25
