Strategic report Our Helping Britain Prosper Plan People, businesses and communities across Britain are facing significant challenges.
Were helping to address them through our Helping Britain Prosper Plan A plan to help Britain OUR FOCUS AREAS We believe no other bank is better placed to help Britain prosper.
We serve approximately 25 million customers and 1million small businesses but we want to be more than just a bank.
We want to go beyond business as usual and help address social and economic challenges such as Britains housing shortage, the skills gap in key industries, social mobility and social disadvantage.
We are part of the fabric of Britain, visible on almost every high street through our iconic brands.
The challenges Britain faces affectus directly, our operations and our colleagues.
Through our independent charitable Foundations, which support thousands of charities, we help some of the most disadvantaged people in Britain.
In 2016 we invested 18.5 million in our Foundations and our colleagues donated their skills and expertise tohelp the charities they support become more sustainable.
HELPING PEOPLE PROSPER The Plan is core to our strategy: we know from long experience that We are providing more support for individuals and families when Britain prospers, so do we.
So the Plan is an investment in our whether they are buying a home, planning for later life collective long-term success.
It supports our strategy to become the or looking for a rewarding job.
We are making our Group best bank for customers and its fundamental to rebuilding trust in more diverse and inclusive to reflect the Britain we serve.
our brands and the sector.
Evolving the Plan Key actions We launched the Plan in 2014, drawing on advice from our senior We have made good progress against our People targets.
leaders and many external stakeholders, including our Independent Recognising the potential shortfall in many peoples pension Stakeholder Panel and Foundations, to help us shape it.
These provisions, we have exceeded our target and had over 280,000 stakeholders play a role in its continuing evolution.
visitsto our retirement planning website.
Since the launch of the Plan we have achieved a lot, meeting 20 of We supported 75,000 first-time homebuyers, but missed our target our 25 targets in 2014, and 27 of our 28 targets in 2015.
We want to do more to support the whole housing adjusted the Plan to make it more focused on what we can do best market by making first-time buyer mortgages easier to access and for Britain, more ambitious and more measurable in terms of the by being a leading supporter of new build mortgages.
Our 2017 outcomes we want to achieve.
In 2016 we achieved 20 out of our Plan reflects this ambition.
Our new mortgage lending totalled 24targets.
38.7billion in 2016 and we are a leading supporter of the governments Help to Buy scheme, having advanced 5.3billion under the mortgage guarantee element since 2013.
We continue to make progress against our target that women hold40 per cent of our senior roles by 2020.
In 2016, despite focusing on building a talent pipeline of female managers, we fell slightly short of our 33 per cent senior management goal.
We also fell just short of our targettofully engage more of our disabled colleagues but we will continuetosupport them through our award-winning workplace adjustment programme and our colleague network.
Helping Britain prosper is about creating Progress in 2016 opportunities for all to share in the economic and social benefits of a 1 in 4 32.4% successful UK.
As a sustainable, low-risk new build mortgages of senior roles now provided in 2016 held by women business we can support this success in many ways Supporting Sara Weller mental health Independent Director and Chairman, Responsible Business Committee We have launched a mental health awareness campaign for colleagues and are introducing training so that line Read more about our Plan online at managers can understand and www.
com ProsperPlan help those affected.
18 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HELPING BUSINESSES PROSPER HELPING COMMUNITIES PROSPER We are helping businesses of all types and sizes to prosper by We are helping communities by addressing inequality, offering them the funding, support and encouragement they supporting disadvantaged people and championing need to grow at home or abroad.
We are supporting the Britains diversity.
transition to a low carbon economy.
Key actions Key actions We have provided 1.2 billion of new funding support to By working with our independent charitable Foundations we have manufacturing businesses and, through our 5million investment continued to support communities across the UK.
In 2016 we gave inthe LloydsBank Advanced Manufacturing Training Centre in 18.5 million to our Foundations and have supported 3,700 charities, Coventry, we are helping to train the next generation of highly which reach some of the most disadvantaged people in Britain skilled manufacturing apprentices, graduates and engineers.
We have helped more than 10,000 of our clients to start exporting for Our colleagues completed more than 260,000 hours of volunteering the firsttime, exceeding our Helping Britain Prosper Plan target of putting us on track to deliver 2.3 million hours by 2020.
This puts us on course to exceed our target more to encourage colleagues to use their skills and expertise, of helping 25,000 businesses export for the first time, by 2020. though mentoring and skills-based volunteering, which accounted for 35 per cent of all colleague volunteering hours in 2016.
We increased net lending to SME and Mid Markets companies by 1 1.6billion, but fell short of our 2billion Plan target.
Since 2011, our In 2016 the number of Digital Champions reached 23,000 and net lending to SMEs has increased by 30 per cent whilst the market wehave trained almost 10,000 of these to offer digital support to has contracted 11 per cent, and since 2012 our lending to Mid people and organisations in their local communities.
This means Markets companies has increased by 15 per cent, compared to a wehave achieved our Helping Britain Prosper Plan target of 20,000 market that has declined 3percent.
We aim to increase lending Digital Champions early.
Weve set a new target for 2017 to train tothe sector by 2billion in2017.
700,000 individuals, SMEsand charities in digital skills, including We also want to do more to support green business initiatives, so internet banking.
weve set a new environmental target to provide funding to help 10million square feet of commercial real estate, equivalent to seven London Shards, become more energy efficient by 2020.
Progress in 2016 Progress in 2016 10bn 121,000 955m 23,000 of infrastructure start-up businesses new funding support colleague digital projects supported helped for social housing champions Housing Growth Helping the homeless Partnership Edinburgh charity Fresh Start helps previously homeless people Mike and Ali Afshar of AMA to resettle when they find a home.
Homes are one of many smaller A Bank of Scotland Foundation house building businesses grant helped them to pay an benefiting from our 30 million Operations Managers salary Partnership with the andfund project work.
1 The Plan target excludes net lending to the Social Housing and CRE sectors.
Social Housing is included under a separate target in the 2016 Plan: we delivered 955 million of new funding support.
