Strategic report Market overview Given our UK focus, our financial performance is inextricably linked to the performance of the UK economy and its regulatory and competitive environment ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT Business borrowing from banks increased by 2 per cent, Resilient UK economy post referendum thefirst growth since 2008, and SMEs by 2 per cent also During 2016 the UK economy performed broadly in line with market Household deposit growth rose to 6 per cent, the strongest expectations at the start of the year despite the decision to leave since2008 the European Union and significant changes in the political Business deposit growth weakened, to 6 per cent, but remains landscape, both in the UK and abroad.
strong after three years of elevated growth and a very high level Although post referendum most forecasters were predicting a ofliquidity reduction in growth, in practice growth has been resilient and the UK economy is estimated to have grown by 2 per cent in 2016, just Interest rates low for longer shy of 2.2 per cent in 2015. Business and consumer confidence did Interest rates remain at historical lows with the base rate having fall immediately post referendum, but most of this has now been been cut to 0.25 per cent in August, and are expected to remain recovered and consumers retail spending growth actually lowin the foreseeable future.
Market rates currently imply an accelerated in the months after the referendum.
increase to the base rate to 0.5 per cent during 2018, and to Manufacturers are expecting exports to benefit from the weaker 0.75percent a year later.
This flattening of the yield curve along pound, but confidence in the service sector has weakened.
Towards withcontinued competition has meant bank margins remain under the end of 2016 inflation started to rise and is likely to become pressure.
Significant competition has meant lending rates across abigger headwind to consumers' spending growth through the themarket remain low, particularly in mortgages, although deposit coming year.
rates have fallen further during the year, offsetting the impact of lower lending rates.
UK house prices increased by around 7 per cent during the year, largely driven by strong growth in the first quarter.
Prices have Impairment expected to remain benign continued to increase, albeit at slower rates, during the rest Improving indebtedness, along with the continued low interest rate oftheyear in almost all geographic areas, although the most environment, is continuing to keep impairment levels low and they expensive parts of London have seen some reductions over remain below through-the-cycle levels.
The expected mild rise in unemployment is likely to lead to an Growth in our markets increase in impairment from the very low level of 2016, but it Household and business deleveraging since 2009 has created shouldremain low over the longer term.
capacity for an increased pace of borrowing and the markets Outlook for 2017 inwhich we operate continued to grow in 2016.
Specifically: How the economy evolves in 2017 is highly dependent on the type Mortgage market growth increased to 3 per cent, from 2.7percent of EU-exit deal that companies expect to be achieved in 2019, how in 2015, the strongest since2007, and although buy-to-let growth deeply that impacts investment and employment plans, and how was impacted by the change in stamp duty policy in April, it still much squeezed consumer spending power is offset by improved grew significantly faster than the market as a whole competitiveness of exports following the fall in sterling.
Each of Unsecured consumer credit growth rose to 8 per cent led by motor these carries a high degree of uncertainty.
Although the strongest growth since before the financial The UK economic environment will also continue to be impacted crisis, the level of unsecured debt remains close to a 20 year low relative to households income byglobal uncertainties including the slowdown in China, European elections and the global trade environment, particularly in light ofthe recent US presidential election.
Mortgages % The consensus expectation is that UK GDP growth will slow from 2016 3.0 2per cent in 2016 to 1.6 per cent in 2017, and unemployment will 2015 2.7 remain low, but will rise from 4.9 per cent at the end of 2016 to 2014 1.6 5.2 per cent at the end of 2017.
House prices are expected to continue to rise, by around 3 per cent, supported by the ongoing Consumer unsecured % shortage of property for sale, low levels of housebuilding and exceptionally low interest rates, while commercial real estate 2016 8.3 pricesare expected to fall by 4 per cent.
2015 6.0 If the economy evolves in line with this consensus view, we would 2014 4.1 expect growth across our markets to remain broadly stable in aggregate, with a mild weakening in the growth of unsecured % SME borrowing consumer credit andcommercial real estate lending offset by amarginal rise in mortgages and other lending to businesses.
2016 2.0 2015 0.1 2014 3.7 10 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMER TRENDS AND COMPETITION The regulatory landscape in which we operate continues to evolve, but the key themes of protecting consumers and small business In the competitive open markets in which we operate, customers customers, ensuring competitive markets and strengthening the are benefiting from an increasing range of products and services prudential and capital framework remain.
from a growing choice of providers and via a range of channels.
Access through digital platforms, including via mobile devices, Competition has increased significantly in recent years, changing customer During 2016 the Competition and Markets Authority CMA review behaviours and expectations in terms of how they shop for of current accounts and SME Banking concluded that it needed to goods and undertake banking, and these trends are expected intervene in these markets only to increase levels of transparency to accelerate.
and comparability in order to promote greater levels of customer switching.
In addition, the FCA and PSR reviewed a series of Customers require different products and services at different stages of their lives, with many motivated by their desire to achieve individual markets ranging from credit cards to payments infrastructure.
Ensuring fair competition remains a core element better value for money, not least in the current low interest rate environment.
Security and reputation remain important factors, ofregulatory reform with the mortgage market a key area of focusfor 2017. withcustomers wanting clear and transparent products delivered with good service and access to relevant, expert advice.
Conduct We have seen an influx of new entrants to the market, with a variety In 2016 the Senior Manager & Certification Regimes were of business models.
Many of these have expertise and experience implemented, introducing greater clarity and accountability into indigital product offerings, with strong funding positions, credible decision making for financial institutions.
In addition, the FCA brands, and in some cases pre-existing customer bases and branch announced in December it would extend the timetable for its networks.
In addition, non-banks such as technology firms and announcement on a potential deadline for PPI complaints until supermarkets are disrupting the banking industry.
We continue to work to ensure we provide Our strategy, which focuses on our multi-brand, multi-channel appropriate and fair products with clear, simple and relevant terms.
distribution model, simpler processes, customer-driven product Capital range and expertise across insurance and banking, puts us in a unique position to respond to these market conditions and meet Although the Bank of England is comfortable with the capital level the needs of individual and corporate customers.
Above all, it forthe UK banking sector as a whole, a number of changes tocapital recognises that our market is competitive, additional challengers requirements, particularly with regard to credit and operational risk, continue to emerge and that to succeed we need to focus on the have been proposed by the Basel Committee forBanking Supervision ever-changing needs of our customers.
and further discussions are scheduled forMarch 2017.
We performed well in the recent Bank of England stress tests and remain comfortably in excess of minimum requirements on our key capital and leverage ratios.
Given this and ourstrong capital generation, we are well positioned in the event ofany changes.
Key opportunities Ring-fencing and resolution Customer needs: our differentiated customer focused Good progress continues to be made towards implementation of strategy along with our multi-channel distribution network, ring-fencing in January 2019 in line with the EU Bank Recovery and in particular our evolving digital capability, position us well Resolution Directive and additionally for UK banks, the Financial to address changing customer needs.
Due to our UK retail and commercial Regulatory environment: greater clarity is emerging focus the vast majority of our business will sit within the ring-fence, onregulatory requirements and our simple, low risk, and we therefore expect ring-fencing to be less onerous for us than UKfocused strategy places us in a strong position.
Low cost position: this enables us to provide competitive Summary differentiation for the benefit of customers and shareholders.
There are a number of other regulatory changes that have Key challenges beenimplemented or developed through 2016, several of which Economic environment: uncertain impact of EU referendum arerelevant to our business, including caps and prohibitions onearly-exit charges for pension-scheme members, decision and continued low interest rates.
theimplementation of the revised Markets in Financial Instruments Regulatory environment: the level of regulatory change Directive, the application of the Interchange Fee Regulation, remains high with continued focus on ring-fencing, changes to the regulation of claims-management companies, resolution, competition, capital and conduct.
thefinal report of the Financial Advice Market Review, the entry Competition: increased competition for lending and intoforce of the General Data Protection Regulation and the depositscould further impact margins.
cancellation of plans to create a secondary annuities market.
Digital transformation: the pace of change is significant Overall however, we believe our simple, low risk, UK focused and we will need to continue to invest to meet evolving strategy puts us in a strong position to adapt to the evolving customer needs.
