London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 What we do Our business model London Stock Exchange Group LSEG is a diversified global Open Access financial markets infrastructure business that operates with an Open Access is the principle which lies at the heart of free and fair markets, Open Access model, offering choice and partnership to customers and underpins the approach to the European Union single market philosophy.
across all of its businesses.
We believe customers should have the choice of where they place their business.
In particular, we support non-discriminatory access to trading Over the next four pages, we describe the component parts of the Group, how and clearing infrastructures, which provides greater market efficiencies.
these businesses link together and the way we add value.
We also show an overview by business of the customers for our services, the way we derive We provide access to all of our markets and products for a wide range of users, revenues and the key metrics KPIs.
On pages 12-15, we provide a view of including those that offer competing services to those provided by the Group, in market factors impacting the Group and our response to these.
contrast to most other exchanges and capital markets infrastructure providers.
The access that we provide is also without requiring mandatory use of other The Group plays a vital economic and social role, enabling companies to access Group services, again in contrast to many competitors.
funding for growth and development, to inform investment decisions and manage financial risks.
Headquartered in London, with significant operations also in Example: North America, Italy, France and Sri Lanka, the Group employs approximately LCH provides CCP clearing services to a number of non-Group owned equities, 3,976 people.
derivatives and fixed income trading venues such as Nasdaq Nordic and Euronext.
FTSE Russell licences its indexes to other exchange operators, such as The Group has evolved into a global financial markets infrastructure provider with Singapore Exchange and CME Group, enabling them to list and trade derivatives operations in multiple regions in order to respond to our customers needs.
This is products based on our indexes.
reflected in the geographical distribution of our revenue, with 40% in Sterling, 35% in Euro, 20% in US Dollar and 5% in other currencies.
Customer Partnership We believe that aligning our strategy, services and products to the interests Our business activities fall into three interconnected categories: Capital Formation, of our customers supports long-term value creation, enabling innovation in Risk and Balance Sheet Management, and Intellectual Property, as shown in the products which can be rapidly adopted.
In some businesses, we are joint owners with our customers and share the HOW WE ADD VALUE economic rewards.
We believe this is beneficial as it increases innovation, the Our businesses are connected to an increasingly international range of issuers, speed of development and customer uptake of new products and services.
traders and investors, creating a valuable network across multiple segments: Example: Primary markets providing choice and connections between a wide range of Several of our operating companies are owned and governed in partnership issuers and investors, enabling domestic and international companies to raise with our customers who have varying minority shareholder interests in each, capital efficiently: e. g. LCH, Turquoise, MTS and CurveGlobal.
These customers play an active role in shaping the services offered by these businesses for the benefit of all users.
Secondary markets providing deep liquidity while improving price formation, transparency and trading efficiency: Post trade services delivering strong risk management and capital efficiency benefits that allow buy-side and sell-side firms to operate more effectively, thereby enabling increased trading and investment activities: Information Services, including indices, data on pricing, trading and valuations that enable informed investment decisions and capital allocation: and Technology Services providing global markets infrastructure IT comprising resilient, high-speed, low latency trading platforms, post trade platforms, real time market data and other infrastructure products and services.
Above all, we believe that two unique and key features of our business model continue to position us to deliver increased value to our customers and NEED HELP?
shareholders, and differentiate us from competitors in the global financial Like any industry, global markets infrastructure has its own unique language.
markets infrastructure industry: Open Access and Customer Partnership.
For that reason, we have included a glossary on pages 169 171.
8 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report What we do: Our business model The Group provides services that meet the requirements of corporate and other issuers, investors and trading firms in the value chain for cash equities, fixed income, derivatives and other financial products.
The model below shows how our businesses link together: CAPITAL FORMATION CAPITAL MARKETS London Stock Exchange Borsa Italiana PRIMARY MARKETS CAPITAL RAISING Our central function is to bring together companies seeking Turquoise capital with investors from around the world.
MTS SECONDARY MARKETS TRADING Our markets and systems provide all market participants with efficient, liquid and deep access to financial securities for the purpose of capital allocation and risk transfer.
POST TRADE SERVICES RISK AND BALANCE SHEET MANAGEMENT The Group offers a full range of post trade services, providing risk LCH Group and balance sheet management solutions to a range of customers.
CC&G Services: Monte Titoli Central counterparty CCP clearing services Custody and settlement Collateral management and asset services INFORMATION SERVICES INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY FTSE Russell We provide customers with an extensive range of valuable and reliable Real Time Data information and data products that inform their investment and UnaVista trading decisions.
SEDOL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES All of our businesses depend on technology that is secure, stable and performs to high levels of accuracy and throughput.
MillenniumIT, GATElab and Exactpro are developers of exible, low-cost, high performance trading, market surveillance and post trade systems Note: as well as network connectivity, hosting, and quality assurance Arrows indicate valuable testing services.
interconnected relationships between business categories.
WHAT WE NEED TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESSES AND DELIVER VALUE Risk management Technology The management of risk is fundamental to our role as a diversified global Secure and stable high-performing technology is critical to the operation of financial markets infrastructure provider in order to maintain stakeholder the Groups businesses.
We continue to innovate and invest in our technology confidence in our businesses.
in order to maintain and enhance the quality, resilience and efficiency of Intellectual Property our platforms.
We rely on proprietary data and analysis generated across our businesses to People deliver value-add products and services that meet our customers needs.
Our people are at the heart of what we do, and we are committed to Customer network attracting, developing and retaining exceptional talent in order to deliver Our valuable network of customers and their ongoing input to, and support on our strategy.
for, our businesses is vital to our ability to provide efficient financial markets Regulatory expertise infrastructure across the value chain.
Many of the markets we operate are highly regulated and subject to ongoing regulatory change.
We have proven expertise in operating transparent, efficient and well governed market infrastructure in such regulated markets, providing services that are trusted, independent, and resilient.
