London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Our wider responsibility The Group fulfils vital economic and social roles in enabling Our Approach to CR companies to access funds for growth and development.
Our CR strategy is consistent with last year, which aims to deliver twin goals As such, integrity and trust remain at the core of what we do.
that underlie our business strategy: To play an essential role in enabling sustainable global economic growth Below, we summarise our approach to Corporate Responsibility CR and highlight some of the developments over the past year.
To ensure our behaviour and actions are consistent with good CR practice We have also produced a separate detailed 2016 CR report, which while generating long-term value creation can be downloaded at www.
com  CR strategy encompasses six focus areas and is executed through four group .
established pillars: our markets, our services, our people and our communities.
During the year, we produced the Groups ESG Reporting Guidance and launched the Global Sustainable Investment Centre as part of our strategy to create a sustainable and climate-aligned investment environment and to be recognised as a global leader in sustainability performance.
Executive Committee members lead working groups made up of cross-Group colleagues, focused on developing specific targets and action plans in each of the four pillars.
As part of a materiality assessment, we have applied this framework to direct our CR approach to identify the most relevant and important issues for the Group.
We have seen good progress in our CR performance with our external CR ratings remaining in the top quartile when ranked against peers.
Further details can be found in our CR report.
LSEG CR IMPACT FRAMEWORK OUR MARKETS OUR SERVICES OUR PEOPLE OUR COMMUNITIES 1.
Sustain We will help more companies We will provide investors with the We will employ and invest in the We will support communities improve the sustainability of their information and tools to engage with development of a highly diverse worldwide, helping less advantaged business and the transparency and invest in sustainable companies global workforce to deliver on our young people develop business skills of their reporting sustainable vision and taking care of the environment 2.
Manage risk We will help SMEs raise capital We will manage risks and improve and fund investments to create efficiency of trading and clearing employment worldwide through our markets Environment Global 2016 GHG Emissions We are committed to using resources in ways that ensure the long-term tCO e Tonnes of sustainability and profitability of the business and have a positive impact on 2 2 carbon dioxide equivalent 2016 2015 % Change the environment.
The Groups primary greenhouse gas GHG emissions arise 1 Total Group Carbon Footprint 30,900 31,237 1.08 from energy, waste and water in our offices and data centres around the world, 2 per m 0.339 0.384 11.72 from staff travel, and indirectly from our supply chain.
per FTE 6.61 7.26 8.95 During the year, we achieved a 9% reduction in our overall Carbon Emissions per m Revenue 18.63 22.02 15.4 3 per Full Time Employee FTE, and are making good progress towards our 2020 Scope 1 1,583 1,094 44.7 4 targets.
This significant reduction is attributed to ongoing office consolidation, Scope 2 21,129 22,226 4.94 improvements in our waste management processes, and data centre efficiency Scope 3 6,591 6,343 3.91 projects such as cold-aisle containment.
Scope 1 emissions have increased due Scope 3 Electricity Transmission to a change in landlord usage procedures for Natural Gas in Milan.
All building and Distribution 1,597 1,574 1.46 consumption during winter months is now assigned to LSEG.
Total Group Carbon Footprint and Scope 2 use market-based Scope 2 emissions factors 2.
2 015 figures have been updated on receipt of annual emissions factor guidance and actual figures We are taking an active approach to emissions management, with our global from suppliers 3.
C ombustion of fuel and operation of facilities includes Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG, Fugitive Environmental Management Group accurately measuring GHG impacts across our Emissions and Fleet Vehicles property portfolio, including managed offices where possible.
P urchase of electricity by the Group for its own use the Group does not purchase heat, steam the mandatory reporting guidelines to include Scope 3 emissions.
Performance is or cooling reported quarterly via our intranet, and we annually disclose through this report and via CDP.
36 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Our wider responsibility In addition to monitoring our environmental impact, we have set environmental Moreover, the Group has a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery.
Our Slavery targets for the next financial year that include energy, water, waste and travel.
and Human trafficking statement published on our website and in the CR Report More information on these as well as full details of emissions and reporting describes the steps taken during 2016 to improve our supply chain management methodology can be found in our CR report.
and procurement processes and procedures.
Social Community People Our activities benefit communities worldwide.
We engage with governments, Attracting, developing and retaining the skills we need to deliver on our inter-governmental agencies and regulators to promote ESG disclosure and strategy is a key imperative for the Group.
We continue to work on bringing sustainable practices.
We work to support local communities and the environment together our growing company and supporting our employees development where we have a significant presence.
in an environment built on core values of partnership, integrity, innovation and excellence.
The Group established the London Stock Exchange Group Foundation in 2010 which provides a primary channel for the Groups charitable giving and a focal Employee engagement is therefore paramount the continued growth of point for staff engagement with local charities see the Our Communities section the Group, which is why we were pleased to see the improvements in our latest of the Group CR report for further information.
In 2016, the Group donated colleague engagement survey Have Your Say.
In 2016, our overall engagement 962,000 to the LSEG Foundation, and 133,000 directly to a number of charities.
index increased by 6% to 82%, outperforming the external benchmark.
The The Foundations approach and positioning is aligned with the overall Group CR improvements in response to various topics were driven by a number of actions strategy, while recognising the global reach of LSEGs business model.
We which employees influenced through their feedback to previous engagement.
continue our global partnership with UNICEF, and support the community These include the development of a career framework to provide greater clarity investment programme, with a focus on the development of business skills of on career opportunities across the Group.
Employees are kept informed of Group teenage girls in Zambia, a charity selected by employees.
strategy and business progress through a comprehensive communication plan, and also have access to a series of learning and development opportunities, as Governance well as a global employee share scheme and a mentoring scheme.
We remain committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and business integrity.
In the past year, we have complied with all the UK Corporate Diversity Equal Opportunities Governance Codes provisions and the Board will continue to ensure that we We value diversity as a driver for development and innovation.
Our operations adhere to good governance principles and practices.
Our approach to good span the globe, with offices in Australia, Canada, France, Hong Kong, India, Italy, corporate governance is detailed on pages 62 63.
Japan, Russia, Sri Lanka, the UK and the US.
We have employees of 59 different nationalities, reflecting both the international scale of our business and the diversity Given the increased size and scope of our businesses, we face a wide and expanding of our customer base.
Five nationalities are represented on our Executive Committee.
In particular, our presence in post trade services provides direct and indirect exposure to financial market volatility.
We also face technology risks We became part of the first list of participating firms for the UKs HM Treasury such as cyber threats, systems resilience and technological innovation, and political, Women in Finance Charter, as part of an increased focus on diversity and inclusion regulatory and macro-economic risks, which include the impact of our competitors across the Group.
By 2020, we aim to achieve a stretch target of 40% female actions.
Pursuing our growth strategy in this dynamic environment requires representation for senior management and our overall staff numbers.
Our governance and risk management structures have evolved to meet this need see pages 44 and 56 for further details.
Gender Diversity Global Sustainable Investment Centre Female Male The Global Sustainable Investment Centre was launched as part of our strategy to LSEG plc Board 1 10 create the most sustainable and climate-aligned investment environment in the 1 3 LSEG Subsidiary Boards 17 128 world.
We are well placed at the heart of global capital markets to integrate 2 3 Executive Committee and Leadership Teams 111 252 sustainable solutions deep into both investment and capital raising, and will be All other staff 1,085 2,528 able to use our position to convene the market on the transition to a sustainable Total 1,196 2,780 and low carbon economy.
More details on the Global Sustainable Investment Centre can be viewed at: www.
Mix of employees and Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Committee and Leadership Teams in LSEG.
T he LSEG Subsidiary Board members and the Executive Committee and Leadership Teams ESG Reporting Guidance together comprise the Senior Managers for the purposes of section 414C 10 b of the In February 2017, LSEG issued guidance through the Global Sustainable Companies Act 2006.
Investment Centre, setting out recommendations for good practice in ESG Note: Figures as of year end 31 December 2016. reporting.
The global guide responds to demand from investors for a more Human Rights consistent approach to ESG reporting, and builds on market standards such The Group prides itself on its high standards of social responsibility.
as the Financial Stability Boards FSB Task Force on Climate-related Financial We respect and seek to adhere to the UN Guiding Principles on Business Disclosures report and the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
It has been sent to and Human Rights, together with the International Labour Organization more than 2,700 companies that have securities listed on LSEGs UK and Italian Conventions and Recommendations within our working environment in each markets with a combined market capitalisation of more than 5 trillion.
The full location where we operate.
The Group strongly supports these conventio Guidance can be viewed at: www.
ns which aim to abolish forced labour and child labour and promote freedom of association and equality.
Human rights considerations are also included in Looking Ahead our Supplier Code of Conduct and Group Corporate Responsibility Policy.
As our business expands and diversifies, we continue to review our approach to sustainability.
Our objectives for each of our six focus areas are set out in the Looking Ahead section of our CR Report.
