London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Market trends and our response Through its three core business activities: Capital Formation, 2.
Low and uncertain growth redefining investment behaviours Risk and Balance Sheet Management and Intellectual Property, Global economic growth remains subdued, reflecting increased political the Group supports global economic growth through the provision uncertainty as well as both fiscal and monetary policy headwinds in the global of financial markets infrastructure to facilitate capital raising, landscape.
We continue to operate in a persistently ultra-low interest rate investment and trading decisions, and associated risk environment, whilst both the UKs vote to leave the European Union EU and management requirements.
Donald Trumps election as President of the United States illustrate the potential for geopolitical change to significantly impact global financial markets.
Our customers include the worlds largest financial institutions across sell-side, buy-side and trading firms.
They all share exposure to the evolving industry In this low-return environment, investors search for yield continues to redefine landscape, which continues to inform and influence their business needs and, the investment management landscape, changing asset allocation and driving therefore, their demand for the products and services that the Group can provide.
growth in passive management tools.
We expect this shift in preferences away There are a number of trends which continue to shape the industry in which the from active investment management towards passive solutions to continue, Group operates: with global ETF AuM in particular expected to grow at a faster pace than its 3 double-digit growth over 2010-15, reaching over US$7 trillion by 2021.
Globalisation and changing distribution of wealth 2.
Low and uncertain growth redefining investment behaviours IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG We continue to monitor and evaluate the potential impact of significant 3.
Customer balance sheet and operational constraints macroeconomic and political events on our operating environment and 4.
An innovative and consolidating competitive landscape business model, and the Group is an active participant in international and domestic regulatory debates.
In particular, the Group has formed a structured 5.
Regulatory change Brexit programme to engage with UK and EU Brexit policy leads more detail in the Regulatory change section on page 14.
Globalisation and changing distribution of wealth With over US$10 trillion AuM benchmarked to its indexes, FTSE Russell is well Global wealth continues to increase as the regional distribution of wealth evolves.
positioned to respond to passive investment trends such as the increasing While developed markets are expected to continue to retain the largest share of adoption of smart beta and factor-based investing, offering benchmarking global wealth, emerging markets continue to increase their share of the worlds services with a low-cost, scalable model and a global sales presence.
In 2000, emerging markets accounted for just 12% of global wealth, but over the period 2000-2016, they have contributed almost 25% 1 In addition, we continue to enhance our secondary market offerings to of the growth in global wealth.
This trend is also reflected in regional growth in facilitate increased trading opportunities for customers across selected asset assets under management AuM, with Asia-Pacific AuM forecast to grow at a 2 classes.
Recent examples include the expansion of dark trading services in 9.8% CAGR from 2012 to 2020.
We expect this trend to continue as the London Stock Exchange and Turquoise and the launch of CurveGlobal to offer geographical distribution of wealth increasingly aligns with regions share exchange-traded interest rate derivatives.
Many of our institutional customers are already global companies, with operations in many or all major regions.
As globalisation increases, capital allocation and Global AuM by Product investment decisions will increasingly be made on a global basis, thereby creating i 2008 vs. 2015 ii Estimated share of opportunities for financial markets infrastructure providers to support customers cumulative net ows % across multiple geographies and markets.
7 11 % 11 12 23 9 13 IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG 9 Active 15 Our Group has evolved into a global financial markets infrastructure Passive 51 provider, with operations in multiple countries and regions, in order to service Solutions 70 our customers needs.
We are building a global, interconnected offering 61 Alternatives with commonality in our approach and interactions with our customers.
42 We continue to develop our geographical presence in selected markets where we see, or expect to see, increased demand for our products and services, 16 2008 2015 including in the US and Asia.
This is reflected in the distribution of our 2016-20 income by currency, with 40% in Sterling, 35% in Euro, 20% in US Dollar and 5% in other currencies.
Source: BCG, Global Asset Management 2016: Doubling down on data 2016 1. Credit Suisse, Global Wealth Report 2016 2016 2.
PWC, Asset Management 2020: A Brave New World 2014 3.
PWC, ETFs: A roadmap to growth 2016 12 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Market trends and our response 3.
Customer balance sheet and operational constraints 4.
An innovative and consolidating competitive landscape Regulatory change continues to pose multiple cost, capital, risk and conduct In order to continue to meet customer needs, financial markets infrastructure challenges across the industry, with significant implications for our customers players are becoming increasingly global with scalable, efficient and innovative business models.
The post-financial crisis focus on reducing the level of systemic services.
In this context, the Group has witnessed, and participated in, the risk in financial markets has led to a number of new regulations designed to ongoing consolidation which has transformed our industry.
As a result, our promote transparency, increase bank balance sheet capital buffers, grow central position has evolved from a domestically focused stock exchange to a global counterparty clearing and provide enhanced mechanisms to prevent future crises.
financial markets infrastructure provider as we have developed our products and services and expanded our geographic presence.
Banks continue to face pressure on returns, and shifting revenue profiles, within traditional business models, and are seeking ways to upgrade their operations to We expect inorganic activity to continue within our industry, particularly as improve profitability and capital efficiency.
Their own end customers buy-side participants seek to expand their presence in high-growth areas with increasing institutions are also facing structural headwinds in response to these regulatory customer demand such as data, analytics and risk management.
pressures and evolving business models.
There is also increasing potential for further competition across the value chain from adjacent businesses and new entrants, particularly as technology continues IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG to accelerate innovation and facilitate entry for new participants.
The drive for increased balance sheet and operational efficiency may see a long-term reduction in banks fixed income, currencies & commodities FICC businesses, which could adversely impact trading volumes in parts of our IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG Capital Markets business.
However, these requirements should also lead to In this industry context, the Group remains focused on operating and growing increased demand for our risk management and capital efficiency solutions, our existing businesses, executing on our strategic initiatives and delivering particularly CCP clearing, compression and post trade processing services.
innovative solutions in response to evolving customer needs.
Disruptive commercial models and technology may lead to a long-term increase in As customers continue to adapt in response to new capital and operational competition in our core businesses, and we continue to develop and upgrade constraints, this may present further opportunities for collaboration between our technology capabilities to deliver efficiencies and maintain the highest financial markets infrastructure providers as well as customers in certain service levels for our customers.
business areas to address industry challenges.
Our partnership approach leaves us well positioned to play a leading role in addressing customer challenges In addition, we also continue to assess inorganic opportunities that can across the industry.
accelerate our growth, enhance our existing businesses or create new opportunities in complementary areas.
In March 2016, we set out the strategic case for the proposed all-share merger with Deustche Brse AG.
We believe that the potential merger would accelerate the delivery of our Coalition Index revenues by business vision to become a leader in global financial markets infrastructure, enhancing US$ bn FICC our ability to execute against our strategic pillars, and creating significant value 176 Equities 167 for shareholders.
The Group is awaiting the outcome of the European 165 160 36 156 IBD Commission Phase II process on or before 3 April 2017.
40 43 40 37 37 45 45 50 43 103 82 77 76 70 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 Source: Coalition IB Index Report FY16 2017 Note: Coalition Index tracks the performance of the 12 largest investment banks globally.
13 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Market trends and our response continued 5.
Regulatory change Markets in Financial Instruments Directive Regulation During 2016, significant regulatory initiatives that the Group has highlighted MiFID II MiFIR in previous reports continued to take shape.
Other regulatory initiatives MiFID II MiFIR is the widest ranging of the EU legislative initiatives, in terms of its increased in prominence during the past year and are now a significant impact on the Group and its customers.
Scope in relation to LSEG includes rules focus for us, in particular cyber security rules and standards, the dynamic relating to market transparency and trading structures, market data provision and evolution of sustainable investment rules and products, and regulatory publication, trading market microstructure, transaction reporting, the new SME scrutiny of emerging financial technology.
All these initiatives evolve in the Growth Market regime, Open Access provisions, clearing houses and benchmarks context of the UK referendum decision to leave the European Union and the providers.
Those of the Groups customers who are affected will have to ensure they potential for significant changes in U. S. policy following the 2016 elections.
are MiFID II compliant by the implementation date, which is 3 January 2018.
Below we provide our assessment of likely regulatory changes and their impacts for the Group.
IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG Although the Level II technical standards have not yet been completed, Brexit update contents have been known for some time and the Group believes that the On 23 June 2016 a majority of the British public voted in favour of the United provisions are broadly either neutral or positive for the Capital Markets Kingdom ending its membership in the European Union.
The UK government businesses, with Open Access potentially providing opportunities across all has not yet commenced the official exit process Brexit by serving notice under Group segments see section following on Open Access.
In our Information Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty: however recent announcements indicate that Services segment, UnaVista may benefit from increased transaction reporting the notice could be served at the end of March 2017.
All EU legislation directly opportunities while provisions relating to distribution of some real time data affecting UK persons remains in force until the date of termination of the UKs may mean some change to our business and revenue model in due course.
All EU legislation implemented through UK legislation will remain in force until such time as it is repealed.
All cross-border commerce between the UK and EU will be affected, as well as commerce between the UK and non-EU Open Access countries which is conducted via the UKs position as a member of the EU.
Open Access refers to provisions within MiFID II that change the way some clearing houses, trading venues and index benchmark providers will need to provide their products.
Changes, which will apply when MiFID II comes into effect, IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG require access to be provided to all potential users of trading, clearing and indices, Until the Government announces and begins to implement its Brexit strategy, on a non-discriminatory basis.
the impacts on LSEG businesses are unknown.
The EU and non-EU jurisdictions will help determine the nature and extent of the impacts.
As part of a structured Brexit programme formed by the Group, we are engaging with UK and EU Brexit IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG policy leads to advise on financial market infrastructure considerations.
Our key Open Access remains a key principle that underpins our strategy and business objectives are maintaining Londons position as a global financial hub, providing model and does not present disruption to the way we currently operate.
Our continuity of cross-border financial services and protecting against policies which clearing services already accept trades for clearing that originate from venues may result in fragmentation of financial markets.
outside of the Group: some of our trading venues already provide choice of clearing through alternative CCPs outside of the Group: and FTSE Russell provides index licences to a number of exchange businesses that are Key legislation competitors to our trading venues.
CCP Recovery and Resolution Authorities in Europe, North America, other major jurisdictions, as well as Open Access increases competition across a range of services, to the benefit of International Standard Setters are working on frameworks for the recovery investors and market participants and potentially provides the Groups relevant and resolution of CCPs.
In the unlikely scenario where CCPs face severe distress businesses with opportunities to launch new products and attract new trading or failure, this framework will ensure that the critical functions of CCPs are and clearing flows.
preserved while maintaining financial stability.
At the international level, the CPMI and IOSCO are leading a work stream on CCP resiliency and recovery, while the Financial Stability Board FSB is conducting the analysis for CCP Capital Markets Union CMU Prospectus Regulation Green Finance resolution.
Final guidance from these work streams is expected in the first half CMU is a plan by the EU Commission that aims to create deeper and more of 2017.
In the EU, the European Commission published on 28 November 2016 integrated European capital markets.
The CMU Action Plan sets out work streams its legislative proposal for CCP recovery and resolution.
This proposal will be designed to unlock investment from the EU and the rest of the world, improve reviewed and discussed by the European Parliament and the Council of the financing for EU companies and investment projects, make the financial system EU over the course of 2017.
In the U. S. there continues to be increased focus by more stable, deepen market integration and enhance competition.
LSEG is closely lawmakers and regulators on the systemic importance of CCPs and regulation following development of the EU Prospectus Regulation, reviews on the functioning of CCP resiliency, recovery and resolution.
of the corporate bond market, measures to increase securitisation, as well as the Commissions review of national barriers to the free movement of capital and initiatives to support SME growth markets.
The Commission aims to implement IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG measures resulting from all Action Plan initiatives by 2019.
Harmonisation of the requirements for CCPs recovery plans, and the introduction of resolution plans prepared by the Authorities responsible for The Commission also aims to increase retail participation in capital markets, resolving CCPs i. e. resolution authorities should provide clarity on the impact through CMU initiatives to remove barriers to retail investment and to create a on CCPs and identify the critical functions they must maintain in the unlikely policy framework to create simple and competitive personal pensions.
LSEG will continue to assist the authorities and provide input for the development of this framework.
14 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Market trends and our response Both the EU and international institutions have engaged in the topic of green North America and sustainable finance, focusing on green bonds and environmental, social United States and governance ESG disclosure.
The initiatives include an FSB Task Force on Many of the financial services reforms put in place under the Dodd-Frank climate-related financial disclosures and the launch of the EU Commission Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010 are expected to be High Level Expert Group on sustainable finance, where LSEG is a member.
revisited by the 115th Congress in 2017.
The 115th Congress is also likely to revisit CFTC Reauthorization legislation in 2017.
IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG These initiatives may increase activity across our Primary and Secondary IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG Markets, and may lead to more activity in our post trade businesses.
Although the timing and substantive provisions are not certain, it is expected Additionally, Green Finance initiatives present enhanced commercial that the negotiations and final provisions could involve areas that directly or opportunities for FTSE Russell ESG indices.
indirectly impact our post trade and capital markets businesses as well as participants in our markets.
Assessment of financial impact on LSEG is not possible at this point.
Benchmarks The EU Benchmarks Regulation was proposed to help restore confidence in the integrity of benchmarks, in the aftermath of the LIBOR scandal.
In 2017, both Canada national and European authorities are expected to publish the final technical The Canadian Markets Stability Act CMSA, a package of reforms to address details accompanying the regulation.
It will apply from January 2018 to all systemic risks in the financial system, including benchmarks and CCPs, benchmarks used within the European Union.
Building on the principles agreed by is under review in the Parliament.
At the regulatory level, the Canadian Securities the International Organisation for Securities Commissions IOSCO, the regulation Administrators CSA are expected to implement a mandate to clear certain classes will impact benchmark users, contributors and administrators.
Apart from interest of interest rate swaps in 2017, although the scope of these rules are not yet final.
rate benchmarks, it also covers all benchmarks used to reference financial instruments admitted to trading or traded on a regulated venue, such as energy and IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG currency derivatives, those that are used in financial contracts, such as mortgages, Although the timing and substantive provisions are not certain, it is expected and those that are used to measure the performance of investment funds.
that the negotiations and final provisions could involve areas that directly or indirectly impact our post trade and information businesses as well as IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG participants in our markets.
Our strength in these areas may be benificial.
FTSE Russell is a key global benchmarks administrator: as such it is expected to apply for authorisation with the national competent authorities.
Cost and More detail is provided in the table at the back of this report pages 172 173 revenue implications are not yet defined.
that shows a range of regulatory developments by business area.
Technology For all industries, primary legislation creating new EU cyber security and data protection regimes were completed during 2016, paving the way for development and implementation of secondary legislation during 2018.
EU regulators are scrutinising the data protection framework this year to determine if the rules provide adequate protection for the increasing large scale processing and use of client data e. g. Big Data.
For the financial services industry, regulators in major jurisdictions are closely monitoring emerging financial technology FinTech, in particular the potential uses of distributed ledger technology, cloud computing and artificial intelligence.
While many FinTech innovations are too nascent to regulate, regulators will focus during 2017 on efforts to facilitate data and other IT standardisation, and in supporting the growth of the FinTech sector.
IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG Cyber security, data protection and technology innovation-related regulatory initiatives apply in various degrees to all Group functions, either as compliance obligations or in the services that we provide to and the activities of our customers.
As the threat landscape continues to evolve the cyber and data protection evolves.
We continue to invest to ensure our continued defences against such threats and always ensure that we have the ability to demonstrate compliance with new regulation.
In addition to complying with current cyber and data protection requirements, LSEG complies with significant data and cyber operational controls and standards required under financial services legislation.
Regarding Big Data and FinTech proposals, first proposals on non-private Big Data use and ownership are expected during early 2017 and we do not yet know whether our businesses are potentially in scope.
We continue to engage with regulators and leading industry working groups on these issues.
