London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Executive management team The Executive Committee manages the business on a day-to-day basis.
The team meets regularly to review a wide range of business matters, including financial performance, development of strategy, setting and monitoring performance targets, reviewing projects and other initiatives.
Profiles of the Executive Xavier R Rolet KBE Raffaele Jerusalmi team are provided below for further Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana S. p. A. information on Xavier Rolet, David and Director of Capital Markets Warren and Raffaele Jerusalmi, who are also members of the Board of Directors, see their biographies on pages 54 55.
The team is unchanged from the prior year, with the exception of Len Brennan leaving as a consequence of the sale of Russell Investment Management in H1 2016.
David Warren Group Chief Financial Officer 18 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Executive management team Suneel Bakhshi Chris Corrado Diane Ct Chief Executive Officer, LCH Group.
Joined in February Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Information Group Chief Risk Officer.
Appointed Chief Risk 2014 from Citigroup with over 30 years of experience Officer.
Joined in November 2015 from MSCI where Officer and joined the Executive Committee in in trading, banking and risk management.
Most he was responsible for technology, data services June 2013.
Diane was previously Aviva Plcs Chief recently, he was President and CEO, Citigroup Global and programme management.
He has over 30 years Finance Operations Officer.
Prior to this, Diane held Markets, Japan.
Prior to this, he held several senior of global experience in managing technology the position of Avivas Chief Audit Officer.
Diane has risk, banking and markets roles, including Sales and platforms and transformational change in the many years experience holding senior positions Trading in EMEA, Fixed Income Derivatives Trading financial services industry.
He has also worked for within Aviva and other leading organisations, for Europe and Derivatives in Japan.
high-growth technology companies including eBay, including Standard Life Assurance.
Serge Harry Catherine Johnson David Lester Appointed Chief of Staff to the Group CEO in April Global General Counsel.
Chief Strategy Officer, Chairman of Turquoise and 2016, Chairman of globeSettle and Group Country She advises the Board and senior executives on key Chairman of FTSE Russell.
Joined the Group in Head for France, Benelux and Germany.
He was legal matters and strategic initiatives.
In addition to 2001 and sits on the boards of globeSettle and previously Chairman and CEO of BlueNext, a global her role as General Counsel, she was previously also CurveGlobal.
He has over 27 years experience in carbon credits trading exchange, Head of Strategy head of the Groups Regulatory Strategy team.
financial information and technology including at NYSE Euronext, and CFO of Euronext from 2000 Qualified as a lawyer at Herbert Smith in 1993. with Thomson Financial, Accenture and KPMG.
Mark Makepeace Nikhil Rathi Group Director of Information Services and Chief Chief Executive Officer of London Stock Exchange Executive Officer of FTSE Russell.
He was a founding plc and Director of International Development.
Director of FTSE Group in 1995 and joined LSEG Appointed in May 2014 as Director of International in 2011.
Mark has over 20 years experience of Development, he joined from the UK Treasury, developing successful joint ventures and has forged where he held a number of senior positions, alliances with stock exchanges, academics and including Director of the Financial Services Group, leading industry groups.
representing the UK Governments financial services interests internationally, and Private Secretary to the UK Prime Minister for three years from 2005 to 2008.
