London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Board structure as at 31 December 2016 Non-Executive Director Changes Board of Directors The Board comprised: during the year Chairman, who was independent on Baroness Sharon Bowles, Stuart Lewis and appointment Sherry Coutu CBE resigned on 26 April 2016 1 Senior Independent Director Andrea Munari resigned on 1 October 2016 5 other independent Non-Executive Directors Andrea Sironi was appointed as an Independent and 1 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2016 3 Executive Directors Donald Brydon CBE Xavier R Rolet KBE David Warren Chairman of the Group and the Group Chief Executive Officer age 57 Group Chief Financial Officer age 62 Nomination Committee age 71 Appointed to the Board in March 2009 Appointed to the Board in July 2012 Appointed to the Board in June 2015 and appointed Chief Executive Officer in May 2009 Key areas of experience: Accounting, corporate finance, and appointed Chairman in July 2015 Key areas of experience: Corporate finance, investment mergers and acquisitions, strategy, treasury management.
Key areas of experience: Industry and finance, governance, banking, securities trading, investment management, mergers David brings significant international financial management chairing major companies, pensions.
and acquisitions, risk, strategy, technology and business start-ups.
Donald is currently Chairman of The Sage Group plc and the Xavier has a proven track record as a senior Executive in the Relevant past experience: Prior to being appointed Chief Medical Research Council.
global equity trading sector and brings significant experience to Financial Officer of London Stock Exchange Group, David was the Board gained working in the senior management teams of Donald brings to the Board his wealth of experience gained Chief Financial Officer of NASDAQ OMX from 2001 to 2009 and Global Investment Banks.
on the boards of a number of listed companies across a wide Senior Adviser to the NASDAQ CEO from 2011 to 2012.
Other range of sectors, as well as his significant knowledge and Relevant past experience: Xavier was Chief Executive Officer senior roles David has held include: Chief Financial Officer at the understanding of the Finance and Insurance industries, gained of Lehman Brothers in France from July 2007 to 7 January 2009.
Long Island Power Authority of New York and Deputy Treasurer from his time as Chairman and Chief Executive of both BZW He became a member of Lehman Brothers European Operating of the State of Connecticut.
Investment Management Ltd and AXA Investment Managers SA.
Committee in 2003, having joined the firm in February 2000 in Other current appointments: None.
New York as co-head of Global Equity Trading.
Relevant past experience: Donald has also held the post of Chairman at: Smiths Group plc, the London Metal Exchange, Xavier started his career on the International Arbitrage desk Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, AXA Framlington Group Limited, Royal at Goldman Sachs & Co. in New York in January 1984.
In 1990, Mail Group plc and The London Institute of Banking & Finance he moved to London as co-head of European Equity Sales and and is a former Director of Amersham plc, Aberdeen UK Tracker Trading.
He joined Credit Suisse First Boston in 1994 as global Trust plc, Allied Domecq plc, AXA UK plc and Scottish Power plc.
head of European Equities before moving to Dresdner Kleinwort Benson as global head of Risk and Trading, and deputy head of Other current appointments: Donald is currently Chairman Global Equities in 1997. of the charity Chance to Shine and Chairman of the Science Museum Foundation.
He is also a Trustee Board Member of Other current appointments: Xavier is a member of the Board the Foundation for Science and Technology.
of Overseers of Columbia Business School and an Honorary Fellow of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investments, FSCI Hon.
He is also a member of the Financial Services Trade and Investment Board at HM Treasury, a Knight of the French Order of the Legion of Honour, and an Officer of the Royal Sharifian Order of Al-Alawi.
Jacques Aigrain Paul Heiden Raffaele Jerusalmi Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Senior Independent Director Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Remuneration Committee age 62 and Chairman of the Audit Committee age 60 and Director of Capital Markets age 55 Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Appointed to the Board in June 2010 R R Appointed to the Board in June 2010 Key areas of experience: Client management, corporate Key areas of experience: Corporate finance and accounting, Key areas of experience: Capital markets, corporate finance, finance, corporate governance, post trade and clearing, technology and engineering, corporate governance and risk, equity and fixed income trading.
investment management, mergers and acquisitions, strategy.
commercial manufacturing and supply chain.
Raffaele brings significant experience in capital markets and Jacques brings significant expertise and knowledge of global Paul is a chartered accountant and provides the Board and equity trading to the Group.
He has worked for Borsa Italiana post trade and clearing and investment management to the the Audit Committee with relevant financial expertise, gained S. p. A. for the past 19 years and is Borsas Chief Executive Officer Board.
He also holds a PhD in Economics from the University through a long career of senior finance and management roles as well as the Groups Director of Capital Markets.
Raffaele also of Paris Sorbonne.
across a wide range of business sectors.
holds a number of other internal senior positions within the Relevant past experience: Jacques was Chairman of LCH.
Relevant past experience: Paul was previously Chairman of Group including: the Vice Chairmanship of Monte Titoli, MTS Clearnet Group Limited from 2010 to 2015.
He has also been a Talaris Topco Limited, Non-Executive Director of United Utilities and CC&G and is Chairman of Elite S. p. A. Non-Executive Director of Resolution Ltd, a Supervisory Board Group plc and Chief Executive Officer of FKI plc.
Paul was an Relevant past experience: Prior to joining Borsa, Raffaele was member of Deutsche Lufthansa AG as well as a Non-Executive Executive Director of Rolls-Royce plc from 1997 to 1999 and Head of Trading for Italian Fixed Income at Credit Suisse First Director of the Qatar Financial Center Authority and he was Group Finance Director from 1999 to 2003.
Raffaele was also a member of Credit Suisses proprietary Chief Executive Officer of Swiss Re from 2006 to 2009.
Prior previous senior finance roles at Hanson plc and Mercury trading group in London as well as representing Credit Suisse to this, Jacques spent 20 years, with J. P. Morgan Chase, Communications and was a Non-Executive Director of Bunzl plc First Boston on the Board of MTS S. p. A.
Prior to joining Credit working in the New York, London and Paris offices.
Suisse, he was Head of Trading for the fixed income and Other current appointments: Jacques is currently Other current appointments: Paul is a Non-Executive Director derivatives divisions at Cimo S. p. A. in Milan.
a Senior Advisor of Financial Services at Warburg Pincus LLC, of Meggitt plc and Non-Executive Chairman of Intelligent Energy Other current appointments: Raffaele is a Venture partner a Supervisory Board member of LyondellBasell Industries NV Holdings plc and A-Gas Orb Limited.
of the Advisory Committee of Texas Atlantic Capital.
and a Non-Executive Director of WPP Plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Swiss International Airlines AG a subsidiary of Deutsche Lufthansa AG and currently serves as a Member of the Financial Industry Consultative Group of the IMF and an Advisory member of Generation Investment Management.
54 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Board of Directors COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Group Executive Committee Chairman Professor Lex Hoogduin David Nish Stephen OConnor Non-Executive Director age 60 Independent Non-Executive Director age 56 Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in December 2015 Appointed to the Board in December 2015 and Chairman of the Risk Committee age 55 Appointed to the Board in June 2013 Key areas of experience: Clearing and settlement systems, Key areas of experience: Strategy, finance, corporate economic policy and research, financial stability and financial governance and risk, consumer and market regulation, Key areas of experience: OTC derivatives, risk management, markets, statistics and payment.
capital markets, clearing, corporate finance.
Lex brings significant expertise and knowledge of economics David provides significant FTSE 100 expertise to the Board from Stephen brings international expertise in clearing and and the operation of financial markets to the Board.
He is also his experience on a number of other boards, including in the counterparty risk management to the Board.
He has worked currently Chairman of the Group subsidiary, LCH.
Clearnet Investment Management and Insurance sectors from his time extensively with global regulators in the area of financial services Group Limited.
Relevant past experience: Lex previously served as Executive Relevant past experience: David was the Chief Executive Relevant past experience: Stephen was Chairman of the Director at fide Nederlandsche Bank DNB from January 2009 Officer of Standard Life Plc from January 2010 to August 2015 International Swaps and Derivatives Association from 2011 to until July 2011, where his responsibilities included economic having joined the company as Group Finance Director in 2014 having been appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2009. policy and research, financial stability, financial markets, November 2006.
A chartered accountant, David was also Stephen also worked at Morgan Stanley in London and New York statistics and payment, clearing and settlement systems.
previously Group Finance Director of Scottish Power plc and for 25 years, where he was a member of the Fixed Income He has also held a number of economic advisory positions as he is a former Partner at Price Waterhouse.
Management Committee and held a number of senior roles Chief Economist at Robeco, Managing Director of the IRIS including Global Head of Counterparty Portfolio Management Previously, David has been a Non-Executive Director of Northern research institute and adviser to the first president of the ECB.
and Global Head of OTC Client Clearing.
Foods plc, Thus plc, HDFC Life India and was Deputy Chairman Lex holds a Masters degree in Economics from the University of the Association of British Insurers.
Stephen was a member of the High Level Stakeholder Group for of Groningen, the Netherlands and received his PhD degree in the UK Governments review of the Future of Computer Trading Other current appointments: David is a Non-Executive Economic Sciences in 1991. in Financial Markets and served as Vice-Chairman of the Director of HSBC Holdings plc, Vodafone Group Plc, the UK Green Other current appointments: Lex is Chairman of the Financial Stability Boards Market Participants Group on Financial Investment Bank Plc and Zurich Insurance Group.
He is also a supervisory board of the Centre for Integral Revalidation Health Benchmark Reform.
He was a Non-Executive Director of OTC member of the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Care.
He is an adviser to Wilgenhaege a Dutch asset manager.
DerivNet Ltd from 2001 to 2013 and was Chairman from 2001 of Scotland.
He is also a part-time Professor of Economics complexity and to 2011. uncertainty in financial markets and financial institutions at the Other current appointments: Stephen serves as Chairman University of Groningen, the Netherlands.
of Quantile Technologies Limited and he is Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Board Risk Committee of GE Capital International Holdings Limited.
He is a member of the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC Global Markets Advisory Committee.
Member of the Scientific Advisory Board at the Systematic Risk Centre, London School of Economics and Political Science.
Mary Schapiro Andrea Sironi Independent Non-Executive Director age 61 Independent Non-Executive Director age 52 Appointed to the Board in July 2015 R Appointed to the Board in October 2016 Key areas of experience: Market regulation, corporate finance, Key areas of experience: Finance, financial risk management, corporate governance and risk, securities.
Mary brings expertise in market regulation and US markets to Andrea provides significant banking and finance experience the Board.
Relevant past experience: Mary has held a number of senior Relevant past experience: Andrea was the Vice Chairman regulatory positions including: the Chair of the US Securities and of Banca Aletti & C S. p. A from April 2009 to October 2012.
Exchange Commission, CEO and Chair of the Financial Industry Andrea was a Non-Executive Director of Banco Popolare Societ Regulatory Authority FINRA Inc. and its predecessor the Cooperativ from October 2008 to May 2013 and SAES Getters National Association of Securities Dealers Regulation Inc. S. p. A. from April 2006 to April 2015.
He has also been a Member NASDR, Chair of the FINRA Educational Foundation, and the of the Fitch Academic Advisory Board from June 2006 to Chair of the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC.
Mary is a former Director of Kraft Foods Inc. Duke Energy Corp. Other current appointments: Andrea is the Chairman of Borsa and Cinergy Corp. She was also Managing Director, Governance Italiana S. p. A. a subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange Group and Markets, Promontory Financial Group LLC.
and a Non-Executive Director of Cogentech S. c. a. r. l. Since 1 Other current appointments: Mary is a Non-Executive January 2017, he has been a member of the Board of Cassa Board Director of the General Electric Co. Vice-Chairman of Depositi e Prestiti S. p. A. and he is also a Professor of Banking and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board SASB and Finance of Bocconi University, Italy where he has been Rector Vice-Chairman, Advisory Board at Promontory Financial Group.
She also serves as an advisory board member at Spruceview Capital Partners, Morgan Stanley Institute for Sustainable Investing and Hudson Executive Capital LP and is a trustee of MITRE Corporation.
She is also an Independent Director at Axiom Law Inc. and joined the International Advisory Board to the China Securities Regulatory Commission in October 2016.
