London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Information Services Information Services Revenues KEY SUMMARY Revenues for the year increased by 15% to 594.7 million 2015: 517.4 million, m and up 7% on an organic constant currency basis driven by strong growth in 594.7 FTSE Russell 2015: 517.4m FTSE Russell revenue for the year increased by 17% to 409.3 million 2015: 348.9 million and up 7% on an organic constant currency basis reflecting increased subscriptions and data sales, and growth in index-based products Real time data revenues increased by 11% to 90.9 million 2015: 82.2 million, and up 7% on an organic constant currency basis UnaVistas MiFID Approved Reporting Mechanism ARM went live with a testing environment product ahead of MiFID II implementation Other Information Services revenue increased by 10% to 94.5 million 2015: 86.3 million and up 6% on an organic constant currency basis LSEG announced the acquisition of Mergent Inc. a provider of business and financial data on companies which was completed in January 2017 Introduction The Information Services Division ISD provides financial market participants with timely, reliable and accurate market information.
ISD offers a wide range of services, including global indexes, real time pricing data, product identification, reporting and reconciliation services.
Information Services is a key area of strategic focus and growth for LSEG and is diversifying on a global basis.
In November, LSEG announced the acquisition of Mergent Inc. and the transaction FTSE Russell completed in January 2017.
Mergent is a leading provider of business and financial Indexes Real time data information on public and private companies, which will support the growth of Other information Information Services, including FTSE Russells core index offering, and the growing client demand for smart beta and customised indexes.
FTSE Russell was formed by the integration of FTSE and Russell indexes following the acquisition of Frank Russell Company in 2014.
Annual run rate cost synergies of US$78 million and run rate revenue synergies of US$30 million are being targeted by the end of year three 2017 and we are on track to achieve both these targets FURTHER INFORMATION ahead of schedule.
Market trends and our response for Information Services can be found on pages 12 15.
Profitability of each segment can be found in the Financial Review In December, LSEG announced the sale of the Italian Information Services on pages 38 43.
An overview of the regulatory landscape can be found on Professional Solutions business including the Market Connect service, which pages 172 173.
A glossary of terms can be found on pages 169 171. completed in February 2017.
31 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Information Services continued FTSE Russell FTSE Russell is expanding its Fixed Income platform on a global basis, which will FTSE Russell is a global index leader that provides innovative benchmarking, enhance multi-asset capabilities.
This expansion will add capabilities by providing with approximately US$10 trillion benchmarked to its indexes.
FTSE Russell client access to a broad range of fixed income indexes.
Recently, FTSE Russell and calculates hundreds of thousands of indexes for investors to measure and Tradeweb were jointly selected as the future providers of Gilt and Treasury Bill benchmark markets across a range of asset classes, styles and strategies.
FTSE end-of-day reference prices succeeding the current provision by the UK Debt Russell is used by virtually all of the worlds top financial institutions and their Management Office.
clients, including the top ten investment banks, 97 out of 100 of the top asset managers, and 48 out of 50 of the top plan sponsors, to benchmark investment Sustainable investing, climate risk, transition to a low carbon economy and performance and create investment products such as ETFs, index funds, and environmental, social and governance ESG integration are a core focus for many index-based derivatives.
FTSE Russell earned approximately 55% of revenue of our clients and for FTSE Russell.
In 2016 FTSE Russell celebrated a long record of from index data subscriptions, comprising data services and analytics with high innovation in this area with the 15th anniversary of its flagship ESG Index Series, renewal rates, and the remaining 45% of revenue was earned from asset based FTSE4Good, which consists of companies that meet specific thresholds in relation to fees, with revenues based on assets under management AUM for tracker ESG practices.
The series has now expanded beyond 15 indexes, with the launch of funds ETPs and traded volumes for derivatives.
FTSE4Good Emerging Markets Index and FTSE4Good Emerging Latin America Index.
In 2016, FTSE Russell launched a Low Carbon Economy LCE data model to help investors better understand economic exposures to the LCE industrial transition ETF assets under management benchmarked by measuring the proportion of a companys revenue that comes from green to FTSE Russell Indexes products.
Based on this LCE data model, FTSE Russell has developed a Green US$ bn year end 452 Revenues Index Series, which is designed to provide investors with indexes 381 369 capturing managed exposure to companies engaged to the green economy.
China is one of the worlds largest economies with one of the largest equity 186 markets and third largest domestic currency bond markets.
FTSE Russell has maintained a long-term presence in Asia-Pacific and continued to expand in 2016.
71 In 2016, FTSE became the first major international index provider to launch China A Stock Connect Indexes tracking mainland listed stocks available through the 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Shanghai-Hong Kong and Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect programmes.
FTSE Russells data product suite has been designed to provide the most FTSE Russell indexes are licensed globally for derivatives trading in trading venues precise and in depth view of the markets our clients need.
Data is provided across Europe, North America and Asia.
During the year 221 million contracts as an end-of-day package or real time throughout the trading day for benchmarked to FTSE Russell indexes were traded, 8% lower than the previous monitoring investments based on FTSE Russell indexes.
FTSE Russells year, mainly as a result of elevated 2015 trading of FTSE China A50 derivatives.
sales and service teams maintain a close relationship with clients to ensure they have the right data and analytics to manage money and Robust governance, transparency and integrity are at the foundation of FTSE monitor investments.
We have always been committed to leading global best practice standards in index governance and have earned a reputation for high-quality transparent, FTSE Russell is a leading provider of indexes for the ETF market, one of the and rules-driven index construction.
Since July 2014, FTSE Russell has issued fastest growing product classes amongst institutional and retail investors, annual statements of compliance with respect to the recommendations made by with US$3.5 trillion global AuM at the end of 2016 and a five year CAGR of 19%.
the International Organization of Securities Commissions IOSCO in the Principles ETFs benchmarked to FTSE Russell after a volitile year finished at a record high for Financial Benchmarks Final Report the IOSCO Principles.
The European of US$452 billion 2015: US$381 bilion.
FTSE Russell is also a leading innovator Regulation on Indices used as Benchmarks in Financial Instruments and Financial and provider of smart beta or factor-based index solutions.
ETF assets Contracts the European Benchmark Regulation will apply from 1 January 2018: benchmarked to FTSE Russell smart beta indexes in 2016 increased by 24% FTSE Russell will apply for authorisation as a Benchmark Administrator under to US$151 billion 2015: US$122 billion.
An example of such innovation was the Regulation.
the launch in 2016 of a new smart beta ESG Index FTSE All-World Ex CW Climate Balanced Factor Index, which was chosen by Legal & General Investment Management for its new Future World Fund and HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, for its equity default option.
FTSE Russell Global Factor Index Services is also expanding a suite of benchmarks designed to achieve controlled exposure to single and multi factor characteristics such as Volatility, Size and Yield and will continue to innovate and expand smart beta indexes throughout 2017.
32 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Information Services Real Time Data Our Real Time Data service provides primary reference data for UK and Italian markets.
Its tick-by-tick data is used by traders, brokers and fund managers globally.
These declines have been offset by the increasing use of non-display applications, including algorithmic black-box trading or trading products such as contracts for difference and swaps that are pegged to LSE trading prices.
LSE and Borsa Italiana terminals thousands year end LSE terminals Borsa Italiana terminals 224 211 207 207 200 139 131 131 132 128 85 80 76 75 72 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 UnaVista UnaVista is recognised as an industry leader in regulatory reporting.
It is LSEGs platform for all matching, validation and reconciliation needs.
It offers business solutions for regulatory reporting, trade confirmations, reconciliations and reference data.
In 2016, the user base of UnaVista continued to grow, with 1,500 contracted clients from around the world using the platform.
UnaVista continued to extend its partnership and commit to product innovation ahead of MiFID II reporting and reconciliation regulation expected to go live in January 2018.
During the year UnaVista partnered with regulatory reporting compliance firm Kaizen Reporting to offer quality assurance testing of MiFID transaction reporting and launched its MiFIR Accelerator Programme which allows firms to assess their state of readiness and assist in preparations for MiFIR reporting.
UnaVistas MiFID Approved Reporting Mechanism ARM went live with a testing environment ahead of MiFID II implementation.
Reference Data SEDOL is our global, multi-asset class numbering system, providing reference data and unique identification codes for global equity, derivatives and fixed income securities.
The SEDOL Masterfile Service database provides clients with access to reference data on 8 million live securities.
In an extension to its duties as a national numbering agency, London Stock Exchange was sponsored by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA to be a Local Operating Unit LOU for the global allocation of the new Legal Entity Identifier LEI, which uniquely identifies every legal entity or structure, in any jurisdiction, which is party to a financial transaction.
The LEI is mandatory for a number of global regulations and UnaVistas technology is being used to allocate and maintain the codes.
Since the launch in mid-2013, we have become a leading LOU and have allocated over 44,000 LEIs across six continents 2015: 40,000.
Regulatory News Service Regulatory News Service RNS is a leading high-quality service for UK regulatory news announcements and global press releases.
RNS partners with companies and intermediaries to fulfil regulatory disclosure obligations in the most effective and time-efficient way.
During 2016, over 321,000 announcements were processed by RNS 2015: 325,000, covering the majority of UK company announcements.
RNS operates as a Primary Information Provider and is regulated by the FCA.
