London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Report The Directors of the Company are pleased to present their Annual Share capital Report to shareholders, together with the financial statements for As at 31 December 2016, the Company had 350,306,374 ordinary shares in issue the year ended 31 December 2016 with comparatives for the year with a nominal value of 6 79 86 pence each, representing 100% of the total issued ended 31 December 2015. share capital.
During the year, the Company issued 1,930,308 new ordinary shares, to settle employee share scheme awards.
The following sections of the Annual Report are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference: Share rights The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares are set out The information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic Report in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from including the Financial Review can be found on pages 2 53 Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
Board of Directors on pages 54 55 No shareholder shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting, either in person or by Results proxy, in respect of any share held by him or her unless all monies presently payable The Group made a profit before taxation from continuing operations, before by him or her in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition, no shareholder shall amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items for the year, be entitled to vote, either in person or by proxy, if he or she has been served with a of 623.1 million 2015: 516.4million.
After taking into account amortisation of notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 concerning interests in those purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items, the profit of the Group shares and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information.
before taxation for the year from continuing operations was 364.1 million 2015: 336.1 million.
Profit after taxation from continuing operations for the Other than restrictions considered to be standard for a UK-listed company, year was 262.5 million 2015: 288.0 million.
there are no limitations on the holding or transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, both of which are governed and regulated by the Companys Articles During the year the Group disposed of its interest in the Russell Investment of Association and applicable legislation and regulation.
The Company is not Management business.
The discontinued profit before taxation, before aware of any agreements between holders of shares that may result in restrictions amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items for on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
After taking into account amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items, Corporate Governance Statement the profit of the discontinued operations for the year was 104.2 million The Companys Corporate Governance Report and the reports of the Audit, 2015: 97.6 million.
Loss after taxation from discontinued operations Nomination and Risk Committees are set out on pages 56 69 and are, for the year was 69.6 million 2015: 69.1 million profit.
together with the information on share rights set out above, incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
Dividends The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 31.2 pence Articles of Association 2015: 25.2 pence per share which is expected to be paid on 31 May 2017 The Companys Articles of Association amended by special resolution at the to shareholders on the register on 5 May 2017.
Together with the interim General Meeting held on 4 July 2016 for the purpose of giving effect to the dividend of 12.0 pence 2015: 10.8 pence per share paid in September 2016, scheme of arrangement dated 1 June 2016 may only be amended by special this produces a total dividend for the period of 43.2 pence 2015: 36.0 pence resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Companys Articles of per share estimated to amount to 151.3 million 2015: 125.2 million.
Association contain provisions relating to the appointment and removal of Directors.
In addition, reflecting agreement as part of the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse AG, LSEG shareholders are entitled to receive a special dividend of 58.2 pence Substantial Shareholders per share, which is an equalising payment to reflect the value attributable based As at 3 March 2017 the Company had been notified of the following interests on the proposed payment of a dividend by Deutsche Brse to its shareholders.
amounting to more than 3% in the issued share capital of the Company in The payment of the special dividend is contingent on successful completion of accordance with DTR 5 of the FCAs Disclosure, Guidance and Transparency Rules: the proposed merger of LSEG and Deutsche Brse AG, and will be paid to LSEG Qatar Investment Authority 10.31% shareholders on the register at the earlier of 30 June 2017 and the close of business Blackrock, Inc 6.91% on the date prior to closing.
TCI Fund Management Limited 5.05% Lindsell Train Limited 5.00% Invesco Limited 4.97% Veritas Asset Management LLP 3.03% 96 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Report Authority to Purchase Shares Environment The authority for the Company to purchase in the market up to 34,800,000 of We are committed to using resources in ways that ensure the long-term its ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company sustainability and profitability of the business and have a positive impact on the as at the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the Companys environment.
The Groups primary greenhouse gas GHG emissions arise from last AGM granted at the Companys last AGM, expires on the date of the energy, waste and water in our offices and data centres around the world, from forthcoming AGM.
Although the latter authority has not been used by the staff travel, and indirectly from our supply chain.
Company, shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority to purchase shares at the forthcoming AGM.
During the year, we achieved a 9% reduction in our overall Carbon Emissions per Full Time Employee FTE, and are making good progress towards our 2020 targets.
This Authority to Issue Shares significant reduction is attributed to ongoing office consolidation, improvements in Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without prejudice to any our waste management processes, and data centre efficiency projects such as rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued cold-aisle containment.
Scope 1 emissions have increased due to a change in with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution landlord usage procedures for Natural Gas in Milan.
All building consumption during determine or, subject to and in default of such determination, as the Board winter months is now assigned to LSEG.
We are taking an active approach to emissions management, with our global Authority to Allot Shares Environmental Management Group accurately measuring GHG impacts across our The authority conferred on the Directors at last years AGM to allot shares in property portfolio, including managed offices where possible.
We report beyond the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 8,034,000 representing the mandatory reporting guidelines to include Scope 3 emissions.
Performance is approximately 33.3% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the latest reported quarterly via our intranet, and we annually disclose through this report practicable date before publication of the Notice of the Companys last AGM and via CDP.
or, in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders by way of a rights issue, up to a maximum nominal amount of 16,069,000 representing Global 2016 GHG Emissions approximately 66.6% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the latest tCO e Tonnes of practicable date before publication of the Notice of the Companys last AGM, 2 2 carbon dioxide equivalent 2016 2015 % Change expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to 1 Total Group Carbon Footprint 30,900 31,237 1.08 give a similar authority to allot shares at the forthcoming AGM.
2 per m 0.339 0.384 11.72 per FTE 6.61 7.26 8.95 Directors interests Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2016, according per m Revenue 18.63 22.02 15.4 3 to the register maintained under the Companies Act 2006, are set out in the Scope 1 1,583 1,094 44.7 4 Directors Remuneration Report on pages 91 92.
No company in the Group was, Scope 2 21,129 22,226 4.94 during or at the end of the year, party to any contract of significance in which any Scope 3 6,591 6,343 3.91 Director was materially interested.
Scope 3 Electricity Transmission and Distribution 1,597 1,574 1.46 Directors indemnity 1.
Total Group Carbon Footprint and Scope 2 use market-based Scope 2 emissions factors Details of qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section 2.
2 015 figures have been updated on receipt of annual emissions factor guidance and actual figures 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in force during the course of the year ended from suppliers 3.
C ombustion of fuel and operation of facilities includes Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG, Fugitive 31 December 2016 can be found on page 59.
Such qualifying third party indemnity Emissions and Fleet Vehicles provision remains in force as at the date of approving the Directors report.
P urchase of electricity by the Group for its own use the Group does not purchase heat, steam or cooling Employees In addition to monitoring our environmental impact, we have set environmental Information on the Companys wider responsibilities in relation to employees targets for the next financial year that include energy, water, waste and travel.
including the Companys approach to human rights and diversity is given on More information on these as well as full details of emissions and reporting page 37 and information on the Groups share schemes is provided in the Directors methodology can be found in our CR report.
Remuneration Report on pages 76 and 85.
The Company provides an induction programme for new employees, including training employees on health and safety, and a range of development programmes for all employees to develop their skills and knowledge.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from persons with a disability where the candidates particular aptitudes and abilities are consistent with and adequately meet the requirements of the role.
The Group encourages and assists employees with a disability with training, career development and promotion opportunities, and where, existing employees become disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment and training wherever possible.
Where changes to working practices or structure affect staff, staff are consulted and given the appropriate support.
All employees are provided with information on matters of concern to them in their work, through regular briefing meetings and internal publications.
To inform employees of the economic and financial factors affecting our business, regular updates are posted on our intranet and engagement events are hosted, such as Townhall style meetings with members of our Executive Committee and functional leaders, providing a briefing of specific areas of the business.
97 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Report continued Political Donations and Expenditure Disposal of businesses During the year the Group did not make any political donations to EU or On 3 January 2017, the Group announced that it had agreed the sale of the non-EU organisations, or incur any political expenditure.
LCH SA business to Euronext N. V for an irrevocable cash offer of 510 million 434.9 million.
The proposed sale is subject to the review and approval by the It remains the Companys policy not to make political donations or to incur political European Commission in connection with the proposed merger of London Stock expenditure: however, the application of the relevant provisions of the Companies Exchange Group and Deutsche Brse, which was announced on 16 March 2016, Act 2006 is potentially very broad in nature and, as last year, the Board is seeking and the receipt of various regulatory and other consents and approvals, including shareholder authority to ensure that the Group does not inadvertently breach these completion of the Works Council consultation process.
It is also conditional on the provisions as a result of the breadth of its business activities, although the Board has successful closing of the merger.
no intention of using this authority.
As in previous years, the Board is proposing that shareholders pass a resolution at the forthcoming AGM to authorise the Group to: The LCH SA business forms part of the LCH Group CGU and the Group has make political donations to political parties and independent election candidates determined that there is no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill in not exceeding 100,000 in total: the LCH Group CGU.
make political donations to political organisations other than political parties On 28 February 2017, the Group completed the sale of Information Services not exceeding 100,000 in total: and Professional Solutions ISPS a business line of BIt Market Services S. p. A. for a incur political expenditure not exceeding 100,000 in total, cash consideration of 10.5 million.
The net assets disposed contained brands, intellectual property and capitalised research and development investments, provided that in any event the aggregate amount of any such donations and used for carrying out the ISPS business along with identified agreements with expenditure made or incurred by the Group shall not exceed 100,000. suppliers and clients and employment relationships.
Notwithstanding the Companys policy not to make political donations, the The ISPS business form part of the Information Services segment and is Company supported an employee-operated Political Action Committee PAC contained within the Italian Group CGU.
that facilitated voluntary political donations by eligible Frank Russell Company employees up until 1 June 2016 when the divestment of the Russell Investment Significant agreements Management business took place.
PACs are a common feature of the US The following are significant agreements to which the Company is a party that political system and are governed by the Federal Election Campaign Act.
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
The PAC was not controlled by the Company or Frank Russell Company.
Decisions on the amounts and recipients of contributions are made by participating SwapClear employees exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political LCH, along with a number of investment banks, is party to an agreement for the contributions.
From 1 January 2016 31 May 2016, a total of US$41,500 was donated clearing of OTC interest rate swaps in relation to the SwapClear business.
Such to political organisations by the Frank Russell Company employee operated PAC.
arrangements contain certain provisions that entitle the banks to terminate the agreement on a change of control.
Events since the balance sheet date Facility Agreement Business combinations The Company as borrower has entered into two syndicated, committed, On 3 January 2017, the Group acquired the entire share capital in Mergent Inc. revolving facility agreements dated 25 June 2014 and 9 November 2015 Mergent, a leading global provider of business and financial information respectively which provide an aggregate 1.2 billion of flexible financing on public and private companies for cash consideration of $144 million capacity.
The facilities are partially drawn and sized to provide comfortable 116.7 million.
The acquisition will support the growth of FTSE Russells core headroom to the Group.
The terms of the above agreements are consistent index offering, supplying underlying data and analytics for the creation of a wide and appropriate for an investment grade borrower including change of control range of indexes.
provisions which, if triggered, allow the Facility Agent, upon instructions from the At the date of issue of these financial statements, the initial accounting for the majority lenders, to cancel the facility and declare all outstanding loans under Mergent business combination has not been completed and as such certain the agreement, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued, disclosures in respect of the acquisition cannot be made, including: the fair value due and payable.
and major classes of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed: the Notes goodwill arising on the business combination: the qualitative factors contributing The Company has issued Sterling notes to the wholesale fixed income market to the recognition of goodwill: and the amount of goodwill expected to be due in 2019.
The notes contain a redemption upon change of control deductible for tax purposes.
provision which, if triggered by the combination of a change of control and, The acquisition accounting for Mergent will be finalised within twelve months of within 120 days thereafter, a credit rating downgrade to non-investment the acquisition date.
grade, allows note holders to exercise their option to require the company to redeem the notes and pay any accrued and unpaid interest due.
98 L Lo on nd do on S n St to oc ck E k Ex xc ch ha an ng ge G e Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A Annu nnua al l R Rep epo or rt t D fide ecem cemb ber er 2 20 01 16 6 Governance Directors Report Retail Bond Issue Financial viability statement The Company has issued Sterling denominated retail bonds, under its In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Directors confirm that they 1,000 million Euro Medium Term Note Programme, which are due in 2021. have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its The retail bonds contain change of control provisions which, if triggered, liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years.
A period of three years has been by the combination of a change of control and, within 120 days thereafter, chosen for the purpose of this viability statement, in line with the Groups Business a credit rating downgrade to non-investment grade, allow the holder of these plan.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the Groups bonds to have the option to require the Issuer to repay early or to purchase current position and prospects, the Groups three-year business plan, the Groups the bonds of that holder at their face value together with the accrued interest.
risk appetite and the expected impact of a selected group of severe but plausible downside scenarios.
Employee Share Plans The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the consequences The business plan makes certain assumptions about the performance of the of a change of control of the Company on employees rights under the plans.
core revenue streams and segments, using existing product lines as well as Generally such rights will vest on a change of control and participants will assumptions on take-up of new product lines, assumptions on appropriate become entitled to acquire shares in the Company although in certain levels of investment to support expected performance, known inorganic activity, circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to defer the ability to refinance debt as required, and expected returns to shareholders.
vesting and to require rights to be exchanged for equivalent rights over the acquiring companys shares.
The plan is stress tested using a selected group of severe but plausible downside Co-operation Agreement scenarios as determined relevant by the Group Risk Committee, over the full The Company has entered into a co-operation agreement with Deutsche Brse three-year plan period.
Impacts on the performance of core revenue streams AG and HLDCO123 plc in connection with the proposed merger between the and segments are modelled through business inputs, with appropriate mitigating Company and Deutsche Brse AG.
This agreement contains termination factors also considered.
provisions which, inter alia, provide for termination on notice by either party upon an offer by a third party for the Company being declared unconditional or The impact on the Groups cash flows, liquidity headroom, and debt covenants being completed.
are detailed throughout the three-year period in each scenario.
No scenario over the three-year period leads to a breach in Group covenants or an inability to meet Employee Benefit Trust the Groups obligations through insufficient headroom.
Further, a reverse stress As at 31 December 2016, the trustee of the London Stock Exchange Employee test has been completed, to evaluate the financial impacts required to breach the Benefit Trust, which is an independent trustee, held 376,456 shares under the terms Group Risk Committees risk appetite.
of the trust for the benefit of employees and former employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The trust is a discretionary trust and the shares are held to meet Going concern employees entitlements under the Companys share plans.
Employees have no The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its voting rights in relation to the shares while they are held in trust.
The trustee has future development, performance and position and its objectives and policies full discretion to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares or to abstain from in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital are set out voting.
Shares acquired by employees through the Companys employee share plans in the Strategic Report on pages 2 53.
The Directors statement in relation to rank equally with the ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
going concern is set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on pages 100 101.
Branches outside the UK Certain of the Companys subsidiaries have established branches in a number Future developments of different countries in which they operate.
The Executive Management team monitors future development and market trends affecting the Group and its subsidiaries on an ongoing basis.
Details of these Financial Risk Management developments and trends and the potential implications for the Group can be found The use of financial instruments by the Group and the Groups Financial Risk in the Market trends and our response section of the Annual Report pages 12 15.
Management have been specifically considered by the Directors, and relevant disclosures appear in Principal Risks and Uncertainties, on pages 50 51 of this Auditors Annual Report, and in the notes to the Financial Statements, on pages 123 127 A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be of this Annual Report, and in each case are incorporated by reference into this proposed at the AGM.
Strategic Report Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The Strategic Report pages 2 53 was approved by the Board on 2 March 2017 In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors and signed on its behalf.
confirm, in the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors Report as listed on pages 54 55, that: By Order of the Board so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and Lisa Condron to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information Group Company Secretary 3 March 2017 99 99
