London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Complying with the provisions of the Code The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and business integrity in all of its activities.
Throughout the year, the Company has complied with all principles of the Code.
The Code sets out guidance in the form of main principles and more specific provisions for good governance in relation to Board leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
Further information on the Code, its applicability, the principles and their provisions can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, at www.
This table forms part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 96 of the Directors Report.
Leadership ensures there is a clear management structure B.
Effectiveness with appropriately delegated responsibilities, A.
1 The Composition of the Board staffed by suitably experienced and qualified staff The Board is the principal decision-making forum There is a strong non-executive element on the for the Group and is responsible to shareholders ensures appropriate reporting and Board, and the Non-Executive Directors provide deep for achieving the Groups strategic objectives and communication systems are established corporate experience and knowledge which they delivering sustainable growth in shareholder value.
across the Group apply to their understanding of the Group and its Directors act in a way they consider will promote the strategy.
The Board has six Independent Nonensures key performance objectives are set for long-term success of the Company, by constructively Executive Directors.
In assessing each Directors all operational departments: action plans and challenging and supporting the development of the independence, the Board considered whether there budgetary controls are established: and, Groups strategy, for the benefit of shareholders as are relationships or circumstances which are likely where necessary, corrective action is taken a whole, with regard to the interests of the Groups to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors to maximise the performance of the Group employees, the impact of the business on the judgement.
In evaluating Directors independence, community and environment and the interests of ensures the Groups strategy and values are the Board has taken into consideration the guidance other stakeholders.
The Board manages the overall effectively understood and applied by provided by the Code.
control of the Groups affairs with reference to the management and staff formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
2 Appointments to the Board ensures an appropriate Risk Management This schedule is available on the Companys website The Board has a formal, rigorous and transparent framework is in operation at www.
com procedure for the appointment of new Directors to  corporatethe Board.
The Board has established a Nomination A.
The Board Committee which leads the process for Board chairs the Board of the Company views the brands and reputations of its subsidiaries appointments and makes recommendations to the as important assets of the Group.
Accordingly, forges an effective Board based on experience, Board.
The Report from the Nomination Committee protection of the brand and reputation of the Group, diversity, skills and competencies on page 61, outlines the changes to the Board that including ensuring that subsidiaries continue to meet took place during the year.
The Board normally uses ensures, in collaboration with the Chief local legal requirements, is also a key part of the an external search consultancy for appointments.
Executive, that the Board considers the strategic Boards role.
Mr Sironi who is also Chairman of Borsa Italiana issues facing the Group in a timely manner and S. p. A. was appointed to the Board because of the is presented with sound information and Board Committees Boards desire to maintain a strong Italian presence analysis appropriate to the decisions that it is The Company ensures that all committees are on the Board.
asked to make provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
All committees have written terms of acts as a sounding board for the Chief Executive B.
3 Commitment reference which are available from the corporate and provides general advice relating to the The other significant commitments of the Chairman responsibility section on the Companys website at management and development of the and the Board are set out at pages 54 55.
com  business is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties group  or on request from and time commitments as Directors of the Company.
supports the commercial activities of the Group by, the Group Company Secretary.
inter alia, maintaining contact with the Groups key stakeholders and other industry participants A.
2 Division of Responsibilities The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct A.
4 Non-Executive Directors and separate with a clear division of responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors are urged to challenge The Chairman is responsible for the running and constructively and help develop proposals on leadership of the Board and ensuring its strategy, scrutinise the performance of management effectiveness.
The Chief Executive has delegated in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor authority from, and is responsible to, the Board for the reporting of performance.
They should satisfy managing the Groups business with the power for themselves on the integrity of financial information further delegation in respect of matters which are and that financial controls and systems of risk necessary for the effective running and management management are robust and defensible.
The Board of the business.
The current key responsibilities of should appoint one of the independent Nonboth the Chairman and Chief Executive are set Executive Directors to be the Senior Independent out below.
Director Mr Paul Heiden is the Senior Independent Director.
The responsibilities of the Senior Chief Executive Independent Director include meeting major formulates the strategic direction of the Group shareholders as an alternative contact to the and periodically agrees this with the Board Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer.
ensures proper financial and business control is exercised within the Group chairs the Group Executive Committee 62 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Complying with the provisions of the Code B.
4 Development C. Accountability D. Remuneration Directors are encouraged to update continually their C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting D. 1 The Level and Components skills and knowledge of the business, and briefings A statement of the Directors responsibilities of Remuneration are regularly given at Board meetings on particular regarding the financial statements, including The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 95 parts of the business.
During the year, the Board the status of the Group and Company as a going outlines the activities of the Remuneration Committee attended a number of presentations outside Board concern is set out on pages 100 101.
An explanation during 2016 and the implementation of the meetings including on aspects of our technology of the Groups strategy and business model, Remuneration Policy during 2016 including salary, business, AIM, the operation of the Shared Service together with relevant risks and performance bonus and share awards and payments for loss of arrangements and cyber security.
The Board also risks and performance metrics are set out on office paid to Directors.
The Remuneration Policy was continued its practice of undertaking formal visits pages 8 15.
A further statement is provided on subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM to its overseas businesses so that the Directors can page 101 confirming that the Board considers that and was passed with 95% support.
It is available on the experience key aspects of the Groups operations the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Groups website at: www.
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the shareholder-services agm-information.
There have information necessary for shareholders to assess the been changes to the policy during the financial year.
Each new Director joining the Board is provided with Group and Companys position, performance, Under Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized an induction programme covering the key business business model and strategy.
Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports areas of the Group and including meetings with Amendment Regulations 2013, the Remuneration members of the Executive Committee, other senior C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control Policy Report must be approved by a binding managers and external advisers.
Directors are The Board has overall responsibility for the sponsorship shareholder vote at least once every three years.
provided with key documents including those of a strong risk culture across the Group and for Therefore, the Remuneration Policy Report will be covering strategy, past Board papers, an overview determining the nature and extent of the principal subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
of the Business, and information on Directors risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic responsibilities including under the Listing Rules objectives.
It approves the Risk Appetite each year as D. 2 Procedure and the Code.
Directors are encouraged to meet with part of the strategic business objectives, and ensures The Board has delegated responsibilities to the executives on an ongoing basis to better understand there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, Remuneration Committee including the remuneration each of the business areas together with the Groups and managing the principal risks faced by the of the Chairman and Executive Directors.
governance, financial and legal framework.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Risk Committee including E. Relations with Shareholders B.
5 Information and Support oversight of internal Risk Management processes.
The Directors have full access to the advice and E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders The report from the Risk Committee can be found on services of the Group Company Secretary, who is The Company maintains an active shareholder pages 68 69.
In accordance with paragraph C. 2.2 of responsible for advising the Board on corporate engagement programme, managed through the the Code an explanation of how the Directors have governance matters.
Directors also have access to Groups IR function.
The IR programme provides assessed the prospects of the Company is included independent professional advice if they judge it regular opportunity for contact with existing and in the section headed Financial viability statement necessary to fulfil their responsibilities as Directors.
potential shareholders, as well as sell-side analysts on page 99. that produce investment research relating to the B.
IR activities include meetings, calls, C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors The Board conducts an annual evaluation of its presentations and information releases on a regular The Audit Committee Report on pages 64 67 sets effectiveness and acts on the results of the review.
basis throughout the year, based around the Groups out details of the composition of the Committee, During the year, the Board carried out an internal financial reporting calendar and following major including the expertise of members, and outlines how review of its own effectiveness and that of its corporate events and news flow.
For more detail on the Committee has discharged its responsibilities Committees and Directors and the results of that the Groups IR activities, please see page 58 of the during 2016.
The Board has delegated a number of review are detailed on page 58 of the Corporate Corporate Governance Report.
responsibilities to the Audit Committee, including Governance Report, together with actions taken oversight of the Groups financial reporting processes following the 2015 effectiveness review.
E. 2 Constructive Use of General Meetings and management of the external auditor.
The Groups AGM provides the opportunity for all B.
7 Re-Election shareholders to meet the Directors and to put Each Director is subject to election at the first AGM questions to the Board.
Procedures for the AGM following their appointment.
In line with the Code, are compliant with the Code, with voting by way all Directors are subject to annual re-election.
of a poll to ensure all shareholders views are taken into account.
