Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Key performance indicators Our financial KPIs illustrate and measure the relationship between the The results of our KPIs this year reflect the difficult market environment, investment experience of our clients, our financial performance and the with strong outperformance for Numeric, good relative performance for creation of shareholder value over time.
As indicated in the Directors AHL, but weaker relative performance for GLG alternatives and FRM.
Net Remuneration policy on page 66 our KPIs determine the remuneration flows were positive for the year, with net inflows for quant alternative, fund ofthe executive directors and are used to regularly evaluate progress of fund alternative and quant long only, partially offset by net outflows in against our four key priorities: research and innovation, strong client discretionary alternative and long only strategies.
Management fee revenue relationships, efficient and effective operations, and capitalmanagement.
and profitability were down for the year as a result of lower FUM for GLG Our alternative performance measures are discussed on page 142. and the continued roll off of the guaranteed product FUM.
TARGET fund vs benchmark INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE1 Actual Benchmark 2016 2015 AHL AHL -3.0 0.9 -9.2 3.4 -11.0 7.9 -7.6 -2.7 2 2 Numeric Numeric 0.0 0.0 1.4 3.0 GLG GLG 2.5 -3.6 0.3 3.6 FRM FRM 1.9 0.5 -3.8 1.0 1 Where funds have a formal benchmark, performance is compared to this.
Where no formal benchmark has been set, benchmark should be taken to refer to a relative index.
2 Numerics net asset weighted alpha for the periods stated is calculated using the asset weighted average of the performance relative to the benchmark for all strategy composites available net of the highest rate of management fees charged and, as applicable, performance fees that can be charged.
The investment performance KPI measures the net investment The performance of the key strategies compared to the performance for our four managers AHL, Numeric, GLG and FRM.
benchmarks gives an indication of the competitiveness of our For AHL, GLG and FRM, investment performance is represented investment performance against similar alternative investment by key strategies against relevant benchmarks reference indices.
styles offered by other investment managers.
This measures For Numeric, investment performance is monitored by the net asset our ability to deliver long-term performance to investors.
weighted outperformance or underperformance alpha 1 based on a predetermined benchmark by strategy.
The target for the We achieved two out of the four performance targets with investment performance KPI is to exceed the relevant benchmarks.
Numerics positive net alpha in 2016, and the performance of AHLs key strategy exceeding two out of three of the relevant The key strategies and the relevant benchmarks are AHL Diversified peer benchmarks.
GLG and FRM did not meet their targets as versus three key peer asset managers for AHL the target being their performance metrics were below their relevant benchmarks.
to beat two of the three peers, the GLG Alternative Strategies Furtherinvestment performance information is provided on page 10.
Dollar-Weighted Composite versus HFRX for GLG and FRM Diversified II versus HFRI Fund of Funds Conservative Index for FRM.
For Numeric, net asset weighted outperformance is based on a benchmark against competitors by Numeric strategy.
16 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements ADJUSTED MANAGEMENT FEE EBITDA MARGIN % This KPI measures adjusted management fee EBITDA as a percentage of net revenues gross management fee revenue and income from 2015 27.2 associates less cash distribution costs.
Our adjusted management 2016 26.1 fee EBITDA margin is a measure of our underlying profitability.
The adjusted management fee EBITDA margin of 26.1% was within the target range for the year ended 31 December 2016, compared to 27.2% for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This margin declined TARGET in 2016 primarily as a result of the decline in management fee revenue, driven by the continued roll off of higher margin guaranteed 25%40% product FUM, and lower management fee revenue for discretionary alternatives and long only strategies due to a decline in FUM during the year.
For further information on EBITDA, see page 34.
NET FLOWS % This KPI measures net FUM flows for the period as a percentage of opening FUM, with net flows defined as gross sales less gross 2015 0.4 redemptions.
Net flows are the measure of our ability to attract 2016 2.4 and retain investor capital.
FUM drives our financial performance in terms of our ability to earn management fees.
Net flows were within the target range in 2016 with a net inflow of 2.4%, represented by net inflows into quant alternative, fund of fund TARGET alternative and quant long only strategies, partially offset by net outflows from discretionary alternative and long only strategies.
0%10% ADJUSTED MANAGEMENT FEE EPS GROWTH % This KPI measures our adjusted management fee EPS growth, where adjusted management fee EPS is calculated using post-tax profits 2015 1.0 excluding net performance fees and adjusting items, divided by the 2016 -11.8 weighted average diluted number of shares.
Adjusted management fee EPS growth measures the overall effectiveness of our business model, and drives both our dividend policy and the value generated for shareholders.
The adjusted management fee EPS growth of -11.8% TARGET was not within the target range for 2016 target of 0%20% plus RPI of 2.5%.
The adjusted management fee EPS declined due to the impact 0%20% RPI of lower management fee revenues, as a result of lower revenue from discretionary alternative and long only strategies and the continued roll off of higher margin guaranteed products, partially offset by lower costs.
For further information on EPS, see Note 9 to the financial statements.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 17 Galia Velimukhametova GLG Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our values Performance First, foremost and always, we focus on delivering superior risk adjusted performance.
Man Groups investment managers have These efforts often involve input from all four expertise in a diverse range of strategies, ofour investment management businesses.
which offer investment returns matched In doing so we are facilitating effective cross- $3.2BN to investor appetite for risk and reward.
pollination of ideas, both within Man Group, Increase in FUM from positive performance in 2016 We aim to generate superior risk adjusted andbetween ourselves and the academic returns for our clients through the quality of community, which we believe will help give our research, the talent of our investment anedge to our investment activities.
managers, and the strength of our operations and risk infrastructures.
Man Group believes that technology will play 21 We use advanced scientific a key role in the future of active management.
New models added to AHLs trading programmes methods to help inform our Our commitment to research in this area can be seen in many ways.
with the University of Oxford on machine learning techniques through the OxfordSandy Rattray Man Institute, we seek to hire the very best Chief Investment Officer quantitative talent to lead our research efforts and we invest in cutting edge hardware.
F ind out more about Excellence with our values on page 21 18 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016
