STRATEGIES FUM TOTAL Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 2013 $11.9BN Investment management review 2014 $14.4BN 2015 $16.9BN 2016 $18.3BN AHL Dimension AHL Alpha Institutional solutions Other specialist styles AHL Evolution AHL Diversi ed AHL Long Only AHL is a broad business not a single strategy Man AHL Science applied STRATEGIES FUM TOTAL to finance 2013 $11.9BN Established in 1987, Man AHL 2014 AHL hastoday become a leading $14.4BN quantitative investment manager with funds under management of 2015 $18.3 billion.
The firm utilises a wide $16.9BN variety of systematic strategies covering momentum, technicalsignals, 2016 $18.3BN fundamental indicatorsand machine learning.
Clientsinclude some of the largest institutional investors, AHL Dimension AHL Alpha Institutional solutions Other specialist styles including sovereign wealth funds, AHL Evolution AHL Diversi ed AHL Long Only pension funds and endowments.
Multi-strategy: AHLs flagship multiAHL has also been continuing to play a strategy programme, AHL Dimension, corerole in Man Groups investment solutions Headquartered in London, comprises a broad mix of high-conviction initiative with its new Institutional Solutions AHLemploysover 146 investment systematic models, spanning technical, offering.
We increasingly see clients wanting professionals, including 114 researchers, fundamental and momentum styles.
It todefine their own set of strategies, and to be across five locations.
The firms research utilises a wide universe of highly liquid more and more precise about the exposures benefits from work done at the Oxfordmarkets covering equity, FX, fixed income, they need within their overall portfolio.
Each of Man Institute OMI, AHLs unique volatility and commodities.
The range of these efforts is a logical step in our journey to collaboration with the University strategies employed is designed to ensure become a fully diversified systematic of Oxford.
that the product performs irrespective of investment manager.
Strategies overview Sector-based: These strategies allow Outlook AHL is a diversified quantitative manager with investors to access specialised, sector or AHL believes that quantitative investment awide strategic offering: theme specific investment strategies across techniques are more relevant today than they Traditional momentum: AHL Alpha equity, currency and volatility markets.
have ever been, and will continue to grow in alongwith its higher volatility version, importance within the asset management and AHLDiversified is a trend following strategy 2016 overview hedge fund industries.
We live in a world where supported by sophisticated algorithms.
This Even though the investment industry we trust machines to drive, to perform medical strategy was AHLs first offering and remains isbecoming much more fee conscious, procedures and to execute military operations.
This institutional investors, who comprise the vast Driverless cars were futuristic three years ago approach has consistently profited in both majority of AHLs clients, are increasingly willing but are now being tested on the streets of many rising and falling markets, whilst exhibiting to pay for uncommon exposures and proven cities.
AHL believes that we are on the verge of low correlations with other asset classes, alpha.
The net inflows for AHLs alternative similarly seismic changes in the investment particularly equities.
strategies remained strong over 2016, at industry, where new technologies and Non-traditional momentum: AHL $3.7billion, despite it being a challenging year techniques have the potential to revolutionise isalsoable to use its operational and for quant alternatives.
This is testament, not how capital is deployed.
executionstrengths to apply its trend only to AHLs long track record, but also to the following strategies to non-traditional differentiated exposures it provides clients with AHL has positioned itself on the cutting edge markets, or those which are less liquid, access to.
ofthis trend, in particular through its involvement through its Evolution and Evolution Frontier in the OMI.
In 2016 the OMI transitioned from programmes respectively.
Those markets, 2016 also saw the launch of the Short Term afocus on quantitative finance in general, to a which are more difficult to access, have Trading programme, which is a good example specific concentration on machine learning proved more resilient to the unconventional of the benefits of our ongoing research and anddeep learning.
The amount of data available market conditions experienced since the innovation.
While it was capacity limited at to investors is massive and getting bigger.
It is Global Financial Crisis, and to which CTA $200 million, and was only offered to a handful alsogetting more varied, with satellite and voice portfolios have struggled to adapt.
of potential clients, it reached capacity within a recognition technologies, for example, providing week of being offered, all at full fees.
We think new and unconventional data streams.
AHL is this is a testament to both the quality of the positioning itself so that it is best equipped research we do, and the strength of our client with the methodologies to manage tomorrows relationships.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 19 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Investment management review continued Strategies Overview GLG $BN AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 GLG manages a diverse range of alternative Man GLG and traditional investment strategies that focus Great minds, thinking on equities and credit as well as multi-asset investment strategies.
differently Equities: GLGs equities business comprises a range of alternative and long only strategies with investment expertise Man GLG GLG has spent the last two covering each of the major regions and $26.7 decades developing an entrepreneurial specialist sectors.
A wide range of culture where fund managers have the investment approaches and styles are best possible platform to pursue their pursued by the various investment teams.
Credit and fixed income: GLGs The firm believes that the combination alternative and long only credit strategies ofexceptional talent, collaborative work span the credit spectrum and capital environment and the support of best-instructure.
Our alternative credit strategy class technology and infrastructure can incorporates a diverse range of approaches Equity alternative 4.8 deliver market-beating returns.
and asset classes including relative value, Credit and convertibles 3.8 alternative distressed debt, event driven, capital Active management is evolving, both Multi strategy alternative 0.7 structure arbitrage, convertible bond froman analytical perspective, and in CLOs and debt 4.6 arbitrage strategies and CLOs.
Our long 10.6 Equity long only terms of client requirements.
GLGs only credit strategies include investing in 2.2 Fixed income long only entrepreneurial culture has allowed it to corporate bonds, convertible bonds and adapt to this change.
The firm increasingly asset-backed securities with a range of engages expertise from across the firm to approaches applied to each.
GLG also has ensure that it fully benefits from the world a comprehensive offering in Emerging leading tools and technology residing Markets EM Debt, covering hard currency within the Group.
debt, local currency debt, EM currencies and EM rates.
Multi-asset: GLGs multi-asset strategies consist of alternative and long only strategies.
Our multi-asset strategies comprise a variety of investment approaches and styles.
20 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Suraj Patel AHL and Jamal Cottle-Mathurin Technology Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our values Excellence Good is not good enough, we strive to be excellent in all we do.
Our experienced management team is From a compliance perspective, we invest committed to investing in infrastructure over inthe people and processes to support our theshort and long-term.
In doing this, we aimofachieving the highest standards in areconfident that we will be able to maintain compliance.
Our legal teams are located across best-in-class offerings in Technology, all the firms trading jurisdictions, to help ensure Compliance, Human Resources, Legal, that we fully understand the context and impact Operations and Facilities.
ROSA, our proprietary central operational From a risk management perspective, we platform, delivers a co-ordinated process employ a three lines of defence model to forthe firms trading as well as enhancing risk ensure our employees have the flexibility to controls and expanding the analytics available create solutions applicable to our clients to our portfolio managers.
As regulatory needs, but to do this in an appropriately requirements and clients expectations develop, controlled environment.
We believe that this this single central system also delivers high instils a culture of compliance into all personnel.
quality, timely and dynamic reporting.
We This is consistent with our commitment to run believe this capability allows us to respond to our business to the highest standards, and for our clients needs and market opportunities the long-term.
with greater speed, flexibility and assurance.
By coaching and encouraging our people to be the best we retain them as they become leaders in their field.
Luke Ellis Chief Executive Officer Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 21 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our values Clients Our clients are at the heart of everything we do.
Client service is an essential part of We believe our infrastructure is one of our ourgrowthstrategy.
Our extensive global key commercial differentiators, maintaining We invest in talent, technology distribution network, long established client our position at the forefront of the asset and research as we strive to relationships, and high quality technology and management industry and allowing us to infrastructure allow our front office to focus on constantly evolve and adapt as our clients deliver the best results for our clients.
We allow flexibility, with one basic needs do.
rule: we work together to deliver better solutions for our clients.
Our clients all have one key contact within our Jonathan Sorrell distribution team, who understands them and President their investment needs, and can present them with the diversified range of options we offer to enable cross buying by clients across our product range.
22 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Abby Clarke Commercial Management Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Investment management review continued 2016 overview In 2015 we announced the hire of Outlook 2016 was a challenging environment for GuillermoOsses to head a new strategy GLG needs to improve the consistency of discretionary investment management forGLG Emerging Markets Debt.
The newly created CIO role business.
GLG experienced net outflows of outthe team during the first half of 2016 underlines our focus on delivering sustainable $3.0 billion across its alternative and long only andlaunched three new strategies during the performance across our strategies, as well as strategies as a result of weaker performance in second quarter.
The strategies had a strong further enhancing collaboration across our the first half of the year particularly.
The lower start in performance terms, with the flagship teams.
Longer term, we also see machine 3 FUM and weak performance also led to lower total return fund returning 5.8% since its learning and deep learning techniques as key management fee revenue and performance fee inception in late April 2016.
Since launch the areas that could help improve our analysis of profits.
GLG has also been part of the Groups team has generated inflows of more than data, and thereby improve our decision making.
wider restructuring effort, where a number of $1billion.
There were also net inflows for This is an area where GLG can leverage the underperforming strategies were closed during GLGsContinental European, and European varied expertise of Man Group and, in the year to improve returns and reduce costs.
Mid Cap strategies, with both strategies raising particular, Man AHLs pioneering work in in excess of $200 million during 2016. machine learning in finance.
Performance across GLGs product range was mixed given the difficult environment.
GLGs Secondly, GLG aims to maximise the growth The firm continues to see demand for its CLO alternative strategies ended the year slightly up opportunities of existing strategies and teams.
Despite a slow market environment on an overall basis, with weaker performance The best way of doing this is to ensure that all GLG successfully raised an additional $400 ona relative basis as GLGs alternative strategies strategies are available in formats that allow million for a new European CLO.
Increasing the dollar weighted composite underperformed the a broad range of interested clients to invest.
assets of our CLO team has been an area of HFRXby -2.2%.
Within alternatives, the credit focus and the inflows are a positive outcome.
Finally, GLG will look to develop new strategies strategies were the strongest performers.
The to broaden its product offering.
This will be environment was more challenging for our UK A number of changes amongst GLGs senior done either through the hiring of new teams and Europe focused stock selection strategies, management occurred during 2016.
Teun or, where appropriate, through launching which underperformed in 2016.
Our largest Johnston became GLGs sole CEO as Mark 1 new strategies with existing teams.
In 2016, alternative strategy, ELS, returned -1.4% for Jones became CFO of Man Group plc.
GLG launched various new strategies that the year.
Pierre-Henri Flamand, one of the firms senior are run by existing teams.
We will continue portfolio managers, took on the role of GLG GLGs long only strategies had good to seek out new opportunities to broaden CIO.
Finally, Pierre Lagrange was appointed performance, outperforming relative indices on our strategy range throughout 2017.
Senior Advisor to Man Group and Man GLG.
an asset weighted basis by 2.1%.
Japan Core Inthis role he will provide strategic counsel to While 2016 was a difficult year for the Alpha, the $7 billion strategy, endured a difficult Man Groups CEO and management, with business, we have taken actions to improve first half but generated better performance in specific focus on GLG and the ELS team.
the second half of the year, ending the year up 2 5.4% relative to the TOPIX.
Despite this Pierre-Henris role as CIO, and a focus on performance, the Japan CoreAlpha strategy bringing the best practices in risk management experienced net outflows of$1.6 billion during and technology to bear from across the the year.
GLGs UK and European equity long Group, aims to improve the consistency of only strategies generally underperformed their GLGs performance.
1 Represented by GLG European Long Short Fund Class D unrestricted EUR 2 Represented by Man GLG Japan CoreAlpha Equity Fund Class I JPY 3 Represented by Man GLG Global Emerging Markets Total Return Fund Class I USD Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 23 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Investment management review continued Clarus is Man Groups transparency portal that enables institutional clients to monitor and understand their investment positions, risk and performance.
Combining sophisticated analytics with comprehensive portfolio reporting tools onasingle platform, Clarus aims to power informed decision-making, effective risk A diversified offering management and strong governance.
FRM is ideally placed to meet the needs of Clarus helps answer the important Man FRM investors seeking access to externally managed questions every day: Dynamic and on-going hedge fund solutions.
How is my investment performing?
partnerships FRMs traditional fund of hedge funds Dont wait for the performance report.
offering remains a core part of its business.
WithClarus, you are able to monitor your While demand for off the shelf solutions performance instantly at portfolio and Man FRM FRM is a global hedge fund has reduced, the demand from clients for manager level and compare to a wide expert with over 25 years experience customised hedge fund solutions has increased rangeof benchmarks.
in deploying hedge fund solutions through the course of 2016.
These solutions within institutional portfolios.
FRM Whats driving my performance?
have often sought to exploit the strong provides an open architecture, full Puzzled by your performance?
Clarus lets technology and transparency infrastructure service hedge fund offering to clients, you delve into contributions and allocations, that FRMs leading managed account platform ranging from customised, advisory all the way to position level, to discover the provides.
FRMs Managed Account platform and commingled solutions, as well as source of your performance.
is among one of the largest in the industry.
a leading, technologically innovative What risks am I exposed to?
These hedge 2016 overview Gain access to a thorough and timely fund services are also complemented FRM continues to see strong client interest in its understanding of risk with Clarus.
Navigate by Clarus, FRMs sophisticated infrastructure managed accounts offering and risk factors, VaR, sensitivities, stress tests online portal providing clients with were awarded three additional mandates during and much more for a real appreciation of enhanced transparency and insights the year totalling $2.5 billion.
FRM saw net inflows your risk level.
into their hedge fund investments.
of $1.8 billion into their infrastructure and direct access managed accounts, with an additional Want to adjust your portfolio?
With 44 investment professionals, based $1.9 billion left to fund in 2017 onwards.
Look beyond your current portfolio with across the world, and assets of $12.8 billion, Clarus construction tool.
Whether youre FRMs traditional fund of fund assets FRM is able to leverage from the scale and looking to make a big change or just a small continuedto decline, as investor appetite expertise available across the entire Group, adjustment, Clarus modelling powers can forthese products becomes more subdued, using cutting edge infrastructure to bring support your decision-making.
During the year, there were sophisticated hedge fund services $1.0 billion of net outflows from FRMs traditional toclients.
fund of fund strategies, and these assets are expected to continue to decline in future.
The multi-strategy portfolio performed well and reached return targets, and FRM $BN The shift in the mix of assets resulted in we are seeing an increasing trend of alternative AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 FRMsoverall net margin declining from 80 beta being adopted within investors managed basispoints in 2015 to 69 basis points in 2016. portfolios of hedge funds, which we expect This trend is expected to continue as the tocontinue.
infrastructure managed accounts continue togrow and the traditional fund of fund assets FRM are also focused on developing other decline.
However, in 2016, FRMs management innovative solutions to better serve our clients fee revenue remained stable as the growth in hedge fund investment needs.
Work has been assets offset the impact of the decline in the $12.8 conducted in a number of instances to create overall net margin.
portfolios, which combine internal and external strategies to provide strong diversification in risk Innovative solutions averse markets.
FRM continues to broaden its offering and technological capabilities by partnering with Outlook bothAHL and Numeric, to develop innovative FRMs business model has been shifting into strategies to help solve the challenges clients that of a solutions provider, with a particular Infrastructure and direct 5.3 face in their hedge fund portfolios.
FRM played emphasis on developing services which can access managed accounts akey role in the development of the Man leverage off the scale and wide reaching range 3.0 Segregated accounts Alternative Beta platform, which seeks to provide of capabilities across the whole of Group.
3.6 Diversi ed FoHFs highly capital and fee efficient access to core Thematic HoHFs 0.9 Successfully making this transition explains hedge fund strategies such as Momentum, whyFRMs FUM has been growing whilst Carryand Value.
FRM has been deploying these manyof its peers have been struggling to attract strategies within its own portfolios since 2014 assets.
FRM believes that its experience and and helped launch a multi-strategy portfolio in expertise mean that the firm will continue to late 2015.
This capability has attracted a good beable to provide insightful solutions to our level of client interest in 2016 with demand for clientsproblems in the areas of fee levels, access as both part of individual clients wider transparency, capital efficiency and governance.
hedge fund allocation but also on a stand-alone 24 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our values Differentiation We seek to be differentiated and original in our thinking.
At Man Group, we have a wide variety of At Man GLG, we believe that different strategies and asset classes to meet differing investment styles and approaches can be We believe that our different investor appetite for risks and rewards.
Consequently, investment styles and we encourage independent thinking, At Man AHL, we believe that the best unconstrained by a house view.
way to extract value from leading minds is to encourage a thoughtful exchange At Man FRM, we have over 25 years Sandy Rattray of ideas in an open environment.
hedgefund research and investing experience.
Chief Investment Officer We believe that this accumulated knowledge, At Man Numeric, we are committed to combined with our flexible approach to hedge thedevelopment and implementation of fund investing offers unique advantages to quantitative investment techniques to generate ourclients.
Consistent with this objective, we have committed significant resources toward building an investment team with strong research and modelling capabilities.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 25 Carol Ward GLG Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our values Responsibility We always do the right thing and conduct our business with the highest standards of integrity.
We recognise the importance of robust Environmental, Social and Corporate Whilst our environmental impact is relatively corporate governance practices that help Governance ESG criteria are a key part of our limited, we strive to take all practicable and toensure effective oversight and strong stewardship responsibility.
GLG and Numeric economic measures to conserve and reduce accountability.
With our scale we are well are proud signatories of the United Nations energy consumption at our offices around the positioned to implement these behaviours Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI, world.
We monitor our impacts using Credit across our investment engines.
a network of international investors working 360, a system that measures relevant data and together to put the principles of responsible provides useful reporting.
Due to our ongoing We believe in the importance of promoting investing into practice.
Our sophisticated discipline, we have reduced our carbon integrity and transparency within the investment firm-wide technology platform allows us to emissions in 2016, as you can see from our management sector.
We actively support our approach ESG from a systematic, fundamental disclosures in the Directors Report on page 91. industry in developing and committing to or negative screening perspective.
The services standards in this regard.
In 2008, we were a of external ESG specialists, as well as research We also believe that it is important to contribute founding signatory of the Hedge Fund Standards produced by our in-house analysts, ensure to the good of society.
The Man Charitable Board HSFB and Luke Ellis is currently a thatportfolio managers are well positioned to Trust continues to donate time and funding to member of the Board.
consider and capitalise on ESG factors in their worthwhile initiatives with a current focus on investment decisions.
raising the level of literacy and numeracy.
Referto page 44 for more details.
Our responsibility is to pursuethe highest standards of behaviour, both corporate and individual, which underpin our reputation and maintain the trust and loyalty of our clients and shareholders.
Robyn Grew Chief Administrative Officer 26 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Simon Savage Man Solutions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Investment management review continued Man Numeric Systematic implementation of fundamental investment themes Man Numerics Numeric strategy isto deliver alpha-focused, capacityaware, customisable investment capabilities.
We achieve this through thoughtful innovation, high-touch client service, and efficient implementation.
We encourage transparency and open dialogue, and believe in empowerment with accountability.
Numerics success rests squarely on its team of high-integrity and talented contributors who create alpha, serve clients, and advance our capabilities and platform.
Numerics team of 92, based in Boston, serve all these Strategies overview 2016 overview functions and manage $23.1 billion.
Numeric is a quantitative asset manager 2016 has been a year of two halves for withdisciplined, systematic investment Numeric.
Performance struggled in the first half, processes offering long only, active extension, with asset-weighted alpha of -1.9%.
However, FUM BY STRATEGY $BN and hedged equity strategies across regions, inthe second half there was a pronounced AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 styles, and capitalisations.
Numeric has a recovery with the aggregate 2016 figure ending 1 significant focus on optimal asset capacity at 1.4%.
This marks the sixth straight year of limits, and is committed to ongoing investment positive alpha, as demonstrated in the chart in research and implementation.
Numeric below, and contributes to the firms strong manages money on behalf of a variety of long-term track record.
institutions including corporate and public pension plans, foundations, endowments andsovereign funds.
$23.1 Long only and active extension: Numeric has been managing quantitative long only equity strategies since 1989 and active extension since 2006.
The investment NUMERIC NET ASSET philosophy and models we use are based 1 WEIGHTED ALPHA % on our long-standing belief in valuation and Global long only 12.2 information flow signals, and their Emerging markets long only 4.2 complementary nature.
2012 4.5 US long only 5.0 Alternative: Hedged strategies, which Alternatives 1.7 2013 9.0 Numeric has managed since 1990, are designed to benefit from both long and 2014 2.3 short positions, while minimising macroeconomic and market risk.
Numerics 2015 3.0 alternative offerings combine uncorrelated 2016 1.4 alpha sources comprised of a diverse set of security selection strategies Diversified Market Neutral, Innovation Portfolios and 1 Numerics net asset weighted alpha is calculated using the asset weighted average of the Fundamental Statistical Arbitrage.
performance relative to the benchmark for all strategy composites available net of the highest management fees and, as applicable, performance fees that can be charged.
The comparatives for prior periods have been restated accordingly to be re ected on this basis.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 27 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our values Meritocracy We succeed through talent, commitment, diligence and teamwork.
We seek to build a workplace that Achieving a better balance between male and guaranteesfairness and equal opportunities, female employees across the business is a key We aim to create an while developing and retaining talent through priority for Man Group.
We remain committed environment that enables our continuing education and constructive to promoting gender diversity at all levels and feedbackloops, flexible working policies and a our recruitment policy has the objective of staff to reach their full potential.
Our culture is securing balanced female representation on underpinned by mutual respect for others and long lists of candidates for senior roles.
Luke Ellis we are committed to having a diverse workforce.
Chief Executive Officer 28 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Simret Tesfahwot Finance Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Investment management review continued 2016 was a volatile year.
The S&P 500 and MSCI World Indices were down over 10% to the February lows, but recovered by around 15%.
In the latter part of the year, Numerics systematic disciplined investment process captured significant alpha during the more volatile markets following surprising outcomes to the Brexit vote and U. S. Presidential election.
Navigating these challenges in 2016 is a testament to the firms continued innovation and the strength of its adaptive risk management processes.
Shared infrastructure Numeric continues to derive significant benefitfrom Mans infrastructure and distribution expertise.
Net inflows in 2016 were$1.5 billion, with the majority of new salescoming through Mans existing sales force channels.
The cumulative gross sales since the 2014 acquisition have been $10.4 billion, which brings Numerics AUM to $23.1 billion.
One development this year, which illustrates the Finally, we are working to develop our Numeric has wide ranging investment collaboration across the firm has been Numerics recruitment processes.
In particular we have solution capabilities spanning the spectrum progress in utilising Raptor, Man AHLs been growing our network amongst the top from long only and market neutral, to state-of-the-art proprietary Python-language graduate schools to ensure that we are able complex customised offerings combining research and daily production platform.
tocompete for the best talent available.
Numerics flexibility and track record means it is well Outlook Industry comment positioned to continue to be an important Plans to extend Numerics strategy offering to In a time when the value of active management alpha provider to its marketplace.
cover both China and frontier markets will put is increasingly questioned, Numeric continues the business in a position whereby it will have to be a vigorous proponent for the existence of the capability to trade every single significant alpha.
The rise of Smart Beta is a particular public equity market in the world.
In light of this the firm has undertaken a number of research studies As well as expanding geographic coverage, to measure the extent to which alpha can be Numeric is also diversifying its client offering into explained by Smart Beta factors.
These studies a number of newer strategies.
Three such areas illustrate the significant differences between $1.5BN stand out in particular.
First, the launch of the nave smart beta implementation and mutual fund pursuant to Integrated Alpha Numerics net inflows in 2016 sophisticated active management.
strategy expands Numerics hedge fund offering to the US Market.
Secondly, the firm continues 1 to develop its Alternative Beta strategies which 1.4% have performed well, and are increasingly relevant given growing client interest in cost Asset weighted alpha net of fees in 2016 effective risk premia return streams.
Lastly, Numeric is looking for a partner to develop a Global version of its Low Volatility strategy in the early part of next year.
1 Numerics net asset weighted alpha is calculated using the asset weighted average of the performance relative to the benchmark for all strategy composites available net of the highest management fees and, as applicable, performance fees that can be charged.
The comparatives for prior periods have been restated accordingly to be reflected on this basis.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 29
