Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic framework We aim to generate superior risk adjusted returns for our clients, and grow our business, through the quality of our research and innovation, understanding and meeting client needs, and operating the business efficiently to generate long term value for our shareholders.
Strong client relationships Generating superior risk adjusted Building long-term partnerships with clients, returns for clients through high quality research, through a single point of contact, to understand developing our people, and the strength of their needs and offer solutions across our range ourtechnology.
Capital management Building institutional quality technology and Generate excess capital to either return infrastructure, providing scalable options for orre-invest to maximise long term value growth, whilst operating the business efficiently.
See pages 1415 for progress against our strategy Key performance indicators KPIs Investment performance of key Net FUM flows for the period as Related Related 1 1 funds against relevant benchmarks strategic a percentage of opening FUM strategic priority priority 2 and reference indices AHL met FRM not met TARGET GLG not met 0%10% Numeric met 2.4% Adjusted management fee Adjusted management fee Related Related 1 1 EBITDA margin more on strategic EPS growth see Note 9 of the strategic priority priority EBITDA on page 34 2 financial statements 2 3 3 4 4 TARGET TARGET 0%20% 26.1% 11.8 % 25%40% plus RPI See pages 16 and 17 for full key performance indicators See pages 66 and 67 for remuneration at a glance 12 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Risks Remuneration Man Group identifies its principal risks across the Executive director remuneration is directly linked firm and assesses their likely impact.
We measure to strategy and performance, with particular and monitor the size of our risks, and implement emphasis on matching rewards to results controls and transactions to reduce and hedge over the long term.
exposures in order to ensure that they stay within our risk appetite framework.
Related strategic priority See pages Investment underperformance risk Linked to strategy 1 72 to 75 of the This is the key risk Man Group has to accept if it is to A substantial portion of executive director Directors Remuneration undertake its business.
remunerationis linked to success in implementing report for more theGroups strategy.
information Regulatory risk 1 2 3 4 Man Group is licensed in multiple jurisdictions, which Progress against the Groups strategic priorities and results in it being subject to a matrix of regulations.
Group key performance indicators KPIs provide key metrics for determining the short term annual cash Balance sheet market risk 1 3 4 bonus and the long term deferred bonus.
The risk of Man Group losing capital due to a decline in the value of the seeding book and or the Group having insufficient liquidity resources to meet its obligations in Performance related See pages volatile market conditions.
74 to 75 of the The variable components of total remuneration are Directors linked to performance, and the long term deferred Remuneration Operational risk 1 2 3 4 report for more bonus is awarded in shares further aligning interests Resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal information with shareholders.
processes and systems or from external events.
Information security risk High pay requires high performance.
Achieving the 1 2 3 4 The risk of loss resulting from cyber-crime, malicious maximum pay requires sustained high performance disruption to our networks or from the theft, misplacing, across all businesses over several years.
interception, corruption or deletion of information.
Discretionary trading risk See pages 1 2 Long term shareholder alignment 74 to 79 of the The risk that investment managers either intentionally The structure of pay is designed to reflect the long Directors or unintentionally fail to execute and or book trades Remuneration term nature of the Groups business.
The long term report for more correctly, or fail to adhere to investment mandates deferred bonus is awarded in shares with the vesting information orregulatory rules.
period set at three to five years after each three-year performance period, creating a six to eight-year period in Credit counterparty risk 1 2 3 4 total duringwhich executive reward is fully aligned with A counterparty with which the funds or Man Group have shareholder interests.
financial transactions fails to deliver back investor or shareholder assets.
See pages Shareholder engagement Legal risk 1 2 3 4 64 to 65 of the The Remuneration Committee actively seeks The global nature of Man Groups business, with corporate Directors Remuneration to understand shareholder preferences and be and fund entities located in multiple jurisdictions and a report for more transparent in explaining its policy and practice.
diverse investor base make it subject to a wide range of information During 2016, the Remuneration Committee Chairman laws and regulations.
met personally with a number of major shareholders Reputational risk and certain shareholder voting bodies to discuss the 1 2 3 4 The risk that an incident or negative publicity undermines changes to the application of the Remuneration policy our reputation as a leading alternative investment manager.
in response to previous feedback.
Key staff retention risk 1 2 3 4 The risk that a key person to the business leaves or is unable to perform their role.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 13
