Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Man Groups literary sponsorships Janie Airey Man Group sponsors two major literary prizes the Man Booker Prize and the Man Booker International Prize.
The symmetrical relationship between the Prizes ensures that the Man Booker can honour fiction on a global basis.
Man Group has sponsored the Man Booker Amanda Foreman, chair of the judges, said The The 2016 Man Booker International Prize was Prize, which aims to promote excellence in Sellout plunges into the heart of contemporary awarded to the novel The Vegetarian, written fiction, since 2002.
As the leading literary American society, with an absolutely savage byKorean author Han Kang and translated by awardin the English-speaking world, the prize wit adding, it both manages to slay every Deborah Smith.
The three-part novel follows has brought recognition, reward and readership social taboo and politically correct nuance, the story of Yeong-hye, a dutiful Korean wife to outstanding fiction since 1969. every sacred cow: and while making us laugh who decides one day to become a vegetarian.
also makes us wince, it is both funny and This subversive act fractures her familial life and 54-year-old New York resident Paul Beatty won painful at the same time, and it is really a turns seemingly ordinary relationships into ones the 2016 Man Booker Prize with his novel The novelfor our times.
driven by violence, shame and desire.
Born in Los Angeles, Beatty is the first American to win the prize in its 48-year history, Beatty was presented with the Prize by HRH Announcing the winner, chair of the judges following a change in the rules on eligibility.
The Duchess of Cornwall and Man Groups Boyd Tonkin, described The Vegetarian as Originally open to writers from the British Chief Executive Officer, Luke Ellis, on anunforgettably powerful and original novel Commonwealth, the Republic of Ireland or 25 October 2016, at Londons Guildhall.
that richly deserves to win the Man Booker Zimbabwe, from 2014 the prize has been open International Prize 2016.
He added, This to writers of any nationality, writing originally in Man Group also sponsors the Man Booker compact, exquisite and disturbing book will English and published in the UK.
International Prize, which seeks to encourage linger long in the minds, and maybe the the publishing and reading of quality fiction in dreams, of its readers.
The Sellout is a searing satire on race relations in translation.
Previously awarded every two years contemporary America.
At the start of the novel, for a body of work, from 2016 the Man Booker Sponsorship of the Man Booker prizes African-American narrator Bonbon is being International Prize is awarded annually on the underscores Man Groups charitable focus tried in the Supreme Court for attempting to basis of a single book translated into English onliteracy and education as well as the firms reinstitute slavery and segregation in the local and published in the UK.
All novels published in commitment to creativity and entrepreneurship.
What follows is a retrospective of English in the UK are therefore now eligible for Together with the wider charitable activities of this whirlwind scheme, populated by one or other of the Man Booker Prize or Man the Booker Prize Foundation, the prizes play cartoonishcharacters who serve to Booker International Prize.
avery important role in promoting literary .
excellence on a global scale that the firm is honoured to support.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 45
