Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Q&A with Luke Ellis and Mark Jones Luke Ellis and Mark Jones discuss fund performance in 2016, the impairment of GLG and FRM goodwill, the launch of Man Global Private Markets, the key challenges facing Man today, the senior management changes across the firm, and how they think about futurecapital return.
Q You impaired the GLG and FRM goodwill Mark Jones left and intangibles by $379 million in 2016.
What Chief Financial Officer led to these write downs?
Luke Ellis right Chief Executive Officer A Mark: GLG had difficult absolute performance during the year, with lower FUM, management fees and performance fees.
While these trends are partially mitigated by lower future costs, as we have taken action, there was still a material reduction in the carrying value of the business.
The 2016 performance and a weakening of industry growth forecasts during the year led to the impairment of GLGs goodwill and intangibles of $281 million.
For FRM, the impairment of $98 million reflects reduced prospects for the traditional fund of fund business in light of 2016 performance rather than declines experienced in the year.
In particular we expect continued margin declines as the business mix moves towards investment solutions.
It is worth noting that while we refer returning 11.9%.
GLGs long only strategies Q How did Mans range of strategies perform to our fund of fund business as FRM today, outperformed relative indices on an asset in 2016?
most of the goodwill related to Mans historical weighted basis overall, despite a weak first half.
A Luke: 2016 was a difficult year in general for acquisition of Glenwood in 2000.
Japan CoreAlpha, GLGs largest long only the active investment management industry.
strategy with $7 billion of assets, exceeded its Q You announced in October 2016 that you There were a number of market events which benchmark by 5.4% for the year, but did were acquiring Aalto and launching a new created uncertainty and volatility, including experience net outflows of $1.6 billion as a business line, Man Global Private Markets volatile oil prices and Chinese growth concerns result of weak performance in the first half.
What is Man GPM and what is putting significant pressure on global equities in FRMs performance was weak with FRM therationale for this and acquiring Aalto?
February, the Brexit vote in June, the potential Diversified II down -3.8%, underperforming the reduction of monetary stimulus from the A Luke: We believe our institutional clients HFRI Fund of Funds Conservative Index by 5.7%.
European Central Bank in September, and have a material need for strategies that deliver theUS elections in November.
solid, long-term returns, with better yield and Q The Groups performance fee profits are equivalent risk profiles to traditional fixed significantly lower this year compared to 2015.
The performance of our range of strategies income investments, particularly in the current Do you expect this to continue?
in2016 was reasonable given the market low interest rate environment.
AHL Evolution had another strong A Mark: As Luke explained, 2016 has been why we believe launching Man GPM is an year, both on an absolute and relative basis, adifficult year for the active management important development for the firm.
AHL Dimension, industry and the level of performance fees in AHLs multi-strategy and largest programme 2016 reflects this.
However, despite the market Man GPM will specialise in private market asset with over $5 billion of assets, returned -1.5%, events during the year, we were able to earn classes such as real estate, private credit, and while AHLs traditional trend following strategies, $81 million of performance fee revenue across infrastructure, and will allow us to offer a broader AHL Alpha and AHL Diversified, returned -3.0% our different investment engines.
Performance range of investment strategies to our clients.
Numeric had another fee revenue does vary year on year depending Aalto will form a central part of Man GPM, strong year, particularly in the final quarter, on the market environment, with high years providing a core platform upon which to develop 1 outperforming its benchmarks by around 1.4% such as 2014 where we had $340 million of this new business line.
Aaltos founders, Mikko net of fees on an asset weighted basis.
performance fee revenue, compared to lower Syrjnen and Petteri Barman, will be the years such as 2016.
Over the past five years, Co-Heads of Real Assets within Man GPM, GLGs alternative strategies had a challenging the average performance fee revenue has been taking a broader strategic role to develop and first half, particularly in the days post the Brexit around $200 million per year.
The Group has grow our real assets offering.
vote in June, and ended the year slightly up the capacity to earn significant performance overall on an absolute basis, underperforming fees over time, with around 45% of the Groups the HFRX.
GLGs credit strategies performed FUM eligible for performance fees.
particularly well, with Market Neutral returning 14.2% and the US Distressed Strategy 1 Numerics net asset weighted alpha for the periods stated is calculated using the asset weighted average of the performance relative to the benchmark for all strategy composites available net of the highest rate of management fees charged and, as applicable, performance fees that can be charged.
06 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Mark Jones, former Co-CEO of Man GLG, Q What are the key challenges facing Q The Group has around $325 million wasappointed as Chief Financial Officer from Mantoday?
ofsurplus capital after the impact of the Aalto 1 January 2017 following a handover from acquisition.
What are your key considerations A Luke: The commentary on the asset Jonathan.
Mark will be responsible for Finance, when thinking about capital and the amounts management industry currently focuses on Investor Relations and Risk for the Group.
Firstly, the increase in market share Sandy Rattray was appointed as Chief being taken by passive funds, and secondly, A Mark: Capital management is an active Investment Officer, assuming responsibility for fee pressure.
process, something we think about regularly.
Man AHL, Man Numeric, and Man GLG, where Capital is shareholders money and we assess The growth in passive investment styles has he will be able to leverage his deep expertise on an ongoing basis how best to utilise it nothad a significant impact on our business.
These were previously part tomaximise value to shareholders whilst Investors generally want one of two things: of my responsibilities as President.
maintaining a prudent balance sheet, whether cheap beta, or real alpha.
The growth of Sandyremains CEO of Man AHL.
that be through acquisitions or returning it to passives is driven by investors who want beta at shareholders.
low cost, whereas actively managed alternative Robyn Grew was appointed to the newly assets are also growing with investors after real Mans dividend policy is to pay at least 100% of createdposition of Chief Administrative Officer.
alpha, which is part of the same trend.
This adjusted management fee earnings per share She has responsibility for the firms infrastructure, creates a real opportunity for Man as an active each year as an ordinary dividend.
We then operations, technology, compliance, legal, manager, as we have always focused on truly expect to generate significant surplus capital human resources and facilities functions, active, high alpha strategies.
over time from performance fee earnings, allowing the Group to focus further on ensuring it which we will utilise to create value for has best in class operational functions and a Mark: There has been an increased focus shareholders through acquisitions or return working environment that attracts and retains onfees from clients, partially driven by the through dividends or share repurchases.
the best talent in the industry.
That has had animpact on our business in particular areas In 2016, we announced the acquisition Q Will these be followed by any change in where price competition is more intense, typically ofAaltoand the return of $100 million of strategy or focus?
However,  through a share A Luke: Our priorities remain the same and we for Man the change in our net management fee repurchase programme.
We continue to continue to focus on generating superior risk margin over recent years has mainly been the consider potential acquisition opportunities, adjusted returns for our clients, and building result of our business shifting from retail focused including in the private markets space to long-term client relationships, while tightly guaranteed products, a major component of complement the acquisition ofAalto.
Any managing our costs, running an efficient balance Mans old business model, to the diversified additional capital return to shareholders will be sheet, and continuing to add investment skills alternative and long only strategies that we continually assessed alongside any potential through training, hiring and acquiring.
Fee pressure is not uniform: clients acquisition opportunities to ensure the best risk continue to pay full fees for innovative products adjusted investment of capital.
Growing the business remains a key focus, with with good performance andwe continue to focus organic growth a priority.
We also continue to on developing these investment strategies.
We consider potential acquisition opportunities as also believe there are a number of opportunities we have done previously.
to work profitably for our clients on larger scale business, at a lower basis point fee, which is stillattractive for shareholders, whether that bethe infrastructure mandates within FRM, Breadth of expertise Collateralised Loan Obligations CLOs within GLG, or the real assetsstrategies which Aaltomanages.
Jonathan Sorrell Q Luke, you made some changes to the seniormanagement team after you became Jonathan is President of Man Group, wherehe has CEO.
What changes did you make?
responsibility for Sales, Man GPM and Man FRM, and remains on the Board.
Jonathan was promoted to A Luke: After my appointment as CEO Co-President in mid-2016, then became President in inSeptember, it made sense to look at the September 2016, and stepped downfrom his role as waywewere organised and where different CFO after four years atthe end of 2016. responsibilities should lie to ensure we have the optimal structure in place to serve our clients, Robyn Grew generate performance, and maintain tight Robyn holds the newly created position of Chief control of our infrastructure.
Jonathan Sorrell Administrative Officer for Man Group.
Robyn has was made President in charge Sales and responsibility for the firms infrastructure, operations, Marketing, Man GPM, and Man FRM, whilst technology, compliance, legal, human resources and remaining on the Board.
Sandy Rattray Sandy is Man Groups Chief Investment Officer and CEO of Man AHL.
In his expanded role, Sandy will be able to leverage his deep expertise across the Groups investment engines.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 07
