Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Lord Livingston of Parkhead Luke Ellis Mark Jones Jonathan Sorrell Chief Executive Officer CEO Chief Financial Officer CFO President Chairman Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment January 2016 September 2016 January 2017 June 2012 Chairman: May 2016 CFO: June 2012 December 2016 Co-President: June 2016 President: September 2016 Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Remuneration Committee None None None Nomination Committee Chair Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Ian served as Minister of State for Prior to his appointment to the Before joining the Board, Mark Jonathan joined Man in August 2011 Trade and Investment from 2013 Board, Luke served as President served as Co-CEO of Man GLG as Head of Strategy and Corporate to2015.
Prior to this, he was Group of Man Group from 2012 with from 2013 and COO from 2010.
He was CFO from June Chief Executive Officer of BT Group responsibility for the management of Mark joined Man GLG in 2005 from 2012 to December 2016 and was Plc, having previously served as Mans investment businesses.
Before strategy consulting firm McKinsey appointed Co-President in June Chief Executive Officer of BT Retail this he was Head and CIO of Mans where he worked across a range 2016 and President in September and as Group Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to joining Man, Jonathan Before joining BT, he was Chief Executive Chairman of GLGs Multispent 13 years at Goldman Sachs, Financial Officer of Dixons Group plc.
Luke previously where he worked in the Investment served as Managing Director of FRM Management, Securities and from 1998 to 2008, prior to which he Investment Banking Divisions, was Managing Director at JP Morgan latterly leading investments in a in London.
broad range of alternative asset management firms.
Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise With almost two decades of board Luke has a strong and varied Mark has significant management, Jonathans experience of financial level FTSE 100 experience, Ian investment management financial and operational experience markets, particularly his extensive brings extensive knowledge and background and extensive gained through his previous roles at knowledge of the alternative understanding of successfully knowledge of the Man Group having Man.
This experience, together with fund management industry and growing a complex international managed its four investment units his extensive industry knowledge, strong background in strategy business and navigating regulatory asPresident.
will support the development of the and execution, has supported the environments around the world.
He Companys strategy and offering to development of Mans business, has a strong track record of innovative clients.
including M&A activity that has leadership that is invaluable to the strengthened the Groups footprint Board and executive team.
Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Ian is a serving member of the Luke is a director of Hedge None Jonathan is a non-executive Houseof Lords.
He is Deputy Fund Standards Board Limited, directorof Nephila Holdings Limited, Chairman of Dixons Carphone plc Greenhouse Sports Limited, representing Mans interest as a Chairman from 30 April 2017 and a Investhor Limited, and Victoria Wall minority shareholder.
non-executive director of Celtic plc Associates Limited.
The Chairmans role The CEOs role The CFOs role The Presidents role Leads the Board, sets its agenda Leads the Executive Committee in Manages the allocation and Leads and oversees the and manages its business and developing business strategy, annual maintenance of the Companys GroupsSales & Marketing meetings effectively.
budgets and medium-term plans for capital, funding and liquidity capability globally.
Board approval and is responsible in accordance with regulatory for delivering against them.
Supports and constructively Reports to the Board on the Responsible for the preparation Leads and oversees Man Global challenges the CEO, fosters effective performance of the business and integrity of the Companys Private Markets and Man FRM.
relationships between executive and and keeps it advised on a financial information and its non-executive Board members, and continuing basis of any significant regulatory reporting.
creates a culture of open debate.
Ensures, with the support of the Develops an effective relationship Manages the Companys exposures Responsible for the development Nomination Committee, effective with the Chairman and makes within the Boards RiskAppetite of the Groups corporate strategy, Board succession planning the best use of the knowledge Statement and its capital buffer.
including merger and acquisition and leads the search for and and experience of non-executive activity.
Ensures that the Company Develops, communicates and Builds relationships with maintains effective communications instils throughout the business a shareholders, banks and with shareholders and that the shared purpose, culture and set of counterparties, rating agencies, Board understands the views business values.
regulators and the external auditor.
of shareholders and other key stakeholders.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 47 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate Governance report continued Senior Independent Director and Board Committee Chairs The role of the Independent Phillip Colebatch Matthew Lester Richard Berliand Senior Independent Director SID Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Non-Executive Directors and Audit & Risk Committee Chair and Remuneration Committee Chair Constructively challenge and contribute to strategy Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment development.
September2007 May 2011 January 2016 Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit & Risk Chairman of the Remuneration Contribute to the determination Committee: 20082016 Committee: November 2011 Committee: May 2016 of risk appetite and to the identification of risks.
SID: August 2013 Monitor and challenge the Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Audit & Risk Committee Audit & Risk Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Chair effectiveness of the internal control Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee and risk management framework.
Nomination Committee Scrutinise and challenge Background and career Background and career Background and career management performance inmeeting business goals Before joining the Board, Phillip Matthew is currently CFO of Royal Richard held a number of senior was a member of the Executive Mail plc.
He was Group Finance roles at JP Morgan over a 23 andobjectives.
Board of Credit Suisse Group, Director of ICAP from 2006 to year career at the bank, including Provide governance through first as CFO and then as CEO of 2010 and prior to that held a range Global Head of Prime Services, membership of the Board Credit Suisse Asset Management.
of senior finance roles at Diageo, Global Head of Cash Equities and Committees.
Phillip was subsequently a member including Group Financial Controller Chairman of JP Morgans Market of the Executive Board of Swiss and Group Treasurer.
Review and challenge, prior Reinsurance Company.
to publication, the Companys financial statements and Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise announcements.
Phillip has extensive strategic, Matthew has substantial financial Richard has a wealth of experience financial, operational and markets management and regulatory inthe financial services sector Review Board composition experience gained through his expertise.
He also has significant gained through a number of senior and skill set and oversee senior various senior positions in global listed company experience acquired executive roles.
He also brings executive succession planning.
through his role at ICAP and extensive experience from a diverse through the flotation of Royal Mail range ofinternational non-executive plc on the London Stock Exchange.
positions, providing him with a Matthews experience allows him to valuable understanding of areas provide substantial insight into the such as the current regulatory The SIDs role Groups financial reporting and risk environment, risk management Provides a sounding board management processes.
for the Chairman on all Boardmatters.
Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Phillip is a non-executive director Matthew is currently CFO of Royal Richard currently serves as Deputy Acts as a focal point for ofLendlease Corporation and is Mail plc and will be stepping down Chairman of Deutsche Brse AG in communications with the onthe Boards of Trustees of the LGT from this role in July 2017.
He is a Frankfurt, non-executive Director non-executive directors Group Foundation and the Prince non-executive director of Capita of Rothesay Life plc and Chairman should Board or business ofLiechtenstein Foundation.
plc and will become Chair of the of ITRS Global Holdings Limited in circumstances require this.
Audit & Risk Committee in June London.
Matthew is also a member the CFTC Global Markets Advisory Leads the annual performance of the Fixed Income Currency & Committee in Washington D. C. His evaluation of the Chairman and Commodities Markets Standards other non-executive directorships provides feedback to him.
include Eurex Frankfurt AG and Eurex Zrich AG.
Available to shareholders if they have any concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve oris inappropriate.
48 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent Non-Executive Directors John Cryan Andrew Horton Dev Sanyal Nina Shapiro Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment January 2015 August 2013 December 2013 October 2011 Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships None Audit & Risk Committee Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career John is CEO of Deutsche Bank AG.
Andrew has served on the Board Dev has held a number of senior Nina held several senior management He previously held a number of of Beazley plc since 2003, first as financial and line management and operating roles at the World Bank senior roles at UBS AG over a career Group Finance Director and since positions with BP in a global career and has led numerous investments spanning more than 25 years with 2008 as CEO.
Prior to his time at spanning 25 years.
Dev is Chief in emerging markets.
From 2000 the banking group, during which Beazley, Andrew held a number Executive, Alternative Energy and to 2011, Nina was a member of the time he served as Group CFO and of financial positions within ING, Executive Vice President, Europe & Management Group and was Vice Chairman and CEO of UBS AG NatWest and Lloyds Bank.
President, Finance, and Treasurer of EMEA.
Following his time at UBS, the International Finance Corporation John was president of Temasek the World Banks private sector Internationals European Operations.
In that role, she managed IFC liquid asset investment and funding, and capital market development in emerging markets.
Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise John has extensive knowledge Andrew has over 25 years of broad Dev has extensive knowledge With extensive experience in of international financial markets financial services experience with ofcapital markets, asset and risk international financial markets and gained from experience at leading significant exposure to operating management, trading and foreign in-depth knowledge of investment global financial institutions and at Board level.
With his banking, exchange gained from his role as BP in emerging markets, Nina has brings significant knowledge of the financial markets and insurance Group Treasurer and Chairman of BP particular insight into financial policy regulatory environment in which background, Andrew is well placed Investment Management Ltd. With and market development.
to contribute to Man Groups broad international experience and perspective helps to support Man strategic development, risk wide ranging operational expertise in Group in its international expansion.
senior executive roles, he is able to Andrews international experience contribute to the development and has also allowed him to provide execution of Man Groups business valuable input to Man Groups strategy and global relationships.
Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles John is CEO of Deutsche Bank AG.
Andrew is CEO of Beazley plc.
Dev is Chief Executive, Nina is a director of Zyfin an AlternativeEnergy and Executive originator of ETFs for emerging Vice President, Europe & Asia markets, Mountain Partners an Regions at BP plc.
He is also a accelerator for early technology member of the Accenture Global ventures and Identiv a technology Energy Board, a member of the security company.
She is also on Board of Advisors of The Fletcher the Advisory Boards of the New School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts Silk Route PE Fund, the Carbon University and Vice Chairman of Trust environmental group and the Centre for China in the World Mariner Infrastructure Investment Economy at TsinghuaUniversity.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 49 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate Governance report continued How the Board leads and supports the business The right mix of skills and experience EXPERIENCE The primary purpose of a Board is to help create and maintain the conditions which enable the Companys business to grow and succeed forthe benefit of both shareholders and the wider stakeholder base.
Asthefoundation for this, the Board requires a diverse and talented INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONAL membership with a broad range of skills and experience drawn from a variety of business careers and the ability both to support and challenge the executive management.
With the Man Board, I have inherited a very strong non-executive team, including four individuals who are serving in 100% 73% executive positions elsewhere, bringing financial, risk management and operational experience drawn from roles in investment banking, insurance, FINANCE RISK MANAGEMENT quoted multinationals and global financial institutions.
A good proportion of the membership has a tenure which affords them 100% 82% anin-depth understanding of the challenges and opportunities facing the business and allows them to contribute fully, both in formal meetings and outside, in discussions with the management team.
TENURE YEARS Strong working relationships In their feedback to me on the workings of the Board as part of this yearsevaluation, my non-executive colleagues praised the open attitude ofthe executive team and the members willingness to respond to enquiry 03 years 45.5% and debate.
Following his appointment as CEO, Luke Ellis engaged the 36 years 45.5% Board in discussions on the new organisation structure, proposed 6 years 9.0% peoplechanges, cost reduction and the balance between acquisitions andorganic growth.
The Board closely monitored the executives pursuit ofthe acquisition of Aalto, exploring with them the challenges and risks attached to the business and assessing the due diligence findings.
Thenon-executives keen interest in furthering their understanding and contribution to the business is always well received and has led to a number of deep dive strategy discussions with relevant management teams.
These have explored issues such as the options for growing the BOARD COMPOSITION % GLG business and an in-depth review of the Sales strategy and planning process to align it with Mans transition to a more institutional business strongly focused on long-term client relationships.
These sessions also provided an opportunity for the Board to get to know management below Chairman 9.1% Board level better.
Executive directors 27.3% Non-executive directors 63.6% Independence As noted above, our non-executives bring a robust scrutiny to theirdiscussion of management proposals and each has a keenly independent outlook derived from their experience outside Man.
AllBoard members are required to disclose any external positions or personal interests which may conflict with their directorship of Man priorto their appointment and to keep me updated on any new roles thatthey are contemplating so that any potential conflict can be properly assessed.
The Board carefully analysed the regulatory and governance 2016 Board meetings Attendance Record risks attached to the appointment of our former CEO, Manny Roman, Ian Livingston, Chairman from 6 May 2016 8 8 asan independent director of Socit Gnrale S. A. in light of his operational role and exposure at Man.
After consultation with external 1 Jon Aisbitt, Chairman to 6 May 2016 3 3 counsel, the Board approved a set of procedures and requirements Richard Berliand 8 8 which needed to be observed by Manny in his interaction with both Phillip Colebatch 8 8 companies on an ongoing basis.
John Cryan 8 8 2 Luke Ellis 3 3 Andrew Horton 8 8 Matthew Lester 8 8 3 Emmanuel Roman 5 5 Dev Sanyal 8 8 Nina Shapiro 8 8 Jonathan Sorrell 8 8 1 Jon Aisbitt retired from the Board on 6 May 2016.
2 Luke Ellis joined the Board on 1 September 2016.
3 Emmanuel Roman resigned from the Board on 31 August 2016.
50 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Governance structure To support and protect the growth of the business, the Board has established a clear governance structure as detailed below.
Key areas for Board decision CEO, Executive Committee and delegated authorities First, the Board has adopted a schedule of key areas relating to the All other business decisions are the responsibility of the CEO who purpose, strategy, resources and delivery of value by the Company which manages the business in line with the strategy agreed by the Board are for decision by the Board alone.
The table on page 52 sets out these andis accountable to it.
key areas and details of the Boards related work and decision making during the year.
A full list of the matters reserved for Board decision is The CEO is supported by the Executive Committee which is appointed available on our website.
by him to help implement strategy and manage operational and financial performance.
The CEO and Executive Committee are accountable for all Board Committee structure the risks assumed by the business and for maintaining appropriate risk Second, the Board has delegated authority for its key governance management discipline across the Group.
Details of Executive functions to three main Committees with the responsibilities outlined Committee membership are given on page 43. below.
Details of the activities and decisions taken by these Committees during the year are shown in the relevant Committee reports.
The CEO has also established a Group Authorities framework adoptedby all Group companies through which he delegates certainmanagement decisions to specific individuals and managementgroups.
Board Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Reviews the integrity of the Companys Determines and recommends to the Keeps the Boards composition, skill and financial reports and statements prior to Board for approval the principles and experience base under regular review in approval by theBoard.
structure of the Companys executive light of business changes.
Advises the Board on whether the annual remuneration policy.
Considers the knowledge, experience and interim reports are fair, balanced and Approves the principles and the quantum and competencies required for a understandable.
of the Companys annual variable particular appointment.
Reviews and reports to the Board on the compensation pool and deferral policy.
Conducts the search and selection effectiveness of Mans risk management Approves the total annual compensation process for new directors taking advice and internal controls framework.
for individual executive directors including from independent search consultants Recommends to the Board the salary, variable cash and deferred asappropriate.
appointment of the external auditor and bonusawards.
Recommends to the Board preferred reviews the effectiveness and Approves the total annual compensation candidates for Board appointment.
independence of the external auditor.
for Executive Committee members and Reviews senior executive development Ensures that the tendering, selection and Remuneration Code staff.
and succession plans to ensure rotation of the external audit services Recommends to the Board the total continuity of resource at, and just below, contract are carried out in accordance compensation of the Chairman.
with applicable law, regulation and Determines the contractual termination Reviews and recommends to the bestpractice.
terms for executive directors and any Boardthe renewal of non-executive Approves the Internal Audit plan and severance payments.
reviews the effectiveness of the Internal Reviews feedback from shareholders on Audit function and managements the Directors Remuneration policy and response to their findings.
oversees the Companys engagement on remuneration issues.
S ee pages 56 to 60 for the Audit & Risk S ee pages 64 to 89 for the Directors S ee pages 61 to 63 for the Nomination Committee Committee report Remuneration report report Full Committee terms of reference, which are approved by the Board, can be found on our website.
Details of the work of the Committees during the year are given in the separate Committee reports.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 51 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate Governance report continued What the Board did in 2016 and early 2017 Regular meetings Non-executive discussion The Board held eight main meetings during the year, including a one In addition to scheduled Board meetings, a number of ad hoc meetings andahalf day strategy review.
At every meeting, the CEO discusses recent and Board calls were held to discuss and agree the executive director investment performance and the impact of current economic andindustry changes which occurred over the summer period.
Further details of trends on the business.
The CFO reviews financial performance and these discussions are given in the Nomination Committee report.
forecasts against plan and analyst expectation.
TheHead of Investor Decision making on top management changes of this kind is significantly Relations keeps the Board updated on shareholder sentiment and helped, when the need arises, by the ongoing discussion of executive significant changes in the share register.
The Head of Compliance and resource and talent at informal non-executive director meetings and Regulatory alerts the Board to any emerging regulatory issues which dinners which are held during the year.
The CEO may join part of these impact the business.
Other senior executives attend meetings as meetings to share his views of current business or organisational issues requiredto present and discuss proposals and progress in their individual and will then withdraw to allow non-executive colleagues the opportunity businesses and functions.
Specific areas of focus and major decisions for private discussion.
taken by the Board during the year in line with its matters reserved mandate are given in the table below.
Determining and reviewing strategy Overseeing business performance Ongoing review of financial performance against plan Annual strategy review and future projections Discussed Mans business shape and market Regular challenge of investment performance, sales positioning and agreed 5 year targets including: and redemption trends and margin pressure.
expansion and diversification of the AHL Numeric Acquisition tracking against business case and quant business supported by research and innovation: review of seeding book performance.
growing GLGs high alpha discretionary long Focusing on managements delivery of organic onlystrategies: growth through innovation and business developing more client focused solutions through improvement as well as growth by acquisition.
market segmentation and deeper relationships: and building a private markets business.
Approving capital structure, borrowings, annual budget and 3 year plan Topics reviewed at regular meetings Reviewed regulatory capital, liquidity and surplus Sales strategy and resource including US focus: and capital projections.
GLG growth options and challenges.
Approved extension of maturity date and reduction Approving acquisitions disposals and new business inthe size of theRevolving Credit Facility.
developments Challenged managements 2017 Budget and Aalto acquisition 2017-19Medium-Term Plan assumptions, including review of strategic case as the foundation of a private the accuracy of forecasting, and approved final markets business: Budget and Plan figures.
consideration of risk and due diligence findings: and review of financial case and approval of deal terms Approving financial statements, dividends and and earn out structure.
Board appointments Approved 2016 interim and full year financial Review of the acqui-hire of the Bridge Lane direct statements, 2016 interim dividend and lending business.
Approved the Companys viability statement and Risk: appetite, assessment and monitoring going concern disclosure for the year ended Reviewed and approved an updated Risk Appetite 31 December 2016. and Governance Framework to include increased Reviewed and approved the 2016 Annual Report granularity of quantitative risk, new qualitative risk to shareholders against the fair, balanced and statements and a refresh of the red amber green risk understandable criteria.
Approved the appointment of Luke Ellis as CEO, Assessment of principal risks, including top five Mark Jones as CFO and Kate Barker as a new external risks, and consideration of existing and non-executive director.
Ongoing review of the Groups risk management systems and internal controls see How the Board oversees risk and financial reporting on page 53.
52 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements How the Board oversees risk and financial reporting In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board The role of the Audit & Risk Committee ARCom isrequired to monitor the Companys risk management and internal control To support its ongoing risk oversight responsibilities, during the year systems on an ongoing basis and, at least annually, carry out a review of the ARCom has considered and discussed: their effectiveness and report on this review to shareholders.
Asummary of summary dashboards for risk, internal controls, the financial the Companys risk management and internal control systems, including controls framework and compliance at each of its meetings: those relating to the financial reporting process, isgiven below.
Further presentations on the strategy and risk and control profile of some details of the Companys ongoing process for identifying, assessing and of the Groups key business areas including GLG, FRM, AHL and managing the principal risks faced by the Company are contained in the Sales and in-depth reviews of the Groups business functions Risk management section on pages 36 to 39, together with details of those Compliance, Risk, Finance and IT & Operations and their principal risks and their related mitigants.
coverage of the Groups principal risks: changes to the Risk Governance and Appetite Framework and Board review of risk management and internal controls recommended it to the Board for approval: The Companys risk management and internal control systems aim to reports from the Risk & Finance Committee on the effectiveness of safeguard assets, maintain proper accounting records and provide risk mitigation: and assurance that the financial information used in the business and published reports from Internal Audit on the operation and effectiveness of externally is robust and reliable.
The systems are designed to manage key internal controls.
risks, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against During the year, a number of operational and regulatory matters material misstatement or loss.
The systems, which have been in place thathad occurred were reported to the ARCom.
A paper summarising throughout the year and up to the date of this Annual Report, comply with these matters was considered by the ARCom at its December 2016 the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related and February 2017 meetings.
Whilst Man sought to improve its Financial and Business Reporting.
processes in response to the matters identified, they were not considered sufficiently material in number or nature either to require Whilst the Board retains overall responsibility for the Groups risk separate disclosure in the financial statements or to indicate that the management and internal control systems, it has delegated oversight control environment had not been working effectively.
tothe Audit & Risk Committee ARCom as set out opposite.
The report from the Chairman of the ARCom on pages 56 to 60 Financial reporting controls provides further information on how the ARCom has discharged The Groups financial controls framework is designed to provide itsrisk oversight responsibilities during the year.
assurance that proper accounting records are adequately maintained and that financial information used within the business and for external publication is reliable and free from material misstatement, thereby Specific annual review safeguarding the Companys assets.
In addition to its ongoing monitoring of the Groups risk management andinternal controls, the Board has conducted a specific annual This framework is managed through a process whereby control owners reviewof their effectiveness in respect of 2016 and up to the date of this certify that key preventative and detective controls have been performed Annual Report.
This review included a robust assessment of the Groups and are operating effectively.
These include balance sheet reconciliations principal risks and all significant operational risk events and Internal Audit and financial statement preparation processes.
During the year senior findings raised during the period.
The Board also considered the potential management monitored the results of the certification process and a impact of certain risks identified by the business, the outcome of the sample of the certifications was independently spot checked each month firm-wide Risk and Control Self-Assessment process performed by to provide assurance that they had been correctly certified.
Any material business management and the quality of the controls in place to mitigate points of note were escalated to the ARCom.
Following this review, the Board concluded that the Groups risk management processes were effective and that there were no Regular risk reporting significant weaknesses or failings in the system of internal controls.
The Board receives regular reports from the Chairman of the ARCom, business management and Group Risk on the risks to the achievement of the Groups operational and financial objectives, together with assurance that the level of risk retained is consistent with and being managed in accordance with the Boards risk appetite and with business planning.
These reports include current and forward looking assessments of capital and liquidity adequacy and a summary risk dashboard.
During the year the Board also received and discussed a presentation from management summarising a range of external risks which could potentially impact Man Groups business performance.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 53 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate Governance report continued How the Board seeks to improve its effectiveness Non-executive director induction Executive director induction Our non-executive directors are offered a comprehensive and tailored Having joined Man in 2010 and worked alongside Manny Roman since induction programme to introduce them to the business and its industry 2012 as President of the firm, with responsibility for its four investment and regulatory context.
The programme is based on one-to-one meetings units, Luke Ellis was an ideal candidate to succeed Manny and required with the executive directors and Executive Committee members, the nofamiliarisation with the business.
To support his broader role as CEO, headsof Group functions and the Company Secretary covering the areas heundertook a series of meetings with our major shareholders in addition of business outlined below.
Dame Kate Barker had an opportunity to get to briefings with the Companys brokers and advisers.
an understanding of the business in her interviews with Board members prior to her appointment and will be working through the detailed induction Following his appointment as CFO designate in September and to support programme in the coming months.
As a prospective Remuneration his hands-on transition to the CFO role, Mark Jones, formerly Co-CEO of Committee member, she will also receive a briefing on current issues GLG, attended a professional development programme which introduced anddevelopments in executive director remuneration and Mans and explored the responsibilities of the CFO role and the challenges ownremuneration policies and positioning.
Non-executive induction programme Business review Performance and Regulatory People, culture Board procedures market positioning environment andvalues &governance framework Strategic direction Review of financial Overview of the Discussion of key Board structure, and priorities and market Groups key business principles processes and Business strategy performance compliance and Key people and relationships and market analysis Recent analyst and regulatory policies succession plans Board interaction Overview of AHL, media coverage Recent changes in HR priorities with key business GLG, FRM, Numeric Budget and Medium regulatory landscape including diversity, areas and Global Private Term Plan and impact of training and talent Overview of listed Markets Analysis of upcoming regulatory pipeline company obligations, Global sales and shareholder base developments HR structure and reporting and marketing and investor Hot topics and key outsourcing governance Risk appetite, perception priorities for regulators arrangements framework principal risks and Shareholder including relevant Directors duties and risk management engagement thematic reviews responsibilities framework Operations and technology Continuing education and development 2016 Board evaluation Requests by non-executive directors for further business education and For 2016, following the full external evaluation conducted in 2015 by exposure frequently arise in the course of Board discussion and specific IDDASLimited, theBoard decided to carry out an internal review of its updates are scheduled within regular Board meetings wherever possible.
Anumber of broad questions covering priorities agreed In addition to individual business strategy focused sessions such as forBoard focus in the previous evaluation and ongoing operational those with the GLG and Sales teams, the Board received an update on issueswere discussed by me in individual meetings with my colleagues.
the regulatory and operational impacts of MiFID II, including the change These meetings, which took place in late Autumn 2016, also provided programmes and costs involved, and will be kept updated on progress.
theopportunity for me to discuss with Board members their individual At the end of the year, in response to non-executives continuing appetite contributions and effectiveness.
Separate evaluations were carried for external third party views of Man, a pension fund consultant was outonthe operation of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nomination invited to discuss with the Board his impressions of Mans product Committees as set out in the respective Committee reports.
Phillip offering from the point of view of an institutional investor.
Colebatch, as Senior Independent Director, reviewed with each Board member individually my contribution as Chairman in my first eight months External programmes for non-executive directors on topical regulatory in office and I am grateful for his feedback from those discussions.
issues are regularly circulated by the Company Secretary to supplement the advice on current developments received from the Companys The main findings from my conversations on the general effectiveness auditors, remuneration and other advisers.
The Board received a ofthe Board, which I reported at our December meeting, showed a fairly presentation by the Companys legal advisers on the requirements of high degree of consistency.
A summary of the key areas of progress and theMarket Abuse Regulation, the changes in companies obligations in strengths identified, and proposals for focus and change in 2017, are set respect of the handling of inside information and in the dealing restrictions out on page 55. on directors and closely associated persons.
54 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Richard Berliand has actively engaged with major shareholders and Board strengths shareholder representative bodies since his appointment as Remuneration Very positive view of the executive management change Committee Chairman in May last year.
He has been keen to listen to their process and new team transition.
views on Mans executive remuneration structure and incentive limits and to get a sense of current trends in shareholder sentiment and expectation Sufficient opportunity to raise issues and an open and as a whole.
Further details of this engagement are provided in the responsive management team.
General satisfaction with Board operation, support and materials presented.
2016 Calendar of investor events Areas for development Strong appetite for regular substantial deep-dive FEB 2015 year-end results released business strategy reviews within Board meetings.
UK investor roadshow Strategy topics for review include: MARCH UK investor roadshow the further development and prospects of recent Morgan Stanley Annual European Financials conference acquisitions: APRIL Q1 2016 Trading Statement sector and market trends: and Dialogue with investors on AGM remuneration resolutions Man culture and people.
Shareholder engagement on 2015 Directors Remuneration report MAY Annual General Meeting How the Board engages with the JULY 2016 interim results released UK investor roadshow Companys shareholders AUG UK investor roadshow SEPT Barclays Global Financial Services Conference NewYork The Board is committed to proactive and constructive engagement Bank of America Merrill Lynch Annual Banking and withthe Companys investors and, as a key priority identified in the 2016 Insurance Conference Board evaluation, is keen to develop its understanding of shareholder views.
The Head of Investor Relations regularly attends Board meetings OCT Q3 2016 Trading Statement and announcement of Aalto to discuss and report on important changes in the share register and key acquisition and launch of Man Global Private Markets areas of interest and enquiry.
I update the Board on the outcome of my NOV JP Morgan Best of British conference meetings with shareholders.
Richard Berliand, as Chairman of the NOV Communications and meetings with shareholders and Remuneration Committee, gives regular reports on shareholder DEC shareholder representative bodies on changes in the viewsonour remuneration policy and practice.
application of the Companys remuneration policy Institutional investors The Head of Investor Relations, CEO and CFO maintain an ongoing Private investors dialogue with institutional investors on performance, plans and strategic We have recently consulted with our shareholders to provide them objectives.
This is achieved through a combination of one-to-one meetings withan opportunity to confirm how they wish to receive communications throughout the year and participation in investor roadshows and investor from the Company.
We prefer to use our website for this purpose and conferences.
Details of the 2016 investor events are provided opposite.
encourage our shareholders to visit it to access the Companys Interim and Annual Reports and half-year and final results presentations.
Other Key areas which the CEO and CFO have discussed with investors during useful information such as historic dividend records is also available on the year have included: the website.
Shareholders can use the site to access our Registrars Investment performance across our range of strategies: Shareview website www.
co. uk where their shareholding Progress of recent acquisitions, particularly Numeric: account can be managed online.
Progress on growth in the US: Potential new acquisitions: and We are always keen to understand the views of and answer questions Capital management.
from private investors and offer a dedicated shareholder mailbox shareholder@man.
Following my appointment as Chairman in May 2016, I had several introductory meetings with a number of our major shareholders in order Shareholder meetings to understand their views and respond to any concerns.
I intend to We welcome shareholders to our AGM in May each year.
At every AGM, continue this engagement with our shareholders on an ongoing basis our shareholders are given an overview of the progress of the business through one-to-one meetings and also obtaining regular feedback from and our future plans and outlook.
This is followed by the opportunity for brokers and advisers.
shareholders to ask questions about the resolutions before the meeting and about the business more generally.
We look forward to meeting shareholders and providing a further business update at our 2017 AGM in May this year.
If you are unable to attend the AGM, please send in any questions that you would have liked to raise at the meeting to our AGM mailbox agm@man.
com and we will provide a direct reply.
Lord Livingston of Parkhead Chairman Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 55
