73 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES DIRECTORS REPORT INFORMATION TO BE ordinary resolution declare dividends DISCLOSED UNDER LR 9.8.
4R not exceeding the amount recommended Marks and Spencer Group plc the by the Board.
Subject to the Companies Company is the holding company of the Page Act 2006, the Board may pay interim Marks & Spencer Group of companies the Listing Rule Detail reference dividends and also any xed rate dividend, Group.
With our rich heritage, M&S is one 9.8.
4R 1 2 whenever the financial position of the of the most recognisable brands in the UK 5-14 A B Not applicable N A Company, in the opinion of the Board, retail sector and is regularly voted as one 9.8.
4R 4 Long-term 54 and justi es its payment.
Our business is driven incentive schemes 62-63 by a desire to inspire and innovate: to act The directors may from time to time with integrity and to stay in touch with our BOARD OF DIRECTORS appoint one or more directors.
The Board customers, shareholders and employees may appoint any person to be a director The membership of the Board and alike.
These are our corporate values and so long as the total number of directors biographical details of the directors they underpin everything we do.
They are does not exceed the limit prescribed in are given on pages 32 and 33 and are what make the M&S diff erence across the the Articles.
Under the Articles, any such incorporated into this report by reference.
59 territories in which we operate.
director shall hold offi ce only until the next Changes to the directors during the year AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
The Directors Report also the and up to the date of this report, are set out The Articles also require that at each AGM Management Report for the year ended below.
Details of directors bene cial and at least one-third of the current directors non-bene cial interests in the shares of the 2 April 2016 comprises pages 30 to 77 should retire as directors by rotation.
All Company are shown on pages 64 and 69. and page 127 to 128 of this report, together those directors who have been in offi ce at with the sections of the Annual Report Options granted under the Save As You the time of the two previous AGMs and incorporated by reference.
As permitted Earn SAYE Share Option and Executive who did not retire at either of them must Share Option Schemes are shown on pages by legislation, some of the matters retire as directors by rotation.
Further information regarding normally included in the Directors Report a director may at any AGM retire from offi ce have instead been included in the employee share option schemes is given and stand for re-election.
However, in line Strategic Report on pages 2 to 29, as the in note 13 to the financial statements.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code Board considers them to be of strategic Eff ective date of 2014, all directors will stand for annual importance.
Speci cally, these are: appointment election at the 2016 AGM.
Name Role resignation Future business developments Helen Chief Finance Appointed throughout the Strategic Report.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Weir Offi cer 1 April 2015 Research and development p14.
The Company has procedures in place for Richard Non-executive Appointed managing con icts of interest.
Solomons director 13 April 2015 director become aware that they, or their Executive Details of branches operated by the connected parties, have an interest in an John Director, General Resigned Company can be found on page 17 of existing or proposed transaction with Dixon Merchandise 16 July 2015 the Strategic Report.
Marks & Spencer, they should notify the Board in writing or at the next Board Andrew Appointed Information relating to financial Non-executive meeting.
Internal controls are in place to Fisher 1 December instruments are on pages 112 to 117.
Director 2015 ensure that any related party transactions Both the Strategic Report and the involving directors, or their connected Martha Non-executive Retired Directors Report have been drawn up parties, are conducted on an arms length Lane Fox Director 2 April 2016 and presented in accordance with and in basis.
Directors have a continuing duty to reliance upon applicable English company Marc Chief Executive Retired update any changes to these con icts.
law, and the liabilities of the directors in Bolland Offi cer 2 April 2016 connection with that report shall be Steve Chief Executive Appointed DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES subject to the limitations and restrictions Rowe Offi cer 2 April 2016 The Company maintains directors and provided by such law.
For information on offi cers liability insurance which gives our approach to social, environmental The appointment and replacement of appropriate cover for legal action brought and ethical matters please refer to our directors is governed by the Companys against its directors.
The Company has also Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Plan A Report, available to view online granted indemnities to each of its directors Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 at marksandspencer.
and the Group Secretary to the extent Other information to be disclosed in the and related legislation.
The Articles may permitted by law.
Qualifying third-party Directors Report is given in this section.
be amended by a special resolution of the indemnity provisions as fide ned by section shareholders.
Subject to the Articles, the 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in Companies Act 2006 and any directions force during the year ended 2 April 2016 given by special resolution, the business and remain in force, in relation to certain of the Company will be managed by the losses and liabilities which the directors Board who may exercise all the powers of or Group Secretary may incur to third the Company.
The Company may by FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 74 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED parties in the course of acting as directors RESTRICTIONS ON the Company purchased 31,647,148 or Group Secretary or employees of the TRANSFER OF SECURITIES ordinary Marks & Spencer shares between Company or of any associated company.
8 July 2015 and 24 February 2016, at a There are no speci c restrictions on the nominal value of 7,911,787.00 and a net transfer of securities in the Company, Qualifying pension scheme indemnity cost of 149,894,496.11.
The 31,647,148 which is governed by its Articles of provisions as fide ned by section 235 of the shares purchased represent 1.95% of the Association and prevailing legislation.
Companies Act 2006 were in force during issued share capital as at 24 February 2016.
The Company is not aware of any the course of the financial year ended All shares purchased were cancelled, and agreements between holders of securities 2 April 2016 for the bene t of the Trustees not held in treasury.
that may result in restrictions on the of the Marks and Spencer pension scheme, transfer of securities or that may result both in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
This standard authority is renewable in restrictions on voting rights.
annually: the directors will seek to renew PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS this authority at the 2016 AGM.
It is the VARIATION OF RIGHTS Companys present intention to cancel The pro t for the financial year, after any shares it buys back, rather than hold Subject to applicable statutes, rights taxation, amounts to 404.4m last year them in treasury.
attached to any class of share may be varied 481.7m.
The directors have declared with the written consent of the holders of dividends as follows: The directors were granted authority at the at least three-quarters in nominal value 2015 AGM to allot relevant securities up to Ordinary shares m of the issued shares of that class, or by a a nominal amount of 137,372,598.
This Paid interim dividend special resolution passed at a separate authority will apply until the conclusion of 6.8p per share general meeting of the shareholders.
At this years AGM, last year 6.4p per share 110.9m shareholders will be asked to grant an Rights and obligations attaching Proposed final dividend authority to allot relevant securities i up to shares of 11.9p per share to a nominal amount of 135,313,863 and Subject to the provisions of the Companies last year 11.6p per share 192.6m Act 2006, any resolution passed by the ii comprising equity securities up to Total ordinary dividend of a nominal amount of 270,627,726 after Company under the Companies Act 2006 18.7p per share deducting from such limit any relevant and other shareholders rights, shares may last year 18.0p per share 303.5m securities allotted under i, in connection be issued with such rights and restrictions with an off er of a rights issue, the Section Special dividend 75m as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution 551 amount, such Section 551 amount to The final ordinary dividend and the special apply until the conclusion of the AGM to be or so far as it does not make speci c dividend will be paid on 15 July 2016 to held in 2017 or, if earlier, on 1 October 2017. provision as the Board as fide ned in the shareholders whose names are on the Articles may decide.
Subject to the A special resolution will also be proposed Register of Members at the close of Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and to renew the directors powers to make non business on 3rd June 2016. other shareholders rights, unissued shares pre-emptive issues for cash in connection are at the disposal of the Board.
with rights issues and otherwise up to a SHARE CAPITAL nominal amount of 20,297,079.
A special POWERS FOR THE COMPANY ISSUING The Companys issued ordinary share resolution will also be proposed to renew OR BUYING BACK ITS OWN SHARES capital as at 2 April 2016 comprised a single the directors authority to repurchase the class of ordinary share.
Each share carries The Company was authorised by Companys ordinary shares in the market.
the right to one vote at general meetings shareholders, at the 2015 AGM, to purchase The authority will be limited to a maximum of the Company.
in the market up to 10% of the Companys of 164 million ordinary shares and sets issued share capital, as permitted under the the minimum and maximum prices which During the period, 6,797,209 ordinary shares Companys Articles.
Under this authority, will be paid.
in the Company were issued as follows: 62,230 shares under the terms of the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS at a price of 352p.
Information provided to the Company The information provided below was 6,645,922 shares under the terms of the pursuant to the Financial Conduct correct at the date of noti cation: however, United Kingdom Employees Save As You Authoritys FCA Disclosure and the date received may not have been Earn Share Option Scheme at prices Transparency Rules DTRs is published within the current financial year.
on a Regulatory Information Service and be noted that these holdings are likely on the Companys website.
As at 2 April to have changed since the Company was 89,057 shares under the terms of the 2016, the following information has noti ed.
However, noti cation of any ROI Employees Save As You Earn Share been received, in accordance with DTR5, change is not required until the next Option Scheme at prices between 258p from holders of noti able interests in noti able threshold is crossed.
the Companys issued share capital.
Details of movements in the Companys Ordinary % issued share capital can be found on page Noti able interests shares of capital Nature of holding 119 in note 24 to the financial statements.
Blackrock, Inc 92,601,221 5.68 Indirect 5.13%, Securities lending 0.3% & CFD 0.25% The Capital Group Companies, Inc 66,681,922 4.049 Indirect Interest The Wellcome Trust 47,464,282 3.01 Direct Interest Subsequent to year end, Blackrock, Inc have disclosed information in accordance with DTR5 on three occasions.
The most recent being 11 May 2016, disclosing a holding of 94,068,439 Ordinary shares 5.79%, broken down as follows: Indirect, 4.85%: Securities lending, 0.54% & CFD, 0.39%.
75 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 DEADLINES FOR EXERCISING upon a change of control event, unless are supplemented by our employee VOTING RIGHTS new terms are agreed within 60 days, publications including Your M&S magazine, the facility under this agreement will be Plan A updates and DVD presentations.
Votes are exercisable at a general meeting cancelled with all outstanding amounts More than 3,500 employees are elected of the Company in respect of which the becoming immediately payable with onto Business Involvement Groups BIGs business being voted upon is being heard.
interest: and across every store, distribution centre and Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, head offi ce location to represent their or in relation to corporate members, by The amended and restated Relationship colleagues in two-way communication and corporate representatives.
The Articles Agreement dated 6 October 2014 consultation with the Company.
They have provide a deadline for submission of proxy originally dated 9 November 2004 as continued to play a key role in a wide variety forms of not less than 48 hours before the amended on 1 March 2005, between of business changes.
time appointed for the holding of the HSBC and the Company and relating to meeting or adjourned meeting.
However, M&S Bank, contains certain provisions The 21st meeting of the European Works when calculating the 48-hour period, the which address a change of control of Council EWC established in 1995 will directors can, and have, decided not to take the Company.
Upon a change of control take place in September 2016.
This Council account of any part of a day that is not the existing rights and obligations of the provides an additional forum for informing, a working day.
parties in respect of M&S Bank continue consulting and involving employee and HSBC gains certain limited additional representatives from the countries in SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS rights in respect of existing customers the European Economic Area.
The EWC CHANGE OF CONTROL of the new controller of the Company.
includes representatives from France, Where a third-party arrangement is in Belgium, The Netherlands, Czech Republic, There are a number of agreements to which the Company is party that take place for the supply of financial services Slovakia, Greece, Hungary, Lithuania, products to existing customers of the Latvia, Estonia, Poland, the Republic of eff ect, alter or terminate upon a change new controller, the Company is required Ireland and the UK.
The EWC has the of control of the Company following to procure the termination of such opportunity to be addressed by the a takeover bid.
Details of the signi cant agreements of this kind are as follows: arrangement as soon as reasonably Chief Executive and other senior members practicable whilst not being required of the Company on issues that aff ect the The 400m Medium Term Notes issued to do anything that would breach European business.
This includes the by the Company on 30 November 2009, any contract in place in respect of directors of International and multi-channel the 300m Medium Term Notes issued such arrangement.
and the director of Plan A, who all have an by the Company on 6 December 2011 impact across the European Community.
Where a third-party arrangement is so and the 400m: Medium Term Notes terminated, or does not exist, HSBC gains Directors and senior management regularly issued by the Company on 12 December 2012 to various institutions MTN and certain exclusivity rights in respect of attend the National Business Involvement the sale of financial services products under the Groups 3bn euro Medium Group BIG meetings.
They visit stores and to the existing customers of the new discuss with employees matters of current Term Note EMTN programme contain controller.
Where the Company undertakes interest and concern to both employees an option such that, upon a change of control event, combined with a credit a re-branding exercise with the new and the business through meetings with controller following a change of control ratings downgrade to below sublocal BIG representatives, speci c listening which includes using any M&S brand in groups and informal discussions.
The investment level, any holder of an respect of the new controllers business or business has continued to engage with MTN may require the Company to prepay the principal amount of that MTN.
vice versa, HSBC gains certain termination employees and drive involvement.
During rights exercisable at its election in respect the year the Company introduced a The $500m US Notes issued by the of the Relationship Agreement.
scheme called Give Me Five, which is a new Company to various institutions on way of getting great ideas heard by our The Company does not have agreements 6 December 2007 under Section 144a leadership and turned into action.
All of the US Securities Act contain an option with any director or employee that would employees can put forward ideas for provide compensation for loss of offi ce or such that, upon a change of control improvements or change to any aspect employment resulting from a takeover event, combined with a credit ratings of the business, and a shortlist of the best except that provisions of the Companys downgrade to below sub-investment ideas are presented to a leadership panel, level, any holder of such a US Note may share schemes and plans may cause which includes the CEO.
The winning idea is options and awards granted to employees require the Company to prepay the selected with a view to being implemented.
under such schemes and plans to vest on principal amount of that US Note.
Share schemes are a long-established and The $300m US Notes issued by the successful part of our total reward package, Company to various institutions on EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT encouraging and supporting employee 6 December 2007 under Section 144a share ownership.
In particular, around We remain committed to employee of the US Securities Act contain an option 24,800 employees currently participate involvement throughout the business.
such that, upon a change of control in Sharesave, the Companys all employee Employees are kept well informed of event, combined with a credit ratings Save As You Earn Scheme.
Full details of all the performance and strategy of the downgrade to below sub-investment schemes are given on pages 106 and 107.
Group through personal brie ngs, regular level, any holder of such a US Note may meetings, email and broadcasts by the require the Company to prepay the We have taken a speci c focus on Chief Executive and members of the Board principal amount of that US Note.
developing our mental wellbeing at key points in the year to all head offi ce programme this year for our employees, The amended and restated 1.1bn and distribution centre employees and our line managers and senior leaders.
Credit Agreement dated 16 March 2016 store management.
Additionally, many of Mental wellbeing was placed as a challenge originally dated 29 September 2011 our store colleagues can join the brie ngs on our new senior leadership development between the Company and various by telephone to hear directly from the programme Fit to lead the Future where banks contains a provision such that, business.
These types of communication disruptive style learning on this agenda FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 76 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED inspired our most senior leaders to bring to promote an environment free from work with Remploy to support people with about a step change to drive stronger discrimination, harassment and victimisation, disabilities and health conditions into work.
levels of mental wellbeing across our where everyone will receive equal treatment business.
Now a key part of our annual regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or GROCERIES SUPPLY CODE wellbeing calendar, our mental wellbeing national origin, disability, age, marital or civil OF PRACTICE week launched a bold awareness campaign partner status, sexual orientation or religion.
The Groceries Supply Chain Practices across the business including peer to peer All decisions relating to employment Market Investigation Order 2009 Order experience sharing, mental health training practices will be objective, free from bias and The Groceries Supply Code of Practice and external expert speaker events.
and based solely upon work criteria and GSCOP impose obligations on M&S Weve also evolved our annual employee individual merit.
The Company is responsive relating to relationships with its suppliers Weight Loss Challenge to become a new to the needs of its employees, customers of groceries.
Under the Order and GSCOP, Wellbeing Challenge bringing a focus on and the community at large.
We are an M&S is required to submit an annual our physical health in parity with our mental organisation which uses everyones talents compliance report to the Audit Committee health.
A new online hub of resources and abilities and where diversity is valued.
for approval and then to the Competition including an essential line manager guide We were one of the first major companies to and Markets Authority and Groceries on mental wellbeing gives our employees remove the default retirement age in 2001 Code Adjudicator.
access to help and support in both and have continued to see an increase in M&S submitted its report to the Audit developing their mental wellbeing and employees wanting to work past the state Committee on 18 May 2016 covering the resilience and to our free, con dential retirement age.
Our oldest employee is 89 period from 1 April 2015 to 2 April 2016. team of mental wellbeing specialists years old and joined the business at age 80.
In accordance with the Order, a summary Livewellworkwell.
In April 2016 the Company once again of that compliance report is set out below.
featured in The Times Top 50 Employers for Employees are able to interact with one Women, highlighting how equal M&S believes that it has complied in full with another and can gain access to information opportunities are available for all at M&S.
GSCOP and the Order during the relevant about corporate projects, which link to period.
No formal disputes have arisen their personal health via our employee EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES during the reporting period.
Two allegations social media platform Yammer.
It is our policy that people with disabilities regarding potential breaches of GSCOP We have websites for both our pension should have full and fair consideration for were made by suppliers during the relevant schemes the fide ned Contribution Your all vacancies.
During the year, we continued period, but both have been resolved.
M&S Pension Saving Plan and the fide ned to demonstrate our commitment to M&S operates systems and controls to Bene t The M&S Pension Scheme which interviewing those people with disabilities ensure compliance with the Order and are fully accessible to both employees who ful l the minimum criteria, and GSCOP including the following: and former employees that have retained endeavouring to retain employees in the bene ts in either of those pension workforce if they become disabled during The terms and conditions which govern schemes.
Employees are updated from employment.
We will actively retrain and the trading relationship between M&S time to time with any pertinent information adjust their environment where possible and those of its suppliers that supply on their pension savings as appropriate.
to allow them to maximise their potential.
groceries to M&S incorporate GSCOP: We continue to work with external New suppliers are issued with information EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES organisations to provide workplace as required by the Order: The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities through our innovative Marks M&S has a Code Compliance Offi cer as opportunities policy from recruitment & Start scheme and by working closely with and selection, through training and JobCentre Plus.
The Marks & Start scheme required under the Order, supported development, performance reviews and was introduced into our distribution centre by our in-house legal department: and promotion to retirement.
It is our policy at Castle Donington in 2012 13, where we TOTAL GLOBAL M&S GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2015 16 The disclosures required by law and additional information relating to the Groups greenhouse gas emissions are included in the table below.
For full details of calculations and performance against our 2006 07 voluntary baseline, see the 2016 Plan A Report.
2015 16 2013 14 % 000 tonnes 000 tonnes change Direct emissions scope 1 182 168 8 Indirect emissions from energy scope 2 328 340 -4 Total statutory emissions scope 1 and 2 510 508 Level Transport, energy T&D, waste and travel emissions scope 3 56 59 -5 Total gross location-based emissions 566 567 Level Carbon intensity measure per 1,000 sq ft of sales oor 29 30 -3 Green tariff s and bio-methane procured 299 302 -1 Remaining market-based emissions 266 265 Level Carbon off sets 266 265 Level Total net operational emissions 00 Level Emissions are from operationally controlled activities in accordance WRI WBCSD GHG Reporting Protocols Revised edition and 2014 Scope 2 Guidance using 2015 DEFRA DECC conversion factors.
As these emissions account for less than 10% of M&Ss total carbon footprint we also engage with suppliers and customers to address the most signi cant sources.
77 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 Employee training on GSCOP is provided, the year and provide shareholders with at any time and with reasonable accuracy, including annual refresher programmes the information necessary to assess the the financial position of the Company and and new starter training.
Groups position, performance, business the Group and to enable them to ensure model and strategy.
This cannot be that the financial statements and the POLITICAL DONATIONS achieved by merely reviewing the final Remuneration Report comply with the document at the end of the preparation Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the No political donations were made during process.
The Board ensured that its Group financial statements, Article 4 of the the year ended 2 April 2016.
M&S has requirements were clearly communicated IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible a policy of not making donations to political from the outset to each of the for safeguarding the assets of the Group organisations or independent election departments involved in the production and the Company and hence for taking candidates or incurring political of the Annual Report.
reasonable steps for the prevention and expenditure anywhere in the world as detection of fraud and other irregularities.
fide ned in the Political Parties, Elections The Board has advised that the narrative The directors are responsible for the and Referendums Act 2000. reports should contain the key information maintenance and integrity of the needed by investors and other users of the Companys website.
Legislation in the GOING CONCERN report and should avoid being promotional UK governing the preparation and in nature.
Furthermore, the narrative In adopting the going concern basis for dissemination of financial statements may preparing the financial statements, the reports in the front and the accounting diff er from legislation in other jurisdictions.
information in the back of the report should directors have considered the business be consistent and the teams involved in Each of the directors, whose names and activities as set out on pages 02 to 21 as its production work closely together to functions are listed on pages 32 and 33 well as the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 28 and 29. achieve this.
For an independent opinion, of the Annual Report, con rm that, to the the Board also requested the Audit best of their knowledge: Based on the Groups cash ow forecasts Committee review the Annual Report and and projections, the Board is satis ed that The Group financial statements, which provide feedback.
The Committees opinion the Group will be able to operate within the have been prepared in accordance with level of its facilities for the foreseeable on whether the report is fair, balanced and IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true understandable is on pages 44 and 45. future.
For this reason the Board considers and fair view of the assets, liabilities, it appropriate for the Group to adopt the The directors are also responsible for financial position and pro t of the Group: going concern basis in preparing its preparing the Annual Report, the financial statements.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial Report contained in this report include See Note 20 to the Financial Statements statements in accordance with applicable a fair review of the development and for more information on our Facilities law and regulations.
Company law requires performance of the business and the the directors to prepare financial position of the Group, together with LONG-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT statements for each financial year.
Under a description of the principal risks and that law, the directors have prepared the The directors have assessed the prospects uncertainties that it faces: and Group and Company financial statements of the Company over a three-year period in accordance with International Financial The Annual Report, taken as a whole, to 30 March 2019.
This has taken into Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by is fair, balanced and understandable, account the business model, strategic the EU.
Under company law, the directors and provides the necessary information aims, risk appetite, and principal risks and must not approve the financial statements for shareholders to assess the Groups uncertainties, along with the Companys unless they are satis ed that they give a position, performance, business model current financial position.
Based on true and fair view of the state of aff airs of and strategy.
this assessment, the directors have a the Group and the Company and of the reasonable expectation that the Company pro t or loss of the Group and the DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION will be able to continue in operation and Company for that period.
In preparing TO AUDITORS meet its liabilities as they fall due over the these financial statements, the directors three-year period under review.
Each director con rms that, so far as are required to: he she is aware, there is no relevant audit See our approach to assessing long-term information of which the Companys viability on p47 Select suitable accounting policies auditors are unaware and that each director and then apply them consistently: has taken all the steps that he she ought AUDITOR Make judgements and accounting to have taken as a director to make Auditor Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte estimates that are reasonable himself herself aware of any relevant LLP as auditor of the Company and to and prudent: audit information and to establish that authorise the Audit Committee to the Companys auditors are aware of that State whether applicable IFRSs determine their remuneration will be information.
as adopted by the EU have been proposed at the 2016 AGM.
followed, subject to any material The Directors Report was approved departures disclosed and explained by a duly authorised committee of the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING in the financial statements: and Board of Directors on 24 May 2016 The AGM of Marks and Spencer Group plc and signed on its behalf by Prepare the financial statements on will be held at Wembley Stadium, London on a going concern basis unless it is 12 July 2016 at 11am.
The Notice of Meeting inappropriate to presume that the is given, together with explanatory notes, in Company will continue in business.
a booklet which accompanies this report.
The directors are responsible for keeping DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES adequate accounting records that are Amanda Mellor The Board is of the view that the Annual suffi cient to show and explain the Group Secretary Report should be truly representative of Companys transactions and disclose, London, 24 May 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
