Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our Strategy Marstons strategic objectives remain focused on delivering sustainable growth and maximising return oncapital, with our six key pillars described below.
Operating a high quality pub estate Strategic priority Our KPIs To ensure we have the right consumer offer by having a pub estate with Like-for-like sales Average profit per pub flexible operating models that cater for a broad range of customers.
versus market Employee engagement Number of main and enablement mealsserved More on pages 1819 2016 update We operate a pub estate that caters for a broad range of customers, with Taverns - 812 pubs flexible operating models.
As a consequence we ensure we have the right Our community pubs are great locals with a more traditional pub consumer offer, accompanied by the most appropriate operating model, ambience in strong locations.
The contribution of the licensee is critical to maximise sales and profits for each pub.
The key elements of this are to the success of the pub and strong community engagement, with as follows: entertainment, teams and games often at the heart of the pubs activities.
Typically, these are wet-led pubs although food sales are growing and Destination and Premium - 416 pubs represented 19% of sales in 2016.
Our Destination pubs offer family dining and great value in a relaxed pub environment.
We aim to retain strong pub values while reflecting modern Leased - 331 pubs tastes and trends in a fast moving market.
We operate several formats These distinctive pubs benefit from a high degree of independence and depending upon local preferences: Marstons 'Two for One', 'Milestone committed licensees.
The leased model, with longer-term assignable Rotisserie', 'Milestone Carvery', and 'Generous George', allowing us to agreements, attracts skilled entrepreneurs who build value through have the right consumer offer in each pub.
We contribute through our expertise in attracting the right lessee, having a partnership approach with our Our Pitcher & Piano and Revere bars and restaurants offer premium food licensees and providing business support.
and drink in attractive, often iconic, town centre and suburban locations.
Average profit per pub The Place to Be 2016 Profit Mix 14% 108k 50% 397 53% 33% 397 2012 Profit Mix For our lessees 73k 17% 397 Through our partnership approach we fully engage with our lessee 36% business partners, ensuring that we understand their business and work together to create a bespoke business plan, keeping their key personal and business objectives at the centre.
Each lessee works 47% with their Business Development Manager BDM to formulate 397 a proactive plan that sets the agenda for the lessee and BDM to work towards over the year, helping to strengthen their working Key relationship.
The Lease team also facilitates regular workshops where lessees can work together, alongside the BDM, sharing Destination and Premium 397 ideas and insight on a variety of subjects from wine development Taverns to improving margins.
Combined with our capex programme that enables us to jointly invest with our business partners, this creates Leased a genuine business partnership.
11 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Our Strategy continued Targeting pub growth: investing in pub-restaurants and Premium pubs, further developing Franchise Strategic priority Our KPIs The new-build programme remains our key growth driver.
New-builds completed CROCCE Our strategy has evolved to capitalise upon other opportunities for Underlying EPS Average profit per pub expansion where the returns create significant shareholder value.
Free cash flow More on pages 1819 2016 update The Place to Be New pub-restaurants For our In our Destination business, since 2009 we have opened over 150 pub-restaurants offering family dining at reasonable prices.
These pubs franchisees generate high turnover, with target sales of 25,000 per week and a food sales mix in excess of 60%.
We have an experienced site acquisition A number of successful team, and a well-established and proven site selection process.
multiple operators have joined This expansionary investment has generated consistently strong returns us this year.
Darren Brett and has enabled us to extend the locations in which we trade to include became franchisee at the southern England, and Scotland.
New pub-restaurant investment Oak Apple in Worcester in creates significant value for shareholders, as demonstrated in the 2015 January 2016, and took on pub estate valuation.
In 2016 we opened 19 pub-restaurants, and we are his second site, the Woodman targeting at least 20 for 2017. in Netherton, a few months later.
Darren says, I am really Competition and differentiation remain key considerations.
We operate excited about the direction in a market with significant investment supply in casual dining, fast food Marstons is moving in.
Its a and restaurants, therefore our pub-restaurant investment is targeted progressive company and my in areas that are less exposed to intense competition, particularly future with Marstons is looking outside London and city centres.
We benefit from the broad appeal of really promising.
the 'pub' brand which occupies a unique position in the market and has demonstrated longevity.
New Premium pubs In recent years we have invested in our Premium pub business, including The Place to Be Pitcher & Piano and Revere.
Through this investment we have been able to operate Premium pubs as an 'innovation-hub' from which learnings can be extended into our broader pub business.
Given the success to date, we are seeking to further expand the Premium estate.
In 2016 we converted one pub from the Destination estate to the Revere format, with a further three Revere Town bars opened in Leeds, Edinburgh and Knutsford.
We expect to open at least three bars per annum in future, with openings in Hammersmith, Harrogate and Sheffield planned in 2017.
Development of the franchise model In 2009 we pioneered the introduction of franchise-style agreements in the pub sector.
We believe that the franchise operating model in community pubs creates the best experience for our customers and is the most flexible and attractive model for licensees.
It is our intention to For our suppliers continue to roll out this model into most of our pubs within the Taverns estate over time.
We have worked with Newman Gauge as a key partner in our newbuild design process for around 10 years.
They work across a wide We have also been successful in expanding franchise-style agreements client base within the hospitality and leisure sector and bring with into higher turnover pubs.
This year some of our most successful them a breadth of knowledge and new ideas.
They are currently franchisees have generated turnover levels similar to those in the working across our 'Two for One' and Pizza formats as well as Destination estate, and we have opened our first new-build Tavern 'Generous George'.
Newman Gauge were also instrumental in operating under the franchise operating model.
We are also evaluating supporting us with our refurbishment of Marstons House, being a the potential for franchise-style agreements in the Destination estate, primary designer of all the office spaces.
and anticipate trialling this in the next two years.
12 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Increased investment in rooms Strategic priority Our KPIs To enhance pub profitability by expanding our rooms offer.
Lodges completed CROCCE Like-for-like sales Average profit per pub versus market Underlying EPS Free cash flow More on pages 1819 2016 update We operate around 950 rooms across 54 pubs within our Destination The performance of this investment has been encouraging and as a and Premium estate.
Accommodation acts as a complementary income consequence we expect accommodation to be an increasingly important stream to an existing pub making the total pub revenue more consistent component of our investment plans.
In future, we expect to open between and less dependent on weather.
Organic room income has been 510 lodges per annum and we have clear visibility on sites for 2017 consistently strong with double-digit sales growth for each of the last four and 2018. years and we anticipate similar trends in the future with continued growth Development of Premium rooms in leisure and business visitors.
In our Premium business we operate around 120 rooms out of 10 In recent years the focus of this investment has been on two key areas: pubs, all of which have been transferred from the Destination pub estate.
These have a typical room rate of 90120 per night and offer a Lodge development within Marstons Inns premium boutique room experience.
We continue to review the existing Within our Destination estate we currently operate 13 lodges with 2540 pub estate to identify additional opportunities to develop premium rooms rooms, having added six new lodges in 2016.
The accommodation has a in future.
typical room rate of between 6090 per night, including breakfast and high-speed broadband.
In addition, we have developed a new Marstons Inns website and have recently recruited additional accommodation sales Number of rooms and marketing expertise into our business to maximise the opportunity for this income stream.
2016 2015 Lodges 371 209 Other Destination pubs 418 421 Premium 124 127 Taverns 40 40 The Place to Be The Place to Be For our people For our customers The investment within the Marstons Inns estate, and future growth Marstons Inns have invested in the most important element of plans, enables us to enhance the guest journey.
Our teams, used any stay away from home: the bed!
Through our partnership to working in a pub environment, have the opportunity to upskill, with Hypnos, our estate will be updated with a carefully crafted by developing the skills required to manage the 24-hours-a-day Hypnos bed, created specially for our Marston's Inns guests, with business of an inn.
Managers and their teams will also benefit from the flexibility to vary bed configurations to suit different room enhancing their knowledge and expertise.
Hypnos beds use a blend of natural and sustainable fillings, whilst being 100% recyclable.
13 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Our Strategy continued Offering the best consumer experience: quality, service, value and innovation Strategic priority Our KPIs Providing a premium experience in an informal setting at any time Number of main meals served of the day and ensuring our offer remains attractive to customers.
Like-for-like sales versus market Employee engagement and enablement More on page 19 2016 update In order to maintain this differential, we have introduced an internally Quality of food and drink developed social media listening tool this year which provides our pub Given the pace of change and competitive nature of our industry we managers with the ability to quickly respond to any customer feedback.
prioritise quality and target a food offer with broad demographic appeal.
Looking forward, we are in the process of investing significantly in high Our food quality scores improved in 2016, underpinned by consistent food speed broadband and state of the art EPOS equipment to be completed and service brand values.
Traditional favourites such as fish and chips are in 2017 which will provide us with better customer information and staple pub classics on our menus, although we continue to develop and contribute further to improved service.
evolve our food offers, introducing new tastes and flavours to maintain our reputation for innovation and keep ahead of the competition.
Value As outlined on page 12, the Revere business acts as an 'innovationValue for money is a key element of our offer.
Importantly, value does not hotbed' where we trial new food styles and concepts that can then be necessarily mean the cheapest customers are prepared to pay for a extended to the broader pub estate.
Pizza is a good example and in 2016 quality experience.
We do not seek to be the lowest priced offer locally we continued the rollout of Pizza Kitchen offering fabulous fresh-made but to be perceived as offering great value for money.
Similarly, we do pizza with 'theatre', which now operates in 70 pubs.
Similarly, we have not participate in significant voucher activity, believing a consistent offer introduced 'smoke-house food' and 'better-burger' concepts in our based upon everyday value is important to our customers.
Generous George pubs following successful trials in the Revere business.
We are also well placed to benefit from current trends in beer, wines, spirits and non-alcoholic drinks.
Growth in premium drinks continues, with strong consumer interest in new brands and styles, particularly in craft beer, spirits and non-alcoholic drinks.
Premium beers account for over 70% of beer sold, we sell 16 million glasses of wine and five million cups of coffee a year, with soft drinks accounting for 15% of total drinks volume.
In our Revere pubs, cocktails account for 12% of drinks sales reflecting the premium nature of the experience, and we have enhanced our cocktail offer in both our Destination and Taverns pubs to capitalise The Place to Be on this growing area of the market.
Non-alcoholic drinks are becoming an increasingly important part of our offer, particularly for younger customers.
This year we have introduced more premium branded soft drinks and are also developing freshly prepared drinks such as mocktails, milkshakes and smoothies.
We benefit from having a market-leading beer business.
Our pub and beer teams work closely together to ensure our pubs have the best beer range locally, underpinned through initiatives such as 'Masters of Cask' in our Taverns pubs, and supported by our own beer quality specialists visiting pubs to help ensure the beer served in our own pubs and those of our customers is of the highest quality.
Service We believe that there is a direct link between relative market performance and service.
As such, we are focused on ensuring we offer our customers For our customers the highest level of service.
We measure service at pub level using a The Generous George menu was given a significant overhaul combination of both internal and external measures, and data from during2016, resulting in a new format and focus on great InMoment suggests that we have consistently outperformed the pizzas and legendary burgers illustrated by great photography.
hospitality sector over the last two years.
Our customers love the look of the new menu and the featured burgers jumped straight into the top 10 dishes sold.
Customer satisfaction remains extremely strong: food quality scores are the highest they have ever been and our customers are more likely than ever to recommend us to other people.
14 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Leadership in the UK beer market Strategic priority Our KPIs To provide a portfolio of market-leading brands to meet consumer Market share of premium cask ale demand for local provenance and taste, focused on the growth Market share of premium bottled ale segments of the market.
More on page 19 2016 update The UK beer market is evolving with consumers seeking a wider choice Following the Thwaites' acquisition in 2015, it has been successfully of beers with local provenance and taste, including craft beers.
The offintegrated into the wider beer business and the anticipated synergies trade continues to grow, with the strongest growth in the premium realised.
The Wainwright brand has performed strongly since acquisition bottled ale segment and the Craft Beer category.
and we have repositioned the branding resulting in significant growth.
Our established strategy is well positioned to benefit from these trends.
Innovation is key to maintaining our competitive advantage.
During the We have a wide portfolio of beers from our own five breweries, a national year, we invested in the DE14 microbrewery in Burton, enabling us to test distribution network and a local approach to beer brand management.
new and innovative beer styles to introduce into the market in the future.
Around 1 in 4 premium bottled ales and 1 in 5 premium cask ales in the Collaboration UK are Marstons brands and Premium ales now account for around 70% Alongside our own beers and ales, collaboration brands also form of sales with the mix of sales to the off-trade being around 54%.
an integral part of our strategy.
Within our portfolio, we have the UK Category leadership licences for the Shipyard, Warsteiner and Kruovice beer brands and for Our position as category leaders has been recognised across the industry, Kingstone Press Cider in the growing cider category.
All have performed most recently by being awarded the Publican National Cask Ale Supplier extremely well in the year, and of particular note, Shipyard is now the of the Year for the third year in succession.
Our own annual publications, second most popular craft beer in the UK.
We anticipate increasing the the Cask Ale Report and Premium Bottled Ale Report, continue to be number of these partnerships in the future.
highly valued by both our on-trade and off-trade customers, for insight Growing the business through partnerships into current and future market trends.
and investment Brands and innovation We also have a highly experienced and talented brewing and logistics Our largest brand, Hobgoblin, continues to grow, with total brand team, who ensure that we are operating at optimal cost efficiency.
The introduction of Hobgoblin Gold In addition, we undertake extensive contract services work on behalf of a has proved extremely successful, with volumes now at 30,000 barrels broad range of competitors who also recognise the benefits of working in since its launch in 2014.
The brand is the most followed beer brand partnership with us.
In 2016 we invested in additional warehousing at the on social media, and in a recent YouGov survey, Hobgoblin was voted Marstons Brewery in Burton in response to the growth in our own brands the third most recognised beer brand in the UK, only sitting behind as well as the needs of our expanding contract business.
It remains after nine years the 'unofficial Beer of Halloween'.
We will be energising the Marstons brand in 2017, including the iconic Pedigree, to capitalise on its growing appeal to younger consumers.
This campaign will include a redesign of pump clips and bottles, together with an urban marketing campaign under the banner 'From Burton The Place to Be with Love'.
For our customers Looking ahead to 2017, Marstons beers have been given a striking new look with the aim of attracting a new generation of drinkers.
At the heart of the new campaign is Marstons Burton heritage: the spiritual home of UK brewing.
The new Marston's brand is '100% Burton': rooted in its past but with a keen eye on the future.
The range includes the iconic Marstons Pedigree and the newly created 61 Deep.
15 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Our Strategy continued Ensuring people are at the heart of our business Strategic priority Our KPIs If our people feel good and enjoy what they do, our customers Employee engagement and enablement will feel the benefits, enjoying and buying more of our products Like-for-like sales versus market more frequently.
Number of main meals served More on page 19 2016 update Marstons employs around 14,000 people and, although many businesses expectations and in turn we support the development of their skills claim that people are our most important asset, it is truly the case that and careers in partnership.
We are committed to training: this year 1 nothing makes a bigger difference to our business than our people.
in 4 employees received formal training, encompassing pub, brewing and finance related courses, degree courses and training with the We want Marstons to be The Place to Be for our employees as well Wine & Spirit Education Trust and Chartered Institute of Management.
Following recruitment of a new People Director last Around 50% of our people are below the age of 25 and we have completed year we have continued to invest in our People Support team, with senior around 1,500 apprenticeships in the last four years.
appointments in Talent Development and Internal Communications.
We have reviewed and reinvigorated our approach to ways of working, Engaged and empowered workforce aiming to modernise and build on the excellent values and culture People come first at Marstons making people feel good is what were which the business has developed over many years.
There are three key all about, whether thats our team, our customers, or our suppliers.
components to our People Strategy: By keeping people at the heart of the business we ensure they are engaged and loyal in all they do.
We act as one team, we are proud of Recruit the best people our heritage and are always striving for success.
The results of the 2016 Differentiation is essential in our industry and we recognise that the way engagement survey have been extremely encouraging with an employee our people think, feel and act will make Marstons stand out.
As such, engagement score of 76%, which is 9% above the UK average and 2% we aim to recruit, retain and develop the very best people, those who can above the UK High Performers.
In addition, our internal magazine 'The truly deliver best practice, bring fresh thinking and have the passion and Place' won the best new internal communication at the 2016 Institute of drive to help our business go from strength to strength.
Investment in training and development We have a strong, caring and collegiate culture at Marstons.
Our people are trusted and empowered to play their part in exceeding our customers The Place to Be The Place to Be For our people For our people When opening or refurbishing a site, it is essential that we set our We have developed new channels to improve how we communicate teams up for success giving them the confidence and skills to be with our people.
We launched an all-employee print magazine: The the best that they can be and to deliver an outstanding experience Place, which is delivered to every Marstons pub, brewery, depot for the customer.
Each of our new-build and refurbishment sites and office.
For our more remote and younger employees, we also receives dedicated support and a bespoke training programme, for developed an app version of the magazine, with extra audio and both front and back of house teams, enabling them to consistently video content.
These new channels, combined with existing means delight their customers and make Marstons 'The Place to Be'.
of communicating: intranet sites, email announcements and digital screens, are enabling us to communicate and engage with our Over the last year, we have delivered 1,125 days of training and people more frequently than ever before.
16 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our future plans Current trading and outlook Building at least 20 new-build pub-restaurants, three Revere bars Trading in the current financial year is in line with our plans, our new and atleast five lodges.
site development is on track, and there have been no material changes to market conditions that would impact upon our expectations for the Constant evolution of our offer: full year.
Using our Pub of the F uture insight from our Pub of the Future Accepting there are wider concerns regarding the possible impact of project, we take the best ideas and build them into our pub portfolio Brexit on consumer sentiment and input costs as a consequence of in order to broaden the appeal of our pubs to younger generations.
sterling weakness since the vote: to date there has been no discernible Some of the ideas that we are trialling include an interactive table, change in the spending habits of our customers, and we have forward community board and digital signage boards.
New Autumn menus contracts in place for 2017 and much of 2018 which will mitigate the feature more international dishes as well as an increased focus on risk of higher input costs due to exchange rate fluctuation.
We have sharing dishes and street food for a less formal eating occasion.
planned for modest increases in business rates in 2017, but are protected Our broader range of craft beers and increased focus on cocktails in from more significant increases by our low exposure on the high street relevant pubs all have a younger drinker in mind with team training and in city centres.
Non-cash pension interest costs will increase by to ensure a high quality experience in every pub.
1.4 million this year as a consequence of the impact of falling gilt yields Forthcoming pub refurbishments will feature additional ideas that on pension deficits.
were borne out of the Pub of the Future project.
In summary, we are well placed to continue our track record of growth Thr ough developing clear and differentiated fame points for each of and to make further progress against our key financial objectives.
the formats within our strong and balanced portfolio.
Keeping the pub at the heart of our business, we seek to engage customers at an emotional level through a constantly improving menu and innovation to wow at the table.
Examples include the American-style Ralph Findlay smokehouse offer in Generous George, the range of new dishes Chief Executive Officer incorporating the rotisserie chicken product, app-based specials menu changing frequently and tailored to each pub, a more independent look and feel for our more unique county pubs and the range of sharing dishes for our more drinks-led occasion formats.
In-pub technology we are focused on utilising technology to improve both customer experience and job satisfaction, for our pub team members.
Over the next 12 months we will be: Upgrading pub broadband speeds and Wi-Fi quality.
Introducing a new EPOS system which will provide faster ordering and payment processes.
The Place to Be Making it easier for our pubs to report faults and our Head Office teams to fix them.
Continuing our focus on premium and craft beer to drive further growth.
More information on the rebranding of our Marston's beers is on page 15 and details of our new microbrewery are included on this page.
Our newly appointed compliance officer, as required by The Pubs Code, will need to verify our compliance with the regulations covering our relationship with our franchisees, tenants and lessees.
We will be required to submit a compliance report to the Adjudicator each year and the first report will cover the financial year ending 30 September 2017.
Prior to submission, the report needs to be approved by the Chairman of our Audit Committee and a summary of the report will be included in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
For the future Taking the name from our Burton brewerys postcode, DE14 is our recently commissioned microbrewery in the Visitors Centre at Marstons Brewery.
With a brew length of just 600 pints per brew it will be an innovation hub, where our brewers will have free rein to create spectacular new beers.
Each member of the brewing team will have the opportunity to test their ideas on DE14, as well as collaborating with other brewers.
These small-batch beers will initially feature in pubs local to Burton and later at festivals and events across the country.
