14 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE MARKETPLACE We are operating in changing times, so it is crucial that we listen to our customers and keep a close eye on global trends.
Our Customer Insight Unit CIU analyses responses from 60,000 customers per month.
By combining their views with detailed market research and customer analytics, we can identify what is in uencing shopping behaviour and ensure we stay relevant to our customers.
OVERVIEW UK CLOTHING & HOME Sales through tablets and mobiles grew by 28% and 85% respectively.
Customers From a high earlier in the year, consumer The UK clothing market grew slowly this said they nd our sites inspirational, with con dence declined at the tail end of the year, up 1.4%.
In an already competitive intuitive designs and great photography.
year as competing factors played on market, the high street faced additional 60% of M&S.
com sales are delivered peoples minds.
On the one hand, the pressures from intense promotional activity through our Shop Your Way service where building blocks of the UK economy have and diffi cult weather patterns it was wet customers collect their order in store.
remained solid: house prices have risen, in the summer and warm in the autumn.
This has increased by 2% on last year, interest rates have remained low and Our Clothing division was aff ected by showing that convenience counts.
On the other both these factors, and sales fell by 2.2%.
hand, numerous macro factors have Customers also told us they want ranges However, our customers also told us that generated wariness.
Uncertainty over the tailored to their shopping needs and in many of the problems were self-in icted.
upcoming EU referendum has caused convenient locations.
Our diverse store Too many shoppers found it hard to locate people to feel unsettled.
Cracks in the portfolio is well set up to meet this need, what they were looking for in our stores.
global economy and fears over terrorism whether customers are shopping for They also said they could not rely on M&S have also weighed on sentiment.
dinner that evening in a railway station for their core wardrobe pieces.
We are Simply Food or visiting one of our town These diff ering perspectives were re ected listening to our customers and work is centre Food Halls in preparation for in our CIU research.
While customers told underway to set this right.
us they were feeling more optimistic about continued to be impressed by our service: their personal financial situation, they our store employees were recognised for Technology does not just increase were simultaneously feeling more cautious being helpful and polite, and the overall convenience it also allows personalisation.
about the wider economic situation.
This service measure in our customer Our Sparks membership club allows us limited what they were prepared to spend.
satisfaction survey was the highest ever.
to tailor off ers to our most loyal customers, rewarding them with points in the process.
UK FOOD HOW OUR UK CUSTOMERS SHOP We continue to improve the personalisation of our approach to ensure that it off ers Growth in the UK food market has been How consumers shop continues to change.
sluggish this year due to the highly Britons are the biggest buyers of clothes members something distinct from traditional loyalty schemes.
competitive market, and the discounters online in Europe.
Furthermore, they are continued to grow market share.
However, shopping across diff erent channels like INTERNATIONAL our Food division had another strong year, never before.
Todays shopper may browse with sales continuing to grow ahead of the on a tablet and buy on a desktop computer, A challenging global environment of market.
Our customers told us they love or research on a mobile and purchase on unfavourable currency movements, falling M&S food for being special and diff erent, a laptop.
Dual-screening in the evening, commodity prices, geopolitical unrest and our performance saw our market share where customers are watching television and a faltering Chinese economy impacted strengthen from 4.1% to 4.3%.
whilst shopping on their tablet, has become our international pro ts.
on understanding more about our Customers told us that newness is really international customers.
However, we do important to them and we continued to As a connected retailer, we need to be know recognition of the M&S brand is innovate, introducing 1,700 lines over the as adaptable as our customers.
Our strong overseas and the international M&S year.
In an increasingly homogenised research shows that tablets are particularly London logo is viewed as representing a market, our quality and uniqueness are signi cant, with tablet ownership at 48% for stylish Britishness that resonates well.
Sales crucial points of diff erence.
showed our food is celebrated overseas.
Events remained signi cant for us, from seasonal celebrations like Christmas, CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX where we saw record sales in the week 10 leading up to Christmas Day, and Mothers Day, where we had record sales, to special 5 occasions like a family barbecue.
Last summers Tastes of the British Isles range 0 celebrated our foods provenance.
This resonated with customers sales rose -5 26% compared to the equivalent range -10 in the previous year.
