Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Other Statutory Information This section contains additional information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the Annual Report and Accounts.
This section along with the information from the Chairmans Statement on page 8 to the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 66 constitutes the Directors Report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Strategic Report The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a Strategic Report in this document.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic Report can be found on the inside front cover to page 33, which are incorporated in this report by reference.
Corporate Governance Statement The Corporate Governance Statement as required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
1 is set out on page 35 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Research and development In-house research and development is undertaken alongside work with the British Beer and Pub Association BBPA and Brewing Research International.
Capital structure Details of the Companys issued share capital and of the movements during the period are shown in note 27 to the financial statements on page 102.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares and one class of preference shares.
On a poll vote, ordinary and preference shareholders have one vote for every 25 pence of nominal value of ordinary and preference share capital held in relation to all circumstances at general meetings of the Company.
The issued nominal value of the ordinary shares and preference shares is 100% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 26 to the financial statements on pages 101 to 102.
Where shares are held on behalf of the Companys share schemes, the trustees have waived their right to vote and to dividends.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Under the Articles of Association, the Directors have authority to allot ordinary shares subject to the aggregate set at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Company was also given authority at its 2016 AGM to make market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum number of 57,517,267 shares.
Similar authority will again be sought from shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of the Directors are further described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 36 to 43.
Directors Biographies of the Directors currently serving on the Board are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Changes to the Board during the period are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 36.
Details of Directors service contracts are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 55.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code all Directors other than Neil Goulden who has announced his retirement from the Board in January 2017 will offer themselves for re-election at the AGM on 24 January 2017.
Change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or terminate upon, a change of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Dividends on ordinary shares An interim dividend of 2.6 pence per ordinary share was paid on 5 July 2016.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.7 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 30 January 2017 to shareholders on the register on 16 December 2016.
This would bring the total dividend for 2015 16 to 7.3 pence per ordinary share 2015: 7.0 pence per ordinary share.
The payment of the final dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Preference shares The preference shares carry the right to a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 6% per annum payable in June and December.
Further details are given in note 17 on page 93.
63 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Other Statutory Information continued Major interest in Company shares Notifications of the following voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital had been received by the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the DTR.
The information shown below was correct at the time of disclosure.
However, the date received may not have been within the current financial reporting period and the percentages shown as provided at the time of disclosure have not been re-calculated based on the issued share capital at the period end.
It should also be noted that these holdings may have changed since the Company was notified, however, notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed.
No further notifications have been received by the Company between 1 October 2016 and 21 November 2016 being the latest practical date prior to the date of this report.
Ordinary shares of 7.375 pence each As at % of Shareholder 1 October 2016 voting rights The Capital Group Companies, Inc 34,423,328 6.01% Brewin Dolphin 28,448,600 4.94% Royal London Asset Management Limited 23,114,123 4.03% The Company also discloses the following information, obtained from the Register of Members, for the preference shares: Preference shares % of preference share Shareholder Number voting rights Fiske Nominees Ltd 34,048 45.39% Mrs HM Medlock 10,407 13.87% George Mary Allison Ltd 5,500 7.33% Mr PF and Dr K Knowles 4,356 5.80% Mr GAL Southall and Mr N Aston 2,855 3.80% Mrs H Michels 2,750 3.66% Mr R Somerville 2,750 3.66% Hargreave Hale Nominees Ltd 2,700 3.60% Insurance and indemnities The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance in respect of legal action that might be brought against its Directors and Officers.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by law, the Company has indemnified each of its Directors and other Officers of the Group against certain liabilities that may be incurred as a result of their position within the Group.
These indemnities were in place for the whole of the period ended 1 October 2016 and as at the date of the report.
There are no indemnities in place for the benefit of the Auditors.
Employee information The average number of employees within the Group is shown in note 5 to the financial statements on page 86.
Apart from ensuring that an individual has the ability to carry out a particular role, we do not discriminate in any way.
We endeavour to retain employees if they become disabled, making reasonable adjustments to their role and, if necessary, look for redeployment opportunities within the Group.
We also ensure that training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all employees irrespective of gender, race, age or disability.
The Company is committed to keeping employees informed of business performance and our strategy, aiming to drive engagement and ensure employees are enabled.
We do this in a variety of ways from presentations of the interim and annual results by senior management, to video and email messages from our CEO.
In addition, there are a range of internal communication channels including newsletters, magazines, apps and briefings to keep employees abreast of developments.
Employees views are sought through regular engagement surveys across the Group and action plans are put in place to respond to issues arising.
Employees are also encouraged to participate in the Companys Sharesave scheme.
Human rights Marstons is committed to respecting and upholding human rights within our business and also within our supply chain.
However, Marstons does not currently have a separate human rights policy.
Modern slavery statement Our Modern Slavery Act disclosure will be published on our website www.
co. uk within six months of the date of this report.
64 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Environmental policy and mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting Marstons corporate responsibility strategy reflects the responsible behaviour at the heart of our business.
The Board recognises that this approach is key to building sustainable growth and reputational value.
Our responsible approach defines our corporate behaviour, the perception of our brands and the appreciation for the quality of our products and standard of service.
Each year Marstons publishes a Corporate Responsibility Report providing information on the many aspects of our corporate values, available at www.
Environmental impact Marstons publishes detailed information on energy consumption, water usage and waste in its Corporate Responsibility Report.
In recent years we have achieved considerable reductions in energy usage by replacing the lighting in the public areas of our managed and franchised pubs with LED lighting.
Water usage has been reduced by installing water management systems in our managed pubs and franchised estate.
We continue to aim to increase the percentage of waste being recycled 2016: 81.2%, 2015: 81.0%.
Currently 346 of our managed pubs recycle food waste 2015: 336.
This year electricity and gas consumption emissions have decreased which is due to milder weather conditions this year compared to last, but also because of the energy reduction projects carried out at our pubs.
Projects this year have included installing more LED lighting in front of house areas 282 sites during the year, 868 sites to date, ambient air to cool our cellars rather than air conditioning 50 sites during the year, 392 to date, voltage optimisation, heating control systems and heat recovery systems.
2016 2015 CO e CO e 2 2 Fuel Types tonnes tonnes Electricity and gas 117,171 128,611 Petrol and diesel 11,665 11,809 Refrigerants breweries 65 62 Refrigerants pubs 4,179 4,393 LPG 2,511 2,417 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio: 2016 2015 CO e tonnes per 100,000 of turnover 15.09 18.41 2 Notes: 1.
We report on all the measured emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Data collected is in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016, the period for which our carbon emissions are reported under the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Political donations Our policy is not to make any donations for political purposes in the UK or to donate to EU political parties or incur EU political expenditure.
Financial instruments The disclosures required in relation to the use of financial instruments by the Group together with details of our treasury policy and management are set out in note 20 to the financial statements on pages 95 to 97.
Auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as Auditors and their re-appointment has been approved by the Audit Committee.
Resolutions to re-appoint them and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report.
The financial position of the Group is described on pages 24 to 30.
In addition, note 20 to the financial statements on pages 95 to 97 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its exposures to interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, counterparty risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups financial instruments and hedging activities are also provided in note 20.
The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements set out on pages 73 to 105 and 108 to 118 have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at Wolverhampton Wanderers Football Club, Molineux Stadium, Waterloo Road, Wolverhampton WV1 4QR at 12noon on 24 January 2017.
The notice convening the meeting, together with details of the special business to be considered and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available at www.
co. uk, where a copy can be viewed and downloaded.
By order of the Board Anne-Marie Brennan Group Secretary 24 November 2016 Company registration number: 31461 65
