CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee is required to put its new The aim of the Policy is to attract, retain and continue to Remuneration Policy to a formal shareholder vote at the Companys motivatetalented Executive Directors while aligning remuneration Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017.
This new Policy is intended withshareholder interests and with the achievement of strategic to apply for the 3years beginning on the date of approval at the performance objectives.
This is achieved by balancing a basic fixed 2017Annual General Meeting.
package, which is periodically benchmarked against a comparator group, with the opportunity to achieve upper quartile remuneration The Remuneration Committee, having reviewed its current from a combination of stretching but achievable incentives.
The Remuneration Policy and invited shareholder comment, concluded terms of reference for the Committee also include the responsibility that the current Policy in substance remained fit for purpose to support forsetting the policy on incentive reward for senior employees, the implementation of the Companys strategy over the next 3-year inparticular those who could have a material impact on the risk Policy period.
The new Remuneration Policy set out below has profile of the Group.
The Committee has, in the design and therefore not materially changed from the current Policy.
application of the Companys variable performance related incentive Overview of the new Policy plan, incorporated risk adjustment mechanisms to encourage The Committees policy is to target a remuneration package that is at consistent and sustainable levels of Company performance and to around median, for median performance, and in the upper quartile ensure, when selecting performance conditions and the level of for exceptional performance, and which is closely linked with the challenge within those conditions, that they support the long-term Companys strategic objectives.
In setting all elements of remuneration future of the Company.
In reviewing its policy and determining theCommittee is advised by independent consultants and periodically remuneration the Committee also considers the wider economic uses data from external research into the salaries and benefits paid conditions and pay and reward packages elsewhere in its sector and bycompanies ofa comparable size and complexity to the Company.
Policy table Purpose and how it Element supportsthe strategy Operation Maximum Fixed remuneration Salary Base salary An Executive Directors basic salary is set on Typically, the base salaries of Executive Directors in recognises the appointment and reviewed annually or when post at the start of the Policy period and who market value of thereisachange in position or responsibility.
remain in the same role throughout the Policy the Executives period will be increased by a similar percentage to Whendetermining an appropriate level of role, skills, the average annual percentage increase in salaries salary, theCommittee considers: responsibilities, of all other employees in the Group.
Theexceptions general salary rises for employees: performance and to this rule may be where: remuneration practices within the Group: experience.
an individuals package is below market level and any change in scope, role and responsibilities: adecision is taken to increase base pay toreflect the general performance of the Group: proven competence in the role: or the experience of the relevant Director: there is a material increase in scope or the economic environment: and responsibility in the individuals role.
whether abenchmarking exercise is appropriate The Committee ensures that maximum salary levels using salarieswithin the ranges paid by the are positioned in line with companies of asimilar companies inthecomparator groups size andvalidated against industry sector peers, .
so that they are competitive.
Individuals who are recruited or promoted to The Committee intends to review the comparators theBoard may, on occasion, have their salaries set periodically and may add or remove companies below the targeted policy level until they become from the group as it considers appropriate.
In such cases subsequent Anychanges to the comparator groups will be increases in salary may be higher than the general explainedinthe report on the implementation of rises for employees until the target positioning Remuneration Policy in the following financial year.
Pension To enable Executive Directors are entitled to join the defined The maximum Company contribution or pension Executive contribution scheme operated by Marshalls.
Directors to TheCompany contributes at an agreed percentage makeappropriate ofbasicsalary.
provision for Executive Directors may take a pensions allowance in retirement.
place of the Companys contribution to the Scheme.
Pension allowances are excluded for the purposes of calculating any other element of remuneration based on a percentage of salary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Policy continued Policy table continued Purpose and how it Element supportsthe strategy Operation Maximum Fixed remuneration continued Benefits The Company Benefits include car or car allowance, health The maximum is the cost of providing the relevant isrequired to insurance, life assurance, income protection benefits as described.
provide benefits andmembership of the Groups employee share inorder to be plans the Executive Directors will also be eligible to competitive and participate in any other all employee plan operated toensure it is able by the Company from time to time.
to recruit and The Committee recognises the need to maintain retain Executive suitable flexibility in the benefits provided to Directors.
ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel in order to deliver the Group strategy.
Additional benefits may therefore be offered such as relocation allowances on recruitment.
Purpose and how it Element supportsthe strategy Operation Maximum Performance conditions Variable performancebased remuneration Management Enabling the Annual performance conditions and Maximum An award under the Plan is subject to satisfying relevant Incentive successful targets are set at the beginning of the 150% of performance conditions and targets determined Plan MIP implementation of plan year.
salary annually by the Remuneration Committee by reference Element A Group strategy to financial and non-financial objectives that are closely As well as determining the performance through setting linked to the strategy of the business and may also conditions, targets and relative weighting, relevant targets contain individual performance objectives, measured the Committee will also determine, within tomeasure over a period of one financial year.
the approved range, the level of target Executive Director bonus at the beginning of the plan year.
A minimum of 50% of the bonus is based performance.
Upon assessment of performance by the onfinancial performance measures.
Aligns the interests Committee, a contribution will be made The Committee is of the opinion that given the of Executives with by the Company into the participants commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed shareholders and plan account and 50% of the cumulative financial targets used for the bonus, disclosing precise contributes to the balance will be paid in cash.
Any remaining targets for the Plan in advance would not be in retention of key balance will be converted into shares shareholder interests.
Targets, performance achieved individuals by orshare-linked units.
and awards made will be published at the end of ensuring that 100% of the balance in the final year theperformance period so shareholders can fully Executives take ofthe plan will be paid in shares to the assess the basis for any pay-outs under the Plan.
part of their annual participant.
During the plan period, In exceptional circumstances the Committee bonus in shares or 50%of the retained balance is atrisk retains the discretion to: share-linked units offorfeiture based on a minimum level change the performance measures and targets rather than cash.
ofperformance determined annually and the weighting attached to the performance bythe Committee.
measures and targets part-way through a Full details of the relevant targets and performance year if there is a significant and their weighting, and how they have material event which causes the Committee to been measured, will be reported in the believe the original measures, weightings and Remuneration Report for the relevant targets are no longer appropriate: and financial year.
make downward or upward adjustments to the The Committee may award dividend amount of bonus contribution earned resulting equivalents on shares or share-linked from the application of the performance units held under the Plan to Plan measures, if the Committee believes that the participants to the extent that they vest.
bonus outcomes are not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
Any adjustments or discretion appliedby the Committee will be fullydisclosed in the following years Remuneration Report.
The Plan contains malus and clawbackprovisions.
50 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Purpose and how it Element supportsthe strategy Operation Maximum Performance conditions MIP To link variable pay Annual targets set by reference to financial, Maximum An award under the Plan is subject to satisfying Element B to achievement of strategic and operational objectives by the 100% of relevant performance conditions and targets annual financial Remuneration Committee.
salary determined annually by the Remuneration and business Committee by reference to financial and Awards aremade annually in shares.
non-financial objectives that are closely linked to Awards are subject to continued the strategy of the business and may also contain To promote employment for 3years.
individual performance objectives, measured over long-term Awards, once vested net of tax, may a period of one financial year.
shareholding notbe sold for a further 2 years.
inthe Company The Committee takes the same view on commercial There is a financial underpin which, if not and strengthen sensitivity as for Element A of the MIP.
achieved over 3 years results in the loss alignment The discretions set out above for Element A ofup to 50% of unvested awards.
between interests alsoapply to Element B.
Details of the performance conditions, of Executive Any adjustments or discretion applied by the targets and their level of satisfaction for the Directors and Committee will be fully disclosed in the following year being reported on will be set out in senior managers years Remuneration Report.
the Remuneration Report for the relevant and those of financial year.
The Committee may award The plan contains malus and clawback provisions.
dividend equivalents on shares or share-linked units held under the Plan toPlan participants to the extent that theyvest.
Minimum shareholding requirement The Committee has adopted minimum shareholding requirements for Executive Directors, who must build up over a 5-year periodand then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a minimum of 200 per cent of base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition ofcontinued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
In addition, Executive Directors are required to retain 50 per cent of the post-tax amount of vested shares fromthe Company incentive plans until the minimum shareholding requirement is met and maintained.
The following table sets out the minimum shareholding requirements: Role Shareholding requirement percentage of salary Chief Executive Officer 200% Other Directors 200% The Committee retains the discretion to increase the shareholding requirements.
Malus and clawback Malus is the adjustment of Company Element A contributions or the balance in a participants Element A Plan Account or unvested Element B awards because of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
The adjustment may result in the value being reduced to nil.
Clawback is the recovery of payments made under Element A of the MIP or vested Element B awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
Clawback may apply to all or part of a participants payment under Element A of the MIP or an Element B award and may be effected, among other means, by requiring the transfer of shares, payment of cash or reduction of awards or bonuses.
The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows: discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited accounts of the Group or any Group company: if the assessment of any performance condition or condition in respect of a Company Element A contribution or Element B award was based onerror, or inaccurate or misleading information: the discovery that any information used to determine the Company Element A contribution or Element B award was based on error, orinaccurate or misleading information: action or conduct of a participant which amounts to fraud or gross misconduct: or events or the behaviour of a participant have led to the censure of a Group company by a regulatory authority or have had a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group company provided that the Board is satisfied that the relevant participant was responsible for the censure or reputational damage and that the censure or reputational damage is attributable to the participant.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Policy continued Malus and clawback continued Element A Element B Malus Up to the date of a payment under the Plan To the end of the 3-year vesting period Clawback 2 years post the date of any payment under the Plan 2 years post vesting The Committee believes that the rules of the Plan provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback where required.
Total remuneration opportunity In future years, the total remuneration opportunity under the Policy for each of the Executive Directors at 3 different levels of performance is shown below: Chief Executive Finance Director Key Key Salary, benefits and pension MIP Element A MIP Element B Salary, benefits and pension MIP Element A MIP Element B Outperformance Outperformance 33% 40% 27% 33% 40% 27% Target 42% 35% 23% Target 42% 35% 23% Below threshold Below threshold 100% 100% 0 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 000 000 Notes: a Base salary, benefits and pension information is taken from the single figure remuneration table in the 2016 Annual Remuneration Report.
The benefits valuereflects afully expensed company car, medical insurance and any other taxable benefits and pension includes the level of pensions allowance paid instead ofcontractual employer pension contributions.
b Achievement of performance targets in line with expectations will result in 70 per cent of the annual award under the MIP.
c The minimum assumes a performance that fails to meet the threshold for Element A and Element B so is the level below which no variable pay under the MIP is earned.
d The maximum represents the full 250 per cent of salary potential under the MIP.
Pay at risk The charts below set out the single figure for each Executive Director based on whether the elements remain at risk.
For example: payment is subject to continuing employment for a period: performance conditions have to still be satisfied: and elements are subject to malus or clawback for a period, over which the Company can recover sums paid or withhold vesting.
Figures have been calculated based on target performance fixed elements plus 70 per cent of the maximum MIP.
The charts have been based on the same assumptions as set out for the illustrations of the application of the total remuneration opportunity under the new Policy.
Chief Executive Finance Director At risk 739,000 At risk 485,000 Salary 422,000 Salary 277,000 Pension and benefits 110,000 Pension and benefits 68,000 58 33 9 G59 33 8 G Consideration of Remuneration Policy for other employees The Committee takes into account pay and reward packages of the UK workforce as a whole and of other groups of employees in applying its Policy and determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Senior management participates in the MIP.
The criteria for performance related pay under the MIP and the retention periods are the same for senior management as for the Executive Directors, with varying percentages of salary dependent on seniority and the strategic impact of the role.
For other tiers of management and below, the Company operates annual and long-term incentive arrangements using criteria that may be job-specific and which also link with Company or individual performance.
In general any salary increases for the Executive Directors will be in line with the average rise for UK employees.
52 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Committee has not specifically canvassed the views of the Companys employees on its Remuneration Policy, although the views of employees on matters that include pay and conditions generally are canvassed by means of periodic surveys, the results of which are regularly and openly communicated to the Board.
In setting the Policy, the Company has not used any remuneration comparison measurements.
Recruitment policy The remuneration of any new recruit will be determined in accordance with the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out intheRemuneration Policy table above.
The Committee is mindful of the need to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure apreferred candidate of the appropriate calibre and with the experience needed for the role.
In setting the remuneration for new recruits, theCommittee will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments as well as giving consideration to the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Companys detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new Directors is summarised below: Remuneration element Recruitment policy Salary, benefits and pension These will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
MIP Maximum participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 250% of salary.
Maximum variable The maximum variable remuneration which may be granted is 250% of salary.
remuneration Buy out of incentives Where the Committee determines that the individual circumstances of recruitment justify the provision of forfeited on cessation abuyout, the equivalent value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of an Executive Directors ofemployment previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Directors cessation ofemployment: the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them beingsatisfied: and any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plan.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plan, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Relocation Policies In instances where the new Executive Director is required to relocate or spend significant time away from theirnormal residence, the Company may provide one-off compensation to reflect the cost of relocation for theExecutive Director.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case-by-case basis but will takeinto consideration any cost of living differences housing allowance and schooling.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the Policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would beno retrospective application of the Policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current Non-Executive Directors.
Service contracts and policy on termination payments Service contracts Element Executive Directors NonExecutive Directors Term Martyn Coffey Jack Clarke Andrew Allner Janet Ashdown Mark Edwards Tim Pile Date of contract September 2013 October 2014 July 2003 March 2015 May 2010 October 2010 appointment renewed in renewed in renewed in July 2013 and July 2013 and July 2013 and May 2016 May 2016 May 2016 Notice period in months Company 12 12 6 6 6 6 Director 6 6 6 6 6 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Policy continued Service contracts and policy on termination payments continued Service contracts continued In accordance with Policy, Executive Directors service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses, nor any contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement, or providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed under letters of appointment, usually for a term of 3 years.
Either the Company orthe Non-Executive Director may terminate the appointment before the end of the current term on 6 months notice.
If the unexpired term isless than 6 months, notice does not need to be served.
No compensation is payable if a Non-Executive Director is required to stand down.
All Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Policy on termination payments When considering compensation for loss of office, the Committee will always seek to minimise the cost to the Company and apply mitigation to any payment.
Compensation for loss of office can only be paid if consistent with the Policy or otherwise with shareholder approval by Ordinary Resolution.
Remuneration element Treatment on cessation of employment General The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair andreasonable in each case.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation, or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Salary, benefits These will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment in lieu.
andpension 1 Good leaver reason Other reason Discretion For the year of cessation MIP Element A Good leavers: Other leavers: No The Remuneration Committee has the following elements of discretion: Performance Company bonus to determine that an Executive is a good leaver.
It is the Remuneration conditions will contribution Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is bemeasured at payable for year an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: and thenormal ofcessation.
to determine whether to pro-rate the Company bonus contribution.
The Company TheRemuneration Committees normal policy is that a variable bonus willbe pro-rated depending on the proportion of the measurement bonus contribution will normally vesting period inwhich the executive remained in employment.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to use discretion not to pro-rate in bepro-rated fortheperiod circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Deferred balances in participants Element A plan account Good leavers: Other leavers: The Remuneration Committee has the following elements of discretion: Thebalance in Thebalance in to determine that an Executive is a good leaver subject to the principles theparticipants theparticipants set out above : Element A Plan Element A Plan Account will Account will to determine whether settlement of the balance of the participants Element A Plan Account should be in cash or shares or a combination ofboth: and bepayable beforfeited oncessation oncessation to determine whether to pro-rate the balance of the participants Element A ofemployment.
Plan Account payable on cessation.
A participants Element A Plan Account balance reflects prior year achievement, so, subject to any malus or clawback, the Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate.
The Remuneration Committee will determine whether to pro-rate based on the circumstances of the Executives departure.
54 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1 Good leaver reason Other reason Discretion For the year of cessation MIP Element B Good leavers: Other leavers: The Remuneration Committee has the following elements of discretion: Performance Noaward for year to determine that an individual is a good leaver and in accordance with conditions will ofcessation.
theprinciples set out previously: and bemeasured at to determine whether to make an award or to pro-rate the award thenormal measurement date.
byreference to the period during which the Executive remained in employment.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it The award will normally be willpro-rate for time.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to usediscretion to not pro-rate only incircumstances where there is an pro-rated for the period worked appropriate business case which will beexplained in full to shareholders.
during the financial year and will vest ongrant.
The salerestrictions willcontinue to apply for 2 years post cessation.
Subsisting awards Good leavers: Other leavers: Lapse The Remuneration Committee has the following elements of discretion: Pro-rated to time of any unvested to determine that an individual is a good leaver.
It is the Remuneration and performance awards.
Vested Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances inrespect of each awards will continue wherethere is an appropriate business case which will be explained subsisting award to be subject to the infullto shareholders: and subject to the sale restrictions.
to determine to pay cash in lieu of shares: satisfaction of the financial underpin to vest the award at the end of the original deferral period or at the date on vesting.
The Remuneration Committee will make this determination restrictions will depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and continue to apply to determine whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the from vesting.
time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate awards for time.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate only in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will beexplained in full to shareholders.
It should be noted that the performance targets for subsisting awards will already have been satisfied at the date of grant.
Other There are no contractual obligations to participants in relation to the incentive schemes other than those set out above.
contractual obligations 1 A g ood leaver reason is defined as cessation by reason of death, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, retirement, the employing company ceasing to be a Groupcompany, the transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company, or otherwise at the discretion of the Committee as described above.
Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Policy continued Change of control Name of Incentive Plan Impact Discretion Element A of the MIP Performance conditions will be measured at The Remuneration Committee has the following element thedate of the change of control.
The Company ofdiscretion: For the year of the change bonus contribution will normally be pro-rated ofcontrol to determine whether to pro-rate the Company bonus to the date of the change of control.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate for time.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Element A of the MIP The balance in the participants Element A The Remuneration Committee has the following elements Plan Account will be payable on the change of discretion: Deferred balances in ofcontrol.
participants Element A to determine whether the payment of the balance of the PlanAccount participants Element A Plan Account should be in cash or shares or a combination of both: and to determine whether to pro-rate the balance of the participants Element A Plan Account payable on change of control.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate.
The Remuneration Committee will determine whether to pro-rate based on the circumstances of change of control.
It should be noted that the deferred balances in a participants Element A Plan Account relate to bonuses earned based onthesatisfaction of performance conditions in previous financial years.
Element B of the MIP Performance conditions will be measured at The Remuneration Committee has the following elements thedate of the change of control.
The award of discretion: For the year of the change will normally be pro-rated to the date of the ofcontrol to determine whether to pro-rate the award to time.
change of control and will vest on grant.
TheRemuneration Committees normal policy is that it Thesale restrictions will not apply.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention only to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will beexplained in full to shareholders: and to determine to pay cash in lieu of shares.
Element B of the MIP Awards will vest on a change of control subject The Remuneration Committee has the following elements Subsisting awards on to the satisfaction of the financial underpin on of discretion: achangeof control vesting.
Sale restrictions will not apply.
to determine whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of the change of control.
The Remuneration Committee will determine whether to pro-rate based on the circumstances of change of control: and to determine to pay cash in lieu of shares.
It should be noted that the Element B awards that are outstanding would have been made following satisfaction of performance targets for previous years.
Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this Report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee hasthediscretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee regularly consults with shareholders on Executive remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee gave shareholders the opportunity to comment on the new Policy set out in this Remuneration Committee Report before its finalisation.
The Committee is committed to consulting in advance with shareholders before making any material changes to any element of Executive remuneration.
56 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairman and NonExecutive Directors Remuneration Policy Element Purpose and how it supports the strategy Operation Maximum Fees Annual fee to attract and retain The Board is responsible for setting the The fees for Non-Executive Directors experienced and skilled remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
andthe Chairman are broadly set at Non-Executive Directors with The Remuneration Committee is responsible acompetitive level against the thenecessary experience and for setting the Chairmans fees.
expertise to advise and assist Directors are paid an annual fee and additional In general the level of fee increase for the with establishing and monitoring fees for chairmanship ofcommittees and Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman the strategic objectives of the theCompany retains the flexibility to pay will be set taking account of any change Company.
Fees reflect the time feesfor the membership of committees.
inresponsibility and salary increases for commitment and responsibilities TheChairman does not receive any additional UKemployees generally.
fees for membership of committees.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent incurred by the Non-Executive Directors roles in the comparator group used to review and Chairman in the performance of their salaries paid to the Executive Directors.
duties and may settle any tax incurred Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman inrelation to these.
do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefits arrangements.
Entitlements under the current policy Provisions of the current Policy that will continue to apply following the approval of the new Policy at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The following table sets out subsisting entitlements granted to Executive Directors under the current Policy where the entitlements have notyet vested or been paid.
The 2005 LTIP expired in 2014 and it is the intention to make no further awards under this incentive scheme following approval of the MIP.
TheCommittee approved a final grant of performance shares under the 2005 LTIP in March 2014, and set EPS and OCF growth targets that were at the grant date closely related to the medium-term plans of the Group.
The targets were met in full, and these LTIP awards will vest in March 2017, ensuring that there is no incentive gap before the first potential awards under Element B of the MIP are capable of vesting in 2018.
Provisions of the previous policy that will continue to apply LTIP awards Grants Operation Performance measures and period made in 2014 Performance Annual grant of Performance conditions measured over 3 financial years.
under the Shares equal to nil-cost options Performance measures and relative weightings are: 2005 Long 100% of salary linked to 75% EPS: and Term forExecutive performance Incentive 25% 0CF.
conditions measured Plan LTIP over a 3-year period.
Vesting of 75% of the award subject to EPS performance conditions: Performance % of award EPS growth Vesting 75% 0% 100% 50% 125% 100% Vesting of 25% of the award subject to OCF growth Performance % of award annual OCF growth vesting 5% 0% 10% 50% 15% 1 0 0% Straight line vesting between points.
Definitions and calculations EPS is measured using International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs based onthe audited results of the Group and subject to the discretion of the Committee with regard to one-off items.
OCF growth is calculated by taking the aggregated OCF for the 3 financial years preceding the year of grant of the award and comparing it with the aggregate OCFover the 3 years from the date of grant.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 57
