STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy Focused on growth Continuing emphasis on customer service and our enduring objective ofproviding quality products and integrated solutions.
Delivering growth through product innovation is a key element of the Groups strategy.
Shareholder value Sustainable profitability Relationship building To deliver sustainable To maintain a strong market To develop relationships shareholder value by improving position and grow the business withkey stakeholders, the long-term operating profitability in all the Groups customers and installers.
WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED Growth in ROCE to 23.0 per cent.
27 per cent growth in operating profit Strengthened customer relationships.
driven by sustainable efficiency Market share gains.
98 per cent customer service KPI.
Increase in operatingprofit percentage Design Space office inCentral London.
10 per cent growth insales of new products in the core business.
Growth in ROCE to New products growth of Registered installer teams now 23.0% 10% approx.
2,000 2020 STRATEGY 2020 STRATEGY 2020 STRATEGY To strengthen the Marshalls brand by To deliver new and innovative To promote integrated productsolutions.
To focus on installer training, marketing To make strategic investments for To improve operational efficiency and sales support.
To develop the supply chain andmaintain To have a progressive dividendpolicy.
To drive through sustainable ethical and sustainablepolicies.
To be a provider of integrated To invest in the digital strategy.
OUR FUTURE TARGETS OUR FUTURE TARGETS OUR FUTURE TARGETS To grow EBITDA and ROCE.
To deliver sustainable EPS and To increase market share in our Smaller operatingcash flow growth.
UK Businesses and to be an employer ofchoice.
14 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT FIND OUT MORE Key performance indicators pages 18 19 Risks pages 20 24 Sustainability pages 25 28 Remuneration pages 46 65 Organic expansion Brand development Effective capital structure To invest in selective synergistic To strengthen and extend the andcontrolframework acquisitions and organic Marshalls brand by focusing on To maintain efficient and expansion in existing and related innovation, service and new effective business controls and to markets and product categories product development.
ensure that the capital structure to expand the business.
remains aligned with the Groups corporate growth objectives.
WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED Revenue growth of 3 per cent Superbrand status.
Continued development Cash positive at 31 December 2016.
Significant growth in key focus areas ofMarshallsbrand.
Efficient portfolio of bank facilities andSmaller UK Businesses.
Improved integration of withextended maturities and Developed product range whilst marketingcollateral.
Continued focus on working capital Opened a sales office in Dubai.
Revenue R&D investment of Cash positive at year end 396.9m 3.4m 5.4m 2020 STRATEGY 2020 STRATEGY 2020 STRATEGY To focus on increasing the profitability To focus on innovation, customer To maintain a flexible capital structure ofthe Smaller UK Businesses.
that recognises cyclical risk, focusing onsecurity, efficiency and liquidity.
To target growth areas such To increase technical R&D.
asWaterManagement, Street Furniture, To deliver a capital allocation To maintain the highest health Rail and New BuildHousing.
strategythat is fully aligned with this andsafetystandards.
To increase capital expenditure investment for organic growth.
OUR FUTURE TARGETS OUR FUTURE TARGETS OUR FUTURE TARGETS To maintain the Groups To operate tight control over business, To maintain a national network of .
To target a net debt to EBITDA ratio To develop our global supply chains ofbetween 1 and 2 times over the andinfrastructure.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 15
