Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Group Operating and Financial Review continued Brewing Overview: Five breweries producing a wide portfolio of cask beers Key brands: Hobgoblin, Pedigree, Wainwright, Bankss, Ringwood, Jennings, Brakspear Typical customers: Discerning and knowledgeable drinker out-of-home pubs, clubs and bars and at home Key facts 2016 5 1,155 4.3m 23.2m breweries employees average pints brewed operating profit representing per week 13% of underlying Group 2015: 5 operating profit Our medium-term strategy Focus Objectives Progress Three national brands: Pedigree, To be the UKs number one ale producer Number one position in premium Hobgoblin and Wainwright with category leadership in premium bottle and canned ale maintained cask and bottle and extended Strengthening presence in regional markets with Bankss, Jennings, To develop new brands that are relevant Expansion of craft portfolio with Mansfield, Ringwood and Brakspear to the current and future consumer Shipyard now at number two Premium cask and bottled ale Continue to drive value from authenticity Winner of Best National Cask Ale and provenance from our five Supplier for the third successive year Innovation driven by relevant regional breweries consumer insight 2016 performance Priorities for 2016 17 Total revenue increased by 14.3% to 193.3 million, reflecting the benefits To maintain market leadership in premium cask and bottled ales of the Thwaites acquisition described on page 9.
Underlying operating Continue to develop new beers that are relevant to an ever profit increased by 12.1% to 23.2 million.
changing consumer Overall ale volumes were up 13% with premium cask ale volumes up Complete 5 million investment in canning line 6% and premium bottled ale volumes up 5%.
Hobgoblin, our largest brand, continues to grow with sales up 13% on last year, supported by the introduction of Hobgoblin Gold.
We have maintained our position as category market leader in both the premium bottled ale and premium cask ale markets.
Operating margin was slightly down on last year at 12.0%, reflecting the impact of the pub supply arrangement with Thwaites which generates a positive profit contribution, albeit at a low margin percentage.
28 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Cash flow, capital expenditure and disposals Financing Operating cash flow of 182.8 million was 12.6% above last year due to At 1 October 2016 the Group had a 257.5 million bank facility to the improved profit performance, lower pension contributions and lower November 2018, and the amount drawn down at 1 October 2016 was taxation payments.
In addition, we have a 30 million two-year facility for the Thwaites acquisition.
These facilities, together with a long-term Capital expenditure was 143.7 million in 2016 2015: 142.3 million, securitisation of approximately 834 million and the lease financing including 65 million on the construction of 22 pubs and bars and six arrangements described below, provides us with an appropriate level lodges.
We expect that capital expenditure will be around 150 million in of financing headroom for the medium term.
The Group has sufficient 2017, including around 70 million for the construction of at least 20 new headroom on both the banking and securitisation covenants and also has pub-restaurants, three Revere bars and five lodges.
flexibility to transfer pubs between the banking and securitisation groups.
During the year we generated 45.9 million of cash from the disposal The Group has entered into lease financing arrangements which have a ofassets including 30.9 million of leasing transactions.
total value of 240.1 million as at 1 October 2016 2015: 202.2 million.
Taxation This financing is a form of sale and leaseback agreement whereby The underlying rate of taxation of 18.0% in 2016 is below the standard rate the freehold reverts to the Group at the end of the term at nil cost, of corporation tax of 20% primarily due to credits in respect of deferred consistent with our preference for predominantly freehold asset tenure.
The agreements range from 35 to 40 years and provide the Group with The underlying tax rate has decreased by 1.3% from 19.3% in 2015. an extended debt maturity profile at attractive rates of interest.
Unlike a traditional sale and leaseback, the associated liability is recognised as Following the agreement of the tax treatment of certain items with HM debt on the balance sheet due to the reversion of the freehold.
Revenue & Customs HMRC, the Group has recognised a non-underlying tax credit of 4.1 million in respect of the additional tax relief claimed Net debt excluding lease financing of 1,029 million at 1 October 2016 by the Group for previous periods, along with a non-underlying charge is 14 million below last year.
For the period ended 1 October 2016 the of 0.5 million in respect of the associated advisory fees.
Following this ratio of net debt excluding lease financing to underlying EBITDA was 4.8 agreement, the Group's corporation tax affairs are now agreed up to and times 2015: 5.1 times.
It remains our intention to reduce this ratio over including the year ended 4 October 2014. time, principally through EBITDA growth generated from our new-build investment programme.
In delivering its business strategy, Marstons generates significant tax revenues for the Government.
During the year ended 1 October 2016, Pensions Marstons total cash tax contribution to the UK Exchequer was Our final salary pension scheme at the year end showed a deficit of 399 million 2015: 379 million in taxes borne and taxes collected 34.0 million before tax 2015: 15.0 million surplus.
This position onbehalf of our colleagues, customers and suppliers.
reflects the impact of deteriorating gilt yields on discount rate assumptions during the course of the last year.
Employee payroll taxes 4. Business rates 126m 5.
Other 29 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Group Operating and Financial Review continued Non-underlying items Viability Statement There is a net non-underlying charge of 7.4 million after tax 2015: 50.5 million.
This includes charges of 1.7 million relating to The Directors regularly undertake an assessment of the prospects non-core estate disposal and reorganisation costs, 4.4 million in respect of the Group by reference to its current and historical financial of the change in the rate assumptions used in calculating our onerous performance, the current financial position, and the principal risks lease provisions, 3.8 million in respect of relocation, reorganisation described earlier in the Report.
In addition, the Board annually reviews and integration costs and 8.4 million in respect of the mark-to-market the Group strategy, which incorporates five year financial projections movement in the fair value of certain interest rate swaps.
These are of trading performance, cash flows and financing requirements.
offset by the 1.5 million profit on disposal of a parcel of surplus land for In recent years the Group has performed strongly, delivering growth residential development.
The revenue of 31.5 million and expenses of whilst transforming both the pub and beer divisions into businesses 31.4 million in respect of the ongoing management of the pubs from well placed to meet future market challenges.
In addition, the Group the portfolio disposal in December 2013 have also been included within continues to have strong headroom against the financial covenants non-underlying items.
Following the agreement of the tax treatment of underpinning the financing structure, with improving fixed charge cover.
certain items with HMRC the Group has recognised a non-underlying The Board has assessed the viability of the Group over a five-year tax credit of 4.1 million in respect of the additional tax relief claimed by period, which is consistent with their strategy review process.
the Group for previous periods, along with a non-underlying charge of Whilst acknowledging that the principal risks all have the potential 0.5 million in respect of the associated advisory fees.
In addition, there to affect future performance, with the mitigation plans in place, none is a non-underlying deferred tax credit of 2.4 million in relation to the of them are considered likely to threaten the viability of the business change in corporation tax rate and a credit of 3.3 million relating to the over the five-year period.
Based on this review, the Directors confirm tax on non-underlying items.
that they believe that the Group will continue to be operationally and Dividend considerations financially viable over the five-year period.
The proposed final dividend of 4.7 pence per share provides a total dividend for the year of 7.3 pence per share, and represents a 4.3% increase on 2015. Dividend cover was 1.9 times 2015: 1.8 times.
In light of the Financial Reporting Councils recent report on disclosure in respect of dividend policy and sustainability, we have set out below the key considerations in establishing the dividend proposal.
Dividend policy Our dividend policy remains to target consistent progressive increases in the dividend at a cover of around 2 times over the medium term.
This policy has remained consistent in recent years and is annually reviewed by the Board.
Distributable profit the parent company balance sheet page 108 demonstrates sufficient headroom in terms of available distributable profits for both current and future delivery of dividends under the policy stated above.
Debt covenants the Group has sufficient headroom on its financing covenants for both current and future delivery of dividends.
Viability statement the dividend policy is underpinned by the viability statement shown on this page.
Subject to the approval at the AGM on 24 January 2017, the final dividend will be paid on 30 January 2017.
Andrew Andrea Chief Financial and Corporate Development Officer 30
