STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy in Action Innovation and new product development INTELLIGENCE Our innovation cycle The structure of the Marshalls Innovation Cycle givesus a greater ability to feed the Group Marketing Evolution Plan a necessity for a healthy, sustainable Future Market Technology Materials Sales and industry-leading new product design Spaces intelligence drivers R&D feedback NPD pipeline.
The structure enables us to plug dynamically into INNOVATION awider intelligence ofproduct ideas, market drivers, industry technology and manufacturing system andprocess improvements for the next generation of Marshalls NPD.
Innovation growth engine Product and process concepts will be developed in Idea portfolio consultation with stakeholders and brought to life and managed withinthe innovation growth engine.
DELIVERY Based on realcommercial intelligence the best concepts will be prioritised by business leaders and will move forward with more speed and confidence before being managed through the manufacturing Investment Product management Manufacture or marketing process prior to manufacture.
INNOVATION IN CONCRETE PAVING Premium and streamlined driveway style A sharp contemporary look with thedistinctive streamlined shape ofDrivelineMetro, lightly washed toexpose the aggregate and give apremium finish.
Thedesign mixes 4carefully selected colour options.
New products revenue growth of 16 10% Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Digital strategy Over the last decade technology and software advancements have rapidly driven change in many industries.
Manyare calling this the next industrial revolution.
All companies face the challenge of how best to utilise digital technology to transform their business and Marshalls is no exception.
We are committed to a long-term digital transformation initiative Approach Marshalls understands that creative digital solutions need to be thatwill fortify our market leading position by creating an engaging customer experience through the exploitation of new technologies developed on strong foundations.
Therefore our approach to implementing a successful digital strategy is to tackle 3 key elements: and processes.
Infrastructure, Systems and Processes and Customer Touchpoints.
Vision Our vision is to become Digital by Default whereby our business Infrastructure: Predominantly technical projects that help create a is focused on the customer using digital technology to deliver sustainable architecture and an agile platform for all digital initiatives.
africtionless customer journey, which will drive increased sales, Systems and processes: Business systems and processes that loyalty and ultimately profitability.
build on utilise the new infrastructure to enable the delivery of As a business we will continuously watch and digital initiatives and promote agility.
exploit future technological advancements to enhance the Customer touchpoints: Value adding multi-channel digital customer experience and drive competitive advantage.
touchpoints which drive sales, loyalty and profitability to maintain Guiding principles Marshalls competitive advantage.
To achieve this vision, Marshalls will be guided by 6 core principles which will be applied to the areas of technology, internal process and people.
By embedding these principles throughout Marshalls, Follow the customer journey we will nurture a culture whereby every business decision is assessed in relation to the digital agenda.
PUBLIC SECTOR AND HOMEOWNERS COMMERCIAL Customer touchpoints Customer touchpoints Customer value Customer touchpoints Customer touchpoints People Process Technology Systems and Systems and processes processes DIGITAL PRINCIPLES Design for customer Promote agility Infrastructure Collaboration Open and transparent Data driven Robust governance Key deliverables Marshalls focus in 2017 will be on the following areas: Making use of cloud technologies and infrastructure: Implementing a data strategy that will allow Marshalls to serve customers with the right content, at the right time, in the format they require via a omni-channel approach: and Exploiting the growth in mobile usage to support a frictionless customer experience.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 17
