Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report: At a glance THE P LACE TO BE... A CROSS THE NATION National coverage with a growing, high quality estate We operate across the UK and are focused on expanding a high quality estate, which we continue to strengthen through organic development of pub-restaurants and franchise-style pubs, including planned new-builds and, more recently, through investment in lodges and Premium bars that widen our appeal.
Our five breweries supply and distribute a wide portfolio of beers to our estate, supermarkets and other pub businesses across the nation.
Marston's estate 2016 SCOTLAND Foundry 39, Edinburgh 14 108 NORTH OF 156 ENGLAND rooms added Chain Bridge, Boston 96 1 258 127 92 22 new pub-restaurants and bars MIDLANDS 138 Mug House, Worcester 2 416 30 244 162 115 87 23 42 WALES new beers 138 2 51 Llanwern Bull, Newport 359 54 Key SOUTH OF 416 397 Destination and Premium ENGLAND Taverns 812 397 Leased 331 Wychwood Brewery, Witney Rooms 953 397 Breweries 5 2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Organised to reflect market trends We have five operating segments, as set out below, which reflect different customer profiles, flexible operating models, products and services.
More detailed information about each reporting segment can be found in our Group Operating and Financial Review on pages 24 to 30.
Key operating Destination Taverns Leased Brewing Group segment and Premium Services 416 pubs 812 pubs 331 pubs 5 breweries 2016 underlying 90.2m 56.0m 24.2m 23.2m operating profit 7.9% 0.2% 1.7% 12.1% 2015: 83.6m 2015: 55.9m 2015: 23.8m 2015: 20.7m 2016 underlying operating profit 12% 12% by segment 29% excluding Group 47% Services costs Family dining and Community pubs Distinctive pubs A blend of Our Group Services great value with a more with a high degree traditional team provides a traditional pub of independence heritage, range of functional Relaxed pub ambience innovative services that support environment Longer-term development and and connect the Includes agreements that Main formats contemporary wider business, franchised pubs, attract skilled include: Marstons breweries including IT, HR, managed pubs entrepreneurs 'Two for One', Finance, Retail and tenancies who develop their A wide portfolio of 'Milestone Systems, Company own businesses beers with appeal Rotisserie', Strong community Secretariat, Legal, for all types of 'Milestone engagement, Our partnership Risk and Compliance.
drinker and to suit Carvery', and often with approach attracts any occasion 'Generous George' entertainment, the right lessee sports teams and and provides National Destination food games business support distribution sales mix is 60% network Typically wet-led Pitcher & Piano pubs, with food Local approach and Revere pubs sales representing to beer brand offer premium 19% in 2016 and management food and drink growing Publican National Attractive, often Cask Ale Supplier iconic, town centre of the Year and suburban locations Brand collaboration and Premium food contract services sales mix is 29% Rooms 397 We operate 953 rooms across 54 pubs and lodges within our Destination and Premium estate, having added six new lodges during the year.
Accommodation acts as a complementary income stream to an existing pub.
3 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 8 3 % 7 5 o f b % e e r p b r r e e w e Strategic report: Our Business Model THE P LACE TO BE... D RINKING, EATING AND STAYING Our core business is running great pubs and brewing great beer, which delivers good and sustainable returns.
However, in our fast-moving and fiercely competitive markets we need to stand out from the crowd.
Our competitive advantage comes from the behaviours and skills of our people and the quality of our assets.
We create value through offering our customers great experiences in our All of our activities are supported by a central support team focused pubs and producing great beers from our breweries.
This is underpinned on setting the strategic, financial and governance framework to by a people strategy that focuses on creating competitive advantage deliver growth.
through developing and recruiting the best teams to deliver this value.
To maximise the value generated we continuously explore ways to innovate and improve our customers' experience in the most cost effective way.
We maintain strong financial discipline across the business to ensure growth is sustainable and maximises long-term returns on our assets.
There are three components to our way of working: Focusing on new experiences and offers for our customers.
Matching the right customer offer with the appropriate operating model to maximise returns from each pub.
Creating a fun and welcoming place for our customers, employees and our partners.
In addition to brewing our market-leading portfolio of beers, our beer business also provides a variety of other products and services for our customers: ranging from brewing and packaging to national FOOD distribution services.
ROOMS WE RUN GREAT PUBS DRINK WE BREW GREAT BEER 4 m d i i s u s o l m d e x a t e l r e n a l l y Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information How we add value 397 397 397 397 397 Pubs 397 Food Drink Rooms Beer Different ownership models A differentiated informal Using the locations of our wellOwn-brewed beers reflect provide flexibility in selecting the experience combining casual positioned pubs to add value to and strengthen our regional best way to operate each pub.
dining standards and pub values.
our estate by strengthening and provenance, increase brand broadening the customer offer: awareness at home and increase Market-leading contemporary Development of branding and footfall in our pubs and bars.
pub-restaurant designs and offers format clarity has enabled fast Increasing our lodge are increasing customer spend.
and coherent food and drink developments to target Five breweries supporting innovation.
the growing budget a variety of service offers to Ability to tailor formats to suit accommodation market customers from brewing for third customer demand.
Concession-style approach to food parties to packaging, storage and innovation increases the appeal to Premium rooms within our Finding opportunities in new distribution across the UK using a wider age range.
Premium business command locations for expansion and our 12 depots all generating higher room rates choosing the format that fits best.
Economies of scale from Group strong returns.
Room guests offer increased Monitoring market trends, Sales of own beer, exclusive contributions from drinking and consumer insight and customer Higher-margin premium and craft licensed beer brands and eating in our pubs feedback to drive improvements, drinks development.
business solutions to third party new products and identify businesses using our in-house opportunities.
Increasing control over customer offer, standards and service across the estate enhances earnings at franchisee and Group level.
Who benefits from our business model 397 397 397 397 Customers Our people The environment Investors We keep our customers at the United by a clear purpose and set Operating a sustainable and Sustainable shareholder returns heart of everything we do: of values.
reflected through our progressive dividend policy.
Aiming to improve customer Engaged and enabled employees Reducing our impact through satisfaction at all times.
create a happy workplace with investment in energy-saving Efficient operations and secured 3,977 qualifications achieved.
technology and recycling: funding to maximise returns on Offering choice and menus to investments.
As a responsible business we Average energy use per continually strive to update and pub in 2016: 464,000 kWh Protecting our reputation Offering good value for money.
train our people on a regular 2015: 498,000 kWh.
accredited member of Continual food and drink basis to safeguard their health, FTSE4Good.
In 2016 27,000 tonnes of development andinnovation.
safety and welfare and that of our waste from our breweries was A strong governance framework Aiming to provide marketcustomers.
facilitates disciplined decision leading support and advice for A rewarding career with benefits Around 97% of waste from our making, targeted support and our pub partners.
Suppliers 397 Government 397Community 397 Long-term relationships give Collection and payment of a wide Creating employment in local security to invest and expand.
communities and contributing to local social initiatives: Fair and transparent terms and Engagement with Government conditions with maximum 60 days health initiatives and signed up to 'Pub is the Hub' sponsor.
Responsible drinking Encouraging innovation and promotions.
Our head office teams and participating pubs raised over 36,000 in Give Back Week.
Key resources and relationships we depend upon to support our business model Engaged colleagues who Strong R&D, innovative More on page 16 More on page 14 work in the right way spirit and market insight Valued and recognised Strong relationships with More on page 15 More on pages 3133 brands key stakeholders 5 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report: Our Marketplace THE P LACE TO BE...
IN THE RI GHT MARKETS We operate in a competitive marketplace, which presents both immediate challenges and long-term opportunities.
Our market and consumer insight helps to support our strategic and investment decisions.
Eat Trends Challenges Healthy eating versus little indulgences, the To create balanced menus with sufficient choices rising obesity crisis and the desire for treats.
for different occasions and customer groups.
There is a rise in demand for free from foods, We operate within an increasingly regulated tocater for vegetarian, vegan and coeliac diets.
Creating experiences consumers have a desire Attracting and retaining talented chefs who for theatre, knowledge and authenticity, and deliver great quality dishes.
experiences that can be shared.
Growth of delivery services in towns and cities Technology and convenience integrating makes it easier than ever for consumers to technology to improve the customer experience access high quality, convenient meals tailored to both in-pub and athome.
Our pubs offer something for everyone The impact of Millennials and their influence on Attracting the Millennial consumer for whom and every occasion, from customthe broader customer base.
Expectations from pubs are not always the first choice.
made burger options and street food customers are high, particularly in terms of quality of food and the demand for more to Sunday roasts and other traditional adventurous tastes and flavours.
Drink Trends Challenges Growth in consumption of soft drinks against Ensuring our range of drinks remains relevant a decline in alcohol consumption, particularly and appealing for different occasions and among younger consumers.
Creating experiences consumers are showing Providing consistent products and experiences to an increased desire for theatre, knowledge and meet our customers expectations in a dynamic authenticity.
Premiumisation consumers are drinking less Ensuring that we have the right range of when they visit pubs but spending more on the premium products available to meet our drinks they do purchase and actively seeking customers desire and ensure that these are new and interesting styles of drinks.
served perfectly to justify the higher price.
Our pubs offer a broad range of Craft the continued rise of craft ale and cider, Spending on beer is shifting from the on-trade alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks, bringing what was previously a niche category to to off-trade.
including beers, wines, and soft Keeping pace with this fast evolving area of the market.
drinks, to suit all our customers and Micro and smaller craft breweries are taking occasions.
Our breweries produce market share from larger multinational brewers.
a varied portfolio of cask beers that appeal to all types of drinkers.
Trends Challenges Stay Branded budget hotels continue to lead the Higher expectations of room quality and waywith a strong pipeline for growth.
technology increases pressure on the investment model.
Continued rise in demand for quality accommodation outside London and other Loss of volume to alternative accommodation majorcities.
Regional revenue continues to grow driven by Higher costs including the National Living Wage higher rates as demand remains strong.
Alternative providers are creating new options for away-from-home accommodation.
Our rooms offer great value and convenience for business and leisure visits, with a range of town centre and rural locations to choose from.
6 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Eating-out sales growth Opportunities Our response Market % Marston's % Providing customers with healthy choices as We will always include healthier choices in our 1.9 11.4 2.5 10.5 2.3 8.7 well as permission to treat themselves for a menus including lower calorie choices and free celebration or midweek treat.
Creating experiences through innovative meals We offer great value menus with a range of and drinks that are difficult to replicate at home.
different prices for a variety of occasions.
Improving order and payment processes before The addition of new dishes on our menus that and during pub visits to improve the customer are cooked and presented with flair.
2014 2015 2016 We are increasing the range of world dishes and To develop the pub of the future, now.
flavours in our menus to attract new customers Source: MCA Eating Out Report 2016 and more frequent visits.
We are investing in our order and payment systems to improve the customer experience in our pubs.
We are trialling recommendations from our Pub of the Future project.
Opportunities Our response Premium bottled ale sales own ale CBR Diversifying our range of drinks to meet the We continue to innovate our soft drinks offer, differing needs of our customers and occasions: building on cola floats, smoothies and other 172,015 202,711 213,643 providing a reason to choose our pubs over the mixed juice drinks, and extending the range of competition.
non-alcoholic beers, wines and ciders available in our pubs.
Leveraging Marstons expertise in brewing and retailing beers to ensure that we have the best We have extended the range and distribution of offer in the marketplace, delivered by passionate craft beers, premium spirits and cocktails across and knowledgeable teams.
our pubs, working with our partners and our teams to engage with new products.
Engaging with our pub teams to ensure they 2014 2015 2016 are aware of these trends and maximising Marstons has five breweries meeting consumer opportunities to stock and sell premium demand for authenticity, localness and Composite barrels products.
Our new micro-brewery DE14, in Burton, will further strengthen the development The premium ale market is in growth in the of new products.
off-trade, where Marstons is the number one brewer and continues to grow.
We have exclusive rights in the UK to two premium world lagers, of which one, Shipyard Developing our drinks offers within our pubs to is the second most popular US craft beer in ensure that we have the right balance of craft theUK.
Our Best in Glass training programme focuses Using our brewing expertise to innovate and our pub teams on selling great quality premium develop new products.
Several new craft beers were launched into our pubs during the year.
Opportunities Our response Room income yield growth 14.5% 12.5% 7.9% Locating new lodges in high traffic market We will increase our rooms revenue via towns, or areas with high flows of people, with additional capacity, intelligent pricing and lower competitive pressures.
Partnering our lodges with a high quality pubWe will add between 510 new lodges in 2017, restaurant for a great nights stay.
with free parking, Wi-Fi and breakfast included at no additional cost.
Creating packages that include dinner, bed and breakfast to encourage full service stayovers.
We will maintain our budget pricing model for affordable stays away from home.
2014 2015 2016 Post-Brexit drop in sterling value may boost overseas visitor numbers whilst increasing We will improve the overall customer experience demand for stay at home leisure visits.
with superfast broadband and a better booking journey at www.
