12 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS CONNECTED VALUE We are committed to delivering sustainable value for stakeholders.
Here, we summarise how our business model drives value creation, how the process is managed, and how we measure the value created.
INPUTS CORE OBJECTIVES BUSINESS MODEL THE M&S DIFFERENCE Our resources and relationships How our activities deliver financial value Group financial Across our business, we depend objectives 1.
Source & Buy upon key resources and Understanding our customers We capitalise on the strong, relationships to create financial, Grow Group revenue changing needs informs long-term relationships we have with nonfinancial and strategic value.
every product we make and our suppliers to deliver effi ciencies, Increase earnings service we off er.
improve margins and drive and returns pro tability without compromising 2.
Strategy & Planning on the quality of our products.
Strong cash generation Robust financial management ensures we are able to continue 5.
Brand & Sell See KPIs p18 to invest in our business and Our brand is at the heart of the M&S FINANCIAL deliver pro table growth for diff erence and we create unique our shareholders.
products that drive financial value.
Serve & Engage New ideas fuel future performance, We build and maintain customer which is why attracting and retaining loyalty by investing in customer the right talent is central to the future service and linking it to our of our business.
OUR PRODUCTS How our activities deliver nonfinancial value & CHANNELS Nonfinancial 1.
Source & Buy objectives Our customers trust in the M&S We are leading the way on sourcing brand is a key point of diff erence.
products with integrity to exceed Engage, serve and We retain this competitive advantage customers expectations on quality, retain customers by doing things in the most safety and sustainable sourcing.
responsible way we do the work Foster a skilled, 5.
Brand & Sell so our customers dont have to.
We have built our brand on robust motivated and OUR INTELLECTUAL 2.
Strategy & Planning standards of responsibly sourced engaged team CAPITAL We improve effi ciency and reduce products and services.
Sourcing products waste across the business through 6.
Serve & Engage the eff ective use of our resource with integrity We bring our brand to life by driving and sourcing systems.
engagement and participation Effi cient and 3.
Develop & Design in-store, online and through Spark responsible operations By cultivating talent and Something Good.
encouraging entrepreneurialism, we OUR PEOPLE See KPIs p19 have an engaged and autonomous workforce empowered to develop innovative new products and ideas.
How our activities deliver strategic value Strategic 1.
Source & Buy objectives By analysing what our customers Our progress towards a more OUR want, we ensure our growth plans exible and direct sourcing Driving growth are right for the future of M&S.
operation is bene ting our Clothing STAKEHOLDERS & Home margins.
Strategy & Planning By carefully managing our property 5.
Brand & Sell Improving pro tability portfolio, we ensure we have the We sell our products through our right stores in the most convenient own branded channels, empowering See KPIs p20-21 locations, meaning we can reach us with the ability to grow and more customers and deliver develop them in the way that is sustainable sales growth.
Serve & Engage RESOURCES By constantly improving product The rationale behind every strategic quality and choice, we drive growth decision starts with our customer by making M&S more relevant to and we drive a high-performance our customers more often.
culture built around giving them great products and service.
13 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 Read more about our Strategic Update on p06-08 Read more about our Business model on p10-11 Read more about KPIs on p18-21 Read more about Risk on p27-29 RELATED RISK FACTORS ACCOUNTABILITY OUTPUTS OUTCOMES Financial performance risks Financial accountability Key financial measures Financial value created Gr Gro oup revenue There are a number of risks related BOARD to how we deliver financial value: Underlying Group PBT Strong pro ts build Underlying earnings per share 1.
Clothing & Home transformation OPERATING COMMITTEE strong cash position Dividend per share 2.
Changing consumer behaviours Returns to shareholders SENIOR LEADERSHIP GROUP Return on capital employed 4.
Clothing & Home supply chain Taxes to government and logistics network Free cash ow pre dividend See Governance on p42-46 Increased investment 5.
IT integration See KPIs p18 opportunities See Remuneration p52-53 10. International Employee rewards See Risk p28-29 Nonfinancial performance risks Nonfinancial accountability Key nonfinancial measures Nonfinancial value created There are a number of Total Food customers and average BOARD risks related to how we deliver number of shops per customer nonfinancial value: Total Clothing & Home customers Culture where innovation OPERATING COMMITTEE and average number of shops 1.
Clothing & Home transformation and agility thrive per customer 2.
Changing consumer behaviours SENIOR LEADERSHIP GROUP Better trained and fully Employee engagement score committed employees 3. Business transformation % of products with a A ADVISORY Stronger relationships with 7.
Food safety and integrity Plan A quality PLAN A COMMITTEE suppliers and communities 8.
Clothing & Home Greenhouse gas emissions ethical sourcing tonnes Maintained and improved OPERATIONAL reputation with consumers PLAN A COMMITTEE 9.
Cyber Information security Greenhouse gas emissions psf See Risk p28-29 See KPIs p19 See Plan A Report p24-25 Strategic performance risks Strategic accountability Key strategic measures Strategic value created Food UK revenue There are a number of risks related BOARD to how we deliver strategic value: Food gross margin Growth in sales, product Food LFL sales growth 1.
Clothing & Home transformation OPERATING COMMITTEE range and presence UK space growth Food 2.
Changing consumer behaviours Supply chain effi ciency SENIOR LEADERSHIP GROUP Clothing & Home UK revenue 3. Business transformation Increased customer base Clothing & Home gross margin 4.
Clothing & Home supply chain See Governance on p42-46 with broadening appeal and logistics network Clothing & Home UK LFL See Remuneration p52-53 sales growth A more dynamic, exible 6.
Food competition and agile business, International sales 10. International delivering stronger margins International operating pro t 11.
com business resilience International space growth See Risk p28-29 M&S.
com weekly site visits See KPIs p20-21 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
