12 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CUSTOMER FOCUS Greater intelligence Being in the MRO business gives Meggitt vital intelligence on how ourparts are used in service.
Participating in the surplus market worldwide gives us The right talent Global reach additional information on CSS is now responsible Dedicated maintenance, repair demand and fair market value.
for some 23 MRO and and overhaul MRO centres in distribution facilities and Singapore, Miami, Florida and over 400 employees.
Owning the aftermarket Knowledge To generate top-line revenue We designed and developed many growth, CSS is building a of theproducts our customers capability to enable it to depend on.
The OEM tag, representing quality and reliability, stillmatters.
Proactive Dynamic, fast response service.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 13 : To enhance performance data, CSS has now Support for life: More than 67,000 aircraft in service t oday carry Meggitt putthe tools in place to identify repair patterns so it can develop parts.
Our global CSS team keep them flying at the lowest possible productupgrades and modifications.
Meggitt has never been able operating cost.
toconnect the dots like this before.
partnership o generate top-line revenue growth, CSS is building acapability to enable it to trade in surplus parts.
It is Tbuilding partnerships with the maintenance integrators and the airlines themselves to strengthen access to the market and actively target component retrofit, modification and upgrade opportunities.
CSS is improving operations by optimising its distribution and facility footprint and by implementing the Meggitt Production System.
It is strengthening its commercial capability to protect Meggitts intellectual property.
It is a full-service organisation built on firm foundations, designed right from the start, with a strategy and plans Vital part: With thousands of individual parts, in almost every respect, our work that are starting to work, says CSS boils down to a part number.
There is no silver bullet to aftermarket successits President, Lorraine Rienecker.
the attention to detail across many fronts that counts.
V2500 High Pressure Compressor Bleed Valve.
Four of these valves are fitted per engine, three at the HP7 stage and one atthe HP10 stage.
Previously Meggitt supplied the three HP7 valves, but we have recently been able to displace another manufacturers offering and now supply all four.
