STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 89 Directors report The directors present their report with the Groups audited Incorporation by reference consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with Certain laws and regulations require that specific information International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted should be included in the Directors report.
The table below by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 and shows the items which are incorporated into this Directors Companys audited financial statements prepared in accordance report by reference: with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the Companies Act 2006 for the yearended 31 December 2016.
There are no significant events affecting the Group since the end of the year requiring disclosure.
Information incorporated into the Directors report by reference Location and page Likely future developments in the Groups business Strategic report pages 1 to 52 The Corporate governance report Board of directors and Corporate governance report pages 53 to 60 Research and development Note 8 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 118 and Chief Financial Officers review page 40 Policies on financial risk management, including the extent to which financial Note 3 to the Groups consolidated financial statements pages instruments are utilised to mitigate any significant risks to which the Group is exposed 110 to 112 Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate responsibility report pages 46 and 47 Employee information Corporate responsibility report page 52 Employee involvement Employment of disabled persons Statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the year with an Note 19 to the Groups consolidated financial statements indication of the amount and treatment of any related tax relief page 126 Details of long-term incentive plans Directors remuneration report pages 66 to 88 Details of any arrangements under which adirector of the Company has waived or Nothing to disclose agreed to waive any emoluments from the Company or any subsidiary undertaking Details of allotments for cash of ordinary shares made during the period under review Note 35 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 143 Contracts of significance to which the Company is aparty and in which adirector is Nothing to disclose materially interested Contracts of significance between aCompany and acontrolling shareholder Nothing to disclose Contracts for the provision of services to the Company by acontrolling shareholder Nothing to disclose Details of any arrangement under which ashareholder has waived or agreed to waive Nothing to disclose dividends Agreements related to controlling shareholder requirements under LR 9.2.
2 A Nothing to disclose Statement of directors interests Directors remuneration report pages 87 and 88 A statement of how the Company has complied with the Code and details of any Corporate governance report page 53 non-compliance Details of directors service contracts Share capital and control pages 90 and 91 and Directors remuneration report pages 66 to 88 Related parties disclosures Note 17 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 124 Share buyback disclosures Note 35 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 143 Company registration information Note 1 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 105 90 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Directors report continued Dividends Political donations The directors recommend the payment of afinal dividend of No political donations were made during the year 2015: None.
10.30p net per ordinary 5p share 2015: 9.80p, to be paid on 5 May 2017 to those members on the register at close of Share capital and control business on 24 March 2017.
An interim dividend of 4.80p 2015: As at 31 December 2016, the Company held 20,541 treasury 4.60p was paid on 30 September 2016.
If the final dividend as shares with anominal value of 5p each, and the Companys recommended is approved, the total ordinary dividend for the issued share capital excluding shares held as treasury shares year will amount to 15.10p net per ordinary 5p share 2015: consisted of 775,709,804 shares with anominal value of 5p 14.40p.
As at 15 February 2017, the Company held 20,541 treasury shares with anominal value of 5p each, and the Companys Dividend reinvestment plan issued share capital excluding shares held as treasury shares The Company operates aDividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP consisted of 775,718,157 shares with anominal value of 5p each.
which enables shareholders to buy the Companys shares on The issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2016 theLondon Stock Exchange with their cash dividend.
Further and details of shares issued during the financial year are shown information about the DRIP is available from Computershare, in note 35 to the Groups consolidated financialstatements.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
During 2016, the Company made the DRIP available to The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shareholders for the dividends paid in May 2016 and September shares are set out in the Articles.
The Board currently intends to continue to make the DRIP available for inspection at the registered office.
The holders of available to shareholders in 2017, and the date by which relevant ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report DRIP elections must be received is disclosed on the financial and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the calendar page on our website.
Company, to appoint proxies to exercise full voting rights and to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Directors There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on holding The directors of the Company in office during the year and up to ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any the date of signing the financial statements were: transfers.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by persons other than holders of the Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman, Mr S G Young Chief Executive, shares and no known agreements or restrictions on share Mr G S Berruyer, Mr C R Day, Ms A J P Goligher, Mr P E Green, transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company Mr P Heiden Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2016, share plans rank pari passu on an equal footing with the Ms B L Reichelderfer retiring from the Board on 27 April 2017, shares in issue and have no special rights.
Mr D R Webb, and Mr A Wood appointed to the Board as Chief Operating Officer on 1 December 2016.
Rules about the appointment and replacement of Company directors are contained in the Articles which provide that All directors will be submitted for election or re-election at the a director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the annual general meeting AGM.
Nancy Gioia is due to be appointed shareholders or by the existing directors, either to fill avacancy as a non-executive director immediately before the AGM on or as an additional director.
Changes to the Articles must be 27April 2017 and will also be submitted for election.
Details of any submitted to the shareholders for approval by way of special unexpired terms of the directors service contracts are in the resolution.
The directors may exercise all the powers of the Directors remuneration report.
Membership of committees and Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, biographical information is disclosed on pages 54 to 55 and in the the Articles and any directions given by the Company in AGM notice.
The directors benefit from qualifying third-party indemnity The powers of the directors include those in relation to the provisions for the purposes of Section 236 of the Companies Act issue and buyback of shares.
At each AGM, the shareholders are 2006 pursuant to the Articles in effect throughout the financial requested to renew the directors powers to allot securities in year and up to the date of this Directors report.
The Company the Company up to the value specified in the Notice of Meeting also purchased and maintained throughout the year Directors and to renew the directors powers to allot securities, without and Officers liability insurance.
No indemnity is provided for the application of pre-emption rights, up to the value specified theCompanys auditors.
inthe Notice of Meeting in accordance with the Articles.
The Company also seeks authority at each AGM from shareholders Conflicts of interest to purchase its own shares up to the limits set out in the The Company has aprocedure for the disclosure, review, Noticeof Meeting.
authorisation and management of directors conflicts of The Group has significant financing agreements which include interestand potential conflicts of interest, in accordance with change of control provisions which, should there be achange theprovisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In deciding whether to of ownership of the Company, could result in renegotiation, authorise aconflict or potential conflicts, the directors must withdrawal or early repayment of these financing agreements.
have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act These are a USD600m note purchase agreement dated May 2006.
The authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of 2016, aUSD900m syndicated revolving credit agreement dated authorisation, are regularly reviewed by the Board.
September 2014 and aUSD600m note purchase agreement dated June 2010.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 91 Share capital and control continued Substantial shareholdings There are anumber of other long-term commercial agreements At 15 February 2017, the Company had been notified under the that may alter or terminate upon achange of control of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR of the Company following asuccessful takeover bid.
These following substantial interests in the issued ordinary shares of arrangements are commercially confidential and their the Company requiring disclosure: disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
Percentage of total voting rights Agreements with the Companys directors or employees attaching to the providing compensation in the event of atakeover bid: issued ordinary Direct voting Indirect voting share capital of rights m rights m the Company Director Contractual entitlement The Capital Group 75.2 9.69% Mr S G Young None except that provisions in the Companys Companies, Inc. share plans may cause options and or awards BlackRock, Inc. 48.9 6.30% granted to employees under such plans to vest Harris Associates L. P. 41.3 5.32% on atakeover.
First Pacific Advisors, 39.1 5.04% Mr D R Webb None except that provisions in the Companys LLC share plans may cause options and or awards FMR LLC 38.1 4.91% granted to employees under such plans to vest Standard Life 22.2 3.8 3.34% on atakeover.
Investments Ltd Mr A Wood None except that provisions in the Companys Legal & General Group plc 23.7 3.06% share plans may cause options and or awards Norges Bank 23.6 3.04% granted to employees under such plans to vest on atakeover.
One voting right per ordinary share.
These holdings are published on aregulatory information Mr P E Green Mr Green may terminate his employment service and on the Companys website.
within six months and would be entitled to compensation from the Company for loss of office.
The compensation would be annual Statement of directors responsibilities remuneration plus the value of benefits for the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, unexpired notice period less 5%.
In addition, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements provisions in the Companys share plans may in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
cause options and or awards granted to Company law requires the directors to prepare financial employees under such plans to vest on a statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors takeover.
have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance Non-executive None.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as directors adopted by the European Union, and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United All other There are no agreements that would provide Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally employees compensation for loss of employment resulting Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting from atakeover except that provisions in the Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
Companys share plans may cause options and or awards granted to employees under Under Company law the directors must not approve the financial such plans to vest on atakeover.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company financial statements respectively.
92 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Directors report continued Statement of directors responsibilities continued Fair, balanced and understandable The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The directors as at the date of this report consider that records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys the Annual Report, taken as awhole, is fair, balanced and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time understandable and provides the information necessary for the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors business model and strategy.
The Board has made this remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, assessment on the basis of areview of the accounts process, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS adiscussion on the content of the Annual Report assessing Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the its fairness, balance and understandability, together with the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking confirmation from executive management that the Annual reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Going concern The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The directors have formed ajudgement, at the time of of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom approving the financial statements, that there is areasonable governing the preparation and dissemination of financial expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
resources to continue in operational existence for aperiod of Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in at least 12 months from the date of this report.
For this reason, the Board of directors on pages 54 to 55 who is a director in the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in office at the date of this report, confirm that, to the best of their preparingthe Group and Company financial statements.
knowledge: In reaching this conclusion, the directors have considered: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in the financial position of the Group as set out in this report accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and andadditional information provided in the financial fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit statements including note 3 Financial risk management, of the Group: and note 29 Bankand other borrowings and note 31 the Strategic report and this Directors report include a fair Derivativefinancial instruments : review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the resources available to the Group taking account of its the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
financial projections and considerable existing headroom against committed debt facilities and covenants: and Each of the persons who is a director in office at the date of this the principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group report confirms that: is exposed, as set out on pages 28 to 33, the likelihood of a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit themarising and the mitigation actions available.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and By order of the Board b the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in M L Thomas accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Company Secretary Act 2006.
