8 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Our business model Our investment cycle We deliver smart engineering for extreme environments.
This comprises primarily components and sub-systems for commercial aero-engines and airframes that performto specification in severe conditions over an aircrafts lifetime.
Pre-bid Investing for insight and technology Revenues come principally from two sources: supplying and manufacturing readiness original equipment to aircraft manufacturers for brand-new platforms: and delivering spares and We develop close customer relationships repairs to airlines for as long as an aircraft is in service.
to anticipate and influence technology This can range from at least 20 to over 50 years.
We are increasingly required to invest in working prototypes that engender We supply similar products to military aircraft, confidence in our ability to meet programme deadlines and to show how our innovations land-based defence vehicles, hydro, gas and steam can be made cost-effectively.
turbines and markets requiring highly specified sensors such as test and measurement, industrial process control We usually win business as a sole-source provider in exchange for differentiated and clinical instruments.
technology and the significant investment required from us during subsequent development phases.
Revenue by market Civil aerospace 51% Military 35% Energy and other 14% What our customers The value of Meggitt products are looking for installed on major new commercial aircraft platforms While the emphasis varies by market, our customers come to has risen between 20% and us for products that perform critical functions in severe 250%.
conditions, safely, reliably, economically and cleanly.
Civil aircraft manufacturers want products that help develop more competitive aircraft and engines.
Our components and systems must be lightweight and Cumulative cash flow yet perform at high temperatures and pressures.
They must reduce emissions and noise.
They must be easy to install and maintain.
They must be reliable enough to ensure that aircraft are ready to dispatch without fail, boosting the economics of airline performance by helping to optimise the use ofvery costly assets.
Our business model requires significant cash investment in the development phase of programmes.
Defence manufacturers choose Meggitt technology to extend aircraft range, capacity and speed but are We deliver strong positive cash flow within our civil increasingly concerned about minimising the cost aerospace and military end-markets during the of repairs and spares through the operating life of in-service phase, breaking even on cumulative cash between years 11 and 18 typically, and around their assets.
five years earlier in the energy market where upfront investments are lower.
Gas turbine manufacturers focus on reliability, enabling them to deliver energy profitably and safely.
Please refer to the Market review on pages 18 to 22 for more detail on our markets.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 9 Investments and rates of return differ according to the dynamics of market segments.
However, Our investment cycle the cycle of investment in , research and development, product industrialisation and maintenance and support is common.
This results in highly attractive, annuity-like returns in the form of recurring aftermarket demand i. e. spares and repairs over product lifecycles measured in decades.
Maturity Investing in our customers Revenues start Revenues gain momentum competitiveness As our products require significant Revenue is usually generated when a As our products age, they require cashinvestments during the technology programme moves into production.
For civil maintenance or replacement at development phases of new programmes, aircraft, production of any one platform can varyingintervals based on condition.
we only commit to those offering visible, last for up to ten years before it is replaced.
These are Military equipment is manufactured over In the case of a highly-utilised characterised by sole-source contracts much longer periods.
Ground-based gas aircraftbraking system, this can be forthe life of programmes and platforms turbines tend to be in production for every18months, offering an early start backed by established original equipment aroundfive years.
manufacturers targeting clear, addressable Spares make up the bulk of this markets and with ambitious investment In many instances, we continue to aftermarket segment.
subsidisethe original equipment to help our customers compete, notably in wheels Many of our other products must be Military customers often fund developments and brakes where original equipment is designed to last for ten years or more to secure a lower through-life cost on often provided to aircraft manufacturers andso spare parts are priced to reflect original equipment production and spares.
theinvestment made and the long pay-backperiod.
By contrast, we tend to bear the majority of When an operator takes delivery of a development costs for civil airframe and new aircraft platform it will typically order engine manufacturers.
In return for helping a series of spare parts to ensure that it them secure competitive prices for has sufficient inventory to enable initial production aircraft, we receive sole-source maintenance activity.
This initial contracts for original equipment and its provisioning activity drives early aftermarket.
We own around 75% of the Over 2,000 new aircraft intellectual property used in entered service in 2016, 7.9% of 2016 revenue was our products which are in supported by Meggitt invested in new development service on an installed base products and technologies.
Wheels and brakes Development In production Mature Civil Development In production Mature Military Development 0 In production Mature Energy Development 10 15 25 30 35 40 5 20 In production Mature Typical product lifecycle years Cumulative cash flow
