P e o p l e a n 10 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Group strategy Our strategy is designed to achieve competitive advantage at every stage of our business model see pages 8 to 9.
We aim to grow or develop leading positions in Customer attractive markets with smart engineering for focus extreme environments that must meet the complexregulation and certification associated withsafetyand mission-critical products.
GROWTH We invest in operations excellence as a core ROTA competitive strength and in the people and Operations Technology cultureneeded to deliver our strategy through excellence ourworld-class operating model, the Meggitt Production System.
We invest in high-quality, timely service and support to promote customer satisfaction while maximising the value of our products throughout their lifecycles.
Our focus today People and culture With some 22 new aircraft platforms entering service between 2014 and 2019, the civil aerospace market is Engaging and developing our workforce for current experiencing an unprecedented phase of product and future business is key to successfully delivering renewal.
Meggitt content on these platforms has our strategy and meeting customer commitments.
reached record highs with increases of between Examples of how we are investing in our people and 20%and250%.
managing our talent effectively can be found in the Corporate responsibility section pages 44 to 52.
Accordingly, we are prioritising activities that will enable us to drive superior shareholder returns from these excellent positions over the medium to long term.
They conform to Meggitts strategic themes of customer focus, targeted and timely technology development and operations excellence from factories to functions.
d c u l t u r e STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 11 Case study Customer focus Development of retrofit, modification and The launch of our Customer Services & Support CSS organisation is upgrade RMU parts is a critical priority enabling Meggitt to accelerate aftermarket growth.
CSS is changing the for CSS, as we look to improve customer way we serve and develop our aftermarket.
We are participating in the support whilst developing effective tradefor new and refurbished spare parts: growing our share of repair countermeasures to the redeployment of business: forming partnerships with the integrators of maintenance, used Meggitt surplus parts in the fleet.
repairand overhaul services: and using field performance data to Effective engagement with customers and a  for product upgrades during the life of an aircraft close working partnership with our product programme, cutting costs for customers and extending our product engineering teams has enabled CSS to build pipeline.
In addition, deployment of the Meggitt Production System, a solid pipeline of RMUs which will drive tunedto the aftermarket, is enabling CSS to boost operational growth over the coming years.
performance, improve turnaround times and reduce inventory.
Please refer to the customer focus feature on pages 12 and 13.
Technology and portfolio Our technology strategy will see Meggitt continue to invest in Having entered into service in 2016, the attractive market segments where we lead or can develop leading Bombardier CSeries showcases a range of positions.
These investments will enable us to enhance further our leading edge aircraft technologies and competitive position on next generation aircraft, focusing on core promises 20% reduced fuel burn and 15% capabilities in, say, the high temperature systems needed to realise lower direct operating costs than previous radical improvements in operating performance and fuel efficiency generation aircraft.
We have secured just one amongst a dozen of Meggitts core capabilities.
excellent content including complex composites, power systems, valves, sensors Please refer to the technology feature on pages 14and 15. and our first electrically actuated braking system, complete with integrated tyre pressure monitoring systems.
Operations excellence Meggitt Avionics in Fareham, UK is our most The Meggitt Production System MPS, underpins our goal to make advanced MPS site and is currently working operations excellence a core competitive strength.
Our continuous towards its Silver exit.
The site has made improvement system has been launched across the Group and is significant gains in performance by stimulating the behavioural change across factories and functions which synchronising every functional activity are resulting in thousands of incremental process and other improvements.
including factory operations to deliver a This adds up to big gains in safety, quality and delivery at Group level.
Now focused set of breakthrough performance in its fourth year, we are seeing our first factories reach the Meggitt goals.
Since the Red phase, the site has Production Systems more mature Bronze and Silver stages.
Here, the focus increased gross margin by 5% and secured a widens from the day-to-day delivery of product on time and to the required landmark win on the Boeing 777X for its vGen specification, to productivity growth, inventory reduction and long-term standby flight display.
Meggitt Sensing Systems in Orange County, Our integrated supply chain initiative, which addresses the way we deploy California has delivered meaningful savings our manufacturing strategy, will enable us to streamline the fragmented through the deployment of the Groups supply supply base that characterises our primary aerospace market and to build chain strategy in 2016, executed in tandem ahigh-performance supply chain capable of sharing the commitments we with the roll-out of MPS.
The site has reduced make to our customers whilst delivering substantial operating efficiencies.
inventory by 22% and materially reduced the The efforts of external suppliers and our factories are inextricably linked price of critical parts for civil aerospace sothe initiative will ensure our own manufacturing footprint is fit for programmes through the deployment of tools purpose.
There will be greater utilisation of our low-cost manufacturing and processes including buyer planner facilities while others will be consolidated to leverage our scale, enabling standard work and plan for every part more automation, for example, and higher usage of under-exploited PFEP strategies: whilst leveraging capitalassets.
preferred suppliers in low cost regions Please refer to the operations excellence feature on pages 16 and 17. ande-auction procurement campaigns.
