STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 23 Meggitt divisions Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS Capabilities A leading supplier of aircraft wheels, brakes and brake control systems.
Wheels and brakes Control systemsbrake, nose wheel steering and landing gear Monitoring systems Operational performance MABS provides wheels, brakes and brake control systems for In contrast, the business jet aftermarket declined by 8% with a around 34,000 in-service aircraft.
Underscored by strong gains in particularly weak first half against very strong growth in 2015. recent years, notably on super mid-size and long-range business MABS military revenue declined organically by 2%.
Strong jets, it continues to develop innovative technology for new aftermarket growth driven by healthy demand for Typhoon brakes programmes enabling the business to expand market share.
was offset byweaker OE revenues where declines across a broad spectrum offighter and trainer aircraft was partly offset by MABS targets sole-source programmes and is particularly strong growthon F-35.
in regional aircraft, large business jets and military aircraft.
The division represents 20% of Group revenue and generated 88% of its Operating margins declined from 37.3% to 36.1% in 2016, with revenue from the aftermarket in 2016.
MABS civil revenue grew by unfavourable mix driven principally by lower demand for business 5% on an organic basis, with 7% growth in civil AM driven by strong jet spares, where margins are higher, and the first half production demand for Boeing 757, DC10, MD90, Embraer E-170 175 and inefficiencies.
Margins in the second half increased in line with Bombardier CRJ aircraft together with initial provisioning for recovery in business jet aftermarket, where revenues increased theCSeries.
Markets Civil aerospace Fixed wing military aircraft Rotary wing military aircraft Revenue millions % of Group Underlying Revenue by end market revenue operating profit Civil OE Energy millions 6% 0% Civil AM Other 406.1 20 146.6 406.1 70% 0% Military 24% 24 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Meggitt divisions continued Meggitt Control Systems MCS Capabilities A leading supplier of pneumatic, fluid control, thermal management and electro-mechanical Control valves and sub-systems equipment and sub-systems, and complete Aircraft fire protection and control systems fire protection solutions.
Thermal management Electro-mechanical controls Environmental control Fuel handling Operational performance MCS designs and manufactures products which manage the flow of Military revenue grew by 7% driven by strong aftermarket growth liquids and gases around aero and industrial turbines and control inthe second half.
MCS energy revenues declined by 3% during the temperature of oil, fuel and air in aircraft engines.
The division, the year with a challenging first half partly offset by a recovery which also provides fire protection equipment to engines and inthe valves business during the second half.
Operating margins airframes, represents 24% of Group revenue, generating 54% of increased from 24.4% to 24.7%.
Revenue was up by 6% on an organic basis.
Civil aerospace grew by7% overall, with good growth in OE driven by initial deliveries onA320neo and continued demand for A350 and A320.
Aftermarket growth was also strong, with good demand for Boeing 787, 747 and777, together with Airbus A320, A330 and A380, further supplemented by initial provisioning on the A320neo.
Markets Civil aerospace Military aircraft Military ground vehicles Energy and industrial Marine Ground fuelling Revenue millions % of Group Underlying Revenue by end market revenue operating profit Civil OE Energy millions 26% 8% Civil AM Other 475.9 24 117.6 475.9 36% 4% Military 26% STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 25 Meggitt Polymers & Composites MPC Capabilities A leading specialist in fuel containment and systems, sealing solutions and advanced Complex, high-temperature composite structures composites.
andsub-assemblies Flexible fuel tanks for military and civil aircraft andmilitaryground vehicles Smart electro-thermal ice protection Airframe, engine and oil and gas sealing solutions Operational performance MPC supplies flexible fuel tanks and systems, ice protection MPC revenue increased by 3% on an organic basis.
Military equipment and advanced composite assemblies for fixed and rotary revenues grew by 7%, particularly fuel tanks, offsetting weakness wing aircraft and complex seals packages for civil and military inthecivil aerospace business.
Reported revenue increased by customers.
These products are linked by materials technology and 86%including the full year benefit of the composites acquisitions manufacturing processes.
MPC represents 17%of Group revenue.
Operating margins increased Itgenerated 34% of revenue from the aftermarket.
from8.7% to 12.0% due to accretive margins from the acquired composites businesses and the recovery in ourfuel systemsbusiness.
Markets Civil aerospace Military aircraft Military ground vehicles Military systems and UAVs Automotive and industrial Revenue millions % of Group Underlying Revenue by end market revenue operating profit Civil OE Energy millions 31% 0% Civil AM Other 329.7 17 39.5 329.7 10% 6% Military 53% 26 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Meggitt divisions continued Meggitt Sensing Systems MSS Capabilities A leading provider of high-performance sensing, monitoring, power and motion systems, specialising High-performance sensing in extreme environments in products designed to operate in demanding Condition and health monitoring for air and land-based machinery conditions across a diverse range of applications.
Power generation, conversion and storage Aircraft surveillance and security systems Aircraft ground manoeuvring collision prevention Wireless emergency systems Standby flight displays and air data systems Operational performance MSS designs and manufactures highly engineered sensors that MSS represents 27% of Group revenue and generated 25% of its measure virtually all physical parameters including vibration, revenue from the aftermarket.
temperature, pressure, fluid level and flow.
These are designed to MSS revenue declined 1% on an organic basis, with growth of 4% in operate effectively in the extreme conditions of aircraft or groundcivil aerospace driven by modest growth in OE relating to A320 and based turbine engines.
Sensors are combined into broader A350 and 8% growth in the aftermarket.
Military revenue declined electronics packages, providing condition data to operators and by 4% on an organic basis, driven by decreasing demand for Typhoon maintainers, contributing to improved safety and up-time, and and a broad range of helicopters.
Within energy and other markets loweroperating costs.
including test, measurement and medical, MSS revenues Meggitts sensors are in demand from other specialist markets decreased by 6%.
requiring products with similar characteristics.
These include test, Operating margins decreased from 15.2% to 13.8% reflecting measurement and medical.
The division also includes capabilities in unfavourable mix.
power storage, conversion and distribution systems and avionics.
Markets Civil aerospace Military aircraft, ships, ground vehicles and missiles Energy and industrial Test and measurement Medical Revenue millions % of Group Underlying Revenue by end market revenue operating profit Civil OE Energy millions 33% 12% Civil AM Other 530.7 27 73.0 530.7 16% 13% Military 26% STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 27 Meggitt Equipment Group MEG Capabilities Created to enable a set of strong,  businesses to market their offerings to Combat support ammunition handling, military electronics specialist customers, while benefiting from the wider cooling and countermeasure launch and recovery systems Meggitt Groups investment in shared services and Live-fire and virtual training systems Heat transfer equipment for offshore oil and gas common processes.
Linear motion control Automotive and industrial control electronics Operational performance MEG mostly comprises our non-engine actuation capability, sub-systems, offset growth in target systems to deliver flat dedicated military businesses and Heatric, a provider of organicmilitary revenue.
diffusion-bonded heat exchangers for energy markets.
The Meggitt Target Systems generated 29.8m of revenue during the division represents 12% of Group revenue and generates 82% year, prior to its disposal to QinetiQ Group plc in December 2016, of its revenuefrom OE.
realising a profit on sale of 40.7m.
Revenue in MEG declined by 7% on an organic basis.
The principal Operating margins decreased from 3.7% to 1.2% driven principally driver was a 36% decline in Heatric resulting from a continued lack by the weakness in Heatric, which made a loss in the year.
of investment in large capital projects in the oil and gas sector.
Programme delays in the training businesses and reduced demand for defence systems in helicopter, ground vehicle and scoring Markets Civil aerospace Fixed and rotary wing military aircraft Defence and security Energy Automotive and industrial Revenue millions % of Group Underlying Revenue by end market revenue operating profit Civil OE Energy millions 2% 14% Civil AM Other 250.0 12 3.0 250.0 2% 16% Military 66%
