14 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 TECHNOLOGY AND PORTFOLIO Leading edge technology The Bombardier CSeries is optimised for the 100 to 150 seat market segment, showcasing a range of leading edge aircraft technologies and achieving 20% reduced fuel burn and 15% lower direct operating costs than previous generation aircraft.
Complex composites Brakes Meggitts advanced materials Leading the industry trend towards more technology can be found in the electric aircraft, the braking system provided by ultra-lightweight components used to Meggitt is both electronically controlled and improve engine performance while electrically actuated.
This novel brake reducing overall weight.
The engine technology, combined with a fly-by-wire brake spinner and fairing are manufactured control system and integrated tyre pressure from advanced carbon reinforced monitoring, significantly decreases the need for polymer composites in order to inspections and ensures system health can be increase stiffness and strength while continuously monitored by sending real-time vastly reducing weight.
data to flight and maintenance crews.
Advanced seals Meggitts advanced seals are used tomaintain performance while coping with the higher pressure and temperature requirements required Engines to improve engine performance.
The Pratt and Whitney PurePower engine introduces geared turbofan technology to the large aircraft segment for the first time.
Meggitt technology is critical to the operation Power sub systems of these engines.
Meggitt Sensing Meggitts power sub-systems ensure Systems provides key sensor reliable and efficient operation of the technology solutions for engine auxiliary power systems on the CSeries.
Meggitt Our high-tech battery system and power Control Systems provides valves for controllers ensure seamless electrical engine starting, and regulation and power transitions while the aircraft is provides bleed air to power aircraft onthe ground.
pneumatic systems as well as systems to manage the thermal performance of the engines oil, air and fuel systems.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 15 The Bombardier CSeries entered into service in 2016, with Swiss The e-Brake has been central to Meggitt research into advanced International Air Lines, and promises good growth, given the strong manufacturing technologies, such as our Closed Loop Adaptive positions Meggitt technology has secured across the airframe and Assembly Workbench CLAAW prototype.
ur applied research and technology programme extends beyond the development of next generation product Otechnologies, such as the e-Brake, which is now aircraft successfully deployed in service on the Bombardier CSeries.
We are also looking at the advanced manufacturing capabilities needed to industrialise them.
Meggitt Modular Modifiable Manufacturing M4 is a pioneering programme designed to give operators the right tools, parts, and information at the right time so they can radically improve performance.
At a site level it will enable us to reconfigure our factories in real time, adjusting plans to satisfy customer requirements and optimise inventory.
The CLAAW workbench is a good example.
It uses laser and video projected guides, plus enabled smart assembly fixtures, which allow operators to build a wider variety of products, faster and more accurately.
e-Brake:  brakes enhance braking efficiency and aircraft dispatch reliability.
They are easier to install and remove than hydraulic brakes, which saves time in the aircraft manufacturing process and aircraft maintenance.
CLAAWs fixture includes targets to guide the calibration of an overhead laser.
A shaft is encoded to enable precise rotation measurements.
Apower-on brake provides stability for torque operations.
Product assemblies can be mounted and removed swiftly using a pneumatic easy-click clamp.
