JPM Mercantile pp19 34 05 04 2016 16:16 Page 24 Governance continued liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts of interest Directors Report and other shareholder information are available on the Companys The Directors present their report and the audited financial website at www.
There have been no material statements for the year ended 31st January 2016. changes other than those reflected in these financial statements to this information requiring disclosure.
Any information requiring Management of the Company immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF is employed as Manager and the London Stock Exchange through a primary information Company Secretary to the Company under a contract terminable provider.
As an authorised AIFM, JPMF will make the requisite on six months notice, without penalty.
If the Company wishes to disclosures on remuneration levels and polices to the FCA at the terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of appropriate time.
remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
Management Fee JPMF is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank which, The management fee is charged at the rate of 0.5% of the value of through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, dealing and the Companys market capitalisation and is calculated and paid custodian services to the Company.
If the Company invests in funds managed or The Board has thoroughly reviewed the performance of JPMF in the advised by JPMF, or any of its associated companies that charge an course of the year.
The review covered the performance of the underlying fee, they are excluded from the calculation and Manager, its management processes, investment style, resources therefore attract no fee.
and risk controls and the quality of support that the Company Going Concern receives from JPMF including the marketing support provided.
The The Directors believe that, having considered the Companys Board is of the opinion that the continuing appointment of the investment objective see page 19, risk management policies see Manager is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Such a pages 20 and 21, capital management policies and procedures see review is carried out on an annual basis.
pages 59 and 60, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure and The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the performance of, cash flow projections, the Company has adequate resources, an and contractual relationship with, the Manager on an annual basis.
appropriate financial structure and suitable management No separate Management Engagement Committee has been arrangements in place to continue in operational existence and they established because all Directors are considered to be independent have not identified any material uncertainties to the Companys of the Manager and, given the nature of the Companys business, it ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from is felt that all Directors should take part in the review process.
the date of approval of these financial statements.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive For these reasons, the Directors consider that there is reasonable AIFMD evidence to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing JPMF, an affiliate of JPMAM, has been appointed as the Companys the Companys financial statements.
alternative investment fund manager AIFM.
JPMF has been Directors approved as an AIFM by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The Directors of the Company during the year and subsequent to For the purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an alternative the year end, are detailed on pages 22 and 23. investment fund AIF.
Details of Directors beneficial shareholdings may be found in the The Company entered into a new investment management Directors Remuneration Report on page32.
agreement with JPMF on 1st July 2014.
JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day management of the Companys No Director reported an interest in the Companys debentures portfolio to JPMAM.
JPMF is required to ensure that a depositary is during the year.
The Company therefore has appointed In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited BNY as its Directors will retire at the Companys forthcoming Annual General depositary.
BNY has delegated its safekeeping function to the Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. however, BNY remains reappointment by shareholders.
responsible for the oversight of the custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its cash flows.
The Nomination Committee and the Chairman, having considered their qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to its committees, confirms that each Director proposed for re-election investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of and the Board recommends to shareholders that they be re-elected.
Investor Disclosure Documents, which set out information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, leverage, risk, 24 JPM Mercantile pp19 34 05 04 2016 16:16 Page 25 Governance continued Director Indemnification and Insurance Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors At the year end, the following had declared a notifiable interest in have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party the Companys voting rights: indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Number of This was in place throughout the financial year and also as at the Shareholders voting rights % date of approval of these financial statements.
Aviva Investors Global Services Ltd 11,224,995 11.70 An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which 1 Brewin Dolphin Ltd 9,560,583 9.96 indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain liabilities 2 Chase Nominees Ltd 6,400,610 6.65 arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 4,141,454 4.30 fraudulent or dishonest actions.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors 2 Held on behalf of J. P. Morgan Investment Account, ISA and SIPP In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the participants.
Company at the time when this report was approved: At the date of this report, the above notifiable interests had a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant changed to be as follows: audit information as defined in the Companies Act of which Number of the Companys Auditors are unaware: and Shareholders voting rights % b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to 1 Brewin Dolphin Ltd 9,587,481 10.00 have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware 1 Old Mutual Plc 6,765,884 7.05 of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish 2 Chase Nominees Ltd 6,400,610 6.65 that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 4,141,454 4.30 The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 1 accordance with the provisions of Section 418 2 of the Indirectly held.
Held on behalf of J. P. Morgan Investment Account, ISA and SIPP participants.
Independent Auditors Miscellaneous Information  LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as Auditors to the Company and resolutions The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of proposing their re-appointment and authorising the Directors to Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be proposed issue or buy back the Companys shares are contained in the Articles to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
of Association of the Company and the Companies Act.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Section 992 Companies Act 2006 Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to The following disclosures are made in accordance with Section 992 securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding Companies Act 2006. their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Capital Structure Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its directors The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 1 of this concerning compensation for loss of office.
Annual General Meeting Voting Rights in the Companys shares Note: This section is important and requires your immediate As at 5th April 2016 being the latest business day prior to the attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you publication of this Report, the Companys issued share capital should seek your own personal financial advice from your stock consists of 95,557,040 Ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
broker, bank manager, solicitor, or other financial advisor authorised Therefore the total voting rights of the Company are 95,557,040. under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The debenture stock does not carry any voting rights.
Resolutions relating to the following item of special business will be Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Information about environmental matters, and social and community issues is set out on page 20.
The Company has no employees.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 25
