Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Committee Report STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY COMMITTEE were assessed to determine whether they Dear Shareholder The Judge did accept that we generally were sufficiently robust and if they could have a good health and safety record be strengthened.
Our number one priority is delivering and procedures in place, particularly safe and memorable experiences to given our size.
Further, the Judge also recognised our exceptional co-operation Confirmation was provided that the our guests.
Central to this is our total with the UKs Health and Safety Executive governance arrangements in place were commitment to continuously achieving during their investigation of the accident of a suitably rigorous standard, especially high standards in Health, Safety and and that full and extensive steps have given the Companys size.
Every day we remain been taken to remedy the problem.
of recommendations were made and focused on ensuring our operations these are also being duly implemented.
and business activities remain safe, We have a strong history of delivering thereby fulfilling the trust placed in millions of safe experiences to our guests Risk control us by our guests, employees, business and we are determined to rebuild the Our fundamental goal is to ensure the partners and shareholders.
trust that our guests rightfully place in us.
effective prevention or mitigation of HSS risks through robust management systems The HSS Committee assists the Board Independent reviews and programmes that are supported by in ensuring that HSS risks are managed Following The Smiler accident the the right organisational structure and a effectively across the Group.
This report HSS Committee commissioned an genuine commitment from all staff.
describes the work of the Committee, independent review of ride safety across the Groups HSS management systems, the business.
A global risk management Protecting the Magic is the name of our processes and performance, together with consultancy, DNV GL, were engaged to ongoing commitment to controlling HSS details of developments during 2016. assess and validate how ride safety is risks.
This branding provides us with a continuously achieved and how the high-profile communication platform The Smiler accident Companys safety culture supports this.
through which we drive workforce The accident on The Smiler ride at engagement and a proactive safety culture.
Alton Towers Resort in June 2015 The findings of the DNV GL review shocked the entire organisation.
provided reassurance to the HSS Performance reporting We have always prided ourselves on Committee and the Board that the Our performance reporting has evolved being an industry leader in terms of Groups safety management systems in during 2016.
We now report on both amusement park safety, working alongside place were suitably robust.
No major or leading indicators those activities such national regulating bodies to improve systemic areas of concern were identified as inspections and audits we perform to industry practice and highlight innovation during the extensive audit.
Furthermore, manage risk, as well as lagging indicators in terms of safety management.
the safety culture within the business was the incident frequency type reporting described as strong.
Nevertheless a that has traditionally been the Groups This accident called the Groups safety number of recommendations were primary reported KPI.
Further details record into question and our response made and these are being duly actioned.
are set out on page 74. has included a root and branch review of all our safety procedures and protocols.
The Committee also commissioned an Looking forward The criminal prosecution that followed, independent review of the Companys Looking forward we will continue to and the Judges comments, reflect the corporate governance arrangements for challenge, monitor and support the seriousness of the offence and the HSS, with a leading figure in the UKs whole of Merlin in their HSS efforts.
shortcomings in our safety arrangements HSS professional community engaged and on this specific ride, as did the resultant provided with full access to the business.
We are taking action Existing governance arrangements at Sir John Sunderland to address the Judges comments.
Board and Executive Committee level Chairman of the HSS Committee 1 March 2017 70 Global Corporate Business Unit Designed Requirements Programmes and Managed Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Committee Report 4 Assets - Our assets and equipment Two key safety management activities The HSS Committee reports to the must be fit for purpose throughout are as follows: Board, operating under specific terms of their term of operation such that Risk registers - attraction management reference available on the Companys no unacceptable or uncontrolled prepare detailed HSS risk registers website.
It has three areas of focus: safety risk is created.
that identify and assess all significant 5 Performance - Our safety performance risks.
The Groups principal HSS risks 1 To oversee the Groups policies and must be measured so that we are able are summarised on page 50. procedures for ensuring the HSS of to understand, improve and sustain Action plans - every attraction is guests, employees, contractors and our performance.
required to prepare an annual HSS operating assets.
action plan, driven by the results 2 To monitor the Groups processes HSS management system of its risk register, safety inspections for identifying and managing risks.
Our policies and HSS management and audits, near-miss incident 3 To monitor the skills, effectiveness systems set mandatory obligations for investigations and employee and levels of resource within the standards and performance across all surveys.
Appropriate control Groups HSS teams.
The Committee receives advice from HSS The requirements set out in our Group HSS programmes and arrangements professionals and is updated on industry Health and Safety Manual and associated at each attraction are part of the best practice.
Issues discussed at the HSS policies are well established, providing a overall management system that Committee are shared with the Board.
strong basis for compliance and continual facilitates the assessment and control improvement in performance.
This includes the Details of the Committees membership, the basis for the development and Companys organisational structures together with the frequency of and application of the Companys health and incorporates: planning activities: attendance at meetings, are outlined and safety management system at all key roles and responsibilities: the on pages 66 to 69. levels in the business, as depicted in production of safety policies: Codes the chart below.
of Safe Working Practice for each HSS management ride: instructions and other procedures: The Company maintains a well Operational management and the resources for developing, developed and systematic approach to Operational management are implementing, achieving, reviewing the management of HSS risks, in line with responsible for and integral to HSS and maintaining the organisations the endorsed model of the UKs regulator matters, supported by functional health and safety policies.
- the Health and Safety Executive HSE.
This approach sets out how organisations should organise themselves and deploy suitable and sufficient safeguards for the effective control of HSS risks.
We therefore place great focus on designing and implementing programmes Group HSS that relate to each of our following Vision five HSS cornerstones: 1 Leaders - Our leaders and managers must exhibit visible leadership towards Group HSS Policies and Standards safety and establish robust compliance and improvement plans in support of this vision.
Group HSS Manual, Programmes 2 People - Our employees and and Guidance Notes contractors must be equipped with the necessary skills, experience and cultural attitudes such that they understand Operating Group specific HSS Policies, Programmes and Guidance Notes and control safety risks effectively.
3 Standards - Our standards and procedures must be clearly Attraction-based Departmental Risk Assessments, documented and rigorously followed HSS Programmes and Standard Operating Procedures to help ensure we design, build and operate in a safe and compliant way.
71 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Committee Report Training Attraction management teams attend formal Safety Leadership and Safety Management training courses to ensure Merlins fundamental approach to they are equipped with the necessary ride safety was found to be suitable and skills and knowledge.
Other functional, departmental and task-relevant safety sufficiently robust.
It is well supported by training takes place dependent on specific role and needs analysis.
the positive attitudes of its people at all Training plans are formulated or reviewed levels in the organisation each year as part of the annual Personal Development Plan process, or as part of DNV GL each departments training needs analysis arrangements.
A foundation of these training programmes is the delivery of mandatory new starter In 2016, allied to one of DNV GLs Induction Training.
Our operational, engineering and safety recommendations, we developed and processes, together with our quality launched a brand new set of competency Safety leadership walks checks and inspections cover: and training criteria that must be In 2016 we launched a new programme 1 Designing, manufacturing and testing.
implemented by all applicable attractions of safety leadership walks where our 2 Transporting, assembling, installing for their ride operations staff.
This covers most senior managers will regularly and and commissioning.
both new starters and existing staff.
frequently engage with our employees 3 Operating, cleaning, maintaining, in order to demonstrate commitment to, inspecting and testing.
Additionally, all of our attractions have in focus on, and understanding of effective place robust, tested, emergency response health and safety risk management.
In order to bring a new amusement ride plans and procedures.
into operation in the UK, for instance, we These walks allow senior management to are required to demonstrate compliance Contractor safety praise and reinforce safe behaviours and with applicable codes and practices, which Contractor safety is of great importance to identify and modify unsafe practices is achieved by subjecting each ride to an to us.
In 2016 we launched a new and conditions.
independent review by a registered Contractor Safety Handbook which accredited Inspection Body.
clearly sets out our HSS expectations Ride and facilities safety of contractors.
All of our attractions have in place Thereafter, rides are subjected to an structured and formalised programmes annual independent in-service inspection.
Contracting entities engaged to work for the scheduling and completion This normally requires a ride to be at our attractions undergo a safety of maintenance works on plant fully or partially disassembled and to be vetting and pre-qualification process.
and equipment - both rides and subjected to thorough visual examination They are then provided with relevant facilities building assets.
and, where applicable, non-destructive HSS information prior to starting work, testing.
Each ride is then reassembled with risk assessment documents Additionally, all required repair works and subjected to a function test.
A single or similar completed and reviewed.
are logged and managed safely through document called a Declaration of We ensure contractor activities on to completion.
Operational Compliance confirms site are appropriately supervised that the appropriate inspection has and controlled.
Our amusement rides are managed been completed successfully.
Similar for safety through their asset lifetime in equivalent processes are in place Projects have sufficient budgets and line with applicable national or local in non-UK locations.
timescales to allow the contractor to legal requirements.
complete the works and relevant HSS Attractions maintain operational checks, and we ensure regular feedback procedures to ensure that rides are on any HSS issues, incidents or challenges.
operated in the correct and safe manner.
Site inspections and audits by our project managers, HSS teams and external consultants help us to ensure that our rigorous standards are continually met.
72 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Committee Report The safety of any guest who stays with us Some staff are specially selected as fire Food safety and hygiene is paramount and we deal rigorously with wardens and are trained to use on-site The Group applies the globally recognised the additional and specific safety firefighting equipment.
best practice approach for ensuring food challenges involved.
safety - the Hazard Analysis and Critical Safety for our disabled guests Control Point HACCP system.
Our approach to managing the risk of fire At Merlin, we'five always tried to make Our detailed and prescriptive Food is to have systems that meet or exceed our attractions accessible to as many Safety Manual provides clear and what is required by local legislation.
For people as possible, but we recognise consistent direction for attractions on instance, automatic fire detection and that certain rides can be physically how to address food safety and hygiene warning systems are in place across all our demanding and vigorous so they are risks.
The manual must be adhered to hotels and lodges and which comply with not appropriate for every guest.
at all times and all attractions are the highest standards.
Our guests will get independently assessed by food safety the earliest possible warning of a potential We carry out regular in-house surveys specialists for compliance with it.
incident, which allows our specially trained and access audits are conducted by staff members to quickly investigate any independent experts so that we are In 2016 we commissioned an problem and minimise the impact of a always up-to-date with the latest independent review of our food safety false alarm.
Fire drills are regularly guidance and recommendations.
arrangements to ensure they remain practised too.
We continue to Effective and clear communication play an make improvements where necessary.
All our accommodation staff receive important part in helping our visitors with thorough fire safety training that includes accessibility requirements to decide whether Attraction security and travel safety risk reduction, what to do in the event or not the experiences on offer are suitable.
We maintain active and passive security of fire, how to raise the alarm as well as It is why our websites carry detailed protocols across our attractions in order roles and responsibilities in the event information so that people can make a to maintain the integrity of our physical of an evacuation.
decision based on their individual needs.
boundaries together with operations and assets within.
Security risk assessments help ensure that we deploy the appropriate technology, techniques and resources commensurate to the national Protecting the Magic or local threat level.
In 2016 security Protecting the Magic is our internal searches of guests and their bags were brand for the communication of HSS extended across specific attractions matters throughout the organisation.
In 2016 we launched: As the types of threats and risks evolve 1 Our ne w Little Book of Safety Spells we work closely with local police and - an HSS briefing toolkit for governmental security agencies to ensure managers and staff.
appropriate intelligence is shared and 2 New Six Spells for Safety posters, attraction based security protocols banners, badges, screensavers remain suitable, proportional and robust.
3 A new bi-monthl y HSS magazine When employees need to travel overseas called The Shield.
we work with a third party organisation to ensure that we have the best available 4 Our ne w Safety First Employee Handbook - fully translated security and health information to help us and openly available on our assess and plan such trips.
com monitor local security conditions to website.
ensure deployments remain safe both pre-departure and in-journey.
Since the end of the year we published our comprehensive Guests Guide to Safety - available on Merlins Accommodation safety www.
We are delighted that many of our guests can enjoy a longer stay at our attractions by taking advantage of our range of accommodation.
73 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Committee Report Monitoring performance HSS performance, including near-miss Performance information and incident reporting, is regularly reviewed by each attraction, each HSS Performance Indicators 2016 Operating Groups senior leadership team and the HSS Committee.
Leading Indicators: 1 Safety Inspection Certificates - Rides 100% All attractions in Merlin are subjected to routine health and safety audits, 2 Safe Operating Procedures - Rides 100% conducted by HSS professionals 3 independent of the attraction being Food Safety Audits 97% assessed.
These audits evaluate 4 Safety Culture Survey Results 94% compliance with Merlins Global Health and Safety Manual and associated safety 5 HSS Committee Meetings 100% policies.
This includes an examination of the adequacy and availability of risk Lagging Indicators: assessments job hazard analyses and 6 Medical Treatment Case Rate Guests 0.06 the implementation of required control measures.
6 Medical Treatment Case Rate Employees 0.07 Consideration is also made of how such 1 control measures are communicated or Safety Inspection Certificates are issued annually by independent ride examiners following the thorough inspection and testing of every theme park ride in Merlin.
This % score indicates the trained out to those persons undertaking percentage of rides that have Safety Inspection Certificates issued.
Any non-compliance matters 2 Each theme park ride in operation in Merlin must have Safe Operating Procedures in place covering or improvement opportunities identified the ongoing use of the ride.
These procedures must state what the necessary risk controls are for each then require remedial action.
This % score indicates the percentage of rides that have Safe Operating Procedures in place.
complement regional and attraction 3 Merlin commissions an independent specialist to audit attractions for compliance with its Food Safety initiated safety inspections and audits that Manual.
This % represents the average compliance score.
take place during the course of each year.
4 Merlins annual Wizard Wants to Know staff survey features a series of questions relating to health Additionally, property and infrastructure and safety that help to determine the maturity of the Companys safety culture and the level to which risk audits are conducted annually by staff are actively engaged with the topic.
This % represents the overall safety engagement score.
5 Through the HSS Committee the Board provides strategic direction and performance scrutiny of HSS matters within the business.
Additionally, each Operating Group also has their own HSS Steering Committee.
These forums are intended to meet quarterly and this % score indicates compliance In 2016 our performance reporting has with this expectation.
evolved and we can now report on 6 A Medical Treatment Case MTC is defined as an injury which requires external medical treatment two types of performance metric: i. e. ambulance attendance to site or hospital visit directly from the site.
The rates referenced are the number of MTCs relative to either 10,000 guest visitations or 10,000 employee hours worked.
1 Leading indicators monitor the activities we undertake as part of our HSS governance and monitoring processes.
Our approach includes arrangements by attractions for near-miss unsafe condition reporting, trend analysis and corrective action management.
2 Lagging indicators capture incident rates for both guests and employees.
In developing our performance reporting we have the ambition to become the benchmark for our industry sector as we capture, report on, interpret and respond to this source of management information.
74 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Committee Report Safety in Maintenance FOCUS ON Robust maintenance systems and procedures are already in place through the comprehensive suite of daily, weekly, Merlin Engineering monthly and annual maintenance activities for rides and installations.
However, we never stand still and always look to incrementally improve our maintenance Group Engineering systems through the work of Group Engineering: In 2016 our Group Engineering Directorate was established to provide clear direction to Merlins Learning Forums - Group Engineering has established technical teams at every attraction and help drive communication channels between Technical Directors continuous improvement and engineering excellence.
at attractions to allow groupwide technical expertise The team is now fully formed and has set its to be shared effectively.
Enhanced arrangements have strategic direction: been set up with the prime purpose of driving shared learning and discussion to facilitate faster responses Group Engineering Strategy - to underpin the delivery to technical challenges and safety improvements.
of memorable experiences with technical excellence and efficiency.
Maintenance Regime Review - the maintenance regime for each asset or ride is derived from the requirements Group Engineering Strategic Objective - to define and set out in the operating and maintenance manual uphold groupwide engineering standards, practices and provided by the manufacturer.
This regime is then processes that deliver sector leading safe, compliant overlaid with any enhanced inspections or tests that and optimised asset performance thus ensuring that are identified through the continued use and inspection every guest's memorable experience is not negatively of the asset.
Critical review and comparison of evolved impacted by any technical issue.
maintenance regimes can now be undertaken to ensure that maintenance across the Group is optimised The connection between safety and engineering is for assets that are installed in multiple locations.
fundamental, shaping every aspect of engineering work undertaken in Merlin.
From the outset, Group Root Cause Analysis - within even the most robust Engineering has set to reinforce this connection and safety and maintenance system unplanned technical set up systems that focus on Safety Engineering.
Understanding the cause of such issues In particular, the immediate opportunities that have been provides insight into any changes required to safety and realised with this new central function are in elements of reliability systems to prevent recurrence.
Our assets are Safety in Design and Maintenance.
complex due to factors such as the technology of the systems and materials used: the interface with attraction Safety in Design operators: the way guests interact with the assets: Although the independent Inspection Bodies conduct external environmental effects: and the continued thorough design reviews and provide design safety maintenance of the asset.
The oversight of Group assurance, it is essential that safety critical systems can Engineering and ability to use groupwide expertise be maintained and assessed easily.
Group Engineering to analyse and critique any failures ensures that provides critical technical analysis of design and challenge appropriate alterations are made through intellectually to suppliers and equipment manufacturers of both new rigorous and consistent analysis of failures and faults.
products and for modifications to existing installations.
This gives support to both attractions and project Group Engineering will continue to drive the delivery teams as the intelligent customer to ensure optimisation of this function to help maintain that not only is redundancy built in to safety critical our focus on safety engineering.
systems, but also that safety critical items are designed for maintainability to provide the essential balance between safety and performance.
