Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MERLINS Brands Key Number of attractions MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS SEA LIFE is the worlds biggest Madame Tussauds heritage aquarium brand, built around the and the breathtaking artistry notion of Amazing Discoveries, and of the figures differentiate it home to a variety of creatures from from other wax attractions.
shrimps and starfish to seahorses, Famous Fun is the heart rays, sharks and seals.
SEA LIFE of the experience, where campaigns actively on a variety of visitors are encouraged to conservation issues prioritised interact with all the historical around breeding, rescue and and celebrity figures from protection of the marine Napoleon to One Direction.
47 21 LEGOLAND Discovery Dungeons are a unique mix Centres are the ultimate of dark, historical horror and LEGO indoor playground, irreverent humour delivered with over two million through set piece shows bricks under one roof.
performed by live actors, With Playful Learning at rides and spine chillingly the heart of the experience, themed sets.
Scary Fun is they create a fun filled and the goal, delivered daily to interactive environment families, teenagers and where children and parents young adults.
are inspired to be creative.
16 9 At DreamWorks Tours - Shreks Adventure!
guests play their part in a unique and interactive DreamWorks Each of our Eye observation experience, where the choices attractions offers the they make decide the outcome.
ultimate viewing experience, At the heart of this are the unparalleled and different Hilarious Misadventures you every time, giving an Eye experience in the company of Opening perspective of the your favourite DreamWorks location's landscape and characters.
4 1 8 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MERLINS Brands THEME PARKS With Playful Learning at the heart of the experience, our LEGOLAND resorts across Europe, North America and Asia offer a unique LEGO themed experience for families with children aged two to twelve years, including highly themed accommodation and based on interactivity, imagination and family fun.
7 Alton Towers Resort is set Insane fun is on offer at in 500 acres of beautiful THORPE PARK, the UKs Staffordshire countryside.
third biggest theme park Boasting two themed hotels, and acknowledged thrill The Enchanted Village lodges capital for teenagers, young and an indoor waterpark, it adults and older families.
invites families, teenagers and The resort includes the young adults alike into a world unique THORPE SHARK of Fantastical Escapism.
Hotel, offering bite-sized rooms in a stunning waterfront location.
Wild Adventure is at the Heide Park is Germanys heart of Chessington World third biggest theme park of Adventures Resort, with with rides and attractions exotic themed lands and appealing to all ages, set in rides mixed with amazing five lands of Extraordinary creatures from around the Adventure.
Guests can stay in attracts visitors from all over the heart of the adventure Germany and beyond, who at our Safari and Azteca can stay in the Heide Park resort hotels or Adventure Hotel or adjacent even go glamping.
Gardaland Resort is Italys leading theme park.
Located on the edge of Lake Garda, it boasts rides for all Jousting, knights, princesses, ages set in a beautifully falconry, staged scenes by landscaped and themed Madame Tussauds and the world.
Big Fantasy Castle Dungeon all make Adventure is all around, Warwick the Ultimate including at our Fantasy Castle experience, now and Adventure hotels with three different types and adjacent SEA LIFE.
