Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MERLINS Business model OUR GROWTH DRIVERS Transforming our theme parks into destination resorts - We have six highly complementary growth drivers developing our theme parks into short break destinations to deliver growth in our existing portfolio and as to extend the catchment area, create new revenue streams we open new attractions all around the world.
Key to this is on-site themed accommodation.
Our 2020 milestone target is to add 2,000 rooms to our accommodation portfolio between 2016 Growing the existing estate through planned and 2020. investment cycles - adding new rides and features to our attractions to drive customer satisfaction, increase capacity Rolling out new Midway attractions - opening new and provide a compelling new proposition to guests.
The Midway attractions under one of our chainable global investment cycle is specific to each attraction which receives brands, with a focus on cluster locations where we can a high, medium or low investment depending on its place derive operating cost, marketing and cross-selling advantages.
These cycles smooth capital expenditure across Our 2020 milestone target is to open 40 new Midways the portfolio, ensure investments are funded from operating between 2016 and 2020. free cash flow, and enable attractions to plan effectively.
New LEGOLAND park developments - which we operate Exploiting strategic synergies - leveraging the scale of under three models operated and owned, operated and the Group in key markets to exploit enhanced operational, leased, under management contract.
We combine our marketing and buying power, including the implementation operational expertise with the LEGO brands worldwide of e-commerce initiatives that provide commercial benefits popularity.
Our 2020 milestone target is to open four new and improved digital journeys for our guests.
Strategic acquisitions - pursuing acquisition opportunities See page 12 to learn more about developments in the year and progress on our 2020 milestones.
that complement our strategic objectives.
OUR UNIQUE RESOURCES New Openings is a specialist team that has three Supporting our Operating Groups are areas of focus.
Developing new LEGOLAND parks - locating potential Merlin Magic Making MMM is the unique new sites, negotiating contracts, managing the build resource sitting at the heart of Merlin.
process before setting up operations, recruiting teams, then opening the attraction and operating it for 12 to 18 MMM supports all our attractions with specialists in four areas: months post opening.
site-search and business development Opening new Midway attractions - setting up operations, creative design recruiting teams, then opening the attraction and production across the whole portfolio including animal operating it for 12 to 18 months post opening.
husbandry, wax figures and LEGO models project management of new site construction and Integrating acquisitions.
major capital investments See pages 24 to 25 to learn more about New Openings.
MMM also pursues acquisition and investment opportunities.
See pages 20 to 23 to learn more about MMM.
6 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MERLINS Business model 7
