Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MERLIN Magic Making MARK FISHER Chief Development Officer MERLIN MAGIC MAKING MMM IS THE UNIQUE RESOURCE THAT SITS AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING MERLIN DOES.
FINDING THE MAGIC MMM finds new business opportunities, ranging from the strategic roll out of the Midway estate to potential acquisitions.
CREATING THE MAGIC Driving innovation across the Group, MMM creates the highest class compelling propositions for the existing estate and new attractions.
This includes creating Merlins very own in-house intellectual property.
PRODUCING THE MAGIC MMM takes creative ideas and then produces amazing content for our attractions.
We make LEGO models, wax figures, attraction theming, and ensure that Merlin provides the best animal care possible.
DELIVERING THE MAGIC MMM's project management teams produce world beating attractions for our guests to enjoy!
20 WORLDWIDE Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MERLIN Magic Making FINDING THE MAGIC In 2016 our organic roll out programme continued, leading us towards our strategic goal of 40 new Midways by 2020.
This progress will continue into 2017 and beyond as we roll out new and existing brands into new territories.
Most exciting is our entry into India, with a Madame Tussauds being built right in the heart of Delhi, on the world famous Connaught Place.
We are also taking the LEGOLAND Discovery Centre brand over to Australia for the first time as we open in Melbourne.
This is in addition to our continued roll out in China of our SEA LIFE and LEGOLAND Discovery Centre brands.
The USA will see the further expansion of the LEGOLAND Discovery Centre brand together with a new concept Madame Tussauds in Nashville, where this first fully musically themed attraction will leverage its prime location close to the Grand Ole Opry.
Finally, we will launch our new Midway brand, Little Big City, that will open alongside our Berlin cluster see case study on page 23.
CREATING THE MAGIC We are well advanced in introducing our first full intellectual property based hotel outside of the LEGOLAND resorts, More NINJAGO with the launch of the CBeebies Land Hotel at Alton Towers.
Children will be able to come and stay in the fully immersive and training camps are appearing magical world of CBeebies, before embarking on their day of adventures within Alton Towers and a visit to the successful in LEGOLAND parks, ready to CBeebies Land.
train the next generation of Further in 2017, a new Ghostbusters ride experience at LEGO warriors Heide Park promises to scare the pants off our visitors, while more NINJAGO training camps are appearing in LEGOLAND Deutschland, LEGOLAND Florida and LEGOLAND Windsor, ready to train the next generation of LEGO warriors.
For those with a more sedate side, The Gruffalo will be dropping in to Chessington World of Adventures.
Meanwhile, on the Midway side, amongst a whole host of exciting projects, we will be introducing a new selection of Penguins in Paris and a new wobbly world of Jellyfish in London.
Probably most exciting of all is the introduction of one of our home grown attraction concepts, Little Big City.
21 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MERLIN Magic Making PRODUCING THE MAGIC We have produced some amazing things in 2016 and think none is more spectacular than the huge Miniland at the heart of our new LEGOLAND park in Dubai.
Our new LEGO model shop is now operational in Florida, as we absorb the ever increasing demand and focus on operational efficiencies in rolling out new LEGOLAND parks and Discovery Centres, as well as new attractions in our existing estate.
Our Malaysian model shop will see further expansion as we move through 2017.
DELIVERING THE MAGIC Whether it is from new Midway attractions or other developments, 2016 has seen no let-up in the variety, geographic spread and number of delivered projects.
We have been working on over 48 major projects for delivery in 2016 and 2017, across eleven countries, representing a capital investment of over 245 million.
Our accommodation roll out will continue into 2017.
We will open the already mentioned CBeebies Land Hotel at Alton Towers, together with a new beach themed holiday village in LEGOLAND Florida, a new LEGO Castle hotel at LEGOLAND Windsor and an expansion of the holiday village in LEGOLAND Billund.
Overall we are well on target to reach our goal of 2,000 new rooms by 2020.
Innovation continued to be a key feature in 2016, with many Finally, after the successful launch of our virtual reality coaster new production techniques being trialled as technology plays at Alton Towers in 2016, we will see a further roll out of this more of a central role in our production thinking.
Examples are innovative concept in Gardaland in 2017. facial scanning being used in the development of our handmade wax figures and the use of 3D printing to produce ever more Overall 2016 has been another great year for Merlin Magic Making lifelike theming across the Merlin estate.
with the whole team rising to the challenge.
We are excited about the opportunities in 2017.
Merlin Animal Welfare, our team of marine biologists, continues to be at the forefront of our creature care as well as developing even more innovative displays for our SEA LIFE attractions.
We have produced some amazing things in 2016.
None more spectacular than the huge Miniland at the heart of our new LEGOLAND park in Dubai 22 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MERLIN Magic Making We are developing Merlins take on a model village with In search of new Midway brands, the a unique fusion of miniature models and a mix of old and Merlin team have developed our own new technology.
We will make the history of a particular in-house concept that can fit alongside city come alive as we open a Little Big City in our cluster our portfolio of existing brands, cities alongside our existing Midway brands.
broadening our long term options when it comes to achieving our We will open our first Little Big City right in the heart Midway pipeline roll out.
of Berlin in the summer of 2017.
We will bring to life the most important stories and events from medieval to modern Berlin, using a captivating combination of special effects, storytelling and interactive miniature designs.
Our little Reichstag is 4m wide, 3m high & 2m deep, and we burn it down every 3 minutes!
There are 6,000 characters, each individually digitally posed, dressed and 3D printed.
We tell 391 character stories through 6 eras of Berlins history.
