Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 TEAM Merlin The Sunday Times 30 Best Big Companies to work for 2017 43 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 TEAM Merlin CONTINUED FOCUS ON ENGAGEMENT, DEVELOPING OUR TALENT AND REWARDING OUR TEAMS OUTSTANDING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORES STRONG SHARE PLAN PARTICIPATION EXTERNAL RECOGNITION IN SUNDAY TIMES AWARDS Natalie Bickford Group Human Resources Director Employee engagement Our employee engagement score is one of Merlins Key Merlins success rests with Team Merlin, our extraordinary Performance Indicators, measuring whether our teams think people who have an absolute passion for what they do, we are a Great Place to Perform, a Great Place for Customers, delivering memorable experiences to our visitors.
Or as and a Great Place to Work.
This year were really proud that our we put it, living The Merlin Way.
engagement score is at 89%, way above the global average for similar surveys run by other organisations.
We continue to believe The Merlin Way values capture the essence of Merlin.
that The Merlin Way sits at the heart of these great results.
In short, We LOVE what we do, We CARE and we do it all FOR THE LOVE OF FUN!
These values are the reason why Other engagement initiatives so many of our employees love working here to keep on giving We continue to promote strong communications across all our our visitors the most magical, memorable experiences every offices and attractions.
These include quarterly team briefs from day, everywhere.
the executive team, attraction team briefs, newsletters and good old-fashioned noticeboards.
Our People Strategy underpins how the Group meets its objectives, keeping our people engaged and focused on our All our people can play a full part at Merlin through a number customers.
Wherever they work and whatever their role, our of schemes.
These include: job is to make sure that our people feel that theyre working for the best and certainly most magical company in our sector.
FOR THE LOVE OF FUN this encourages everybody to Most importantly though it is our shared vision of doing it all embed their love of fun into the way we work, so that its FOR THE LOVE OF FUN!
at the heart of everything we do.
Awards STAR our online global recognition scheme where For the third year running the Sunday Times have ranked us as employees can send Stars to recognise colleagues who live one of the Best Big Companies to Work For.
In this expanded The Merlin Way, or just to say Thank You for a job well done.
category of Top 30 companies we achieved a fantastic 20th place.
The Job Crowd also named us as number 137,000 Stars were sent worldwide in 2016 the most ever, three in their top five companies for graduates in our sector.
and in 2016 Star number 500,000 was sent to one of our team from Kelly Tarltons SEA LIFE Aquarium, New Zealand.
The Wizard Wants to Know Every summer we run The Wizard Wants to Know, our online Spark an Idea another online service that lets our colleagues employee survey.
We invite everybody to tell us what they think share their ideas, however big or small.
and to make suggestions its our chance to find out just how engaged our employees really are.
Were excited that our people, The Merlin Way Film Competition this gives our people everywhere, completed the survey, and thrilled that again, 95% of the chance to make a short video demonstrating just how our respondents said that they enjoy working here.
We think they make The Merlin Way come to life.
This year Chang these scores are truly awesome!
Feng Ocean World in Shanghai beat almost 80 other entries from across the globe!
44 HIGHLIGHTS Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 TEAM Merlin Talent and development Merlins future growth depends on recruiting and developing the Team Merlin of the future.
We are an entertainment company, dedicated to giving our guests unforgettable experiences, so we seek out people who have a genuine love of fun and a natural ability to inject magic into the lives of our guests whenever they visit one of our attractions.
Once they are recruited, we commit to develop and promote people within Merlin by offering amazing careers.
We carefully nurture their talents, providing them with training to do a great job and supporting their development to enable them to take full advantage of the fantastic opportunities available.
We encourage employees to move across disciplines, brands, and countries to Colleagues at LEGOLAND Windsor making it FUN build their own unique careers like many hundreds of employees before them.
Fundamentally we believe Merlin offers a world of opportunities: whatever they want from their next role, we Diversity strive to offer it in Merlin!
Our people are the single biggest reason for our success so were always striving to make life at Merlin better for all of them.
Recruitment Diversity is a crucial part of this.
We want Merlins approach to Merlin operates in a sector with high employee turnover and so diversity to be recognised in every market that we operate in it requires considerable effort to maintain our existing employee and are committed to ensuring that diverse groups are fully base.
On top of this, as Merlin grows each year, we need an ever and properly represented at all levels of our organisation.
greater variety of roles and skills and offer an increasingly wide range of opportunities.
This becomes increasingly challenging as we enter new territories to support our growth strategy.
We have diversity development plans aligned to our strategy As a result we have been working closely with our recruiters and, to support this, weve launched our Managing Inclusively to give them the skills, knowledge and creativity they need to programme for all our line managers.
find and select candidates who have the right skills and attitudes for long and successful careers with us.
Our strategy strives to ensure we have the best people for every role, regardless of gender, race, disability, sexual orientation, or any Technology plays a key role in our hiring strategy and application other factor.
Wherever possible, everyone should have the same process so we continue to put special emphasis on our social access to every opportunity.
media activities and how we present our internal employer brand and values to the outside world.
In developing markets, We make no differentiation between able bodied and disabled we continue to build relationships that will help us improve persons in terms of recruitment, training and career progression.
We will make every effort to continue the employment and training of those persons who become disabled while Welcome to Team Merlin employed by the Group.
Hiring so many new people every year means that wherever in the world our new people join us, they need to receive a In recent years one of our primary aims has been to clear, consistent and fun induction into our magical business.
increase gender diversity through our Women at Merlin Building on from last years successful launch of our global W@M programme, which gives women the support and induction programme, 2016 saw the launch of our online, opportunities they need to achieve their ambitions and interactive format to meet the needs of our ever expanding develop into senior roles.
20% of our Executive Committee are now women, up from In 2016, we continued our Senior Leader Induction with a total 9% in 2015.
Whilst we have seen a small decline 1% in the of 65 new leaders attending, a large proportion coming from percentage of our senior leadership teams at 32%, we have our new openings.
Bringing together new leaders from across increased the number to 123 women.
Of our permanent the Merlin family for an exciting five days, the induction gives colleagues, 4,226 or 47% 2015: 3,925 49% are women.
them a fabulous opportunity to network and a chance to improve their understanding of the whole Merlin business, As we expand into new territories, the ethnic diversity of our our strategy, The Merlin Way and how they can contribute teams continues to increase.
Of particular note is the fact that to our continuing success as a Merlin leader.
we opened LEGOLAND Dubai with 56 different nationalities represented within the park!
45 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 TEAM Merlin Training Share plans Whether customer facing, in a management role or a support We want as many of our colleagues as possible to Own a Piece function at any of our attractions, or in a position at one of our of the Magic by taking up shares in Merlin.
This is a great way of corporate offices, our goal is to allow everyone to have the right making Team Merlin even more committed to our success.
skills to be the best at what they do and fulfil their potential in their career with Merlin.
A key component of this is the wealth 2016 saw the third annual awards under the Merlin Employee of training we provide.
Aside from the initial induction, there are Sharesave Plan.
This gives our permanent colleagues a chance to opportunities specific to an individuals role and an abundance build up a holding of Merlin shares by saving over a three year of learning opportunities to further enhance their careers.
period and buying shares at a discount.
We are thrilled that, so far, almost 39% of our permanent colleagues worldwide have Accelerate enrolled in the Sharesave plans.
Looking forward, 2017 will Accelerate is our fast track graduate programme which provides see employees receive shares from the first Sharesave plan tailored roles for marketing and general management positions launched in 2014. and is structured to support individuals at every step of their Merlin career.
The success of the programme was demonstrated We also made more than 400 share awards to colleagues at in 2016 by more than 25 of our Accelerate alumni being executive, senior and middle management levels under our promoted into senior positions across the Group.
Reflecting long term incentive plans.
our global scale and growth plans, the September 2017 intake will include 30 super-talented recruits from across the UK, Other benefits initiatives North America, China, Hong Kong, Japan and South Korea.
Building on the extended Healthcheck programme that was established last year we are going further to look after the Leadership development programmes wellbeing of all of our colleagues.
We call this Be Well We want our leaders to constantly grow and develop so and our focus is on five areas: we offer lots of brilliant leadership development programmes.
These include partnering with the IMD Business School in Be Happy - covering all aspects of emotional wellbeing, for Switzerland to provide our senior executives with exceptional example incorporating our Employee Assistance Programme.
Our flagship XCalibre programme, in Be Active - covering physical wellbeing and health.
partnership with Kingston University, is for leaders with bags Be Secure - financial wellbeing, including retirement of potential.
There is also the Merlin Leadership Programme, and health insurance.
which we run regionally to ensure it reaches all our leaders.
Be Mindful - covering mental wellbeing and harnessing employee focus to drive engagement and productivity.
And finally, to complement all our other learning, at any time Be Involved - social wellbeing, including engagement in our our teams can access Merlins School of Magic, our online Force for Good charitable and environmental initiatives.
training resource run with the renowned Ashridge Business School, and the IMD Learning Hub, which features articles and We continue to move large numbers of colleagues around the videos from close to 100 business sources across the globe.
world to support our business growth, particularly in Asia and North America in support of our Midway and LEGOLAND Compensation and benefits attractions as they step up their development.
Our international When you rely on your people as much as we do, it is essential mobility team is invaluable in helping us move our greatest to provide compensation and benefit programmes which are assets safely, securely and comfortably.
competitive and which support our business and culture.
Summary In a number of our markets there is an increasing focus on rising Having joined Merlin in April 2016, I have been incredibly minimum wage levels, for instance with the UK National Living impressed by the teams dedication, hard work and commitment.
Wage and many US states setting out plans for annual increases The fact that their love of The Merlin Way and passion to in the next few years.
Recognising this we plan to deliver greater create truly memorable experiences has been recognised for productivity through resource efficiencies and more motivated, a third year running by the Best Big Companies survey is better rewarded employees.
Merlin is a truly magical company, but we cant rest on our laurels.
With a team of 27,000 in peak season and potentially another 7,000 as we deliver our 2020 milestones, our focus on recruiting and retaining the best talent, nurturing current and future business leaders and driving productivity will be the foundations for continuing to build on Merlins remarkable success.
