Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BOARD of Directors 62 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BOARD of Directors The members of the Board during the year and at the date of this report are as follows: Sir John was appointed Chairman of Merlin Entertainments in December 2009.
Sir John is currently Chairman of Cambridge Education Group, Chancellor of Aston University and an Associate Member of BUPA.
He is also an adviser to CVC Capital Partners.
Previously, Sir John was Chairman of Cadbury Schweppes from 2003 to 2008 and Chief Executive Officer from 1996 to 2003.
Sir John was also President of the CBI from 2004 to 2006, President of the Chartered Management Institute from 2006 to 2007 and President of the Food and Drink Federation from 2002 to 2004.
Sir John was a Non-executive Director of the Rank Group from 1998 to 2006 and a Director of the Financial Reporting Council from 2004 to 2011.
Sir John Sir John Sunderland was a Non-executive Director of Barclays Bank PLC from 2005 to 2015 and Chairman of AFC Energy plc from 2012 to 2015.
Nick has over 25 years experience in the visitor attractions industry and was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Merlin Entertainments in 1999.
Prior to Merlin, Nick was Managing Director of Vardon Attractions and a main board Director of Vardon plc.
In 1999 Nick led the management buyout of Vardon Attractions to form Merlin Entertainments.
In 2005 he initiated the process which led to its acquisition by Blackstone and subsequent rapid expansion, taking the Company to its 2013 Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Before joining Vardon Attractions, Nick held senior positions within The Tussauds Group then a part of Pearson plc, including Marketing Director of Alton Towers and Head of Group Marketing.
He started his career in FMCG marketing first with Rowntree and then Reckitt & Colman.
Nick Varney Chief Executive Officer Anne-Francoise was appointed Chief Financial Officer in August 2016.
With over 23 years experience in finance across international organisations, Anne-Francoise brings a strong focus on strategy execution, M&A, process improvement and governance.
Anne-Francoise started her career in the UK as a finance graduate trainee at John Crane, before moving to Tetra Pak, then ADP and later Caterpillar UK.
In 1997, she joined GlaxoSmithKline and held a variety of increasingly senior roles across the organisation in the UK and overseas, including Senior Vice President of Finance for Vaccines.
In April 2013, Anne-Francoise joined Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC as Chief Financial Officer, where she was instrumental in transforming Dechra into a successful pharmaceutical company specialising in animal health.
She led the Anne-Francoise Nesmes expansion of its international footprint through acquisitions and delivered Chief Financial Officer significant efficiencies through modernising Finance and R&D processes.
63 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BOARD of Directors Rachel was appointed a Non-executive Director of Merlin Entertainments with effect from 1 January 2016.
She has extensive experience of the Asian consumer and property markets, having held a number of senior executive and non-executive roles in the region.
Rachel is currently Partner and founding member of the private equity activities of Pacific Alliance Group PAG, one of the regions largest Asia-focused alternative investment managers with over $16 billion in funds under management across Private Equity, Real Estate and Hedge Funds.
She currently holds Non-executive positions with Hong Kong-listed Sands China a majority-owned subsidiary of Las Vegas Sands, Hong Kong-listed Pacific Century Premium Developments PCPD which specialises in the development and management of premium property and infrastructure projects Yun Rachel Chiang in the Asia Pacific region and Hong Kong-listed Goodbaby International Ltd, a leading Non-executive Director manufacturer of childrens durable products.
Charles was appointed Senior Independent Non-executive Director of Merlin Entertainments and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 2013.
Charles is the Non-executive Chairman of Channel 4, Deputy Chairman at EasyJet plc and a trustee of English Heritage and the Migration Museum.
Until January 2017 he was the Non-executive Chairman of Genesis Housing Association, a position he held since 2010.
Charles is a former Chairman of Virgin Mobile plc, LOVEFiLM, Phones4U, MACH, Tragus, NetNames, Parthenon Entertainments and Alamo National Rent a Car and the former Deputy Chairman of the National Trust.
His executive career included roles as Chief Executive of Thomson Travel Group plc, Charles Gurassa Executive Chairman TUI Northern Europe, Director TUI AG and as Director, Passenger Senior Independent & Cargo business at British Airways.
He is a former Non-executive Director at Non-executive Director Whitbread plc, trustee of the childrens charity Whizz-Kidz and a member of the development board of the University of York.
Fru was appointed a Non-executive Director of Merlin Entertainments in 2014.
Fru was formerly Managing Director, Commercial, Online and Interactive at ITV, and previously Chief Executive Officer at GCap Media plc and Virgin Radio.
Prior to that Fru spent six years at Yahoo!
where her roles included Managing Director, UK and Ireland, and Sales and Marketing Director, Europe.
She is now a Governor of Downe House School and has also served as a Non-executive Director on the Boards of Betfair Plc and Woolworths Plc.
Fru Hazlitt Non-executive Director 64 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BOARD of Directors Ken was appointed a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Merlin Entertainments in 2013.
Ken is currently a Non-executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Previously, he was CFO of Vodafone Group Plc.
Ken was also a Non-executive Director of Tesco Plc from 2004 to 2013, a Non-executive Director of Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust from 2005 to 2012 and a Non-executive Director of Pearson Plc from 2006 to 2015.
Ken is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Ken Hydon Non-executive Director Trudy was appointed a Non-executive Director of Merlin Entertainments in 2015.
Trudy retired on 1 May 2015 from the position of Chief Executive Officer of Carlson, a privately held global hospitality and travel company.
Trudy had been a senior executive with Carlson since 1997, having served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Administrative Officer of Carlson preceding her appointment as CEO.
Prior to joining Carlson, Trudy served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Jostens, Inc. and served as Vice President of Finance for Minneapolis-based Pillsbury Co. Trudy is the Chair of The Rezidor Hotel Group Board, and also serves on the Board of Directors for Cargill, The Donaldson Company, Inc. and Securian Holding Company.
Trudy Rautio Trudy is a Certified Public Accountant unlicensed and Certified Management Accountant.
Non-executive Director Sren was appointed a Non-executive Director of the Company in 2013, representing KIRKBI.
Sren is currently the Chief Executive Officer of KIRKBI, following his appointment in March 2010.
Sren was formerly a Partner, Chief Financial Officer and member of the Group Executive Board of A. P. Moller Maersk Group between 2006 and 2009.
Prior to this he was Managing Partner of KPMG Denmark, having been a Partner at KPMG since 1997.
Outside the KIRKBI Group, Sren is currently Non-executive Chairman of Topdanmark A S and holds Non-executive Director positions at LEGO A S and Falck Holding A S. Sren Thorup Srensen Non-executive Director Andrew Carr Andrew retired as Chief Financial Officer on 31 July 2016.
