Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 NEW Openings THE NEW OPENINGS TEAM IS MERLIN'S SPECIALIST RESOURCE THAT DEVELOPS NEW LEGOLAND PARKS OPENS NEW MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS INTEGRATES ACQUISITIONS John Jakobsen Chief New Openings Officer Reflecting Merlins ambitious growth plans, in May 2015 the When a site opens, New Openings will support the business for Group announced the formation of a new team, New Openings, between 12 to 18 months, before stepping aside and leaving the responsible for the development of our LEGOLAND park local team to execute the agreed strategy.
Throughout this time portfolio, overseeing the opening of all new attractions and results will be reported within the relevant Operating Group.
the integration of strategic acquisitions.
2016 It is a vital element in delivering the Groups strategic 2020 During 2016 the New Openings team has proved the benefits milestones, where from 2016 to 2020 the Group will be opening of this dedicated resource, opening LEGOLAND Dubai under 40 new Midway attractions and four new LEGOLAND parks a management contract in October, while pressing forward with each with themed accommodation offerings.
These projects will the construction of LEGOLAND Japan for a planned opening in mean hiring around 7,000 new staff over that period to support April 2017.
They have also continued to make progress with our an anticipated visitation of up to 20 million visitors per year.
LEGOLAND Korea location, working with local government on the sites supporting infrastructure, targeting a 2019 opening.
Development LEGOLAND parks The team have also managed the opening of five new Midway New Openings has a wide remit for new LEGOLAND park attractions in three different continents this year.
All projects are developments, seeking out new opportunities and locations for operating well with guest satisfaction scores on a par with high future resorts.
Once a project is agreed and Board approved, Merlin standards.
the New Openings team is responsible for the construction of the park and any complementary accommodation.
Looking forward As highlighted on pages 20 to 23, there are a number of new and Midway attractions exciting developments we are working on alongside Merlin Magic Making, and we stand ready to deliver more successful launches.
For Midway attractions, the site search activity for new project locations rests with Merlin Magic Making see pages 20 to 23 for more details.
Once a project has Board approval it is Regarding new LEGOLAND parks, we continue to seek out new sites worldwide, with opportunities progressing in handed over to New Openings to oversee the development, North America and China.
with Merlin Magic Making providing core project management to deliver the project build.
Acquisitions To enable existing teams to focus on operating existing Opening attractions, New Openings is responsible for operating any In delivering a new attraction, New Openings will manage the acquired businesses until they are ready to be integrated recruitment and training of staff, develop the marketing plan and into the relevant Operating Group.
build brand awareness along with establishing all the functions a new site needs, wherever possible leveraging expertise from across the existing estate.
24 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 NEW Openings The attraction follows the established LDC format After a strong and consistent increase and New Openings worked together with the MMM in LEGO toy sales in China over the past project management team to ensure we opened on several years we see opportunities for the schedule in April 2016.
Following a well executed development of LEGOLAND branded marketing and sales programme - integrated with attractions in this significant market.
LEGO China - the attraction enjoyed a strong launch and has seen very promising guest In considering our first important step into the satisfaction scores so far.
market the Group decided to open the first LEGOLAND attraction as an LDC in Shanghai.
The success of this highly strategic launch provides This is one of the strongest LEGO markets in China confidence for the potential for many further and with a location within walking distance of our LDC projects in China, as well as supporting our Chang Feng Ocean World aquarium we have been conviction of the market potential for our larger able to leverage operational synergies with our scale LEGOLAND parks.
existing well established Merlin team.
We look forward to overseeing this successful new attraction for its remaining time with New Openings before we then hand operations over to our Midway colleagues!
The Shanghai Tower, at 4.9 metres from the floor to the top of the model, is the tallest in any LDC.
There are 600,000 bricks and over 3,000 Minifigures in the Miniland.
