Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS Report Introduction Disclosure Section title Pages This section of the Annual Report and Accounts includes additional information Future Developments Strategic Report 2 to 59 required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006, the DTRs, Research and Development Merlin Magic Making 20 to 23 the Code and the Listing Rules.
Certain information required to be Employee diversity Team Merlin 43 to 46 and engagement included in the Directors Report is included in other sections of this Greenhouse Gas Emissions Being a Force for Good - Corporate 53 to 59 Annual Report and Accounts.
Social Responsibility The Merlin Way Disabled persons Being a Force for Good - Corporate 53 to 59 These sections provide an overview Social Responsibility The Merlin Way of the strategy, development and performance of the Companys Relationship Agreements Corporate Governance Report 66 to 69 additional details business in the period ended and as at 31 December 2016 together with Internal Controls Audit Committee Report 76 to 81 information on the approach of the Company to Corporate Governance and Financial Instruments Note 4.3 to the Accounts 142 to 145 the constitution, work and effectiveness of the Board and its principal Committees.
Share Capital and Note 4.5 to the Accounts 148 to 149 The following sections are therefore Movements therein incorporated by reference into this Subsidiary and Note 5.7 to the Accounts 157 to 162 Directors Report: Associated Undertakings The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 59.
The Corporate Governance Andrew Carr was a Director from the Statement on pages 60 to 61.
Directors start of the financial year until 31 July The section entitled Board of The names of the persons who, at any 2016.
Anne-Francoise Nesmes has been Directors on pages 62 to 65. time during the financial year, were Directors of the Company are: a Director since 1 August 2016.
Rachel The Corporate Governance Chiang was appointed a Director with Report on pages 66 to 69. effect from 1 January 2016.
The Health, Safety and Security Name Committee Report on pages 70 to 75.
Sir John Sunderland Each Director in post at the time of The Audit Committee Report on the AGM offered themselves for pages 76 to 81.
Nick Varney re-election at the 2016 AGM of the The Directors Remuneration Anne-Francoise Nesmes Company and their re-election was Report on pages 82 to 103. approved by shareholders.
All Directors The Nomination Committee Charles Gurassa other than Andrew Carr remained in Report on page 104.
Ken Hydon office at the end of the financial year.
The Company is required to provide Fru Hazlitt disclosures and information in relation to Trudy Rautio a number of additional matters which are covered elsewhere in this Annual Report Yun Rachel Chiang and Accounts.
These matters and cross-references to the relevant sections Sren Thorup Srensen of this Annual Report and Accounts Andrew Carr are shown in the following table.
105 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Report It includes certain requirements for Directors indemnities and insurance Share capital and related matters The Articles of Association do not the Group to develop LEGOLAND The Articles of Association of the contain any restrictions on the transfer attractions, certain operational Company permit it to indemnify the of shares in the Company other than requirements for those attractions, and Directors of the Company or any Group customary restrictions applicable where the nature of royalties due to KIRKBI company against liabilities arising from or any amount is unpaid on a share all the for the use of the rights.
The LCA includes in connection with the execution of their issued share capital of the Company as rights for KIRKBI to terminate the LCA duties or powers to the extent permitted at the date of this Annual Report and on a change of control of Merlin but by law.
The Company has not given Accounts is fully paid.
Each ordinary only if this would result in a Licensee any specific indemnity in favour of share in the capital of the Company as defined in the LCA being the Directors during the year but the ranks equally in all respects.
No controlled by a LEGO competitor Company has purchased Directors shareholder holds shares carrying or an inappropriate party.
The LCA and Officers Liability Insurance during special rights relating to the control defines an inappropriate party as any the year, which provides cover for of the Company.
person or entity other than a financial liabilities incurred by Directors in the institution where one-third of its revenue performance of their duties or powers.
Amendment to the Companys is derived from the manufacture and sale Articles of Association of tobacco, armaments and or No amount was paid under any Directors The Companys Articles of Association pornographic material.
indemnity or the Directors and Officers may only be amended by a special Liability Insurance during the year other resolution of its shareholders passed at Details of the KIRKBI Relationship than the applicable insurance premiums.
a general meeting of its shareholders.
Agreement are provided in the Corporate Governance section Appointment and removal Power of Directors in respect on page 66. of Directors of share capital A Director may be appointed by an The Directors may exercise all the Significant contracts ordinary resolution of shareholders in a powers of the Company including, There were no contracts of significance general meeting following nomination by subject to obtaining the required during the year to which the Company, the Board or a member or members authority from the shareholders in or any of its subsidiary undertakings, is a entitled to vote at such a meeting or general meeting, the power to authorise party and in which a Director is or was following retirement by rotation if the the issue of new shares and the purchase materially interested.
Director chooses to seek re-election of the Companys shares.
During the year, in connection with the In addition, the Directors may appoint Companys employee share incentive a Director to fill a vacancy or as an plans, 2,063,234 ordinary shares of additional Director, provided that the 1 pence each were issued.
individual retires at the next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Contracts with related parties Company in certain circumstances set The only material agreement with out in the Companys Articles of related parties during the year was the Association or by a special resolution LEGOLAND Licence and Co-operation of the Company.
All Directors will stand Agreement LCA.
This agreement was for re-election on an annual basis, in line entered into on 24 August 2005 with with the recommendations of the Code.
KIRKBI and sets out the rights granted to the Group to use the LEGO and Specific details relating to KIRKBI and LEGOLAND brands in connection their rights to appoint Directors are set with the development, operation and out in the Corporate Governance promotion of the Groups present and section on page 66. future LEGOLAND businesses.
106 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Report Audit information Change of control Branches outside the UK So far as the Directors are aware, The only other significant agreements to Merlin Entertainments plc has no there is no relevant audit information which the Company is a party that takes branches outside the UK.
of which the auditors are unaware.
effect, alters or terminates upon a change The Directors have taken all reasonable of control of the Company following a Dividend steps to ascertain any relevant audit takeover bid, are: An interim dividend of 2.2 pence per information and ensure the auditors share was paid on 19 September 2016 to shareholders on the Register on are aware of such information.
A final dividend for the entered into by the Group dated year ended 31 December 2016 of 4.9 Re-appointment of auditors 25 February 2015 which replaced pence per share will be recommended As recommended by the Audit the Groups existing debt facilities.
The final Committee, a resolution for the This includes provisions in relation dividend will be proposed to shareholders re-appointment of KPMG LLP as to a change of control or the sale of for approval at the next Annual General auditors to the Company will be all or substantially all of the Groups Meeting of the Company.
proposed at the 2017 Annual assets, the occurrence of which will, General Meeting.
after a negotiation period, give the Political donations lenders under the Agreement the No political donations were made Approval of annual report right to accelerate outstanding loans during the year.
The Strategic Report, Corporate and terminate commitments.
Governance Statement and Report and The outstanding senior unsecured Going concern the Directors' Report were approved facilities comprise 250 million, $540 The Directors consider that the by the Board on 1 March 2017. million and 50 million in floating rate Group has adequate financial resources term debt and a 300 million revolving to continue operating for the next For and on behalf of the Board credit facility, both to mature in 2020. twelve months and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern an Indenture dated as of 19 March basis in preparing the financial statements.
Matthew Jowett 2015 in relation to an issue of 500 General Counsel and million 2.75% fixed rate notes due The Directors have satisfied themselves Company Secretary in 2022 the notes under which, in that the Group is in a sound financial 1 March 2017 the event of a change of control of position and that it has access to sufficient the Company and a ratings event, cash funds and borrowing facilities and Merlin Entertainments plc the holders of the notes may have can reasonably expect those facilities Registered number 08700412 the right to require that those notes to be available to meet the Groups be repurchased at 101% of their foreseeable cash requirements.
principal nominal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest.
The process followed by the Group in the preparation of the Viability Statement Further details on the Groups banking is set out in the Risks and Uncertainties facilities are shown in note 4.2 to the section on page 49. financial statements.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of control.
