ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC TECHNOLOGY DELIVERY technology is at the heart of our service advantage Our technology makes customer moments fast, simple and intuitive.
Flexible, scalable IT systems provide us with the ability to design distinct customer experiences.
Making our customers lives easier through the use of technology.
APPLE PAY AND MOBILE BANKING ONLINE BANKING CONTACT CENTRES Our completely redesigned Open new accounts, manage ANDROID PAY 24 7 mobile banking app makes cards and browse transactions Simple, secure and easy Real people answering it easier than ever to check through our easy-to-use Metro Bank customers can the phone, 24 hours a day, balances, make payments online banking platform.
pay using Apple Pay and 365 days a year.
and manage your debit or Android Pay using their debit credit cards.
This Annual Report is an independent publication and has not been authorised, sponsored, or otherwise approved by Apple Inc. 20 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC Case study CARD BLOCKING 0000 0000 0000 0000 Sir Dufeld Digital matters DIGITAL.
DESIGNED AROUND YOU When a customer WHATS NEW?
misplaces their debit or Best-in-class commercial banking platform credit card, why should Apple Pay and Android Pay mobile wallet payments they have to cancel it?
Redesigned brand website with enhanced navigation and content At Metro Bank we know how worrying it management is when you think youve lost your bank First UK retail challenger bank to join Faster Payments Scheme card.
We also understand how frustrating it can be when you find it again, just after Upgraded mobile app for personal and small business customers cancelling it.
Thats why we offer our customers the ability to temporarily block and unblock their card via our banking app.
Just one swipe instantly allows customers to temporarily block their card.
A second swipe once they have the card back in their hand instantly reactivates it.
In the worst case, if the card is lost, it can be cancelled in just a couple of taps.
Thats making our customers lives easier through the use of technology.
CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS REGISTERED ON MOBILE APP FOR ONLINE BANKING 78% 55% WHATS NEXT?
State-of-the-art online account applications, including selfie IDV Personalised mobile alerts with appropriate prompts to support customer financial management Market-leading fraud analytics platform via behaviourmetrics Bank-wide API layer to support client data requests and open banking revolution Begin build of stand-out packaged account proposition Begin build of market-leading personal and SME unsecured lending platform for use in store and online 21 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
