ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC DIRECTORS REPORT Articles of Association The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report for The Companys Articles of Association can be found on the the year ended 31 December 2016.
As set out more fully in the Companys website www.
Summary of significant accounting policies within Notes to the financial statements, Accounting policies, this Annual Report for Share capital the consolidated Group has been prepared in accordance with The called up share capital of the Company, together with details International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by of shares allotted during the year, is shown in note 17 to the the EU and includes the Corporate Governance Report set out financial statements on page 97. on pages 38 to 42.
Directors interests Principal activities Details of the Directors beneficial interests are set out in the Our principal activities during 2016 were the provision of banking Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 67. and related services.
Metro Bank is a deposit-taking and lending institution with a focus on retail and small and medium-size Directors indemnities and Directors and Officers commercial customers, offering consistent fair pricing and Liability insurance excellent customer service.
Metro Bank is authorised to accept Details regarding deeds of indemnity and Directors and Officers deposits under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, has Liability insurance are set out in the Corporate Governance Report aConsumer Credit Act licence and is a member of the Financial on page 42.
Major interests in shares Directors Information provided to the Group by substantial shareholders Directors that have served during the year and summaries of the pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR is current Directors key skills and experience are set out on pages published via a Regulatory Information Service.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group has been notified under DTR Results and dividend 5 of the interests in its issued share capital, as set out in the table The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated statement opposite.
All such share capital has the right to vote in all of comprehensive income on page 74. circumstances at general meetings.
No dividend was declared or paid during 2016 2015: nil.
The Directors do not anticipate declaring a dividend in the near future.
Significant events On 4 March 2016, Metro Bank issued a further 20,000,000 new shares at 20 per share, further to an offer for subscription on 16 February 2016, for gross consideration of 400 million.
The Companys shares were admitted for trading on the London Stock Exchange on 10 March 2016.
34 AN ANNU NUAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A AC CC CO OUN UNTS TS 2 20 016 16 METRO BANK PLC Ordinary % of total ordinary Direct indirect As at 31 December 2016 shares held shares interest 7,912,848 9.85 Indirect Cohen Private Ventures 7,546,661 9.39 Indirect Wellington Management Group LLP Fidelity Management and Research 6,850,023 8.53 Indirect In the period from 31 December 2016 to the date of this report, the Group has received notifications from Wellington Management Group LLP confirming a holding of 3,641,556 shares representing 4.53% of total voting rights.
Greenhouse gas emissions Modern slavery The Companys energy consumption and associated greenhouse We are committed to supporting the communities in which we gas emissions during 2016 are set out in the Strategic report on operate in order to enable them to develop both socially and pages 30 and 31. economically.
We are supportive of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and we will report on our progress in our 2017 Annual Report.
Employee involvement Employee involvement in the Bank is encouraged, as achieving a Financial risk management common awareness on the part of all employees of the financial The Directors confirm that they have undertaken a robust and economic factors affecting the Bank plays a major role in assessment of the principal risks facing the Group.
The Bank maintaining its focus on the customer.
All employees are eligible seeks to manage all risks that arise from its activities.
Details of to participate in our share option and or, share pool schemes.
risk management systems and processes in place in relation to financial reporting, and details of risk management objectives Diversity and policies of the Bank are shown in the Risk Factors and Metro Bank is committed to employment policies which follow Management Report on pages 24 to 27.
As a result of its best practice, based on equal opportunities for all employees.
normal business activities, the Bank is exposed to a variety of Weaim for our workforce to reflect the diverse communities in risks.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing Metro Bank which we operate and recognise that diversity is a key part of a are shown in the Risk Factors and Management Report.
responsible business strategy and also supports a strong customer experience.
Metro Bank gives full and fair consideration to all Going concern applications for employment.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and Parent Disabled employees Company have the resources to continue in business for the Applications for employment by disabled persons are always foreseeable future.
fully considered, bearing in mind the abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled every Viability Statement effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group The Banks Viability Statement is set out on page 27. continues and that appropriate training and support is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group and the Company that the training, Auditors career development and promotion of disabled persons should, The Auditors,  LLP, have indicated their as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
willingness to continue in office and a resolution seeking to reappoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Political donations Metro Bank made no political donations in the year ending 31 December 2016 2015: nil.
Research and development Metro Bank has an ongoing commitment to make banking more convenient for its customers and in 2016 has continued to invest in systems, procedures, products and services, and as a result has capitalised 45 million of intangible assets.
35 Strategic report Governance Financial statements AN ANNU NUAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A AC CC CO OUN UNTS TS 2 20 016 16 METRO BANK PLC DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Post balance sheet events Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial A summary of the key post balance sheet events is set out in note statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 32 to the financial statements.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Annual General Meeting financial statements, the Directors are required to: Details of next years AGM can be found in the Shareholder select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Information section on page 110 of this Report.
consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Future developments and prudent: The Banks business and future plans are reviewed in the state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Chairmans Statement and the Strategic Report.
Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Listing rule disclosures prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4CR, the information required to be unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following sections of Group will continue in business.
the report: The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Item Location where applicable records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Detail of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration Report transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Financial statements the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable note 18 them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Contracts of significance Financial statements Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding note 27 the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate Governance Statement The Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 to 42 in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of accordance with Rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency the information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in Rules and Rule 9.8.
6 5 and 6 of the Listing Rules forms part of the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial this Directors Report.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors statement pursuant to the disclosure and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and transparency rules the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on regulations.
pages 32 and 33, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial profit of the Group: and statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting the Strategic Report contained in the Annual Report includes a Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and fair review of the development and performance of the business applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company and the position of the Group, together with a description of financial statements on the same basis.
the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
36 AN ANNU NUAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A AC CC CO OUN UNTS TS 2 20 016 16 METRO BANK PLC Statement of disclosure of information to Auditors Each of the Directors who is in office at the date of this Report, and whose name is listed on pages 32 and 33, confirms that to the best of his knowledge: there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and has taken all the reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of the information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors Report comprising pages 34 to 37 has been approved by the Board of Directors of Metro Bank PLC and signed on its behalf by Mike Brierley Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 2 March 2017 37 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
