ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC OUR PURPOSE creating FANS is at the heart of our culture Successful customer-facing businesses see things from the customers point of view.
Thats why we hire for attitude and train for skill.
We over-invest in our people.
And at the centre of the million little things they do for our customers, youll find our culture.
Were all part of the Revolution.
EMPOWERING DOGS RULE ORGANIC MARKETING SERVICE TARGETS Dogs, horses even sheep!
FANS tell their friends to bank Service matters and thats how COLLEAGUES If it matters to you then it with us.
Thats what we call we create FANS.
Our people act Our culture encourages matters to us.
in the customers best interest colleagues to speak up in a your dogs, kids, bikes: well with our mantras of one to say variety of ways including our make sure theyre all well yes, two to say no and no internal social media platform, looked after.
Yammer, regular Revolution Update sessions with the Executive Leadership Team and annual colleague surveys.
14 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC Case study OUR COLLEAGUES HAVE THE M-FACTOR Culture matters We have one question AMAZEING VALUES for anyone looking to join Metro Bank, have People want a purpose at work and our you got the M-Factor?
simple, compelling vision of creating ttend to every detail FANS runs through everything we do at Its this special star quality we are seeking Metro Bank, whichever team you are in.
in every single person who joins the Bank, ake every wrong right whatever their role.
We hire for attitude and We also know that culture drives train for skill.
If you can demonstrate a customer experience, so we hire for the sk if youre not sure passion for the customer, are committed to right attitude and look for people who bump it up!
doing the right thing and smile when you want to surprise and delight customers est is contagious, share it!
walk in the room, then we might be the and create FANS.
We underpin all of that with fantastic xceed expectations training from our in-house Metro Bank We ask all our customer-facing colleagues University, which ran over 6,000 to take part in our M-Factor auditions.
nspire colleagues classroom courses last year.
These events give us the chance to really to create FANS!
get under the skin of the individuals hoping Of course, our people need to be urture colleagues to join us and, more importantly, give them the most professional bankers too, so they grow the opportunity to find out what its like to so we provide the Chartered Banker work for the UKs first new high street bank qualification to all colleagues in our ame change because in over 100 years.
The audition involves role entry-level service roles.
plays and interviews and helps us to find this is a revolution out how candidates would react in true to We promote around 2030% of our life scenarios.
colleagues every year and always look for talent inside our organisation before We created the M-Factor auditions to mirror we hire externally.
what its like to be part of the Metro Bank family.
Our hope is that candidates will be the perfect fit but we also focus on creating OUR HIGHLY ENGAGED COLLEAGUES CREATE FANS a fun and informative journey for them too.
97% 96% 94% 95% 94% 93% What weve found is that, even if they 87% 88% decide were not the employer for them, they still leave as a FAN of the brand.
After all, every candidate is a potential customer.
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 For those lucky ones who make it through I understand how my Metro Bank is a I believe there are I am encouraged to business unit contributes good place to work opportunities for promotion bump up escalate issues the M-Factor, the audition is only the to the overall success of within Metro Bank beginning.
Every single new colleague Metro Bank from Director to receptionist takes part Source: 2016 Voice of the Colleague Survey.
in our two-day cultural induction programme, Visions.
Visions immerses new colleagues in our culture, introduces NET PROMOTER our values and explains how we operate as SCORE a business fanatically focused on 2016 AVERAGE 78% customers.
Plus our CEO comes to every Game-Changing single Visions event to tell colleagues first Game-Changing Partnership with Zopa hand why he started the Revolution and Partnership with Zopa how he needs their help to create FANS.
An industry measure of customers willingness to 1,000 Companies recommend us to others.
Most Trusted Financial Provider 1,000 Companies to Inspire Britain Most Trusted Financial Provider to Inspire Britain Most Trusted Current Most Trusted Current Account Provider 15 Account Provider Tecnology Innovation Most Trusted Savings Tecnology Innovation Enterprise Award Most Trusted Savings and Cash ISA Provider Enterprise Award and Cash ISA Provider Best Current Account Provider Best Current Account Provider for Branch Service Top Tier in Invoice for Branch Service Top Tier in Invoice and Asset Finance Best Branch Strategy Award Best Provider of Childrens and Asset Finance Best Branch Strategy Award Best Provider of Childrens Savings Account Savings Account HIGHLY COMMENDED HIGHLY COMMENDED Best Current Account Provider Best Current Account Provider for Call Centre Service for Call Centre Service Best Savings Provider Gold Ribbon for Best Savings Provider Gold Ribbon for Customer Service Best Current Account Mobile App for Existing Customers Customer Service Best Current Account Mobile App for Existing Customers Strategic report Governance Financial statements
