Latin America and the UK in the Brexit landscape PageGroup Annual Report 2016 13 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information in this sector.
Our business in Brazil is We can still point to a number of Latin America leaner and more efficient, ready to take bright spots in 2016.
Our Legal and For PageGroup, Latin America in advantage of every opportunity the Technology disciplines both saw gross recent years has been a success story, market provides.
profit growth of 10% in 2016, with our notwithstanding the challenging market Procurement & Supply Chain sector 2017 will see an acceleration of the conditions in Brazil.
With recruitment at the lower implementation of our Shared Service salary end of the market less impacted We opened our first office in the Centre in Argentina and we will plan by the slowdown from Brexit, our Page continent in Brazil in 2000, with Mexico further investment in new disciplines and Personnel business, which represent following in 2006, Argentina in 2007 and sectors, such as Page Interim in Peru 22% of the UK, grew 2%.
Colombia opened in 2012 and expansion of our Page Personnel business and our Scotland operation and our sixth country, Peru, commenced brand in Argentina.
Above all, the UK remains an extremely The UK in the Brexit Excluding Brazil, Latin America has seen profitable market for PageGroup, with remarkable growth for PageGroup in landscape operating profit for 2016 of 24.2m.
recent years, with gross profit growth For the UK, 2016 was a year dominated Our flexible model and ability to scale of 19% in 2016.
Argentina had growth by uncertainty.
The UK entered June up and down quickly means we have of 49% and has delivered a remarkable on the back of a five months cautious strong cost control.
By way of natural run of 12 consecutive quarters of 30% trading which saw a cumulative yearattrition, particularly of newer, less growth.
Peru more than doubled its on-year contraction in gross profit experienced consultants and non or gross profit in 2016.
Both countries, of 1% compared to growth of 9.6% delayed replacement of leavers, we were along with Mexico and Colombia, had for 2015 as a whole.
The impending able to lower our fee earner headcount record years.
The US election result may Referendum was clearly an important by 85 in the year, or by 8%.
We have impact on Mexico, but we have not seen factor.
We commented at the time that also reduced our support staff by 20, any indication of this yet, whilst for Peru, whilst activity levels had largely held through a number of initiatives, such as Argentina, Chile and Colombia there is up, there was a slowdown in the final our new Scotland-based centralised CV no sign of any slowdown.
decision making process, as clients and Processing Centre.
We currently have In 2010, Latin America excluding Brazil candidates became more cautious in over 1,000 fee earners in the UK, in 27 generated 5.7m gross profit for the both offering and accepting jobs.
cities and working across 13 disciplines.
Group, a figure which reached 24.1m Following the result of the Referendum, Going forward into 2017, whilst in 2016.
In constant currencies, this is we saw activity levels fall, initially by caution remains the market sentiment, a compound annual growth rate of over around 10% in some sectors and PageGroup has identified a number of 35%.
Fee earner headcount excluding particularly in Financial Services, then opportunities to grow, and we remain Brazil grew over the same period from recovering slightly.
For the year as confident that we can, as ever, respond 80 to just under 300, a compound a whole, the UK saw its gross profit rapidly to any changes in market annual growth rate of 24%.
first time, in 2016, Mexicos fee earner as to our future trading relationship with headcount exceeded that of Brazil.
the EU and in consequence, confidence As well as expanding geographically, levels have remained low, particularly we have also expanded the number of amongst our multi-national clients.
disciplines and specialisms in which we Business confidence was, however, operate, with recent additions including higher with our SME clients, who are Sales in Mexico, Legal in Argentina and generally less exposed to global trade or Technology in both Colombia and Peru.
Overall, we now operate in 59 country Although the UK remains PageGroups disciplines across Latin America, up biggest single market, representing from 31 in 2010.
On average, each 21% of the Groups gross profit in Q4 country operates in 10 disciplines.
2016, our geographic and discipline We also operate our high end Page diversification strategy of the past few Executive division in all six countries, years has meant that we are no longer generating 2m of gross profit in 2016, as dependent on the UK or on Financial a compound annual growth rate of 22% Services, which represented 5% of the since 2010.
This is a much Whilst Brazil has experienced an reduced dependency than in the past.
extremely challenging year, down 21%, 10 years ago, for example, in 2006, the we ended the year with a fee earner UK represented 45% of PageGroup headcount of c. 130 and retained our and within the UK, Financial Services office and discipline structure.
There accounted for 11% of gross profit.
have been encouraging signs in Brazils Temp market and we have invested PageGroup Annual Report 2016 14
