Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report The directors of Micro Focus International plc the Company Dividends present their report and the audited consolidated financial The board has in recent periods had a dividend policy to award a statements of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2016. level of full year dividend covered approximately two times on a pre-exceptional earnings basis.
Following the completion of the acquisition of TAG, unless the performance of the Group was to Strategic report fallsignificantly below the boards expectations, the board has The Group is required by the Companies Act 2006 to present a implemented a progressive dividend policy but has suspended fairreview of the business during the year to 30 April 2016 and further returns of value or share buy backs until such time as the ofthe position of the Group at the end of the financial year along Groups target net debt level of 2.5 times Facility EBITDA is achieved.
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced bythe Group.
In addition, the Group is also required to present For the year ended 30 April 2016 the directors recommend thefuture developments of the Company.
The information that payment of a final dividend in respect of the financial year of 49.74 fulfils these requirements can be found on pages 3 to 43 of the cents per share, which, taken together with the interim dividend of Strategic Report.
16.94 cents per share paid in January 2016, gives atotaldividend in respect of 2016 of 66.68 cents per share.
Thisis50.7% higher than Corporate governance the final dividend paid last year.
Subjecttoshareholder approval, The Group is required to produce a corporate governance the final dividend will be paidon7October 2016 to shareholders statementpursuant to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA on the register on 2September2016.
The information that fulfils thisrequirement can be found in this Directors report and in Dividends will be paid in Sterling based on an exchange rate of thecorporate governance section on pages 48 to 53 which is 1 $1.33, equivalent to approximately 37.40 pence per share, incorporated intothis Directors report by reference.
beingthe rate applicable on 13 July 2016, the date on which theboard resolved to propose the final dividend.
R the Company is required to make the following disclosures: Interests in share capital Directors and their interests The directors of the Company who served during the year reported Location of details in the Areas for disclosure Annual Report and Accounts on and up to the date of signing this report are as follows: Interest capitalized Not applicable Publication of unaudited Financial Review, Executive financialinformation CEOReview Micro Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman Focus Product Portfolio, CEO Review SUSE Mike Phillips Chief Financial Officer Product Portfolio Stephen Murdoch Chief Executive Officer of Micro Focus Detail of any long-term Directors appointed 1February 2016 incentiveschemes Remunerationreport Nils Brauckmann Chief Executive Officer of SUSE Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable appointed 1February 2016 Waiver of future emoluments by Not applicable Non-executive adirector Karen Slatford Senior independent non-executive director Non pre-emptive issues of equity Note 29 to the forcash Groupsconsolidated Tom Virden financial statements Richard Atkins Non pre-emptive issues of equity Not applicable Steve Schuckenbrock appointed 1 February 2016 forcashby any unlisted major Amanda Brown appointed 1 July 2016  Parent company participation in Not applicable aplacingby a listed subsidiary Tom Skelton stepped down from the board at the conclusion of Contracts of significance to which Not applicable theCompanys 2015 Annual General Meeting, having served for theCompany is a party and in which nearly nine years with the Company.
David Golob and Prescott Ashe adirector is materially interested representatives of our former significant shareholder, Wizard LLP Contracts of significance between a Not applicable stepped down from the board on 1 February 2016 in line with the Company and a controlling shareholder relationship agreement in anticipation of Wizard LLPs shareholding Provision of services by a Not applicable reducing to below 15%.
Karen Geary retired from the board on  1March 2016 and joined the Company as Group Human Resources Director with effect from that date.
Shareholder waiver of dividends Not applicable Shareholder waiver of future dividends Not applicable Details of the interests of the directors and their families in the Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable ordinary shares of the Company are given in the remuneration report on page 83.
86 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 None of the directors had a material interest in any contract Equal opportunities ofsignificance to which the Company or a subsidiary was a The Group operates an equal opportunities policy.
Full consideration partyduring the financial year, as disclosed in note 38 Related isgiven to all job applicants, irrespective of gender, age, marital status, party transactions.
disability, sexuality, race, colour, religion, ethnic or national origin or anyother conditions not relevant to the performance of the job, who Directors insurance and indemnity provisions can demonstrate that they have the necessary skills and abilities.
The Company maintains insurance cover for all directors and officersof Group companies against liabilities which may be All employees accept the commitment within this policy that the Group incurred by them while acting as directors and officers of any will not allow discrimination or harassment by employees or others Groupcompany.
acting on the Groups behalf, in respect of sex, age, marital status, race, colour, nationality, disability or religious or political beliefs.
During the financial year reported on, and as at the date of this report, qualifying third party indemnities are in force under which Disabled employees the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors, to the extent With regard to existing employees and those who may become permitted by law and by the Articles of Association of the Company disabled, the Groups policy is to examine ways and means to the Articles, against liabilities they may incur in the execution of provide continuing employment under its existing terms and their duties as directors of the Company.
A copy of the Articles is conditions and to provide training and career development, available for review at the registered office of the Company.
Employee involvement Substantial shareholding The Group believes it is important that employees are aware of the At 30 April 2016 the following percentage interests in the Groups business strategy and the objectives which are in place to ordinaryshare capital of the Company, disclosable under the assist them to focus on working towards these goals.
Communications FCAsDisclosure and Transparency Rules, have been notified at the time of key announcements, including presentations by directors totheCompany: to all employees, together with briefings throughout the year, are part of the communication and consultation programme.
The programme is designed to provide employees with awareness of the financial Ordinary shares of % Percentage of Name of holder 10 pence each issued capital and economic factors affecting the Groups performance and also to provide employees with information onemployment related Wizard Parent LLC 30,095,711 13.80 matters which may be of interest.
FMR LLC 22,559,483 9.87 Old Mutual plc 15,529,641 6.79 In addition, regular meetings are held with staff and managers, both Artemis Investment to raise issues and to assist with the two-way flow of information.
Management LLP 8,117,983 3.74 The Group also has an online process which enables employees to express views and suggest improvements.
The following changes in the interests disclosed to the Company Further education and training have been notified between 30 April 2016 and 13 July 2016: Continuing education, training and development are important to ensure the future success of the Group.
The Group supports On 13 May 2016 Wizard LLC sold 24,078,342 ordinary shares in an individuals who wish to obtain relevant and appropriate further accelerated book build process to reduce their holding to 6,017,369 education qualifications and reimburses tuition fees up to a specified ordinary shares representing 2.6% of the Companys issued share level.
Training needs of all employees are also analysed during the capital.
These remaining shares were to be distributed to certain annual and half yearly appraisal process, at which time a training members of Wizard LLC and certain partners and investors of such plan is agreed as part of each individuals on-going development.
members so that Wizard LLC would no longer be a shareholder.
At appropriate times throughout the course of a year, the directors are briefed on recent changes to legislation, regulations and codes Ordinary shares of % Percentage of ofpractice which are relevant to their duties and the operations Name of holder 10 pence each issued capital ofthe Groups business.
Where appropriate, the directors are Old Mutual plc 16,736,002 7.31 provided with copies of the underlying documentation and or written summaries of the principal changes.
Employment policy The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for the The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and skills, knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
Further information with regard to the evaluation TheGroup has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining can be found in the corporate governance report on pages 48 to andproviding incentives for key staff.
This evaluation included an assessment of directors training departments and employees derived from the Groups business anddevelopment requirements.
Performance is formally measured against these objectives twice each year.
TheGroup has a clear and wellShare option schemes understood organizational structure and each employee The directors remain committed to the principle that selected knowshisor her line of accountability.
employees should be able to participate in the Groups progress through share-based compensation schemes.
Details of the Groupsshare-based compensation schemes are given in note 35.
87 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report continued No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class Statutory and other disclosures meeting in respect of shares held by him or her if any call or other sum Greenhouse Gas emissions then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions as Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors report Regulations 2013 are contained in Deadlines for voting rights thecorporate social responsibility report on pages 39 to 43.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting the Financial instruments AGM to be held on 22 September 2016 are set out in the Notice The exposure of the Group to financial risks, including the use of of Meeting which accompanies this report.
financial instruments and policies for hedging and the exposure to price, credit, cash flow and liquidity risk, can be found in note 27 Dividends and distributions to the financial statements.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to members Research and development but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the board.
All expenditure on research is expensed as incurred.
The Group The board may pay interim dividends and any fixed rate dividend capitalizes development expenditure from the point that all the relevant whenever the profits of the Company, in the opinion of the board, criteria are met.
The capitalized cost is then amortized over the useful justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid life of the software.
During the year to 30 April 2016, $256.1m was pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2015: $162.3m in respect of research and development expenditure.
Transfer of shares This charge is after net capitalization of internal development Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or her expenditure of approximately $11.4m 2015: $0.1m net amortization certificated shares in writing by an instrument of transfer in any usual consisting of $30.9m 2015: $19.5m of capitalized development form or in any other form which the board may approve.
The board expenditure offset by $19.5m 2015: $19.6m of amortization and may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reasons, decline impairment of previously capitalized development expenditure.
to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share provided that, where any such shares are admitted to Political donations the Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority, such discretion The Groups policy is to make no donations or contributions to may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares political parties 2015: $nil.
of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The board may decline to recognize any instrument of transfer relating to shares in Budgetary process certificated form unless it is in respect of only one class of share and is A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit lodged duly stamped if required at the Transfer Office as defined in detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by executive the Articles accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such directors prior to submission to the board for approval.
other evidence as the board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer Insurance is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that The Group keeps under review, with its insurance brokers, its portfolio person to do so.
In the case of a transfer of shares in certificated form of insurance policies to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the by a recognized clearing house or a nominee of a recognized clearing Groups activities and exposure.
house or of a recognized investment exchange, the lodgement of share certificates will only be necessary if and to the extent that certificates have been issued in respect of the shares in question.
The directors Share capital may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Subject ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
On 22 March 2016, the Company tothe Articles and the CREST Rules as defined in the Uncertificated made a placing of 10,873,180 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Securities Regulations, as amended, and apart from any class of wholly 10,872,680 of these shares were held in treasury, and 500 of the dematerialized security, the board may permit any class of shares in shares were newly issued.
The total share capital of the Company theCompany to be held in uncertificated form and, subject to the following the placing is 228,706,210 ordinary shares of 10 pence, of Articles, title to uncertificated shares to be transferred by means of which 29,924 ordinary shares are held in treasury.
Therefore, the total arelevant system.
number of voting rights in the Company is 228,676,286.
During the year 436,979 shares, other than the 10,872,680 shares used in respect of the above mentioned placing, were transferred out of treasury to Repurchase of shares meet the Companys obligations under its employee share plans.
The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM heldon 24 September 2015 to buy back up to 14.99% of its issued share capital.
At that time this amounted to 32,597,794 Rights and obligations attaching to shares ordinary shares, and the authority remains outstanding until the Voting conclusion of the next AGM on 22 September 2016.
The minimum At a General Meeting of the Company: price which must be paid for such shares is now 10 pence per ordinary share and the maximum price which may be paid for each On a show of hands, every member present in person and every ordinary share is an amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the proxy duly appointed by a member shall have one vote: and average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall five business days immediately preceding the day on which the have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
Company agrees to buy the shares concerned: and ii the higher 88 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ofthe price of the last independent trade of any ordinary share and On completion of the acquisition of TAG 20November 2014 the highest current bid for an ordinary share as stipulated byArticle theGroup had new debt facilities of $2,000.0m comprising: 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions forbuyback A syndicated senior secured tranche B term loan facility of programmes and stabilization of financial instruments 2273 2003.
$1,275.0m Term Loan B, with an interest rate of 4.25% above LIBOR subject to a LIBOR floor of 1.00%, amortizing at1.00% per annum, with an original issue discount of Amendment to the Articles 1.00%and a sevenyear term: Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
A syndicated senior secured tranche C term loan facility of $500.0m Term Loan C, with an interest rate of 3.75% Appointment and replacement of directors aboveLIBOR subject to a LIBOR floor of 0.75%, amortizing Directors shall be no less than three and no more than 11 in number.
at10.00% per annum, with an original issue discount of Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution 1.5%and a five year term: and or by the board.
A director appointed by the board holds office only until the next AGM and is then eligible for election or re-election by A senior secured revolving credit facility of $225.0m Revolving the shareholders annually thereafter.
Facility, with an interest rate of 3.50% above LIBOR on amounts drawn and 0.50% on amounts undrawn thereunder and an The board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to original issue discount of 0.5%.
hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine As part of the Serena acquisition additional Revolving Facilities and may revoke or terminate any such employment.
commitments of $150.0m in total were obtained on 2 May 2016 from Barclays, HSBC and The Royal Bank of Scotland.
The Company by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given and the board, by unanimous decision, may remove any During the current financial year mandatory repayments of $12.75m director before the expiration of his or her term of office and the of the Term Loan B and $50.0m of the Term Loan C were made Company may elect or the board may appoint another person in together with a draw-down of $245.0m and repayment of $95.0m place of a director so removed from office.
The office of director shall be vacated if: i he or she in writing resigns At 30 April 2016, $225.0m of the Revolving Facility was drawn, in or offers to resign and the directors accept such offer: ii an order anticipation of the completion of the Serena acquisition, together ismade by any court claiming that he or she is or may be suffering with $1,112.25m of Term Loan B and $450.0m of Term Loan C giving from a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent without permission gross debt of $1,787.25m drawn.
On 2 May 2016 the Revolving Facility ofthe board from meetings for six months and the board resolves was extended by $150.0m and this increased the total facilities that his or her office is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt available to the Group to $1,937.25m.
orcompounds with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a director: or vi he or she is removed The only financial covenant attaching to these new facilities relates to from office pursuant to the Articles.
the Revolving Facility, which is subject to an aggregate net leverage covenant only in circumstances where more than 35% of the Revolving Powers of the directors in relation to share capital Facility is outstanding at a fiscal quarter end.
At 30 April 2016 $225.0m The business of the Company will be managed by the board who of the Revolving Facility available at that time was drawn representing may exercise all the powers of the Company, including the power 100%, reducing to 60% on 2 May 2016 when the facility was toauthorize the issue and or market purchase of the Companys extended.
The covenant calculation indicates that the Group had shares subject to the provisions of the Articles, the Companies Act inexcess of 140% headroom against the covenant test.
2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
There was one occasion in the year under review when shareholders delegated The strategic report does not contain any information about persons powers to the Directors in relation to share capital: with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company as, in the view At the AGM held on 24 September 2015 the directors were of the directors, there are no such arrangements.
granted the powers to allot equity securities with a nominal value of up to 7,248,786 and to make market purchases of Branches the Companys shares.
The Group continues to operate overseas branches or representative offices in Chile, Denmark, Finland, Hong Kong, Mexico, Portugal, Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust Sweden and the Peoples Republic of China.
Where the trustee of the Micro Focus Employee Benefit Trust the Trust holds shares in the Company and the beneficial interest in Annual General Meeting those shares has not been transferred to a beneficiary of the Trust, The notice convening the AGM of the Company together with the trustee may not vote in relation to those shares at any meeting the explanatory notes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM of shareholders of the Company.
The meeting will be held at the Companys offices at The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire Significant agreements RG14 1QN on 22September 2016 at 3pm UK time.
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling thecounterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: 89 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report continued The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Independent auditors and disclosure of that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and information to auditors disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of So far as they are aware, the directors at the date of this report confirm the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the that there is no relevant audit information that is, information financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible the directors have taken all reasonable steps that they ought to have for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are offraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of PwC have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern The directors, having made enquiries and produced a Viability The directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken Statement page 38, consider that the Company and the Group as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys the foreseeable future and therefore it is appropriate to maintain performance, business model and strategy.
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Post balance sheet events board of directors section within the corporate governance report Post balance sheet events have been reported in note 40 in this on pages 48 to 53 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Statement of directors responsibilities accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the theDirectors Remuneration report and the financial statements Group: and inaccordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors report includes a fair review of the development Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements and performance of the business and the position of the Group, for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the Group financial statements in accordance with International that it faces.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance Each of the persons who are a director in office at the date of this with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United report confirms that: Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising Financial Reporting Standard 102, The Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the a S o far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102, and applicable law.
Under of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair b The director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: auditors are aware of that information.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: By order of the board, State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards comprising FRS 102 have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed andexplained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: Jane Smithard Company Secretary Notify its shareholders in writing about the use of disclosure 13 July 2016 exemptions, if any, of FRS 102 used in the preparation of financial statements: and Micro Focus International plc Registered office: Prepares the financial statements on the going concern basis The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Newbury continue in business.
Berkshire RG14 1QN Registered in England Company number: 5134647 90
