Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Viability statement The context for the assessment Assessment of viability Although the strategic plan represents the directors best estimate The Groups business model and strategy are central of the future prospects of the business, they have also tested the toan understanding of its prospects, and details can potential impact on the Group of a number of scenarios over and befound on pages 3 to 8. above those included in the plan, by quantifying their financial impact and overlaying this on the detailed financial forecasts The Groups current overall strategy has been in place for several intheplan.
These scenarios included various severe but plausible years and there are no planned changes to this strategy.
The Group circumstances that the Group could experience, including: delivered an Underlying Adjusted EBITDA of $532.5m in the year and expects this profit measure to continue to grow in future years.
Lower revenue growth in the SUSE Portfolio: The board continues to take a conservative approach to the Groups Higher revenue decline in the Micro Focus Portfolio: and strategy where the focus is about stabilization of revenues in FY17 and a small revenue growth thereafter coupled with a focus on cost Lower EBITDA growth.
Decisions relating to major new projects and investments are made with a low appetite for risk and are subject to an escalating The results of this stress testing showed that, due to the stability system of approvals, including short payback periods.
Acquisitions ofthe core business, the Group would be able to withstand the will be considered but they need to meet the Groups stringent impact of these scenarios occurring over the next three years return on investment criteria.
bymaking adjustments to its operating plans within the normalcourse of business.
The assessment process and key assumptions The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through its strategic The Group also considered a number of scenarios that would plan and annual budget process.
This process includes an annual represent serious threats to its liquidity.
None of these were review of the on-going plan, led by the executive directors and all considered to be plausible.
relevant functions are involved, including Go to Market, Product Group, Marketing, Finance, IT, Human Resources, Legal, Treasury Viability statement and Risk.
The board participates fully in the annual process by Based on their assessments of prospects and viability above, the means of discussion at the September, February and April board directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the meetings, with the September meeting being a two day event.
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as Partof the boards role is to consider whether the plan continues they fall due over the next three year period ending 30 April 2019. totake appropriate account of the external environment including macroeconomic and technological changes.
Going concern The directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial The output of the annual review process produces an annual statements on the going concern basis, as explained in note 1 to budget for next year and financial forecasts for the subsequent the financial statements.
twoyears assuming no further acquisitions.
The latest updates tothe strategic plan were finalized in April 2016 following this yearsreview.
This considered the Groups current position and development of the business as a whole over the next three years.
As a result of this focus, financial forecasts were prepared for a three year period and these were discussed at the board meeting inApril 2016.
The first year of the financial forecasts forms the Groups operating budget and is subject to a re-forecast at the endof every quarter.
The key assumptions in the financial forecasts, reflecting the overall strategy include: Continued significant revenue growth in the SUSE Portfolio withcontinued cost investment: Continued revenue decline in the Micro Focus Portfolio with costsavings being achieved each year: and No debt refinancing.
In assessing the Groups viability the board has considered theprincipal risks as set out in pages 32 to 37.
