Governance Board of Directors as at 31 December 2016 N 1 Kwek Leng Beng Mr Kwek holds an honorary doctorate in Business Administration 1 in Hospitality from Johnson & Wales University in the US and an Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Nominations honorary doctorate from Oxford Brookes University in the UK.
He Committee also serves as a member of the INSEAD East Asia Council.
Kwek Leng Beng has been the Chairman of Millennium & Copthorne Kwek Leng Beng has distinguished himself in property Hotels plc since its incorporation.
He is also the executive chairman of investment and development, hotel ownership and management, City Developments Limited and chairman and managing director of financial services and industrial enterprises.
He leads a business Hong Leong Finance Limited.
He is currently the non-executive empire worth over US$32b in diversified premium assets worldwide chairman of Hong Leong Asia Limited but will be stepping down as its and comprising companies traded on six of the worlds stock chairman and as a director at its upcoming annual general meeting in markets.
Mr Kwek heads a worldwide staff of over 40,000 across a April 2017.
Mr Kwek was also the chairman and managing director of range of businesses in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Europe and City e-Solutions Limited until he stepped down in September 2016 North America.
after it ceased to be a subsidiary of City Developments Limited.
Rc 2 Aloysius Lee Tse Sang Mr Lee was previously the Chief Executive Officer of South 2 Beach Consortium Pte Ltd. a joint venture established by City Group Chief Executive Officer Developments Limited and other parties to create a mixed-use real Aloysius Lee Tse Sang was appointed to the Board and as Group estate development in Singapore.
Prior to that, Mr Lee held senior Chief Executive Officer on 1 March 2015.
He is a non-executive leadership positions at Shui On Land, Hong Kong Telecom, Star director of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels New Zealand and CDL Cruises and Singapore Airlines.
He is a fellow of both the Chartered Investments New Zealand Limited, both of which are listed on the Management Institute and the Chartered Institute of Marketing, and New Zealand stock exchange, having been appointed on 1 April earned a masters degree in business administration from the 2015, and he was appointed as a non executive director of First University of Hong Kong.
He also holds management qualifications Sponsor Group Limited, which is listed on the Singapore Exchange, from Harvard University and the University of Hawaii.
Mr Lee serves as president and chairman of the board of Grand Plaza Hotel Corporation, which is listed in the Philippines, after his appointment on 15 May 2015.
ANRRc 3 Nicholas George JP Morgan Securities previously Jardine Fleming in Asia from 1993 3 to 2002 and a managing director of HSBC Securities in Asia from Senior Independent Director 2002 to 2003.
Nicholas George was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
A chartered accountant by profession, Mr George sits on the board of G. K. Goh Holdings Limited a company listed in Singapore and Henderson Far East Income Limited which is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
He also sits on the boards of euNetworks Group Limited and Nutmeg Savings and Investments Limited.
Mr George was a founding partner of KGR Capital Management Limited, a leading Asian funds of hedge funds, that was sold to LGT Capital Partners UK Limited in 2008.
He has over 30 years of experience in investment banking and was a managing director of Rc 4 Kwek Eik Sheng 4 Non-Executive Director Kwek Eik Sheng was appointed to the Board in April 2008.
He has been with the Hong Leong Group of companies in Singapore since 2006 and joined City Developments Limited in 2009, where he currently serves as the Chief Strategy Officer and Head, Asset Management.
Mr Kwek holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine and a MPhil in Finance from Judge Business School, Cambridge University.
NRc 5 Kwek Leng Peck 5 Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Risk Committee Kwek Leng Peck was appointed to the Board in February 1995, prior to the flotation of the Company on the London Stock Exchange.
He holds directorships on most of the listed companies within the Hong Leong Group of companies in Singapore, including City Developments Limited, Hong Leong Finance Limited and China Yuchai International Limited.
He also serves as an executive director for Hong Leong Asia Limited and is the non-executive chairman of Tasek Corporation Berhad.
34 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Committee membership: A - Audit Committee N - Nominations Committee R - Remuneration Committee Rc - Risk Committee NR 6 His Excellency Shaukat Aziz banking for Central Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa and 6 later for Asia Pacific, followed by Chief Executive of Citibanks global Independent Non-Executive Director wealth management business.
A renowned public speaker on Shaukat Aziz was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
He was economic and geopolitical affairs, Mr Aziz is a member of several elected as Prime Minister of Pakistan and served between 2004 and boards of directors and the advisory boards of various commercial 2007, having previously held the post of Finance Minister for five and non-profit entities around the world.
After graduating from Gordon College, Rawalpindi in 1967, Mr Aziz earned a masters of business administration degree from the Institute of Business Administration, University of Karachi.
An internship at Citibank marked the beginning of a 30 year career in global finance.
As an Executive Vice President, he held several senior management positions in Citibank, including head of institutional 7 Daniel Desbaillets Mr Desbaillets has extensive hospitality experience.
He has been 7 in the hospitality industry since 1973 holding senior positions with Independent Non-Executive Director InterContinental Hotel Group, Hilton and Shangri-La.
He was Daniel Desbaillets was appointed to the Board in September 2016. appointed to the boards of CDLHT as an Independent NonPrior to his appointment Mr Desbaillets was an Independent Executive Director in July 2010.
Non-Executive Director of M&C REIT Management Limited, the manager for CDL Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust H-REIT, and also of M&C Business Trust Management Limited, the trustee-manager for CDL Hospitality Business Trust HBT.
He resigned as from September 2016.
Both H-REIT and HBT are comprised as a stapled group in CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT which is listed on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited.
ANR 8 Susan Farr 8 Independent Non-Executive Director Susan Farr was appointed to the Board in December 2013.
She was a business director of Chime Communication Limited formerly Chime Communication plc from 2003 until 2015 and serves as a special adviser on a part time basis.
She also serves as a non-executive director of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Dairy Crest plc, Accsys Technologies plc and Dolphin Capital Investors Limited.
A specialist in business development and marketing, Ms Farr previously held a number of senior management positions at Vauxhall Motors, the BBC and Thames Television.
She is also the former chair of The Marketing Society and the Marketing Group of Great Britain.
ARRc 9 Gervase MacGregor years, first as an auditor of international five star hotels and 9 Independent Non-Executive Director and more recently with investigations and disputes in the sector.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Gervase MacGregor is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Gervase MacGregor was appointed to the Board in December Accountants in England and Wales and a graduate of the 2014.
He has been a partner of BDO LLP since 1991, where University of Liverpool and he has a masters degree from HEC he is currently the head of international advisory, risk and quality in Paris.
services, specialising in forensic investigations and expert witness services.
Prior to joining BDO LLP, Mr MacGregor worked as a petroleum geologist in the North Sea, Australia and West Africa.
He has experience in the hospitality sector over the last 25 ANR 10 10 Alexander Waugh Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Alexander Waugh was appointed to the Board in June 2009.
Mr Waugh has commercial experience in event management, the media industry and is the founder of a successful publishing business.
Mr Waugh is also a well-known author, literary critic and composer.
He is Honorary President of the Shakespeare Authorship Coalition and Senior Visiting Fellow at the University of Leicester.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 35
