Governance Directors report Introduction 2016 including identification of the Chairman, Results and dividends The Directors submit their report for the Senior Independent Director, the other The results of the Group for the year ended financial year ended 31 December 2016.
Directors who are considered by the Board to 31 December 2016 are set out on pages 74 to be independent and the chairs of the Boards 138.
This report includes information required to be standing committees are shown on pages 34 disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 the to 35.
An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 2.08p per share was Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Disclosure and Transparency Except for Daniel Desbaillets who was paid on 30 September 2016.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 5.66p per Rules and the Listing Rules.
Certain information appointed as an Independent Non-Executive required to be included in this report is set out Director with effect from 14 September 2016, share 2015: 4.34p, which, if approved at the annual general meeting in May 2017, will be in other sections of the Annual Report, which all Directors served on the Board during the are cross-referenced and incorporated herein.
paid on 12 May 2017 to shareholders on the register on 17 March 2017.
In particular, the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to 44 and the Director shareholding Details of the Directors shareholdings at the Political donations and expenditure Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 64 form part of this report.
year-end are shown on page 59.
No changes No donations were made by the Group for to these shareholdings have occurred between political purposes and the Group did not incur 31 December 2016 and the date of this report.
any political expenditure during the year 2015: Disclosure Section Pages nil.
The Company operates a politically Viability statement Strategic Report 27 Appointment and removal of Directors neutral policy with regard to political donations Future developments Strategic Report 7 A Director may be appointed to fill a casual and expenditure.
See the Corporate vacancy or as an additional Director by an Greenhouse gas Corporate 23 Responsibility review on page 20 for details of emissions Responsibility ordinary resolution of shareholders.
In addition, the Companys non-political charitable the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a activities.
Financial instruments Note 22 to the financial 108 statements casual vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next Financial instruments Internal controls Corporate Governance 46 annual general meeting.
An indication of the Groups financial risk Statement management objectives and policies in respect Charitable activities Corporate 25 In line with the Code, which provides that all of the use of financial instruments and Responsibility directors of FTSE 350 companies should stand exposure of the Company to price risk, credit Policy on payment for Directors 54 for election or re-election by shareholders every risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are set out loss of office Remuneration Report year, all current members of the Board, with in Note 22 to the consolidated financial Changes to share Note 29 to the financial 126 the exception of Alexander Waugh, Aloysius statements.
capital statements Lee and Nicholas George, will retire and seek Going concern Note 3 to the financial 90 Greenhouse gas emissions election or re-election at this years annual disclosure statements general meeting.
Howard Wu who will join the All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the Board on 17 February will also retire and seek Strategic Report election.
The eligibility requirements for Corporate Responsibility review on pages 22 to This report is found on pages 4 to 30, and 24. directors to be appointed at a general meeting certain information required to be disclosed in are specified in the Companys Articles of this report has been included within the Strategic Employee involvement and disabled Association.
The strategic report persons prepared by the Directors is required by the Act A Director may be removed by the Company in We value highly the rich ethnic and cultural to provide a fair review of the Companys certain circumstances as set out in the diversity of our people.
The Group operates in business, including an analysis of the Companys Articles of Association or the over 20 countries and employs over 10,500 development and performance of the Directors appointment agreement, including employees worldwide.
We are an equal Companys business during the year and by an ordinary resolution of the Company, opportunities employer and our objective is to position of its business at the end of the year upon being given written notice to resign ensure that no employee or other worker or job and a description of the Companys strategy and signed by all of the other Directors or in the applicant receives less favourable treatment, business model.
event the Director becomes prohibited by law directly or indirectly, on the grounds of age, from acting as a Director.
disability, gender reassignment, marital or civil Board of Directors partner status, pregnancy or maternity, race, The names and biographical details of the colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, Directors holding office as at 31 December religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
36 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Further, our policies encourage the Branches The voting rights attached to the Companys employment, training and advancement of The Company did not have any branches ordinary shares are not restricted and there are disabled persons, having regard to their outside the UK during the year.
no restrictions on the transfer of the particular aptitudes and abilities, provided that Companys shares aside from certain Going concern they can be employed in a safe working restrictions which may from time to time be environment.
Suitable employment would, if The Directors continue to adopt a going imposed by laws and regulations, such as concern basis in preparing the financial possible, be found for any employee who insider dealing laws.
In addition, pursuant to becomes disabled during the course of statements of the Company and Group.
the Companys share dealing code, the Information on the going concern assessment employment.
Companys Directors and persons discharging is included on page 90, within Note 3 to the managerial responsibility are required to seek Group financial statements.
The Group values the engagement of its approval to deal in the Companys shares.
employees and endeavours to keep employees Amendment to the Companys Articles of None of the Companys shares carry special informed about matters of concern to them and the performance of the Company, whether Association rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association may Neither the Companys management nor its through management presentations, regional intranet sites and other communications.
only be amended by special resolution of its Directors are aware of any agreements shareholders in accordance with the Act.
between shareholders that could result in Likewise, the Group seeks to consult with employees on a regular basis so that their restrictions on the transfer of shares or voting Significant agreements rights.
views can be taken into account.
The Group There are no significant agreements to which operates an HM Revenue & Customs approved the Company is a party that take effect, are Employee share schemes Save as You Earn Scheme in the UK, a long altered or terminate upon a change of control term incentive plan, executive share plan and The Company has in place a discretionary of the Company following a takeover bid.
employee benefit trust EBT, the Millennium deferred share bonus plan for certain levels of However, as mentioned in the Payment for executives globally.
The primary aims of these & Copthorne Hotels plc Employee Benefit Trust loss of office section in this report, the 2006, which is funded by loans or gifts in order plans are to incentivise and engage our Companys share plans include change of employees and align their interests with the to acquire shares for the potential benefit of control provisions.
Details of shares held by the EBT Groups performance.
Further details on employee benefits are set out in Note 23 to the at 31 December 2016 are set out on page 127.
Share capital and related matters During 2016, 3,514 shares were allocated from consolidated financial statements.
The Companys issued share capital at the EBT in respect of share schemes for Future developments 31 December 2016 consisted of 324,735,565 employees.
The trustee of the EBT has the fully paid ordinary shares of 30 pence each.
The Groups strategy and business model power to exercise all voting rights in relation to The shares are traded on the Main Market of including proposed future developments can the Companys shares held within the EBT, but the London Stock Exchange.
During 2016, be found in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to abstains from voting.
5,264 new shares were issued under employee 30. share plans.
Further details of the changes to Payment for loss of office the ordinary issued share capital during the Research and development The Company does not have agreements with Whilst we continue to review ways to improve year are shown in Note 29 to the Companys any Director or employee that would provide financial statements.
our service and product offering, the Group did compensation for loss of office or employment not conduct significant research and resulting from a takeover bid.
However, all of Rights attaching to shares development activities during the year.
the Companys employee share plans contain Rights and obligations attaching to the provisions relating to a change of control Companys ordinary shares are set out in the pursuant to a general offer, scheme of Companys Articles of Association, a copy of arrangement or similar event.
On such a which can be obtained from Companies House change of control, options and awards granted or from the Companys investor relations to employees under the Companys share website at www.
com en plans may vest and become exercisable, investors corporate-governance.
Each ordinary subject to the satisfaction of any applicable share in the capital of the Company ranks performance conditions at that time.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 37 Governance Directors report continued Further details about payments to be made to Controlling shareholder independence No claim was made under any such indemnity Directors for loss of office can be found in the disclosure or insurance policy during the year.
Directors remuneration report on page 54.
As of the date of this report, CDL is the controlling shareholder of the Company.
As Annual general meeting The 2017 annual general meeting will be held Power of Directors required under Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2, the The Directors may exercise all the Companys Company and CDL have entered into the at the Millennium Hotel London Knightsbridge, 17 Sloane St, Knightsbridge, London SW1X powers that are not required by the law or the Amended and Restated Co-operation Companys Articles of Association to be Agreement dated 14 November 2014 the 9NU on 5 May 2017 at 10.00am.
The Chairmans letter and the Notice of Meeting exercised in a general meeting.
In particular, Co-Operation Agreement, which is intended the Directors may exercise all the powers of the to ensure that the Companys controlling along with this report, with notes explaining the business to be transacted at the meeting, will Company to borrow money, issue shares, shareholder complies with the independence appoint and remove directors and recommend provisions set out in Listing Rules.
The Cobe sent to shareholders.
Operation Agreement allows CDL to appoint up to five Directors to the Board.
As at the date At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to, At the Companys annual general meeting in among other things, declare a final dividend, to of this report, CDL has appointed three May 2016 and in accordance with the Directors.
receive the Annual Report and Accounts, to Companys Articles of Association, the approve the Directors remuneration report, to Directors were authorised to allot new shares The Company confirms that during the year it re-elect all current Directors with the exception pursuant to Section 551 of the Act up to a total has complied with the independence provisions of Alexander Waugh, Aloysius Lee and nominal amount of 32,473,243 and to included within the Co-Operation Agreement Nicholas George and also elect Howard Wu, to disapply the pre-emption provisions contained and, in so far as it is aware, CDL has complied re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditors, and to in the Act in order to allot shares for cash up to with such provisions as well.
authorise the Directors to approve their fees.
In addition, the Howard Wus biography will be available on the Directors were authorised to make market Directors indemnities website with effect from 17 February 2017 and purchases of up to 10% of the Companys The Articles of Association of the Company included in the Notice of Meeting.
In addition, issued share capital.
All of these authorities permit it to indemnify the Directors of the shareholders will be asked to renew both the remained in effect as at 31 December 2016 Company or any Group company against general authority of the Directors to issue shares and to authorise the Directors to issue and shareholders will be asked to renew them liabilities incurred by them in relation to or in at the annual general meeting in 2017. connection with their duties, powers or office, shares without applying the statutory preemption rights.
In this regard, the Company will to the extent permitted by law.
The Company The Co-Operation Agreement between the has provided each of its Directors with a continue to adhere to the provisions in the Company and City Developments Limited Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles.
qualifying third-party indemnity, as defined in CDL, the Companys controlling section 234 of the Act.
In addition, the Shareholder, contains a provision that requires Company has provided qualifying pension the Company to use all reasonable endeavours scheme indemnities to the directors of to ensure that any issue of voting securities for Millennium & Copthorne Pension Trustee cash other than pursuant to an employee or Limited, which acts as trustee of the Groups executive share option scheme which takes UK pension plan, and qualifying third-party place while the Company is on the Official List indemnities to the directors of its European of the London Stock Exchange, is carried out subsidiary companies.
The indemnities do not in a manner that provides CDL with an apply in the event the relevant Director is opportunity to acquire additional ordinary proved to have committed a criminal offence or shares at the time of such proposed issue for otherwise where indemnification is prohibited cash in such amounts as are necessary to by law.
These indemnities remain in force as at enable it to maintain its voting rights in the the date of this report.
Company at the same percentage level as is held immediately prior to such issue.
These In 2016, the Company purchased and pre-emption rights are put to a vote of maintained Directors and Officers liability shareholders each year and most recently were insurance, which coverage has been renewed approved at the Companys annual general for the current year.
38 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Essential contracts Statement of the Directors as to The Group has contractual and other disclosure of information to the auditor arrangements with numerous third parties in Each Director who held office as at the date of support of its business activities.
Whilst the approval of this Directors report confirms that, termination of some of these contracts might so far as he or she is aware, there is no cause temporary disruption, none of the relevant audit information of which the arrangements are, individually, considered to Companys auditor is unaware: and the be essential to the Groups business.
Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken in order to make himself or Re-appointment of auditor herself aware of any relevant audit information KPMG LLP has expressed their willingness to and to establish that the Companys auditor is be reappointed as auditor of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as Approval of Directors report The Directors Report and Corporate auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed Governance Statement were approved by the Board on 16 February 2017. at the 2017 annual general meeting.
Significant holdings By order of the Board As at the date of this report, the Company had received formal notification, under the Jonathon Grech Company Secretary Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following significant holdings in its shares the 16 February 2017 percentages shown are the percentages at the time of the disclosure and have not been re-calculated based on the issued share capital as at the date of the report.
# of ordinary Notified Significant shareholder shares Interest % Nature of holding City Developments Limited 210,854,593 64.9 Indirect holding through various subsidiaries International Value Advisers, LLC 19,490,496 6.0 Investment advisor Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 16,057,259 4.9 Discretionary investment manager on behalf of multiple managed portfolios Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 39
