Our strategy in action Building a balanced business 14 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 With 1,800 largely freehold sites in fantastic locations we have a great platform for success.
Our challenge is to ensure that we marry the best brand, offer and consumer profile to the location to grow both sales and profit.
To this end, we have completed a comprehensive review of the estate in the year which has determined our investment plans going forward.
For example, our highly successful Miller & Carter brand, with 52 restaurants, has a pipeline of sites that will take it to around 100 sites by the end of 2017.
We are also focused on upgrading the look and feel of our businesses to bring them up to scratch in a highly competitive market, so in Harvester we completed 32 conversions to our Feel Good Dining format as part of a total of 252 conversions and remodels across the Company in the year.
15 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our strategy in action continued Instilling a commercial culture We are reigniting the sales and customer service focus of our teams, with General Managers and Area Managers attending sales workshops in the year.
We have also built a sales team in London focused on driving sales in key locations across the capital, which we intend to roll out to other major cities in 2017.
Closely aligned to this sales focus is the renewed importance we have placed on guest care.
One output of this is the speed at which complaints are dealt with.
We are therefore pleased that we now resolve these in around 48 hours, far faster than in the past.
Our focus is now on using the rich feedback we get from our guests to avoid issues in the first place by anticipating guest needs and addressing them in our offer.
16 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 We are increasing the pace of activity, and fostering more of an innovative environment within the business.
In the year therefore, we have improved our online booking engine and integrated with Bookatable: enabled our General Managers to view and deal with feedback on TripAdvisor: and successfully trialled Deliveroo in All Bar One and Browns.
We are also developing our new concept innovation process, which sees the first prototype of our Chicken Society concept open soon and offers a potential rollout opportunity as well as a solution for undertraded areas in existing businesses.
Driving an innovation agenda 17 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
