Our business model Creating sustainable value In the long term, we aim to maximise the opportunity from these guest experiences through the use of our largely freehold-backed estate, the teams of people working within the Company, and the practices which we adopt.
Value proposition Estate enthusiastic young talent who we look to develop through our apprenticeship We create value for our various stakeholders In total we trade from more than 1,800 pubs programme.
In a hospitality business, our through the delivery of eating and drinking and bars, of which over 80% are owned under people are a key point of differentiation to experiences to our guests, who are at the a freehold or long leasehold.
The estate is our competitors, and we therefore adopt a centre of what we do.
We serve more than predominantly UK-based, and is nationwide structured approach to recruitment, and 130 million meals and 400 million drinks every although most heavily concentrated in London towards driving high levels of engagement year, enabling us to engage with and delight and the South East, the West Midlands and with our existing teams.
these guests on a daily basis.
We deliver these experiences through our This array of high-quality locations, matched Practices strong collection of brands and formats, which with our diverse brand portfolio, enables us to Practices refer to the way in which we enable us to meet a range of guest needs and match the right concept to the right trading operate to best generate value throughout occasions, and to tailor our offerings according asset, as well as offering a strong pipeline for the business.
This encompasses our use of to location, time of year, demographic, type of future conversions as growth concepts are scale for purchasing and operational efficiency, trading outlet and consumer tastes.
Our property has a net book value of sharing of ideas between similar brands and 4.4bn as at the end of FY 2016, offering a stable In the long term, we aim to maximise the concepts within the portfolio, adherence to and long-term opportunity for value creation.
opportunity from these guest experiences the highest operational standards, and an through the use of our largely freehold-backed increasing use of technology to enhance People estate, the teams of people working within the guest experiences.
Company, and the practices which we adopt.
We have more than 44,000 employees across our pubs and restaurants and in our Retail Support Centre, who are critical to delivering outstanding experiences to our guests.
Our people include those with strong business and sector experience, as well as new and 10 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 s d n Estate People In total we trade from We have more than more than 1,800 pubs 44,000 employees across and bars, of which our pubs and restaurants over 80% are owned and in our Retail Support under a freehold or Centre, who are critical long leasehold.
to delivering outstanding experiences to our guests Guests Building a balanced business See pages 14 and 15 Instilling a commercial culture See page 16 Practices Practices refer to the way in which we operate to best generate value throughout the business.
Driving an innovation agenda See page 17 for Shareholders for Suppliers Corporate social responsibility Total shareholder return See pages 28 to 31 See page 79 Creating for the for Employ s Value Environment Corporate social responsibility See pages 28 to 31 Corporate social responsibility See pages 28 to 31 11 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 a r B
