Viability statement In accordance with section 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the group over a three year period.
This assessment took account of the groups current position and potential impact of the principal risks of the Group as set out on pages 57 to 60 of the Annual Report.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 March 2019.
The Directors believe that a three year period of review is appropriate for their viability assessment as its supported by our strategic, budgeting and business planning cycles and is relevant to the duration of the Groups existing contracts with customers which typically range from three to five years.
It therefore represents a timeframe over which the Directors believe they can reasonably forecast the groups performance.
At 31 March 2016 the Group had available 259m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions had been met.
Its borrowing facilities total 527m and include a 275m Revolving Credit Facility with an expiry date of July 2019 and 252m of US Private Placement notes which have a range of maturity dates commencing from December 2017 out to December 2024.
Over the period under consideration for viability testing 60m of the 527m of committed borrowing facilities reaches maturity.
The maturing facility is wholly comprised of the repayment of the 2010 US private placement 7 year notes.
The Group is confident that the facilities falling due for repayment or renewal during the period of the viability assessment could be refinanced in the ordinary course of business.
Letters of support to this effect have been requested and received from two of the Groups principal reducing credit facility lenders.
In making this statement, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This included the availability and effectiveness of mitigating actions that could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
In considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Boards regular monitoring and review of risk management and internal control systems, as described on page 68, are taken into account.
In undertaking its assessment, the Board has considered annually a detailed financial plan and budget which includes analysis of the forecast and actual performance of the groups existing contract base, its expectation for future growth including sales targets and expected win rates, its overhead cost base, the expected costs of financing and the availability of future funding facilities.
The groups forecasts of its divisional and consolidated income statement, balance sheet and cash flows are used to perform analysis of forecast headroom on the groups borrowing facilities and the groups consequent solvency and liquidity.
Specific sensitivities were applied to the plan which included early termination of key contracts: zero revenue growth over the plan period: reduced rates of margin on the existing contract base and a decline in availability of sources of financing for the group.
The customer and sector diversification of the Groups operations helps minimise the risk of serious business interruption or a catastrophic damage to our reputation.
Our largest client constitutes 7.2% of Group revenue.
The groups ability to flex its cost base protects its viability in the face of adverse economic conditions and or political uncertainty.
The directors considered mitigating factors that could be employed to counter the negative effects of the crystallisation of each of these risks.
The main actions included the short term down scaling of investment in the business, limitations to acquisition activity and reductions in cash distributions.
