A clear strategy to deliver sustainable, profitable growth Achieved through our six distinct pillars 1 2 3 Maintain our position as the leading Increase the range and scale of Attract, retain and develop the provider of FM services in the UK services we provide to our top 200 best people in our industry clients, in the UK and internationally Client and contract retention Nurture and develop a diverse talent pool Proven efficiencies from integration Executive relationship programme Increase employee satisfaction Streamlined management structures Economies of scale Promote career pathways from Investment in relationships High-quality innovative services apprenticeships to management Scope for international expansion Reward and recognition schemes Employee share ownership 4 5 6 Increase the provision of Grow our public services businesses Expand the scale and breadth of our technology-led services by developing relationships with higher-value consultancy services key clients Real estate, technology Investment in technology to and risk management improve operational efficiency Careful selection of public sector clients and management information in housing, justice and health IT infrastructure, telecomms, voice and data Mobile workforce tasking, Emphasis on quality of services management, tracking and reporting and mature relationships Strategic advisory services MiWorld portal and business intelligence Bespoke partnering models Vetting and screening Bundling and integration of services Remote monitoring and tracking Long-term contracts Supported by a strong foundation of sound business processes and a commitment to fulfilling our responsibilities to the wider community.
Sustainability Risk management Governance Reduce the environmental impact Macroeconomic environment Strategy and performance review of our operations including Brexit creates the Compliance, ethics and conduct operating and investment Reinforce our culture to Board composition and environment for Mitie and its clients do the right thing succession planning Protect our reputation Improve the diversity, engagement, Audit and internal controls health and safety of our people For more information, For more information, For more information, see pages 18-19 see pages 57-60 see pages 64-100 www.
com 9 Chief Executives strategy overview continued Maintain our position as the leading We have a track record 1 provider of FM services in the UK Our clients appoint us because they are looking for of responding to changing improved services at lower cost - and they stay with market conditions and us because we exceed expectations and constantly identify new and better ways of working.
In our client needs business, service is everything and we take the time to gain a detailed understanding of our clients businesses, objectives and opportunities.
We retained 88% of contracts up for review Clients continue to reward our approach to more information during the year - and were particularly delighted outsourcing with praise as well as contracts.
on pages 37-51 to successfully rebid our contract for the FM of We were named Best Overall FM Provider in the i-FM Rolls-Royces UK and European estate for a further Brand Survey Report for the third consecutive year.
We have worked with Rolls-Royce for Of the eight categories relevant to our operations 24 years and in that time have seen our partnership integrated FM, technical FM, cleaning, security, grow from a single contract to a fully integrated, catering, front of house, landscaping and waste we European-wide service.
Among other notable were #1 in five, #2 in two and #3 in one.
In each developments, we also successfully rebid our category, we have either improved or maintained our integrated FM contract with RWE npower and position during the last 12 months - so this element extended in scope and term contracts with of our strategy is clearly demonstrated by our St Georges Hospital NHS Hospital Trust and the momentum and direction of travel.
Cumbrian Collaboration during the year, underlining the link between long-term relationships and long-term value.
Rankings At the same time, we have continued to generate 2013 2014 2015 Direction of Travel more business from new and existing clients.
Overall FM provider #1 #1 #1 Maintain lead Among the highlights are a new 100 million contract to provide FM services to NHS Property Integrated FM #1 #1 #1 Maintain lead Services across England.
Our appointment followed Hard FM #2 #2 #1 Maintain lead an intense rationalisation of services by NHS Property Services - with Mitie winning 25 of the Cleaning #2 #2 #2 Maintain 31 lots on offer.
We have also been successful Security #2 #2 #2 Maintain in adding a range of new single, bundled and integrated services contracts to our portfolio Catering #5 #5 #3 during the year, more details of which can be Front of house #1 #2 #1 found in the Operating Review on pp 3751.
Landscaping #2 #2 #1 In November, the Mitie Executive Relationship Waste #3 #2 #1 Programme ERP was honoured as the Best Corporate  Campaign at the Business-to-Business Awards.
The ERP is a great example of how we work hard to get close to our clients, building relationships based on trust and mutual respect.
We held 13 dinners and roundtables under the ERP umbrella, engaging with 118 representatives from clients and prospects.
Topics covered included: agile working: data: energy: evolving FM contract models: productivity: the challenges faced by specific sectors: and our views on FM industry drivers.
We published three major pieces of research during the year, 18 strategy reports, over 30 PR articles, 76 blogs and made eight presentations of our white papers.
In addition to the clients we met face-to-face, articles on our website received over 10,000 hits.
This represents the retention % of the top 50 contracts across the group, calculated using the same method as the prior year 96%.
Our people are what make Mitie such a compelling partner for organisations looking to improve performance and reduce costs.
10 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 work we already provide across their UK and Increase the range and scale of services 2 Irish estate.
Growing the scope of our work with we provide to our top 200 clients, in the existing clients has been key to our growth, UK and internationally and this approach remains a critical element Over the last decade, we have seen a clear trend for of our long-term growth strategy.
clients to trust us to deliver an ever increasing range of services.
Typically, they begin their journey by We work hard to give our clients the best possible first testing the outsourcing water with a single service - not only how and when they want it, service.
The next stage is to access broader cost but where they want it too.
Our business model is savings and synergies by bundling a range of equally relevant across Europe.
So when our clients services into a single contract.
Finally, they move expand into new territories, we make sure they can to fully integrated FM where they benefit from benefit from the same high quality services that greater savings, additional synergies and integrated they enjoy in the UK.
We have followed our clients delivery co-ordinated by a Mitie-managed team.
and built a Mitie presence in countries including Ireland, Germany and Norway.
Once established in Once clients experience IFM from Mitie, they a new country with an existing client, we take the become long-term advocates in fact our retention opportunity to evaluate local markets and identify rate in IFM was 100% during the last 12 months.
opportunities for further expansion and growth.
Now we are sharpening our focus on moving our top 200 FM clients towards IFM, with skilled account directors building and maintaining close relationships that last.
An example of this during the year was when we were awarded a new integrated FM contract with dmg media, having previously provided security to the group.
The expanded five-year contract has an expected total value in excess of 20 million, with a further potential two-year extension period.
We were also delighted that our catering business, Gather & Gather, was awarded a new contract by Integrated FM Vodafone, adding to the existing integrated FM Integrated delivery one client contact Significant synergies Management team employed by Mitie thin client layer Data and information systems drive Evolution of service delivery strategic property decisions Our clients are all at varying stages of the outsourced journey from single to bundled to integrated.
10% Bundled incremental savings Turn to our operating review services for more information on pages 37-51 Broader cost savings Synergies between service lines Standardised provision 10-15% incremental savings Single services A range of specialist services 20-30% savings from in-house client provision www.
com 11 Chief Executives strategy overview continued Attract, retain and develop the 3 best people in our industry Diversity As a services business, we are nothing without our We are passionate about diversity, and that people, and we strive to support and engage with is why we are introducing aspirational targets them in a wide range of ways.
Only when we have throughout our business.
excellent people supporting great clients are we in Read more on page 18. a position to inspire change in the way people live and work.
Executive Directors Companies with highly engaged workforces outperform their peers and achieve significantly 2 0 greater productivity and profitability, with fewer Men Women safety incidents, less sick leave and reduced people turnover.
During the year we carried out Senior managers a full company-wide Misay employee engagement survey, which attracted over 80,000 individual comments and has resulted in a variety of actions 114 480 being taken across the business.
Men Women Our approach to engagement is to listen to what Employees our people say, address their needs and concerns, share best practice and build a strong group culture - and we do this across the full hire-inspire-admire- 28,924 33,824 retire employee lifecycle.
At the hiring stage of Men Women the employee journey, we focus on engagement and teamwork.
Then we inspire them with training and development, including our Key Accounts Women while our apprenticeship programmes Leadership Development Programme, opening up won the silver award at the Apprenticeships opportunities for careers - not just jobs.
We also won our eighth followed by the admire stage, where we recognise consecutive Gold Medal Award from the and reward their achievements.
We continue to be Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, recognised as a good employer by our peers and in recognition of our track record on employee others.
For the fifth year running, we have been health and safety.
named as one of The Times Top 50 Employers for Being a diverse business makes us a better business.
This year we set ambitious internal diversity targets for each of our subsidiary Boards, which cover ethnicity, gender and age, and tasked Our vision and values each of our management teams to deliver on these targets by 2020.
In the long-term we aim to have management teams at all levels representative of our wider people mix, which is currently 46 54 : female male and 20% disclosed BME.
As a business we also want to lead the way in transparency and reporting, which is why we are now opting to include our employee data, broken down by salary, gender and ethnicity, in this report and can be found on p18 in addition to our sustainability report where it has been historically reported.
12 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Increase the provision 4 of technology-led services We are constantly searching for new ways to work as well as ways to improve what we already do well.
Our experience, scale and scope combine to give us the ability to share best practice - we are able to rapidly transform organisations by applying the lessons learnt in one sector to the challenges being faced elsewhere.
We have made significant investment in technological solutions and we expect it to be an increasing component of everything we do.
Where we take a technology-led approach, it has the potential to reduce revenues, but sustain profitability.
Technology has already had a positive impact on our profitability.
A decade ago, technology accounted for less than 5% of our security business revenue and 0% of its profits.
In 2015, those figures were more than 10% and 20% respectively.
Not surprisingly, our strategy is to invest further in technology, ensuring high Our catering business, Gather & Gather has developed a bespoke data quality and developing bespoke solutions customer app which delivers instant offers, latest news based on analytics and data.
and loyalty rewards directly into the hands of our customers.
With the rise in agile working practices such as Our security business is another example of hot-desking and home working, the office how new technology is giving us a competitive environment is changing fast.
Through Mitec, we will be the first UK exploring how we can work smarter by using data company to incorporate revolutionary Facewatch and technology to deliver service excellence with software into our CCTV monitoring contracts.
fewer people and drive our financial performance.
Facewatch simplifies the evidence collection For example, we are revolutionising cleaning process, and enables clients to report incidents services by using sensors to detect usage levels of directly to police and track the progress of office facilities from washrooms to boardrooms.
In addition, we will be using Mitec Where usage is low, cleaning schedules can be data to identify risks and trends in particular areas, updated in real time so our people can be deployed supporting our clients as they work to tackle where they are really needed.
That means less time business crime and anti-social behaviour.
wasted and more efficient use of resources.
Our investment in technology was acknowledged We are investing in wearable technology, robotics by our peers during the year, when we were and a range of applications, and continue to crowned winner of i-FMs Technology in FM Award, develop our existing technologies, such as remote in recognition of the benefits that our Miworld monitoring and vetting, which differentiate our management information tool is generating for services.
For example, during the year we created clients.
Miworld gives our largest IFM clients a a wearable app which can track site-based teams minute-by-minute activity report of service delivery.
This means we can schedule and In the words of the judges, we were able to re-schedule teams to meet real-time requirements demonstrate a number of examples where the as well as measure service delivery.
Similarly, technology has delivered significant savings.
our document management business has developed a new app that allows clients to track goods and deliveries across multiple sites all via a tablet instead of a desk-based system.
com 13 Chief Executives strategy overview continued Grow our public services businesses by Expand the scale and breadth of 5 6 developing relationships with key clients our higher value consultancy services We know how to manage talented, committed By engaging with clients at a boardroom or senior people and engage with clients in order to create management level, our consultancy business innovative, hugely effective services that provide frequently supports and differentiates our outstanding value over the long term.
This business mainstream FM services.
Our capabilities include: model has been the foundation of our growth energy, waste, sustainability, real estate, workspace in FM, but is also relevant across the provision management, vetting, risk and assurance.
We see of public services.
further opportunities to leverage our existing client base to expand our services, as well as offer A key element of our strategy is to ensure that we them in new markets.
serve a variety of markets that will sustainably give us the growth and margins we desire.
Over the full Our Source8 business delivers real estate, economic cycle all of our chosen markets have the technology and risk management consultancy potential to deliver successfully.
This diversification services to leading global corporations.
It has forged has been key to our resilience.
We generate over a a reputation for providing advisory and business third of our revenues from the public sector, where support services to government and nonwe remain focused on three key areas: social governmental organisations in real estate, housing, justice and healthcare.
technology and risk management globally.
Clients in over 20 countries worldwide rely on analysis by the In our Property Management business, we provide Source8 team to underpin key decisions that impact repair and maintenance services to the social their organisations.
Source8 has particular expertise housing sector.
Like our FM business, this market in emerging markets, but because it works on a features clients keen to establish long-term project basis, there is usually no need to establish a relationships and access a steadily increasing range permanent presence in each of those countries.
We work with a wide range of housing During the year it continued to expand its associations and local authorities and aim to operations in the Middle East and Asia, and leverage our capabilities in this area to grow our opened an office in Singapore.
business with new and existing clients.
Underpinning the strategy We are also increasing our focus on the justice sector Our strategy is supported by sound business where we have a growing track record in providing processes and a commitment to fulfilling our services including immigration removal centres.
responsibilities to the wider community.
The Home Office is a key client and we see a continuing flow of opportunities for our Care Sustainability and Custody business.
In 2016 we made a small Our business incorporates our sustainability more information acquisition in this area: Tascor Health, which provides agenda into the way it operates every day.
on pages 18-19 police forensic medical examination services We realise that having satisfied clients, delivered by qualified doctors and nurses to police employees who are engaged, safe and respected, forces.
It is a specialised service that will further a community that recognises our contribution to strengthen our offering, by giving us presence and society, minimum impact on the environment capability in the offender health market.
and an aligned supply chain are the fundamentals for success.
In the homecare market, our MiHomecare business delivers social care services to people who Our culture is about doing the right thing, require help and support due to illness or disability.
supporting each other and being a positive force in Complete Care provides nurse-led complex care our local communities.
This approach is enabled by solutions in the home.
Although the homecare rigorous policies on issues such as health and safety environment is facing challenges driven by local and diversity, together with a commitment to authority spending cuts, we are focused on reducing the impact of our operations and helping establishing strategic partnerships with clients, our clients achieve their own environmental targets.
which will position us well for the opportunities that This approach is ingrained in the way we do we believe this market will generate in the longer everything and is described in more detail on term.
In the short term, we are focused on delivering pages 18 to 19. quality services, maintaining operational efficiency and returning to profitability in the next financial year.
The outsourcing market remains one of change and opportunity.
14 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Going forward, there are broader changes to Risk management Everything we do is undertaken against a backdrop UK employment costs in addition to the National more information Living Wage, such as rising employer pension of effective risk management.
We categorise our on pages 57-60 key risks as strategic, financial, operational or contributions, a new apprentice levy, and additional labour legislation.
These changes are contributing regulatory and you can find more details on each category on pages 57-60. to an increase in the overall cost of more labourintensive services.
In what is already a competitive Governance environment, we expect this will create further shifts We have the processes in place to ensure that in our markets.
We are responding to these changes more information Mitie is fully compliant, operates effectively and is by accelerating our focus on technology solutions to on pages 64-100 properly valued as a business.
These include audit drive greater efficiency and smarter working in all and internal controls, financial reporting and quality the core services we provide.
systems, together with processes and policies to Business evolution ensure appropriate remuneration as well as compliance with the regulatory framework.
To ensure that Mitie is best placed to respond to its changing markets, and remains a lean and Please see pages 64-100 for details.
efficient business, we have made some changes to Market developments the way we operate.
From 1 April 2016, parts of The outsourcing market remains one of change and the soft and hard FM businesses will be combined, opportunity.
We are the leading FM provider with to operate under one management structure.
some of the best technology, people and clients in The management structures of our property the market and we can continue to grow our position.
management and healthcare businesses will also We also have a growing presence and range of be combined, to create one services business that opportunities outside the UK and in new services, faces our key public sector markets of social housing, which we intend to carefully explore and develop.
Customers are seeking a more joined-up approach These changes will allow us to optimise our back to different services, whether that be bundles or fully office and support functions, ensuring we provide integrated FM contracts.
They seek providers that the best solutions and services to our clients.
can provide best-in-class services, add real value This presents a tremendous opportunity for us and harness technology, but that are also easy all to challenge our approach, deliver our services and flexible to do business with.
in a more efficient manner, invest in our technology, and use the passion of our people to meet the National Living Wage changing demands of our customers.
As a top ten private sector employer, we welcomed the announcement that a new National Living Wage Looking ahead NLW would be introduced in the UK in April 2016.
We have a flexible, resilient business model and We are supportive of this move, which ensures that a track record of responding to changing market those of our people who are affected, are better conditions and client needs.
Due to current rewarded and feel more motivated to do the jobs macroeconomic factors, we anticipate modest they do.
It will also improve retention rates across growth in the current financial year.
Mitie remains a vibrant, sustainable and profitable Since the minimum wage was introduced in 1999, business.
Everything we do is about our people.
we have managed the impact from its annual I would like to thank everyone across the group change as part of the normal course of our business.
who works so hard to deliver good services to our Having completed discussions with our clients in clients.
relation to both the regular annual increase in the Our strategy is clear, with an excellent business minimum wage and the introduction of the National model our commitment to helping our clients Living Wage in April 2016, we remain confident that achieve more with less continues to be our guiding our contractual protections ensure that it will not purpose.
We face the future with determination have a material impact on our future earnings.
We also believe that this was an important Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE move for the outsourcing industry, as it affects Chief Executive all competitors equally and creates a level playing field in terms of bidding.
Outsourcing prices are increasing as a consequence of this.
We will continue to work with our clients to identify cost efficiencies in other areas.
