Marketplace Opportunities and challenges The key trends that are shaping our industry.
The total UK FM market is valued at over 100 billion and of this, Modest macro-economic growth around 75 billion is currently outsourced.
Our principal addressable The UK economy remains in relatively market, defined as contracts worth over 500,000 a year, is valued low growth and low inflation mode.
at around 45 billion, of which we hold a 5% share.
The FM market is GDP increased by 2.2% during 2015, down from highly fragmented at the smaller end of the market, but overall is 2.9% in 2014, and is currently forecast to grow dominated by some 120 large providers.
At the larger end of the by a modest 2.0% in the year ahead.
market, the 12 largest players generate over 30 billion in revenues, In our markets over the past year, we have seen or one-third of the total outsourced market.
Source: management client behaviour and decision making impacted by a consultancy, MTW Research range of external factors.
These include the general election, changes in government policy, China, the oil price and the Brexit referendum.
These have had a negative impact on sentiment and reduced the levels Major markets: Sales pipeline of discretionary spend from our clients, as well as cause some project works to be delayed, deferred Public sector or cancelled.
Local government 8% 11 Private sector partnership approach 10 3.
Social housing 27% The private sector continues to drive the 3 4.
Healthcare 4% growth of outsourcing in the UK, with the 5.
Education 2% key driver being improved services with reduced costs.
Our focus is on a wide range of sectors 9 9.1bn Private sector including finance and professional services, 8 6.
Finance and professional services 14% manufacturing and leisure.
Manufacturing 6% accounted for 62% of our 2015 16 revenue.
Property management 11% Private sector clients have always wanted more for 4 6 5 10.
Technology 2% less and this is definitely the case now.
Utilities 4% and European economies delivering limited growth, 12. Leisure 2% the focus has returned to cost and increasing the 13.
Transport 8% efficiency of service provision.
However, many of our clients, particularly in the private sector, are looking to shift from a transactional and contractual approach to a partnership model.
This model considers how services can be provided to support the clients strategic goals over the longer term.
It results in clients generating the best value from their relationships with service providers, by reducing the number of suppliers they work with and ensuring both parties are working towards common goals.
We have seen an increasing number of our clients decide to take this approach, which works particularly well where we are delivering integrated services.
34 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Homecare should be seen as a critical strategic Public sector funding constraints The public sector backdrop remains one resource for the key priority of containing spending and pressure on the NHS.
The Governments Spending Review and Autumn Statement set out how it will homecare, most service users would have to be looked after either in nursing homes or in hospitals.
cut the forecast deficit by three quarters by 2016-17 from its peak and eliminate it altogether The average cost of homecare based on daily visits and intensive support is 200-250 a week.
The cost by 2019-20, suggesting that both significant public sector cuts and more reforms lie ahead.
of nursing home care now averages 800 a week.
Hospital care ranges from 1,500-2,000 a week.
Our focus on the public sector remains on Without homecare there would be extreme pressure healthcare, social housing, justice and local to increase use of these high-cost services.
Continued budgetary constraints Although the market does remain challenging, we and the back-end loading of Government cuts, in a period of low economic growth, are forcing our are encouraged by the tangible progress we have seen in our healthcare business recently, with public sector clients to look for ways to do things differently.
Whilst procurement still remains very improving quality scores and more evidence of higher, sustainable, charge-out rates.
focused on cost, we see good long-term growth opportunities, as governments turn to outsourcing Increasing cost of labour to help them manage those costs while still In the summer 2015 Budget, the UK providing good service levels.
government announced the introduction of We made good progress during the year, with a new National Living Wage.
It represents a premium our largest new contract award coming from the to the National Minimum Wage NMW, for people public sector a 100m agreement to provide a aged over 25.
It increased rates for over 25s from range of FM services to NHS Property Services 6.70 to 7.20 per hour in April 2016, and the across England.
Governments objective is to increase it to 60% of median earnings by 2020, and for it to be over In July 2015, the Chancellor announced that social 9 by that time.
Automatic enrolment in workplace housing tenants in the UK would see their rent pension schemes is also increasing the cost of labour reduced by 1% a year for the next four years after over the next three years.
The Government has also compelling housing associations to lower them.
proposed the introduction of an apprentice levy, In anticipation of this statutory reduction in social which, if implemented in April 2017, will further add housing rents, which came into effect on 1 April to employment costs.
2016, we saw changes in spending patterns by our local authority and housing association clients in These initiatives will see a significantly increased cost the second half of the financial year.
of labour in some areas of our business, including cleaning, a small area of security, catering and Homecare healthcare.
This will in turn impact on outsourcing The homecare market in the UK has suffered from prices, however we will continue to work with our a severe lack of funding, particularly in the last two clients to identify cost efficiencies in other areas.
years, as local government spending has been heavily constrained.
The National Audit Office reports that central government will have reduced its funding to local authorities by 37 per cent in real terms between 2010-11 and 2015-16.
The United Kingdom Homecare Association UKHCA, the professional association of home care providers, recently set out the case for a sustainable hourly rate of around 16.00 an hour now, rising to 23.00 an hour over the next four years.
However on average across the UK, councils currently pay significantly below the sustainable rate.
com 35 Marketplace continued Greater globalisation Changing workplaces The world is coming closer together.
For the last three years, we have engaged While our business footprint currently with senior property and FM directors through covers nine countries, our people represent 138 a series of research projects.
We have conducted different nationalities, demonstrating that Mitie is extensive interviews to build a detailed understanding of one of the most diverse businesses in one of the the factors that are influencing the shape and operation worlds most diverse marketplaces.
Gender diversity of commercial property estates.
In 2015, we extended is also on the rise, with women now earning 60% this research project to knowledge office-based of university degrees in the US and Europe.
workers, in order to gain a better understanding of how different groups of employees are reacting to Increasingly, globalisation means that efficient new working patterns.
working practices in one country are quickly replicated elsewhere to the benefit of all - and this These are a few examples of how property directors trend is magnified when organisations move into see their world in 2020: new territories.
We follow our clients, ensuring that The need for commercial office space in the UK will they can access the same level of service that they be half that of 2010 enjoy in the UK.
Just 40% of office workers will have their own desk Changing demographics 62% of the UKs commercial space will be in The population is growing and, in Europe, London and the South East also ageing.
By 2025 there will be a further one billion people on our planet, with 50% of that growth 55% of UK businesses will have merged FM, Property, in Africa.
In the UK, one in five of us will be over HR & IT functions 65 by 2050 and this has clear implications for 60% of staff will spend more time working out Governments as well as our healthcare business.
of the office than in it According to Deloittes 2016 Global health care As clients needs evolve so too must the FM outlook, healthcare expenditure per capita was services created to meet them.
In sectors from front $3,698 in the UK, behind Germany $5,006 of house and security to cleaning, that means being and the US $9,146.
Deloitte also confirmed that innovative understanding how property is being used the population is ageing rapidly worldwide.
and tailoring our solutions accordingly, often with the Increased life expectancy - up from an estimated use of technology.
72.3 years in 2014 to 73.3 years in 2019 - will bring the number of people aged 65 worldwide to over Increasing use of technology 604 million, or 10.8 percent of the total global New technologies are transforming the way population.
That number is anticipated to be even people work.
One of our industry surveys found higher In Western Europe almost 21% and Japan that around three-quarters of businesses use social 28%, driving increased demand for homecare.
media and a similar number of executives say they are working towards using analytics, while 72% of Deloittes view is that with the appropriate use businesses agreed that mobile adaptation was of technology and monitoring, home health care improving productivity.
It also provides treatment with reduced costs and improved Even the jobs that people still do have changed as patient satisfaction.
The US home health care automation has impacted many aspects of our working market alone was valued at $77.8 billion in 2012 lives.
There are 271,000 more care workers today than and is projected to grow to $157 billion by 2022. there were to 15 years ago, while the number of PAs, Indias home health care market is worth $2 billion secretaries and typists has fallen by 312,000 source: and is growing at the rate of 20 percent annually, Frey & Osborn, Deloitte analysis 2015.
Digital knowwhile in Europe, home health care is expected to be how sits at the top of the table of skills required by worth $57.2 billion by 2017.
The UKHCA estimates businesses for the future source: Deloitte survey the UKs home care market to be valued at 5.2 of 100 businesses.
billion in 2015, serving approximately 900,000 individuals.
With the size of the population aged There has been a huge leap in the amount of data being over 65 expected to increase by 7%, or over four captured and collated by FM departments and service million people, in the next ten years, the UK market providers, with sophisticated dashboards able to drill is expected to grow significantly.
down into the details of everything from utility costs to how people move around a building.
The single view of data provided by our Miworld initiative gives clients the opportunity to improve the way they manage workplaces.
This is just one example of the technologies that are reshaping our markets, others include mobile apps that streamline processes for our managers, enabling them to spend more time with clients, and wearable technology that tracks our site-based teams.
36 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016
