Board of Directors Roger Matthews Ruby McGregor-Smith Suzanne Baxter Non-Executive Chairman Baroness McGregor-Smith, CBE Group Finance Director Chief Executive Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chair of the Results and Investment Member of the Results and Investment Committees Committees Member of the Remuneration Committee Date of appointment to the Board Date of appointment to the Board Date of appointment to the Board December 2006 December 2002 April 2006 Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments None Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, Chair of member of the Audit, Nomination and the Audit Committee and member Past roles Remuneration Committees at Michael of the Nomination and Remuneration Previously a Non-Executive Director Page International plc: Non-Executive Committees of WH Smith PLC.
Chair of of Mitie until his appointment as Director of the Department of Education.
the Business Services Association, a policy Chairman in 2008.
Roger qualified Rubys charitable and community interests and research centre of excellence for the as a Chartered Accountant with include acting as Chair of the Womens support services industry, and Chair of the .
He held a Business Council and Business Business in the Community BITC South number of finance roles at Cadbury Ambassador for UK Trade and Investment.
Schweppes PLC and Grand Metropolitan In November 2015 she was also appointed PLC before becoming Group Finance Past roles to the House of Lords.
Director and Group Managing Director at Suzanne qualified as a Chartered Compass Group PLC and Group Finance Past roles Accountant with , Director at J Sainsbury PLC.
During the Ruby qualified as a Chartered Accountant where she specialised in audit and last 11 years he has held a number of with BDO Stoy Hayward.
Prior to joining corporate finance.
Prior to joining Mitie, non-executive roles including NonMitie, she held a range of operational and she held an advisory role at Deloitte, Executive Chairman of Pertemps financial roles, primarily at Serco Group supporting mergers and acquisitions, Network Group Limited and LSL Property plc.
Ruby joined Mitie as Group Finance privatisation and IPO activities.
He was previously a NonDirector in December 2002 and was moved to Serco Group plc where she Executive Director at RHM PLC, Zetar promoted to Chief Operating Officer in gained divisional board level responsibility PLC and trustee of Cancer Research UK.
2005 before being appointed as Chief for sales, operations, finance and Executive in April 2007. commercial aspects of the business.
Skills and experience On a pro bono basis, she worked with Over 25 years as a public company Skills and experience director.
Executive and non-executive experience Opportunity Now, the gender equality campaign, for over 10 years and was with FTSE 250 public companies for Experienced FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 over 12 years.
director in executive and non-executive roles.
Significant strategic and commercial Skills and experience experience.
Extensive experience in outsourcing, Executive and non-executive experience retail, hospitality and food Extensive experience in the support with FTSE 250 public companies for manufacturing sectors.
services sector for over 24 years.
Significant experience in strategy, Significant experience in government Significant strategic, commercial and international, finance and mergers and private sector contracting and operational experience.
employment matters including Extensive experience in the support diversity.
services sector for circa 20 years.
Extensive financial, audit and risk Significant experience in government management systems experience.
and private sector contracting and Chartered Accountant.
Expertise in mergers and acquisitions.
62 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Larry Hirst, CBE Jack Boyer, OBE Mark Reckitt Senior Independent Director Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Member of the Audit, Nomination and Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee Remuneration Committees Committee Member of the Nomination and Member of the Audit and Nomination Remuneration Committees Committees Date of appointment to the Board Date of appointment to the Board Date of appointment to the Board February 2010 June 2013 July 2015 Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Non-Executive Director and Chairman Council Member of the board of the Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, ARM Engineering and Physical Sciences of the Audit Committee at Cranswick plc Holdings plc and Chairman of the Imperial Research Council and the Innovate UK and J D Wetherspoon plc.
College Data Science Institute Advisory Energy Catalyst.
Deputy Chair of the Past roles Board.
Community interests include Advanced Materials Leadership Council.
Group Strategy Director, Smiths acting as an Ambassador to Everywoman Past roles Group plc: Divisional President, Smiths and Black British Business.
Member Previously founded and was CEO Interconnect: interim Managing Director, of the National Research Council for of companies in the engineering, Green & Blacks Chocolate: Chief Strategy Cyber Security.
telecommunications and biotechnology Officer at Cadbury plc.
Mark also held a Past roles sectors: former Chairman of Ilika plc: range of Strategy and Finance roles at Until his retirement from IBM in 2010, former Non-Executive Director and Cadbury since joining in 1989, including Larry was Chairman of IBM EMEA and Chairman of the Remuneration Finance Director of Cadbury UK.
Prior to held a number of other senior positions Committee of Laird PLC: investment joining Cadbury, Mark spent six years in during his 33 year career with IBM.
banker at Goldman Sachs and strategy Investment Banking and Retailing.
He represented IBM to the European consultant at Bain & Co.
Skills and experience Commission and other authorities.
Skills and experience Significant international strategic Chairman of the Transition to Teaching Director of FTSE 250, AIM and private experience.
Committee: a Commissioner for the companies, and Chairman of AIM Governments Employment and Skills Chartered Accountant.
Council: Chairman of the UK Trade and Investment Executive Board: Chairman of Chief Executive and entrepreneur with e-skills, the Sector Skills Council: member a track record of steering successful of the British Airways International corporate innovation, growth and Advisory Board: a private sector Business globalisation in multiple sectors.
Ambassador, appointed by the Prime Significant experience in mergers Minister: member of the South African and acquisitions, IPOs and financial Presidents Advisory Council.
markets in the UK, US and Asian capital markets.
Skills and experience Served on both government and MBA.
private sector boards at senior level.
Significant expertise in the global Information Technology industry, in particular in relation to defining and executing the strategies required to drive business success.
