4AM St Pauls Cathedral, London Working in partnership with Transport for London, cleaning the bus stops.
Bringing our strategy to life 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, there is a Mitie force at work delivering essential services around the clock and inspiring change in the way people live and work.
Bringing our strategy to life 1 Maintain our position as the leading provider of FM in the UK Using innovation to provide an edge where every second counts In October 2015, we were awarded a hard FM services contract with Red Bull Racing in Milton Keynes.
The contract has quickly evolved into a centre of excellence for Mities Intelligent Buildings solution.
Working in partnership with Red Bull Racing we have taken innovative steps to optimise their environments, from bustling manufacturing space to open plan areas.
Were shifting the focus of FM, adopting a more proactive approach which prioritises comfort and enhances the productivity of building users.
In Formula One, teams either innovate or stagnate.
Mities innovative solutions are challenging the role of FM in building management, giving Red Bull Racing the edge in how they operate both on and off the track.
7AM Red Bull Racing, Milton Keynes An analyst from Mities Remote Operating Centre sends a daily observations log to our onsite team, highlighting any areas where the building is operating outside its agreed comfort policy.
11AM Rolls-Royce, Norway Cleaning the floors of the Rolls-Royce technology and training facility in lesund, Norway.
Bringing our strategy to life 2 Increase the range and scale of services we provide to our top 200 clients, in the UK and internationally In October 2015, we successfully re-secured our pan-European, integrated FM contract with Rolls-Royce.
The renewed contract, our largest out to tender this year, builds on a strong 20-year relationship which started life as a singleservice cleaning contract in East Kilbride, Scotland in 1996.
Over the years, weve developed a strong working relationship with our clients at Rolls-Royce, underpinned by our dedicated service to and support of their property management strategy, as well as by our investments in technological innovations.
In turn, Rolls-Royce has recognised the benefits of our partnership, with subsequent extensions and expansions of our contract both at home and abroad proving their trust in our ability to deliver integrated services internationally.
We currently provide integrated facilities management to 700 Rolls-Royce properties across the UK, Norway, Finland, Sweden, Germany, France and Poland.
We have over 1,000 Mitie people working on the Rolls-Royce contract across Europe.
1PM Mities office, London Bridge Kirsty meets senior operations directors to discuss contract development ideas.
Bringing our strategy to life 3 Attract, retain and develop the leading provider in the industry Apprentice to Head of Business Improvement Kirsty joined Mitie as a contract administrator, initially overseeing helpdesk, administration and finance for one of our key clients, before completing her Technical HVAC Apprenticeship in 2012.
In the years since, Kirsty has quickly progressed up through the business, holding various managerial roles with increasing responsibility.
Kirsty continues to develop professionally and personally at Mitie.
She was recently promoted in our Technical Facilities Management TFM business to Head of Business Improvement, a managerial role responsible for operational and service delivery improvement, governance and efficiencies within critical engineering contracts.
Kirsty has also successfully completed her Higher National Certificate qualification in Building Services Engineering and Heating Ventilation and Air-conditioning.
This year, Kirsty was awarded the Outstanding Achievement Award Individual at the TFM Apprentice of the Year and Outstanding Achievement Awards 2016, She was also recently shortlisted for WeAreTheCitys Rising Star Awards, both of which serve to recognise Kirstys career journey from an administrative role to an operational management position, and highlight just how valuable an apprenticeship can be for those wanting to further develop their career at Mitie.
I aspire to become a director in facilities management, and with the continual training, support, and opportunity available at Mitie I know I can achieve that.
Kirsty Johnston, Head of Business Improvement 3PM Network Rail, Milton Keynes A cleaning operative receives an instant alert to his wearable device about a spillage in the building that requires urgent attention.
Bringing our strategy to life 4 Increase the provision of technology-led services Wearables We continually challenge our service offering to our clients and customers and were always seeking innovative ways to improve efficiency.
Across a number of our client sites, weve introduced wearable technology for our cleaning teams which allows us to locate and communicate with our people in an instant, track reactive tasks and more robustly measure productivity.
For the first time in real time we can provide our clients with a fully accountable service delivery, measured against their specific requirements and any adhoc demands.
These simple metrics allow us to adapt our service to suit each of our clients needs and ensure we are consistently operating at our optimum productivity.
The technology also has a number of built-in features, including a pedometer and heart rate monitor, to allow our people to measure their walking distance and heart rate, encouraging positive health and wellbeing.
Bringing our strategy to life 5 Grow our public services businesses by developing relationships with key clients Mitie has been caring for residents homes and public buildings for over 25 years.
Our people are experts in all of the key building and specialist trades, delivering responsive repairs and planned and cyclical social housing maintenance services to over 100 local authorities and social housing providers nationwide.
Our success can be attributed to the open, transparent and mutually beneficial relationships we build with not only our clients, but also the residents we serve.
As a service provider involved with local communities and residents every day, were in a unique position to give something back to the areas we work in and contribute to the communities we are part of.
Residents are encouraged to take a more active role in their communities, and Mitie helps to facilitate that.
Through residents forums, coffee mornings, repairs surgeries, and estate fun days, we encourage them to play an active role not only in the planning and delivery of our services, but in helping to shape and build sustainable communities.
Another area of focus within our communities has been health and wellbeing.
In partnership with Kent County Council, Kent NHS Trust, Wellbeing People and long-term partner Golding Homes, we launched a Health MOT Roadshow, delivering free mobile health checks to local residents.
The unique partnership won us the highly acclaimed Innovation in Partnering using TPC2005 Award, as well as the prestigious CIH Award for Innovators of the year.
In addition, we were recently recognised for our Outstanding Approach to Repairs and Maintenance at the 2016 UK Housing Awards UKHA, in recognition of our repairs and maintenance contract with Golding Homes.
5PM Hammersmith & Fulham A Mitie Resident Liaison Officer discusses upcoming maintenance plans with residents on a Hammersmith & Fulham estate Bringing our strategy to life 6 Expand the scale and breadth of our higher-value consultancy services As more and more companies look to expand into developing economies, understanding the environment they work in is crucial.
As experts in this field, our Source8 business offers clients pragmatic advice in the realms of real estate, technology and risk management specifically, how to increase efficiencies and reduce risk, whether theyre looking to expand offices into new markets or consolidate office space in existing markets.
Over the past 12 months, Source8 has begun work with a number of new clients, expanding operations further afield into the Middle East and Asia, recently opening a new office for a major financial services client in Singapore.
In doing so, Source8 created an ongoing FM solution that is also scalable for the clients other international properties.
30 6m different languages consultancy contracts spoken by Source8 secured with Mitie employees clients this year 8PM Clients office, Singapore The Source8 team in Singapore discuss the ongoing operations and maintenance of the new facility on a conference call with our Mitie FM team in the UK.
