12 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Group strategy review Our strategy The Groups clear and consistent longPrioritising term strategy is to deliver sustainable value by providing high-quality packaging and paper solutions, and we achieve this by value-enhancing focusing on our four strategic value drivers.
Mondis disciplined approach to using this as our strategic roadmap, while retaining growth flexibility around how we execute it, has positioned us as a leading international Our strong performance in 2016 builds packaging and paper group with a strong on our track record of continuous platform for growth.
We continue to grow our business, focusing on markets that offer improvement in profitability over the last us inherent advantages and products that five years.
Our consistent and focused are core to our portfolio or bring related development opportunities.
strategy, robust business model and firm Strategically, we are focused on broadening focus on operational excellence all continued our reach in the packaging sector, with a to contribute to our performance.
bias towards consumer-related packaging where we see greater potential for growth.
This will be achieved through valueenhancing capital investments and strategic David Hathorn left acquisitions to enhance our product Chief executive officer offering, extend our geographic footprint Andrew King right and better serve our customers across our Chief financial officer packaging segments.
Our Uncoated Fine Paper UFP business is highly competitive due to its low cost position and exposure to growing markets in central and eastern Europe and Russia.
Growth in packaging % of capital employed Packaging UFP Other 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net operating assets by location % emerging 64% markets Emerging Mature Emerging Europe 36 Russia 12 South Africa 13 Other 3 Western Europe 30 North America 6 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 13 Our financial performance in 2016 Underlying operating profit was up 3% Special items amounting to 38 million to 981 million and our return on capital before tax were recognised for restructuring Group revenue employed ROCE was 20.3%.
and closure costs, and related impairments.
million After taking special items into consideration, After taking the effect of special items into operating profit of 943 million was up 5% account, basic earnings of 131.8 euro cents 6,662m 2015: 900 million.
per share were up 6% compared to 2015.
6,819 6,662 6,476 6,402 We made considerable progress in driving Our cash generation remained 5,790 growth through our capital investment strong with cash generated from programme, delivering incremental operations of 1,401 million up 10% operating profit of around 50 million in on the prior year.
Net debt reduced by 2016 from recently completed capital 115 million to 1,383 million, or 1.0 times projects, with a further 30 million underlying EBITDA.
Group financial 48 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 performance We completed four acquisitions totalling 185 million in 2016, enhancing our product offering and geographic reach in our Fibre Group revenue of 6,662 million was down and Consumer Packaging businesses.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, revenue was in line Underlying earnings of 137.8 euro cents per with the prior year.
share were up 3% compared to 2015.
It is pleasing to see the good contributions Special items are those items of financial from all our businesses despite pricing performance that we believe should headwinds in a number of our key be separately disclosed to assist in the paper grades.
understanding of our underlying financial performance.
Special items are considered to be material either in nature or in amount.
Group underlying operating profit Return on capital employed ROCE million % 12-month rolling on 981m q3% 2015 20.3% Packaging Paper 361 Fibre Packaging 123 981 20.5 20.3 957 Consumer Packaging 121 17.2 767 15.3 699 Uncoated Fine Paper 264 13.6 574 South Africa Division 147 Excludes corporate costs of 35 million and special items of 38 million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Operating profit development by Business Unit million 52 14 981 38 957 30 13 943 3 Underlying Underlying operating operating Operating Packaging Fibre Consumer Uncoated South Africa Special profit Paper Packaging Packaging Fine Paper Division profit items profit 2015 2016 2016 14 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Group strategy review Creating sustainable value Our strategy is to deliver sustainable value by providing high-quality packaging and paper solutions, and we achieve this by focusing on our four strategic value drivers.
This approach enables us to make the most of the competitive advantages we enjoy today, and sets a clear framework for our investment and operational decisions so that we can continue to create value into the future.
While all strategic value drivers are relevant to each of our businesses, priority levels may differ across the value chain.
Driving performance Innovating We deliver through sustainable value by customer Investing providing high-quality partnerships in our packaging and paper solutions high-quality, through: low-cost assets Growing responsibly and inspiring our people Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 15 Driving performance The Mondi Way: Successfully integrating our acquisitions tooptimise quality, productivity and efficiency Uralplastic Russia Our passion for performance will always We believe its important to involve employees right Even though a large number of people are involved from the start whenever we acquire a new business.
in the integration process, everyone is kept informed be central to the way we run our business This helps to ensure a smooth transition with a of progress via a newsletter and encouraged to and is demonstrated through a continuous focus on creating an inspiring working environment raise questions via the Q&A boxes on-site or the focus on quality, productivity and efficiency.
and prioritising our customers, while optimising integration survey.
The first wave of the integration process for Mondi We have systems and processes in place The Mondi Way and our Inspire programme provide Uralplastic was finalised in November 2016. to benchmark against our best performing The structured internal integration process lasted the basis for the cultural integration.
Its crucial that operations, share lessons learnt, identify new employees understand Mondis strategy and around six months, in line with other similar-sized acquisitions.
As usual it kicked off with a town emerging issues, optimise productivity, their own business objectives.
hall meeting on Day 1 where all employees were minimise waste and deliver quality products Our integration teams are made up of our people, welcomed to Mondi by the business unit leaders.
primarily from existing operations in the relevant to our customers on time.
During the first few weeks, all of our 14 internal region together with representatives from centralised integration teams started to meet with employees, functions.
This helps new teams to identify with This drive carries over into our approach to analyse the required actions and determine an Mondis culture and provides invaluable crossproject management and the integration action plan.
The aim is to find the right balance business unit interaction.
The integration process between focusing on daily business and progressing of new acquisitions.
We aim to learn from focuses on sharing best practice, optimising the integration plan.
The process was overseen each other by being open-minded about operational excellence, realising synergies, and by the central E&I Post-merger integration PMI evaluating further investment opportunities.
the approaches we take and focusing on manager supported by the local PMI manager in We expect our integration teams to respect Russia.
The support from our team in Syktyvkar, areas that drive our performance.
the Mondi values and to be as transparent and and our local knowledge of the Russian market We maintain a number of centralised collaborative as possible.
functions where we believe we can benefit from a coordinated approach such as procurement, technical, sustainable development, information technology, treasury and tax.
16 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Group strategy review In our paper operations, our backward In January 2017, the Boards approved the Investing in our high-quality, low-cost assets to keep integration provides us security of supply modernisation and expansion of the tt us competitive and reduces our exposure to raw material mill for a total investment of 470 million, price volatility.
subject to obtaining approval for various Investing in our high-quality, low-cost tax incentives and necessary permitting.
assets to maintain and enhance our In recent years, we have invested The project consists of the installation of a competitive advantages is of particular significantly in the modernisation and new recovery boiler, the rebuild of the fibre importance in our pulp and paper assets growth of our Corrugated Packaging lines, the debottlenecking of the paper where products are generally more and Consumer Packaging businesses.
machines and an investment in a new commoditised and low-cost production Looking forward, while still considering 90,000 tonnes per annum machine glazed is key.
Our focus is on enhancing our capital investment opportunities in these speciality kraft paper machine to supply cost competitiveness, improving energy businesses, we are focused on the fast growing end-uses in flexible packaging efficiency, meeting the needs of our optimisation of our existing operations and food service applications.
The new customers and delivering organic growth andrecent investments.
recovery boiler and rebuilt fibre lines are inour packaging businesses.
expected to start up in late 2018, while the We committed around 770 million new paper machine is expected to start to major projects from 2013 to 2016.
Vertical integration up in the first half of 2019.
Based on the Projects completed include a recovery production in million tonnes current timetable, capital expenditure on boiler at Frantschach Austria and We use We sell the project is expected to be incurred from Ruomberok Slovakia : a bark boiler and 0.2 2017 to 2019. pulp dryer at Syktyvkar Russia : steam 4.0 turbines at Stambolijski Bulgaria and Given the approved project pipeline, our Richards Bay South Africa : a bleached annual capital expenditure is expected to be kraft paper machine at tt Czech 1.7 in the range of 600-650 million in 2017 and 1.4 Republic : a recovery boiler, turbine and 0.4 800-850 million in 2018 as expenditure on 3.8 0.8 0.1 biomass boiler at wiecie Poland : a these large projects accelerates.
0.5 0.2 woodyard upgrade at Richards Bay, and Pulp Virgin Recycled Kraft Uncoated We have invested around 1.6 billion in a number of investments to modernise  ne acquisitions since 2012.
This includes four board board paper and improve our facilities in our Fibre and strategic acquisitions in 2016 to enhance Consumer Packaging businesses.
Over the Capital expenditure our cost position, generate synergies last three years, our major capital projects million through integration and enhance our have contributed around 150 million of product offering and geographic reach.
incremental operating profit, including We successfully completed two Corrugated around 50 million in 2016, and we expect 465m Packaging acquisitions, SIMET Poland to generate a further 30 million in 2017.
Our Consumer 562 We are in the process of commissioning Goods Packaging business acquired 465 the second phase of our project at wiecie, Kalenobel Turkey and Uralplastic Russia.
405 which will provide an additional 100,000 294 tonnes per annum of softwood pulp and In February 2017 we announced the 80,000 tonnes per annum of lightweight acquisition of Excelsior Technologies kraftliner and we have a strong pipeline Limited UK, further supporting the of large projects over the next few years.
development of our Consumer Goods The Boards have approved a new Packaging business in high-growth 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 300,000 tonne per annum kraft top white product applications.
containerboard machine at Ruomberok We invest in our existing operations and, 310 million, subject to tax incentives where appropriate, in strategic acquisitions and permitting, and a new woodyard to strengthen our cost advantages, and bleaching line modernisation at generate synergies through integration and tt 41 million.
The Boards have also enhance our product and service offering approved the rebuild of the Syktyvkar and or geographic reach to better serve power plant, including a new bark our customers.
boiler and turbine 102 million, and the Our disciplined approach to investigating, modernisation of the Syktyvkar waste water approving and executing capital projects treatment plant 42 million.
is one of our key strengths and plays an important role in successfully delivering the returns we require.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 17 Major project pipeline delivering strongly 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 121m 228m 296m 124m 820m e 60m recovery boiler e 70m 155 ktpa e 166m phase I e 94m phase II e 310m 300 ktpa Frantschach Austria recovery boiler, 100 ktpa increased kraft top white bleached kraft machine tt turbine and biomass softwood pulp containerboard e 16m bark boiler boiler wiecie and 80 ktpa machine Ruomberok Czech Republic Syktyvkar Russia Poland lightweight kraftliner Slovakia e 128m recovery e 13m steam turbine wiecie Poland boiler Ruomberok e 106m Packaging e 510m woodyard and economiser Slovakia Paper projects e 30m woodyard and bleaching line Stambolijski Bulgaria upgrade Richards modernisation, e 30m 100 ktpa e 24m Fibre e 32m steam turbine Bay South Africa replacement of pulp dryer Packaging projects Richards Bay recovery boiler, and Syktyvkar Russia South Africa 90 ktpa machine glazed speciality kraft paper machine tt Czech Republic 100m 50m 30m Incremental operating Incremental operating Incremental operating profit delivered from major profit delivered from major profit benefit expected projects in 2014-2015 projects in 2016 in 2017 Strong track record of acquisitions 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 Nordenia Europe & US Kutno plant Poland Ascania SIMET Excelsior Germany Poland Technologies 2 Duropack Intercell Serbia UK plants Germany & KSP Kalenobel Pine Bluff mill US Czech Republic South Turkey Bags plants US Korea & wiecie minorities and Uralplastic Thailand energy plant Poland Russia Lebedyan Russia 1.6 billion invested in acquisitions since 2012 Packaging Paper Fibre Packaging Consumer Packaging 18 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Group strategy review Partnering with our Fibre Packaging products and, together with Revenue by location of customer customers to develop our Consumer Packaging businesses, are % innovative solutions able to offer innovative solutions combining the best features of our paper and flexible Working with our customers to create 6,662m packaging solutions.
innovative solutions is key to our long-term Emerging Mature Emerging Europe 21 success.
In our upstream packaging and We believe that the integrated nature of our Russia 9 paper operations our focus is on producing business, and the complementary fit of our South Africa 6 lighter weight packaging materials without Fibre and Consumer Packaging businesses Other 14 sacrificing strength, enhancing the printing places us in an ideal position to deliver Western Europe 39 quality of our products and achieving on our customers packaging and paper North America 11 productivity and efficiency gains.
Our needs, growing our packaging interests.
downstream converting operations focus Our products need to meet increasingly on product innovation, meeting evolving sophisticated and bespoke needs and customer requirements and generating this is best driven in our businesses by solutions that help our customers promote Product mix the people closest to our customers.
the products they produce and deliver on % of revenue We operate a number of research and product requirements such as longevity, development R&D centres to improve freshness and convenience.
72% packaging existing products and processes and to Our packaging solutions are designed develop new solutions.
We have made Consumer-related to meet the needs of our customers.
packaging 49 good progress this year, working on and Our integrated business model allows us Industrial packaging 23 launching a number of new products, to produce a broad range of solutions and Uncoated ne paper 18 improving our service offering and draw on our experience to develop the Other 10 strengthening strategic partnerships.
appropriate products from our fibre and In order to continue satisfying our flexible-based packaging operations or a customers ever increasing quality combination thereof.
requirements, we continue to invest in Through our product development, further upgrading our quality processes we are able to carry developments in our and improving our quality culture.
upstream paper operations over to our Were creators, pioneers and listeners more innovative than you expect You deserve the best from us, and that influences amore integrated Mondi approach to discussions everything we do.
So we are constantly looking for with our biggest customers, such as IKEA, to ensure ways to improve our processes and product offering.
we offer them the full breadth of our product portfolio.
We work with strategic partners, customers, During 2016, we initiated an innovation project.
suppliers and research institutes to anticipate new In partnership with an external consultant, over technologies and offer cutting-edge solutions.
1,000 of our people were involved in a series of We focus on developments in products and services, online surveys, in-depth interviews and innovation aiming to provide our customers with benefits in workshops.
We generated a number of ideas terms of total cost of ownership, smart features and across a broad range of topics including the way our environmental benefits.
For example, our corrugated businesses connect internally: product performance: packaging and extrusion coatings teams created service delivery: production processes: and a combined solution for a German healthcare customer engagement.
The project compelled us to customer, which can also be used for packaging think more strategically, taking a much broader view engine parts.
Consumer Goods Packaging has on innovation to ensure that ideas are not filtered out collaborated with Mars on a candy bar wrapper too early in the process.
made from waste potato starch, and were taking Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 19 Growing responsibly and Value distribution Total recordable case rate TRCR inspiring our people for % per 200,000 hours worked long-term success 0.83 Our long-term success is dependent on our 0.79 0.78 2,357m 1 0.70 ability to integrate sustainability across the 0.66 Employees 43 Group.
This ensures that we can continue Providers to address the risks and opportunities of equity capital 13 that arise from global environmental and Providers of loan capital 3 societal trends, retain our competitive edge and generate value for our stakeholders.
Direct taxes paid 7 We believe that being part of the solution to Reinvested in the Group 34 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 global challenges will secure the long-term 1 Excluding acquisitions success of our business and the wellbeing of our communities and other stakeholders.
We have a strong track record of delivering A number of our recent, ongoing and on our sustainability commitments.
At the planned capital expenditure projects will end of 2015 we completed our previous help us to meet our new commitments, commitment period and subsequently particularly those relating to green energy launched our Growing Responsibly model.
While growing responsibly has long been Our 10 action areas apply to all our part of our philosophy, the model provides operations and reflect our overall material the business with a formal framework to issues, but certain areas are of particular demonstrate, monitor and improve the way strategic relevance to specific business sustainability is embedded in the business.
In our upstream businesses, forestry The model includes 16 clearly defined 2020 and ecosystems, sustainable fibre, commitments climate commitment runs to communities, environmental emissions and 2030 across 10 action areas: climate change are of utmost importance, e Employee and contractor safety while our downstream businesses focus on minimising and managing e A skilled and committed workforce waste, responsible procurement, and e Fairness and diversity in the workplace product innovation.
e Sustainable fibre Our people are important to us, particularly e Climate change when it comes to ensuring that everyone e Constrained resources and Addressing our climate impact as returns home safely to their families environmental impacts we grow responsibly every day.
It is very encouraging that the e Biodiversity and ecosystems steps we have taken have resulted in an We believe we have a role to play in the transition to a low-carbon economy.
improved total recordable case rate in e Supplier conduct and During our 2004 to 2014 commitment period we 2016.
With zero harm as our ultimate safety responsible procurement reduced our specific carbon emissions by 29%.
goal, weve been working hard to eliminate e Relationships with communities Building on that success, we have now committed fatal and life-altering injuries.
Our focus on to reducing specific CO e emissions from our 2 e Solutions that create value for the top risks at all operations has allowed pulp and paper mills by 15% by 2030, against the our customers 2014 baseline.
We will continue to improve energy us to better anticipate and manage our efficiency, reduce emissions and replace fossil highest risk activities which usually In 2016, we continued to engage with fuels with renewable biomass-based energy where occur during annual maintenance shuts practically and economically possible.
our businesses and leadership to further and project implementation.
These efforts strengthen the model and its integration Climate change is one of 10 action areas thankfully contributed to us experiencing addressed in our Growing Responsibly model.
Our goal is to fine Clean energy and climate action are also central to no fatalities or life-altering injuries during tune and advance the commitment the UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs, the year.
Regrettably, in February 2017 metrics particularly where no externally with which our thinking is aligned.
we suffered a fatality in our South African established, credible metrics are available To achieve our climate goals, we make targeted forestry operations following a timber and make sure they are appropriate.
energy-related investments across our pulp and vehicle accident.
We extend our deepest paper mills, mainly through recovery boilers With the resultant strong focus on a safe, that utilise the biomass residues from our pulp condolences to the family.
We remain fair and diverse workforce, working towards making process.
These investments, totalling determined to focus on top risks so that a more transparent and responsible supply over 400 million since 2012, have also increased fatalities and life-altering injuries are not a energy self-sufficiency at our pulp and paper mills chain, and continued commitment to part of our future.
The latest major minimising our climate footprint, we are able investment was made at our wiecie mill Poland to address risks and opportunities across in 2015, and has reduced carbon emissions and our business.
In January 2017, the Boards approved the replacement of the recovery boiler at our tt mill Czech Republic.
20 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Group strategy review Strategic financial priorities and Payment of dividends is subject to us Our people returns to shareholders having sufficient distributable reserves Our success is driven by our people.
available, and, at present, the Group has a Our free cash flow priorities remain The strength and depth of our leadership significant level of distributable reserves.
We are focused on maintaining team and the calibre and commitment of investment grade credit metrics, our employees across the Group make it Our Boards have recommended payment undertaking selective capital investment possible to deliver on our strategic priorities.
of a final dividend of 38.19 euro cents opportunities, and supporting the per share, bringing the total dividend for Our culture and values play a key role in ordinary dividend.
Any surplus thereafter the year to 57.0 euro cents per share, an ensuring that our people are inspired, will be used, as appropriate, to pursue increase of 10% on 2015. involved and able to contribute in an acquisition opportunities or to increase effective way.
Strategic risk management On behalf of the executive committee, We aim to manage our cost of capital by The industries and geographies in which we sincerely thank all our people for their maintaining an appropriate capital structure we operate expose us to specific risks, contributions which are central to the with a balance between equity and net including: success we have enjoyed in 2016. debt.
The primary sources of our net debt e Industry productive capacity include our 2.5 billion Guaranteed Euro Our business 24 e Product substitution model Medium Term Note Programme and our 750 million syndicated revolving credit e Fluctuations and variability in selling facility.
On 14 April 2016 we issued a 1.5% prices or gross margins 500 million Eurobond with an eight-year e Country risk term under our European Medium Term These risks are long term in nature and Note Programme, thereby extending the accepted by the Boards as they are Groups maturity profile and ensuring directly related to the Groups strategy ample liquidity.
The Boards We believe that a strong and stable financial continue to monitor our exposure to position, supported by an investment grade these risks and investment decisions are credit rating, increases our flexibility and evaluated against our exposures and provides opportunities to access capital the established tolerance levels for any Employee survey: listening to markets throughout the business cycle, individual strategic risk.
Our conservative our people allowing us to take advantage of strategic funding model and low level of financial Our regular employee surveys help us to opportunities when they arise.
leverage provide some protection against understand the areas in which our people feel we high levels of operating leverage.
Our focus are doing well and where we need to improve.
We pursue a dividend policy that reflects We have seen good progress in all areas since is on continual monitoring of these trends our strategy of disciplined and valueour 2013 survey and, following our 2015 survey, and our management and mitigation creating investment and growth, with the leaders and their teams have focused on analysing activities are aligned with our long-term aim of offering shareholders long-term the survey feedback, maintaining improvements strategy.
Our investments and acquisitions that have already been made and taking action dividend growth.
We target a dividend where needed to strengthen our approach.
are designed to take advantage of the cover range of two to three times underlying Recognition, collaboration and communication opportunities arising from our exposure to earnings on average over the cycle, have been common themes across the Group.
Several actions have been implemented with more although the payout ratio in each year will in progress.
This includes initiatives driven centrally vary in accordance with the business cycle.
Our principal as well as extensive locally relevant activities at a 32 risks plant level.
Our leaders understand the importance of creating an environment where our people feel valued, motivated and included.
By living our culture and values, we believe people will feel inspired to be the best they can be.
Five-year cumulative cash ow Dividends per share billion euro cents euro 4.2 2.3 57 cents Interim dividend Final dividend Dividend cover times 0.9 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.5 2.4 1.6 0.6 Free Invested in Distributed to Spent on Change in cash ow asset base shareholders acquisitions net debt 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 8.90 19.10 26.45 9.55 13.23 28.77 37.62 14.38 18.81 38.19 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 21 Near-term outlook Looking ahead Retirement of David Hathorn Our outlook for the business is positive.
Our priorities for the business in 2017 are We have implemented or announced to continue to evaluate both product and price increases in containerboard, sack market opportunities, to make progress on kraft and uncoated fine paper grades, our current capital expenditure projects, supported by good demand.
We expect fully realise the potential of acquisitions some inflationary cost pressures across completed over the last two years, maintain the Group and a lower forestry fair value tight control of costs and further embed our gain.
Furthermore, we anticipate a more Growing Responsibly model throughout challenging trading environment in certain our operations.
uncoated fine paper markets following price In the longer term we will continue to focus It has been a great privilege to erosion in Europe over the course of 2016, on our strategic priorities outlined above, have worked for the Mondi Group combined with emerging market currency evaluating opportunities for growth in our over the past 26 years, being volatility.
However, we expect to continue to packaging businesses and investing in our involved in its development from benefit from contributions from our recently asset base to maintain our competitiveness.
a regional business to a truly completed capital projects and acquisitions, international group delivering together with steady organic growth in our industry-leading returns.
It gives downstream converting businesses.
David Hathorn Andrew King me great confidence in the future Chief executive officer Chief financial officer success of the business to be able Our consistent and focused strategy, to hand over to Peter, who has robust business model and firm focus been alongside me for much of on operational excellence all continue to this journey.
I wish Peter and the contribute to our performance.
We remain team all the very best.
confident of continuing to deliver industryleading returns.
David Hathorn Chief executive officer Appointment of Peter Oswald I am honoured to accept the appointment and look forward to working with the Boards and the rest of our team in continuing the successful development of the business.
With our clear and consistent strategic focus, robust business model, world-class assets, rigorous and disciplined approach to capital allocation, and strong financial position, we are well-equipped to serve our growing customer base and deliver ongoing value for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Peter Oswald Chief executive officer designate
