76 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Introduction from joint chairmen Dear fellow shareholder During the year we have considered a was reviewed and improved.
We received number of potential acquisitions and detailed presentations on the new You would have seen our introduction to capital expenditure projects.
In particular, structure and procedures being introduced the Integrated report and read the Strategic we approved the acquisition of Uralplastic in the Groups quality and innovation report on pages 10 to 73.
Here we wish Russia and Kalenobel Turkey, both teams designed to improve the focus on to provide some further detail on how the contributing to the continued growth of customer needs.
Boards have operated during the year and our Consumer Packaging business, and the key areas of focus for us.
Board composition in our Fibre Packaging business SIMET S. A. Poland and Lebedyan Russia Strategy During the year we have continued to were acquired.
In February 2017, we consider any potential skills gaps on the Our strategy continues to support the acquired Excelsior Technologies Limited Boards that will need to be addressed in delivery of industry-leading returns.
UK, supporting the development of our order for us to continue to deliver on our Following our annual detailed review of Consumer Goods Packaging business stated strategic aims.
In December we strategy, we see no reason to make material in high-growth product applications.
announced the appointment, with effect adjustments at this time.
We continue In addition, we continue to pursue strategic from 1 January 2017, of Tanya Fratto, a US to focus on delivering sustainable value capital expenditure opportunities and national.
She brings wide experience in by optimising quality, productivity and have agreed, subject to tax incentives product innovation, sales and marketing efficiency: investing in our high-quality, lowand permitting, a new 300,000 tonne and engineering in a range of sectors.
cost assets: developing innovative solutions per annum kraft top white machine and growing responsibly.
We benefit from It is with some sadness that, after 10 years at Ruomberok Slovakia and a new an emerging market asset base, particularly on the Boards, Anne Quinn will be retiring woodyard and bleaching line modernisation in our upstream pulp and paper operations, at the conclusion of the AGMs in May at tt Czech Republic, among others.
which deliver both cost competitiveness 2017.
She leaves with our thanks and best Towards the end of the year we approved and access to higher growth markets.
Annes departure significant capital investment in the power We have sought to leverage our cost will result in some further changes, with plant and waste water treatment plant at leadership position by ensuring that John Nicholas taking on the role of senior Syktyvkar Russia and in January 2017 we invest throughout the cycle while independent director: Tanya taking over as the Boards approved an investment of proactively restructuring non-core and chair of the remuneration committee and 470 million to modernise and expand underperforming assets.
as a member of the audit committee: and the tt mill, subject to tax incentives Dominique Reiniche joining the sustainable and permitting.
These changes With customer quality requirements will be effective after Anne steps down in continuing to increase, the Boards were May 2017. keen to ensure the Groups quality culture In February 2017 we announced that David Hathorn will be retiring as Group Chief Our strategy continues executive officer and will stand down as to support the delivery Chief executive officer and as an executive director at the conclusion of the AGMs in of industry-leading returns.
David joined the Group in 1991 Fred Phaswana David Williams Joint chairmen Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 77 and has served as Chief executive officer Risk management As a board we reviewed the results of the since 2000.
During that time, David has led employee survey undertaken at the end Our approach to risk management is Mondi through major change, most notably of 2015.
While one can be sceptical of the explained in more detail on pages 32 to during the demerger from Anglo American results of such surveys, the fact that there 38.
We recognise that there are risks with in 2007 and the establishment of Mondi as had been a 90% response rate gave the every aspect of business and we take a an independently listed Group.
We would Boards confidence that the results we measured approach when considering all like to thank David for his significant were reviewing were truly representative matters.
In addition to the annual review contribution and service to Mondi and offer of the views of our employees across all of the top Group risks, taking particular him our best wishes for the future.
The management actions account of the assessment of those risks, taken and positive improvements achieved we undertake in-depth reviews of each of We are delighted that Peter Oswald, since the last survey in 2013 have sent those individual risks throughout the year.
currently Chief executive officer of Mondis clear messages to all our employees how Europe & International Division, will succeed Safety remains a key priority for us.
seriously their views are taken.
Peter brings significant experience We have continued to monitor the work always areas in which to improve and to the role and has worked alongside being undertaken to identify and engineer management shared their plans with us.
David throughout much of the Groups out the top risks in each of our operations, development, ensuring strong continuity.
It is important that we remain conscious of continuing the elimination of fatal and We look forward to working with Peter as our responsibility to create an environment life-altering injuries and strengthening our he takes up his new role.
where our employees feel valued, motivated safety culture.
We are pleased that in 2016, and included and return home safely we did not experience any fatalities or life Governance every day.
However, we were deeply The governance environment continues to saddened by a fatality in our South African Ensuring there is open and honest evolve and we endeavour to ensure that forestry operations in February 2017. debate engendered through mutual our governance framework, described The Boards continue to receive regular trust and respect, not only between the in more detail in this report, keeps pace reports on progress with the investments executives and non-executives but also with that change.
While it is easy to treat being made, training initiatives and changes among the non-executives is important governance as a tick box exercise, this is to working practices, and we will ensure to us.
Through good communication and not the case at Mondi.
We agree that many that the safety of all Mondis people is at the interaction with the executive team we are of the requirements make good business top of our agenda.
able to understand what is going on in sense and have embedded them into our the business and this aids the debate and organisation so that they form part of the Culture and values challenge of the appropriate future strategic way we work every day.
New challenges Mondi operates in more than 30 countries direction.
Constructive challenge is seen as lie ahead with the recently published South and is culturally diverse.
We aim to positive, it is necessary to kick the tyres African King IV Code, while in the UK the empower our employees with a set of and test the logic behind every proposal.
government is reviewing a number of areas common values, cultural characteristics That way we hope to continue to achieve including ethnic diversity and remuneration and goals which help define Mondis the outstanding results we have seen in practices.
Your Boards are reviewing success, while still valuing local customs recent years.
the new proposals and, where we are and input.
The Mondi Way provides a It is not just an internal focus, we also not already meeting the requirements, framework to explain what we need to satisfy ourselves that the Groups values will consider adjusting our practices focus on to create value, with our culture are reflected in our relationships with as appropriate.
and values as the foundation.
We have external stakeholders, in particular with a relatively flat management structure Each of our committees has had much our shareholders.
that means communication flows are to occupy them this year: the audit straightforward, our Chief executive officer committee has reviewed and agreed new Conclusion maintains regular contact with the top procedures and practices in response to The following report provides more detail 200 leaders around the Group, starting new regulation regarding external auditors on how our governance framework is with their attendance at our leadership and the committees own responsibilities: working in practice.
We hope that, together forums and following through with regular the remuneration committee has reviewed with the Strategic report and Financial newsletter style communications on all key and updated the remuneration policy see statements, this will provide you with an matters affecting the Group.
pages 111 to 117 for more information : the overview of how we are managing the nominations committee has considered We recognise that culture is not something Group and looking after the interests of you, the succession plans and recruited a we should look at in isolation.
new non-executive director: and the embedded in all our discussions and is an sustainable development committee inherent part of everything we do.
We have Fred Phaswana David Williams has been embedding the new 2020 a strong governance framework supported Joint chairman Joint chairman commitments and policies.
The Boards by Group policies that set the tone and also spent time understanding the new drive the behaviours and ethical standards EU Market Abuse Regulation and throughout all our operations.
There have approving the implementation of new been a number of businesses joining the procedures and practices.
Group this year and a material part of the integration of these businesses involves instilling the Mondi culture.
