106 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report Key responsibilities Shareholder engagement e Day-to-day management of the While the joint chairmen maintain DLC executive Group within the limits set by the responsibility for ensuring there is effective committee Boards, including implementation of communication with shareholders, it operational decisions is the Chief executive officer and Chief financial officer who undertake an active e Strategy implementation, including investor programme, engaging mainly with annual strategy session with the heads of Mondis largest shareholders, analysts and each business unit fund managers.
The senior independent e Risk identification and the management director is always available to meet with of mitigation of those risks shareholders as required should any issues e Monitoring financial, operational and not be capable of resolution through the safety performance, in particular more regular channels.
monitoring the achievement of budgets, With continued macroeconomic We work hard to establish and maintain an forecasts and targets and geopolitical uncertainties, open and constructive dialogue with our e Policy implementation 2016 has been another challenging shareholders and prospective investors.
We have maintained It is important to us that our strategic our disciplined approach to priorities are understood and we share allocating resources and have regular updates on the Groups financial considered a variety of potential performance and business imperatives.
acquisitions and capital projects, investing wisely and monitoring our implementation to ensure that we continue to deliver strong growth in line with our stated strategic objectives.
David Hathorn Chairman of the DLC executive committee Composition Investor events Meeting Members Committee attendance Month Event throughout member nine meetings the year since in the year February e Preliminary results announcement David Hathorn, May 2007 9 e Investor roadshow in Europe Edinburgh chairman March e Investor roadshow in Europe London Andrew May 2007 9 e Investor roadshows in South Africa Johannesburg, Pretoria and King Cape Town John August 2011 9 Lindahl e Sun City Merrill Lynch conference Peter May 2007 8 April e Bond roadshow London, Munich, Frankfurt, Amsterdam 1 Oswald and Paris Ron June 2008 9 e Investor roadshow in Frankfurt Traill e Discussions with investors and advisory bodies prior to Annual 1 When the date for one meeting was changed General Meetings Peter Oswald was unable to attend due to a prior business commitment with a May e Trading update major customer e Annual General Meetings August e Half-yearly results Other regular attendees e Investor roadshows in South Africa Johannesburg, Pretoria and e Business unit managers Cape Town e Representatives from corporate September e Investor roadshows in Europe London and Edinburgh functions, each of whom present on relevant topics e New York Credit Suisse conference October e Trading update e Avior investor lunch South Africa November e London UBS conference e Consultation with major shareholders and advisory bodies regarding proposed changes to remuneration policy December e Vienna HSBC Conference Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 107 We accept that not all our shareholders will All directors are kept informed of The Annual General Meetings of Mondi always be completely aligned with our plans shareholder views and feedback, Limited and Mondi plc are scheduled to for the future of the business but through particularly from the full and half year be held on 11 May 2017 in Johannesburg being transparent we hope to reach a investor roadshows, which are presented and London respectively, presenting an mutual understanding and welcome all and discussed at board meetings.
opportunity for shareholders to question feedback.
On page 106 are details of the Analyst reports are shared regularly with the the directors about our activities and key investor events that have taken place board and consideration given to any views prospects.
Directors are available to meet during 2016, including meetings, investor both positive and negative regarding the informally with shareholders immediately roadshows and participation in investor Groups performance, future direction and before and after the meetings.
In addition, the executive the perceptions of the management team.
that all directors and, in particular, the management make themselves available chairmen of the committees will be present.
The Mondi Group website to investors in order to maintain an open www.
com contains a wealth Separate resolutions will be proposed for dialogue, resulting in a number of meetings of information including the latest news from each item of business to be considered at and calls taking place throughout the year.
around the Group, announcements, share the meetings, with the voting conducted by As Mondi continues to grow, our investor price, general shareholder information as polls.
It is confirmed that each director will programme has adapted and we have well as more in-depth reports regarding our be standing for re-election by shareholders extended the geographical reach in order to sustainability commitments and progress.
While all resolutions to target new investors.
In December 2016 we re-launched our be presented to shareholders represent In addition, we dont overlook our debt website with improved digital design and regular business, following the external providers and the Chief financial officer and functionality and improved navigability.
audit tender process and our decision to Group treasurer have held regular meetings change auditors, Deloitte will not be seeking No requests for access to records under with the credit rating agencies, relationship re-election and we will be proposing the the South African Promotion of Access banks and debt investors.
appointment of PwC see page 99 for to Information Act 2000 were received more information.
The voting results will be during 2016.
The remuneration committee chair announced on the JSE and LSE and made undertook a consultation with major available on the Mondi Group website as Annual General Meetings shareholders on proposed changes soon as practicable following the close of to the Groups remuneration policy, At the 2016 Annual General Meetings all both meetings.
communicating with holders representing resolutions were passed.
Overall in excess The notices, which include explanations approximately 60% of the Groups total of 76% of the total Group shares were of each resolution, are contained in voting rights.
The directors did however note that separate circulars which will be sent to all the votes against five of the resolutions The company secretarys office is shareholders in advance of the meetings, in were higher than for other resolutions.
the focus for private shareholder accordance with the corporate governance These resolutions all related to the authority communications, responding to individual codes of South Africa and the UK.
to be given to directors to allot and issue shareholder correspondence, and coshares of Mondi Limited and of Mondiplc.
ordinating our engagement on corporate The voting was in line with the pattern governance matters.
Mondi has seen at previous Annual As we move forward with our Growing General Meetings.
Having engaged with Responsibly agenda, our Group head of shareholders in this regard over recent sustainable development continues to years the directors are aware that South maintain a dialogue on socially responsible African shareholders in particular have investment through focused briefings with concerns about these types of resolution.
We understand from our engagement with shareholders that this is not specific to Mondi and they routinely vote against such resolutions as a matter of policy.
108 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report Dealing in securities Business ethics During the year the EU Market Abuse Mondi continues to have a stated Regulation came into force.
The Boards policy of zero tolerance of bribery and undertook a detailed review of all current corruption.
The Boards have adopted policies and procedures relating to dealing a Code of Business Ethics that governs in the securities of Mondi Limited and our corporate conduct and which applies Mondi plc.
Pursuant to the DLC structure, throughout the Group.
The code sets it was also necessary to consider the out five fundamental principles that governance and regulatory requirements govern the way in which Mondi and its in South Africa.
This review culminated in employees conduct business.
Three of a new share dealing code and procedures the principles are monitored and reviewed being adopted and guidelines issued.
by the DLC sustainable development The Boards received training on the committee human rights, stakeholders and new requirements from the Groups sustainability and two by the DLC audit legal advisers and have ensured that a committee legal compliance and honesty programme of training for all key personnel and integrity.
The code sets out The code incorporates the requirement for the restrictions placed on directors, senior the Group to comply with all applicable laws management and other key employees and regulations.
Our legal and governance with regard to their share dealing to ensure compliance is managed at business unit that they do not abuse their access to level, supported by a central team of information about the Group pending relevant professionals who have oversight its public release and availability to of compliance, including consideration shareholders and other interested parties.
of the application of non-binding rules, All dealings by directors and persons codes and standards.
Regular reports discharging managerial responsibilities are presented to the Boards, or relevant and their closely associated persons are committees, on compliance matters.
announced to the JSE and the LSE when The detailed application of the principles of they occur.
Details of the directors interests the code is documented in Mondis policies in the shares of both Mondi Limited and and procedures, in particular the Business Mondi plc can be found on page 123.
Integrity Policy and the Sustainable Development Policy.
These policies have been rolled out across the Group and regular training is provided to all relevant employees.
Our internal audit team tests the implementation of these policies and reports to the audit committee on their findings.
The directors believe that the Group has robust compliance systems and procedures in place in relation to the code.
The directors are not aware of any material non-compliance with the code.
The code is available on the Mondi Group website.
Mondi has not been the subject of any legal actions against it for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices during the year.
Mondi has not received any material fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.
