Directors Report The Directors report sets out additional statutory information.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at The Chester Grosvenor Hotel, Eastgate, Chester CH1 1LT on Thursday 4 May 2017 at 11.00am.
The notice convening the meeting, with details of the business to be transacted at the meeting and explanatory notes is set out in a separate AGM circular which has been sent to all shareholders at the same time as this Report.
Dividend The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.1p 2015: 6.6p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, this will be paid on 12 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 7 April 2017.
The final dividend, together with the interim dividend of 2.75p per ordinary share paid in September 2016, gives a total dividend for the year of 9.85p 2015: 9.15p per ordinary share.
Issued share capital and control Darren Drabble As at 31 December 2016, the issued share capital of the Company Secretary Company was 109,536 comprising 547,682,254 ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
Full details of the share capital of the Company and changes to share capital during the year are set out in note 16 to the Group Financial Statements on page 100.
The information in note 16 is incorporated by reference and forms part of this Directors Report.
At the 2016 AGM, shareholders authorised the Directors to allot up to 364,640,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to allot up to 364,750,000 ordinary shares.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys Annual Report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, has one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received not later than 48 hours before the meeting.
A holder of ordinary shares can lose the entitlement to vote and the right to receive dividends where that holder fails to comply with a disclosure notice issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
There are no issued shares in the Company with special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan which entitles all employees to purchase ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited Trustee.
74 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Finan inanc ci ial al S St tat ate em me ent nts s Voting rights are exercised by the Trustee in accordance with shares.
The Directors have no present intention of conducting participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an further purchases of the Companys shares beyond the programme instruction to the Trustee, no vote is registered.
In addition, the which has been announced, but consider it prudent to obtain the Trustee does not vote on any unawarded or forfeit shares held flexibility this authority provides.
The Directors will only use this under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at the date of this report, power after careful consideration, taking into account the financial the Trustee held 0.07% of the issued ordinary share capital in resources of the Company, the Companys share price and future the Company.
The Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the The Company operates a Long Term Incentive Plan Plan and interests of shareholders generally.
shares are held by the trustees, Estera Trust Jersey Limited Estera, pending vesting of the shares awarded under the Plan.
Estera does Substantial shareholders not vote on any shares held in trust.
As at the date of this Report, As at 31 December 2016, the Company had been notified of the Estera held 0.25% of the issued ordinary share capital in the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of The Company.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority: Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Percentage of share capital are contained in the Articles of Association.
of ordinary ordinary share of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a shares voting capital voting general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to Shareholder rights notified rights notified be made to the existing Articles of Association at the forthcoming The Capital Group Companies, Inc 55,579,401 10.15 AGM.
Aviva plc 44,339,228 8.10 Ameriprise Financial, Inc and its group 27,061,089 4.94 All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a Blackrock, Inc 25,454,379 4.65 change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest Standard Life Investments Holdings and become exercisable on a change of control subject to Limited 25,417,919 4.60 satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Save in FIL Limited 24,758,460 4.52 respect of provisions of the Companys share schemes, there are no State Street Nominees Limited 20,581,165 3.76 agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees Kames Capital 19,369,751 3.53 providing compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that As at 14 February 2017, the Company had not received any further occurs because of a takeover bid.
notifications of holdings of voting rights.
The Company has entered into one significant agreement which would be terminable upon a change of control: the credit facility agreement entered into with Barclays Bank PLC and Lloyds Bank PLC in December 2015.
Restrictions on the transfer of securities Whilst the Board has the power under the Articles of Association to refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares other than: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Authority to purchase own shares The Company was authorised at the 2016 AGM to purchase up to 54,752,150 of its own shares in the market.
No shares were purchased under this authority in 2016 although we intend to commence a share repurchase programme for up to 40 million to return surplus capital to shareholders.
We will utilise the existing authority granted at the 2016 AGM to undertake the share repurchase programme which will be conducted during 2017.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 54,760,000 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 75 Directors Report continued Directors The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: Director Position Service in the year ended 31 December 2016 Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman Served throughout year Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer Served throughout year Rob Rowley Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Sally James Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Andrew Fisher Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Genevieve Shore Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Robin Freestone Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Matthew Price Chief Financial Officer Served throughout year Their biographical details are set out on pages 38 to 39.
Further Employees details relating to Board and Committee composition are disclosed The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its in the Corporate Governance Report and Committee Reports on employees and uses a number of ways to engage with employees pages 40 to 73.
Mark Lewis will be appointed to the Board on 13 on matters that impact them and the performance of the Group.
March 2017 and will succeed Peter Plumb as Chief Executive Officer These include formal business performance updates by members of on 10 April 2017. executive management for all employees, regular update briefings for all employees, regular team meetings, the Groups intranet site The Articles of Association provide that a Director may be appointed which enables easy access to the latest Group information as well as by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing Group policies, and the circulation to employees of results Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
All announcements and other corporate announcements.
This also Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2017 helps to achieve a common awareness amongst employees of the AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code financial and economic factors affecting the performance of with the exception of Peter Plumb and Rob Rowley who are stepping theGroup.
A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place to The Executive Directors serve under rolling contracts that are ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that terminable upon 12 months notice from either party.
The Nonthe Group can take action based on employee feedback.
All Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment.
Copies of employees are able to participate in the Companys Share Incentive service contracts and letters of appointment are available for Plan and Save As You Earn Scheme which gives employees the inspection at the Companys registered office during normal opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
This helps business hours and will be available for inspection at the Companys to encourage employee interest in the performance of the Group.
Equal opportunities The Directors Remuneration Report, which includes the Directors The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all interests in the Companys shares, is set out on pages 57 to 73. employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable During the year, no Director had any material interest in any employment policies which seek to promote entry into and contract of significance to the Groups business.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability, behaviour and Directors powers competency.
The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys Disabled persons Articles of Association and any directions given by the Company in Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying for general meeting.
vacancies, with due regard to their skills and abilities.
Procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of Directors indemnities training and career development.
For those employees becoming During the financial year ended 31 December 2016 and up to the disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is date of this Directors Report, the Company has maintained supportive so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain with appropriate liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
the Group, wherever reasonably practicable.
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors and In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are deemed to the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and its be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
These indemnities were in force throughout the year ended 31 December 2016 and remain in force as at the date of this Report in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors or Company Secretary may incur in the course of acting as Directors, Company Secretary or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
76 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Borrowings records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the In November 2016, the Group exercised its option to extend by a Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at further year to December 2019 the three-year revolving credit any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to facility for 100m.
The Group also has an accordian option to apply ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act to the banks for an additional 100m of committed funds during the 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are first two years of the facility.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and had cash of 44.6m with nil drawn down under the facility.
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Political donations Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also During the financial year ended 31 December 2016, the Group did responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, not make any political donations 2015: nil.
Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
Post balance sheet events There have been no balance sheet events that either require The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of adjustment to the Financial Statements or are important in the the corporate and financial information included on the Companys understanding of the Companys current position.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Research & development other jurisdictions.
Innovation is important to the future success of the Group and to the delivery of long-term value to shareholders.
The Groups Each of the Directors whose names and functions are set out on research and development expenditure is predominantly associated pages 38 and 39 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: with computer and internet software systems.
Successfully the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the developed software is used to develop new products and to applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of improve and extend the functionality and scope of the Groups the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the operations.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Directors responsibilities statement the management report, which comprises the Directors Report and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development and the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance with performance of the business and the position of the Company and applicable law and regulations.
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and that they face.
Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in In addition, the Directors consider that the Annual Report and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and have elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in understandable and provides the information necessary for accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS102-The shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of business model and strategy.
Auditor and disclosure of information Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial The Directors who held office at the date of this Report confirm that, Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each such Director profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: information, and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: that information.
for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Auditor for the Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to accept re-appointment departures disclosed and explained in the Company Financial as auditors of the Company.
A resolution proposing their reStatements: and appointment is contained in the notice of the forthcoming AGM and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless will be proposed to shareholders at that meeting.
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 77 Directors Report continued Reporting requirements The following sets out the location of additional information forming part of the Directors Report: Reporting requirement Location Strategic Report Companies Act 2006 s414A-D Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35 DTR4.1.
8R Management Report the Directors Report and Directors Report on pages 74 to 78 and the Strategic Report on Strategic Report comprise the management report pages 1 to 35 Likely future developments of the business and Group Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35 Statement on corporate governance Corporate Governance Report, Audit Committee Report, Risk Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 73 Details of use of financial instruments & specific policies for Note 17 to Group Financial Statements on page 101 managing financial risk Boards assessment of the Groups internal control systems Corporate Governance Report on pages 43 to 44, the Audit Committee Report on page 50 and Risk Committee Report on pages 54 and 55 Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate Responsibility Report on page 35 Directors remuneration including disclosures required by Directors Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 73 Schedule 5 and Schedule 8 of SI2008 410 Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Directors interests Directors Remuneration Report on page 71 The Strategic Report comprising the inside cover and pages 1 to 35 and this Directors Report comprising pages 74 to 78 have been approved by the Board and are signed on its behalf by: Darren Drabble Company Secretary 27 February 2017 Registered office: Moneysupermarket House, St. Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester CH5 3UZ 78 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016
