Our Brands To be the first place customers go to save money on their household bills The UK economy is in unchartered waters and that means consumers are feeling uncertain about their financial well-being.
Our purpose is to help customers save money on their household bills often hundreds of pounds a year by switching providers.
As we empower our customers to take control of their finances and make informed choices about which products and services to buy, they will become more confident about managing their finances.
Good for them, and good for us our business model means we are not rewarded unless our customers save money.
Winning on price Our research consistently tells us that price is the most important consideration for consumers.
So we intend to give our customers access to the most competitively priced products and services, with outstanding choice among the leading providers.
We will continue to use our data analytics and customer segmentation models as we work with providers to offer great prices to our customers.
We want customers to be confident that, if they come to MoneySuperMarket, they can be assured of getting a great price, and will not need to look elsewhere.
Our future Personalising our offer During 2017, we will: The internet is full of noise.
Inboxes are bombarded around the clock with all manner of promotional emails, many of which are continue our technology investment of little or no relevance to the recipient.
Consumers are growing programme to improve our customer increasingly weary of wading through the clutter to find useful journeys and ensure our services work information.
seamlessly across mobile, tablet and In recognition of this, we are re-engineering our relationship with desktop devices: customers and the way in which we communicate with them.
offer more personalised services in a We will use what we know about customers to create relevant, smartphone world: precisely targeted emails and other communications.
In this way, invest further in our CRM and organic we will create enduring relationships grounded on trust.
search capability to help us develop Improving the customer journey and grow our customer relationships: Customer expectations of the online shopping experience are and rising all the time, and we need not just to keep pace, but to set further strengthen our relationships the benchmark for excellence.
with our providers to help offer our We will continue to invest heavily in our site and our app so that, customers a wider choice of products in addition to having the best products on our shelves, we will and services.
offer the easiest and most convenient way for people to save money on their household bills.
That means the right product, accessible on whichever device the customer prefers to use.
16 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Motor insurance premium mean price quoted Annual average insurance premium 2016 993 2015 965 2014 938 2013 1,003 2012 1,144 Source: MoneySuperMarket motor insurance enquiry data Longest 0% balance transfer period for credit card Facing the future with confidence Headline balance transfer period months Regardless of what happens in the wider economy, one thing is certain UK consumers will continue to need access to financial products that Dec 2016 43 offer great value and help them navigate the often choppy waters of running a household.
Dec 2015 40 Market trends and opportunities Dec 2014 35 Our broad range of channels means that there are always many different Dec 2013 39 ways that families can save money on their household bills.
This year has been no exception, we have seen significant changes in the price of motor Dec 2012 29 insurance, energy and borrowing.
MoneySuperMarket is well placed to Source: MoneySuperMarket data benefit from each of these trends as customers look to actively manage their household bills: Motor insurance premiums These have continued to rise throughout Average energy quote 2016 due, in part, to the insurance premium tax rises introduced by MoneySuperMarket user the government earlier in the year.
This implies an increase in the Average annual energy price average saving available from switching and can encourage consumers to review and check their motor insurance and switch through a price 2016 1,196 comparison website.
2015 1,316 Credit cards As borrowing costs have reduced throughout the year, particularly after the reduction in interest rates following the Brexit 2014 1,087 referendum, balance transfer credit cards have been particularly attractive, with some of the longest periods of 0% interest we have 2013 941 ever seen.
2012 1,028 Energy bills The cost of wholesale energy declined during the first Source: MoneySuperMarket enqiry data median cheapest half of 2016, but we started to see increases in the last quarter of 2016. price dual fuel customers only energy enquiries Significant savings are still available, typically for customers switching from a variable to fixed tariff.
MoneySuperMarket is one of the leading energy comparison sites and works directly with suppliers to offer exclusive deals for our customers through collective switches, with market-leading tariffs sourced directly from providers.
Political and regulatory focus Regulators are increasingly looking to remove the advantages of being the incumbent supplier.
Examples of this include both energy and current accounts.
This trend facilitates competition and consumers propensity to switch.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 17 Our Brands continued Cutting users costs, fighting their corner MoneySavingExpert is one of the UKs biggest consumer finance websites and is dedicated to cutting users costs and fighting their corner with journalistic research, cutting edge tools and a massive community all focused on finding deals, saving costs and campaigning for financial justice.
Its the brand most trusted by UK families to save money and manage your finances.
Putting the user first MoneySavingExpert operates with full editorial independence and integrity and always focuses on whats best for the user, in line with its editorial code.
Fighting consumers corner MoneySavingExpert has successfully helped millions of consumers to get redress for mis-sold payment protection insurance and bank charges, to tighten regulation of payday loans, to get financial education in schools and much more.
Were proud of our campaigning stance its us fighting your corner.
Improving the user proposition in 2016 More than 12 million people have signed up to receive our Our future weekly email, which is packed full of deals, tips and money saving guides.
In 2016, we built the revolutionary Credit Club During 2017, we will: which helps users manage and boost their credit chances - it includes a free Experian credit score and our unique Credit Hit continue our strategy of educating and Rate.
Campaigning We also invested in our Cheap Energy Club which shows if will continue to be at the heart of what you are overpaying for your gas and electricity and monitors MoneySavingExpert does: this position as the market changes.
We continued to build increase our presence on multiple upon the success of our collective energy switches, running channels to attract new audiences - our most successful collective energy switch during summer with greater resources devoted to autumn 2016, switching over 150,000 users to a marketsocial media and video production: leading tariff.
develop and enhance our clubs and We also revamped our popular deals and vouchers section.
tools including our Credit Club and We continue to show users the blockbuster deals as we have Cheap Energy Club to help consumers done for years, but in 2016 we added ways to save and top deals for 100 large and medium-sized retailers, so users cut their bills and understand their shopping at one of those always know the best ways to save.
financial history: and Easy to use invest in technology to enhance our We have invested considerable technological and editorial site, tools and guides so they are easier resources to start our journey to becoming a fully responsive, to use on a mobile or tablet.
Accessible, unique and easy to understand editorial content is at the heart of what MoneySavingExpert does, so ensuring our content and tools 18 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Subscribers Number 000s to weekly email 2016 12,000 2015 10,800 2014 9,900 2013 9,000 2012 8,000 Source: MoneySavingExpert data are responsive and optimised for a mobile or tablet device is key.
This has significantly improved user engagement.
We will continue to develop our user experience by enhancing our site navigation and empowering users through our content and tools.
We have a massive forum community.
With 1.6 million users and almost 3.1 million threads, our forum is an active and passionate community that helps one another to get out of debt, find better deals and find ways to make the most of their money.
Market trends and opportunities We have seen a number of trends in the markets in which we operate where consumers could save money by actively managing their household bills including: Financial services There is increasing competition among financial services providers for consumers who want credit products such as loans and credit cards.
Balance transfer periods for credit cards have continued to rise and cards with low fees have become more prevalent as providers compete to acquire consumers.
This increase in the quality of products enables MoneySavingExpert to provide expert editorial comment and engage with consumers on the best loans and credit cards available in the market.
Energy The wholesale cost of fuel continued to decline through 2016, but this trend reversed in the last quarter of 2016.
This saving is still commonly only given to consumers who take out new fixed tariffs, at the expense of those who stay on standard deals.
MoneySavingExpert provides collective energy switches for consumers, enabling them to switch to market-leading tariffs.
MoneySavingExperts Cheap Energy Club, which alerts consumers if energy tariffs change and savings can be made, helps to ensure it is well placed to benefit from consumers seeking to reduce their energy costs.
This trend facilitates competition and consumers propensity to switch and MoneySavingExpert is well placed to benefit from this.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 19 Our Brands continued Two-thirds of British holidaymakers say a trip away is their largest item of discretionary spend TravelSupermarket exists to make sure none of them pay over the odds for their holiday Booking a holiday should be fun, but the enormous range of deals and destinations on offer can sometimes turn this exciting experience into a stressful chore.
Thats where TravelSupermarket comes in we compare prices from over 85 holiday, car hire, flight and hotel providers all in one place, along with travel extras such as insurance and airport parking, Our future to save our customers the hassle of trawling through multiple websites and ensure they get the best possible deal for their During 2017, we will: money.
continue our technology investment Simply compare to save money programme to make sure we offer the TravelSupermarket users just need to enter their best tools and services for comparing requirements, then hit search: the range of results that is and booking holidays so that we can returned can then be compared and fine-tuned until the help our customers get more holiday customer has found the right holiday, car, flight or hotel room for their money: for their needs, whether they want the cheapest deal or a focus on helping UK families by high-end luxury option.
Once a decision is made, the user is focusing on package holidays: and transferred to one of our partners websites, where they can check everything over and finalise their booking.
bring easy to use comparison services to the millions of families who plan Holidays and book their family holidays online For package holidays, we are building on our heritage as one of the UKs leading price comparison sites in the sector by every year.
investing in technology to make the whole process as easy and clear as possible, reducing the time it takes to search and compare deals so customers can focus more on planning what theyre going to do on their trip than spending hours sourcing the best deal.
Whats more, we work with many of the industrys most reputable brands which all provide consumer protection, offering peace of mind for customers making one of their biggest purchases of the year.
20 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Holidays packaged and independent Total Value m 2016 forecast 26,738 2015 estimate 25,933 2014 24,407 2013 23,366 2012 21,804 Source: Package vs Independent Holidays UK May 2016 - Market Size and Forecast, Mintel Market trends and opportunities Consumers with tight household budgets are looking for the best deal for their holiday.
They are looking to compare the costs of the individual holiday components including flights, hotels and car hire to find the best deal for them.
TravelSupermarket continues to focus on building leading comparison services for consumers to help them find the best deal for their holiday and to benefit from this increasing consumer demand to get more holiday for their money.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 21
