Our Vision and Strategy Our vision To help every household make the most of their money.
Strategic priorities The Group has three strategic priorities to be the best site, earn customer loyalty and be the preferred partner for our providers.
The Board has set KPIs to monitor the delivery of these strategic priorities.
Best site Be the easiest way for people to find the right products for their needs Our mission Earn customer loyalty We aim to save Trusted destination brands 20m families money in 2020 Preferred partner Be the best way for providers to acquire customers For Principal Risks & Uncertainties go to page: 30 10 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our strategy Our strategy is to invest in the right technology, people and marketing behind our core brands of MoneySuperMarket, MoneySavingExpert and TravelSupermarket to ensure each help more people save more money year after year.
Strategy Core values Through the investment in technology, we will develop an enhanced understanding of our customers and deliver an improved and consistent customer experience.
Ensuring our services work as well on a mobile and tablet device as they do on a desktop, our customers are able to access our services wherever and whenever they want to.
This will allow us to build deeper relationships, delivering more value to our Do what you say customers by helping them make the most of Take pride in what you do their money.
Find the right way today KPIs Innovate for tomorrow Listen and understand As we continue our growth strategy and the Live the brand investment in our technology programme, we need to measure our performance against our strategy.
Our key performance indicators are set out on pages 12 to 15.
Risk management The management of risk has a key role to play in the achievement of our strategy.
The relationship between our principal risks and our strategy is identified in the Principal Risks & Uncertainties section of this Report on pages 30 and 31.
See pages: 46 to 51 and 54 to 56 for details of how the Audit Committee and Risk Committee support the Board in oversight of internal controls and risk management Remuneration The Remuneration Committee determines the Remuneration Policy to ensure it promotes the longterm success of the Group.
See page: 60 for details of how our Executive remuneration is linked to our strategy To see more on Values, go to our Corporate Responsibility Report: page: 32 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 11 Our Vision and Strategy continued Average unique monthly users 23.4m Best site Be the easiest way for people to find the right products for their needs MoneySuperMarket mobile app We are delighted to introduce MoneySuperMarket GO, the latest innovation from the Moneysupermarket Group in our continuous drive to help every household make the most of their money.
Our fantastic new app makes it easy for consumers to switch and save money, anytime, anywhere.
During 2016 we built four native journeys, significantly improving the mobile experience from a mobile web In 2016 we continued the investment in our technology programme, experience, as well as building customer features such as to spending 22.6m, an increase of 3m compared to 2015.
During 2016 do lists and reminders.
our investment was focused on two areas upgrading our customer experience and journey and developing our data capabilities.
As we develop the app we will build out the functionality and increase the number of native journeys, creating a This investment allows for greater flexibility and scalability across our single touch point for customers to switch and save across different channels and any future channels.
The technology platform all their householder bills.
creates a base for launching innovative new products which, in 2016, included the MoneySuperMarket mobile app and MoneySavingExperts Credit Club.
The investment also improves data capabilities and customer journeys including the development of our Enterprise Data Warehouse which stores our customer data.
Customers will find it easier to use our sites Key performance indicators and benefit from greater personalisation of services and improved Average monthly unique visitors customer journeys on mobile and tablet devices, which is especially important for the growing number of people who use smartphones.
This is Google Analytics measure calculating the average monthly unique visitors by brand over the year.
N ote this is not The average monthly unique users in 2016 remained broadly the same fide-duplicated by device and so effectively i s unique devices visiting our sites rather than people.
reflecting the benefits we are delivering to our customers as more choose to engage with our brands to make the most of their money.
2016 23.4m 2017 will see us continue to build out the capability and functionality of 2015 23.6m Credit Club and the MoneySuperMarket app.
We will also increase the number of personalised and relevant pieces of communications we 2014 22.5m send to our customers.
Investment in technology The amount we have invested in technology.
2016 22.6m 2015 19.6m 2014 16.1m 12 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Adults choosing to share data 22.2m Earn customer loyalty Trusted destination brands Credit Club Credit Club offers free credit score services.
We have partnered with Experian to provide access to Experian credit score, whenever users want it.
We then calculate how much credit a user can reasonably afford for both credit cards and loans based on our joint data.
To help understand these scores we introduced the MSE Credit Hit-Rate.
This is the percentage of top cards and loans users have a strong chance of getting if they applied.
In summary, Smart Search has allowed MoneySuperMarket and MoneySavingExpert to stand out as the most We have continued to focus on ensuring that customers can use our sophisticated tool for finding credit products and thanks services more easily across channels and through multiple devices, to our partnership with Experian this takes our service to with mobile becoming increasingly prevalent.
Our efforts to earn a completely new level as we help customers save money.
customer loyalty are reflected in our Net Promoter Score.
In 2016 our Group Net Promoter Score fell 5%, reflecting the challenges we Key performance indicators experienced with the TravelSupermarket.
com, the Net Promoter Score remains broadly in Net promoter score line with 2015 at 49%.
This is an index that measures the willingness of customers to recommend our brands services to others.
This is averaged An additional 3.6m customers set up a MoneySuperMarket MyProfile across the three months preceding the year end.
customer account in 2016, adding to the existing 18.6m customers 2016 43% who keep their data with us.
This enables us to understand our customers even better, to personalise our communications to them 2015 48% and make it easier for them to save money with us.
2014 38% MoneySavingExpert continued their innovation by launching Credit Club which offers a free credit and affordability check and an eligibility Unique adults choosing to share data calculator for credit cards and loans, together with advice on key The number of adults that have a valid customer account.
factors affecting credit and affordability scores and tips for improving them.
MoneySavingExpert also completed its biggest ever energy 2016 22.2m collective switch in October.
2015 18.6m MoneySavingExpert offers cashback to its Cheap Energy Club members which helps build a direct relationship with club members.
Savings made by customers These innovative tools encourage more customers to use our services Calculated by multiplying sales volume against the a verage and share their data with us, allowing us to increasingly personalise saving per product for core channels, t he balance of the services and make it easier for customers to save money with us.
We calculation is a company estimation.
estimate that the savings made by customers in 2016 were 1.8bn.
2016 1.8bn In 2017, we will complete our technology investment programme which 2015 1.6bn will enable our customers to save even more money.
2014 1.4bn Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 13 Our Vision and Strategy continued Marketing margin 64% Preferred partner Be the best way for providers to acquire customers Pre-approved credit cards In 2016 we launched five providers with pre-approved We are not tied to any particular product provider.
Throughout 2016, credit cards on our new technology platform which our commercial teams have continued to focus on building stronger deep links to providers systems and brings back live real relationships with our providers, with the aim of being their partner offers.
This improves the customers visibility of deals of choice.
We worked hard to understand our providers objectives available to them, reducing further their tendency to and to identify opportunities to help our customers, including market simply take the products which their banks offer them leading exclusive products and new products such as pre-approved and thereby reducing the barriers to switching.
step forward in our customer and provider proposition.
We are seeing the investment driving much stronger Providers understand the value we bring them, which is why we customer satisfaction and its a great fit with our continue to attract a strong panel of providers to our sites, with the data-driven strategy.
number of providers in 2016 increasing by 12% to 980.
These providers include all of the major brands in motor and home insurance.
During 2016, we have enhanced our data interaction with providers Key performance indicators and our mapping to their systems.
This has helped providers understand what our customers want and how they can improve their Marketing margin products, as well as to target their marketing spend and the customers they wish to acquire in a more efficient manner.
The inverse relationship between revenue and t otal marketing spend represented as a percentage.
As planned, we have increased our online and offline marketing spend 2016 64% in 2016 as well as the cash back to MoneySavingExperts Cheap Energy Club members, resulting in a reduction in our marketing margin of 2015 68% 4%.
The increased marketing spend has enabled us to attract more customers to our sites, helping providers engage with those 2014 65% customers efficiently.
Number of providers During 2017 we will continue to build our relationships with providers so that we can understand their strategic objectives and goals, The number of providers our brands partner with d uring and how we can help them to continue to target their marketing the year.
2016 980 2015 877 2014 723 14 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Revenue 316.4m Our results Underpinned by our core values Customer First Our Customer First programme is about making sure we do the right thing for customers and users and puts them at the heart of everything we do every day.
Each employee undertakes a Customer First e-learning module on joining the Group as well as refresher training.
Our core values underpin our Customer First culture and help to ensure that we build trust and grow our The strength of our Group is a reflection of the passion, innovation, business sustainably.
skills and experience of our employees.
They play a critical role in the performance of the Group, living our core values as one team and always making things better for customers, colleagues and providers.
We take pride in being a profitable and efficient Group that has a clear focus on our customers.
Key performance indicators Our focus on our customers during 2016 was reflected in a number of Revenue initiatives including the launch of a revised Code of Conduct to sit This is the annual revenue generated.
alongside our Customer First programme, both of which are about making sure we do the right thing, particularly for our customers.
The 2016 316.4m continued investment in our technology improves customer journeys and makes it easier for our customers to make the most of their 2015 281.7m money.
This focus on our customers will continue during 2017.
2014 248.1m Adjusted operating profit As detailed in the Financial Review on page 22.
2016 107.8m 2015 100.1m 2014 87.3m Operating cash flow A measure of the cash generated in a given p eriod solely related to core business operations.
2016 106m 2015 97m 2014 84m Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 15
