28 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Our external context Global packaging market We seek opportunity and manage risk by monitoring and leveraging the trends affecting the global packaging industry.
By responding proactively, wecan shape our own future.
1 The global packaging market provides Global packaging by product materials to wrap, store, protect and display % total market a variety of goods.
Packaging is expected Fibre based 36 to deliver more value every day.
It needs Rigid plastic 22 to capture consumers attention, be Flexible 17 convenient, communicate brand values, Metal 14 protect and preserve the product, be cost Glass 7 efficient and minimise both transport costs Other 4 and environmental impacts.
Various substrates are used in the production of packaging in order to achieve the optimal results our customers and end 1 consumers are looking for.
These include Global packaging by region paper and board, plastic film, foil, rigid % total market plastic, glass, metal, wood and textiles Europe 27 either standalone or in combination, North America 24 depending on requirements.
Middle East and Africa 5 Asia-Pacic 39 Global annual demand for packaging Central and is estimated to be approximately South America 5 US$839 billion, with Europe and North America accounting for around half of the 1 global market.
Our packaging interests are centred around the fibre-based and flexible packaging 1 Smithers Pira, The Future of Global Packaging to 2020 markets, primarily in Europe, Russia, Middle East and North Africa, North America and South Africa.
We are a leading supplier of fibre-based packaging including packaging papers such as containerboard and kraft paper, converted packaging products such as corrugated packaging and industrial bags, and speciality products.
We are a leading provider of consumer flexible packaging such as pre-made bags and pouches, printed laminates and highbarrier films.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 29 Fibre-based packaging Mondi is the leading producer of containerboard in emerging Europe, and the second largest producer ofvirgin containerboard in Europe.
European containerboard consumption was estimated at around 34 million tonnes 2 in 2016, up 2.4% on the previous year.
We are also a key producer of corrugated packaging in emerging Europe.
We are the largest supplier of kraft paper in Europe and a leading global player.
Kraft paper is used in a variety of applications from super-strong cement bags to food packaging applications.
Consumption in Europe is estimated at around 4 million tonnes and grew moderately in 2016.
We are a global leader in the production of industrial bags, used for packaging cement, building materials, chemical and agricultural products.
2 RISI, European Paper Packaging Forecast, December 2016 Consumer flexible packaging Consumer flexible packaging is used in the primary packaging of food, as well as for pet food, home care, hygiene and other products, where a combination of plastic films, foils and paper deliver the right packaging solutions to protect and promote products every day.
The global consumer flexible packaging market continues to enjoy good growth as a result of positive substitution effects and organic growth.
The global consumer flexible packaging market is estimated to be around US$83 billion with Europe and North America representing almost half of 3 the global market.
We are a leading European producer of consumer flexible packaging, with a small presence in Russia, NorthAmerica and Asia.
3 PCI, The European Flexible Packaging market to 2020 30 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Our external context Key market drivers Demographics and Key Demand for packaging is closely economic development linked to economic development.
Growth in consumer spending market and industrial production will continue to drive demand for packaging in the future.
drivers We believe there are distinct factors that will shape the packaging industry and impact demand for our products: e Population growth and a rising middle class in emerging markets e Ageing population in developed markets e Urbanisation and changing lifestyles women at work, smaller households Impacts on the e More demand for packaged packaging industry goods in emerging markets as Trends impacting demand for populations grow, incomes rise packaging are closely linked to the and retail chains develop market drivers described above.
e Time-constrained consumers seeking fast and often healthier Packaging is continually evolving food options toaddress factors such as: e Consumers requiring smaller portion sizes and convenience features Investments How we are responding Our acquisitions and capital investment We see strong potential for projects are centred on expanding our growth in the packaging sectors product range and geographic reach, in which we operate and we are reducing our environmental impact, focused on taking advantage of and providing innovative solutions.
the opportunities associated with these market trends.
Recent projects have delivered significant improvements in energy efficiency and emissions reductions e. g. new recovery boilers : provided additional capacity to meet market demand e. g. lightweight containerboard and increased our design Sustainability and printing capabilities.
40 performance Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 31 Digitalisation Modern Focus on and interconnectedness consumers sustainability e Reshaping the world we live in e Engaged consumers, empowered e Increased demand for limited by digitalisation, making resources driving the need to save e Growing online shopping culture informed choices food, reduce other waste, and use e Increased complexity of materials more efficiently e Packaging as an ambassador for supply chains brand owners who need to interact e Heightened awareness of the e More legislation driven by more with consumers impacts of climate change, stakeholder concerns about degradation of ecosystems and e Increased competition and responsibility along the value chain industrial emissions changing distribution channels requiring innovative multifunctional e Environmentally conscious endpackaging solutions consumers e Increasing demand for e Need for packaging to convey e Stakeholders requiring the e-commerce solutions brand values and promote responsible use of natural and premium products renewable resources, and reduced e Multichannel brand emissions and waste communication impacting the e Increased requirements for required functionality of packaging sophisticated printing and e Desire for light-weighting and righthaptic properties to enhance size packaging to reduce materials e Complex and longer supply consumer experience used in packaging chains increasing the protection requirements of goods in transit e Changing retail landscape e Benefits of fibre-based packaging and needing extended product with cost pressures along the that is recyclable, biodegradable and shelf life value chain necessitating shelfor made from renewable sources ready packaging and point-ofe Increased need for transparency in e Demand for flexible packaging driven sale displays how we do business and how our by reduced materials: lower energy products are made including legal for production and transportation: compliance, labelling, sourcing, and barriers to prevent food waste certification, etc.
and enhance shelf life Our latest acquisitions support the Our packaging solutions include: e Multi-barrier solutions to extend shelf development of our Consumer Goods life e. g. sterilisation packaging and e Reduced portions and convenience Packaging Uralplastic, Kalenobel and high-barrier films e. g. easy opening, re-closable seals Excelsior Technologies and Corrugated e Light-weighting without sacrificing and smart storage Packaging SIMET and Lebedyan strength properties e. g. lightweight e e-Commerce e. g. re-sealable boxes and businesses, enhancing ourproduct offering recycled containerboard, singletamper proof solutions and geographic reach.
ply industrial bags and stande Advanced design and printing options up pouches Product innovation to enhance brand appeal and customer e Environmental responsibility experience e. g. premium shelf-ready Our wide portfolio of products gives us a e. g. biodegradable and packaging, paper-touch solutions and unique opportunity to offer our customers recyclable packaging shaped packaging innovative fibre-based and flexible packaging solutions.
