y s g r P o e e l d o o i n v p l h o e c r e P T S h a r Business Model Achieving savings for customers and product providers We operate through three leading brands, MoneySuperMarket, our brands and services.
We offer a compelling proposition to both MoneySavingExpert and TravelSupermarket, providing price and customers and product providers, underpinned by intuitive customer product comparison and editorial based websites.
Whilst each journeys, expert content and support, our comparison services, tools business has a slightly different business model, we set out in this and guides.
We deliver sustainable growth for our shareholders by section the overarching business model for the Group.
focusing on our core differentiators: our scale, technology, brands and people.
Whilst we do not work with every provider, we try to work with We enable customers to compare a wide range of products and make an those providers who can help our customers make the most of their informed choice, helping them to make the most of their money through money.
The model How we generate value What sets us apart Scalability When creating, developing and maintaining our technology, we recognise the importance of scalability.
We are in the third year of our technology investment programme, designed to ensure that our websites and apps are robust, flexible, secure and scalable across our different channels to adapt and meet the needs of our customers and product providers.
Technology We are committed to technology development which provides benefits to both our customers and product providers.
Three years ago we embarked on a major transformation project to migrate the Groups diverse range of services onto a single, modern, flexible and secure platform, focused on improving our customer experience and journeys and developing our data capabilities.
Customers will find it easier to use our services and benefit Sustainable from greater personalisation, especially important for customers on a smartphone, helping them to make growth informed choices about what products they wish to take out in a straightforward and convenient way.
Product providers will benefit from increasing numbers of informed customers who have researched and are ready to take out a product and from efficiencies as a result of our improved back office systems and processes.
Brand Customers have the reassurance of using a family of well-known and trusted brands and of receiving customer support either online or offline through our customer service centre.
Providers benefit from our brand awareness by enabling them to target their marketing spend in a more efficient manner on increasing numbers of informed customers who have researched and are ready to take out a product.
People Our people are integral to all that we do.
We have hired the most talented people we can find across our Ewloe, Underpinned by Core Values London and Manchester offices.
We have an outstanding team who are responsible for designing, implementing, For Core Values go to page: 11 maintaining, supporting and promoting our websites and apps.
Our people are focused on our Customer First programme which means making sure we do the right thing for our customers.
Our core values underpin our Customer First culture and help to ensure that we build trust and grow our business sustainably.
8 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 e h y o t l i d l B i e r b r a a s n l a d c s S r e m o t s u C Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The journey How it works The results Benefits we deliver We identify products and services which Customers are relevant to customers and where We provide our customers with a free, easy to use, online service they can make meaningful savings on so they can compare a wide range of products in one place and their household expenditure make an informed choice when taking out the product most suited to their needs.
In a few simple steps, customers can use any of our trusted brands to help them save money on their We attract customers and providers household bills.
Our services enable our customers to compare through our trusted brands and products by price, product features and service.
services and through increasingly personalised customer insights In addition to our comparison services, we help and support our customers to research the product they wish to take out and provide additional assistance through our contact centres.
This includes expert content, innovative clubs, news and articles, tools, guides, video blogs, webchats and the ability to ask the views of Customers use our services to other customers in our forums.
We also send emails to our search for and compare products customers, enabling them to keep up to date with the latest deals, offers and best buys on a wide range of products.
We help customers to find us through TV and radio advertising, editorial comment in the press and on television programmes, and through search engines.
We ensure that our customers Informed customers select product can access our services wherever they are by using our mobile and take out that product with their responsive websites and apps.
chosen provider Providers Partnering with the Group offers product providers access to large volumes of informed customers who, having researched and compared the market, are actively looking for Provider pays a targeted and cost a product.
This means we are able to offer product providers effective fee a targeted, flexible, efficient and cost effective success-based marketing solution.
Shareholders We have a simple, success-based revenue model which is highly scalable.
For the majority of our services, we receive a marketing Customer insights and feedback help us fee from the product provider for customers who take out improve our service and help providers a product through us.
Revenue is driven by the number of improve their products products taken out through us and the fee rates payable to us by product providers for each product taken out.
Therefore, an increase in either the number of products purchased or the fee rates will have a positive impact on revenue.
By delivering value to our customers and product providers, we ultimately drive long-term financial value to our shareholders through the delivery of consistent revenue and earnings growth together with the payment of dividends in accordance with our progressive dividend policy.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 9
