78 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Board of directors Appointed Experience Fred Phaswana June 2013 Fred has a wealth of experience in African and global businesses with well developed strategic and commercial skills 72 Independent having previously been regional president of BP Africa, a non-executive director of Anglo American plc and chairman of Joint chairman Yes on appointment Anglo American South Africa, Anglo Platinum, Transnet, Ethos Private Equity, the South African Energy Association and Committee memberships the Advisory Board of the Cape Town Graduate School of Business.
Fred was chairman of Standard Bank group and The Nominations, social and ethics Standard Bank of South Africa between 2010 and 2015.
He was also the former vice chairman of WWF South Africa and Qualifications Business Leadership of South Africa and was the honorary president of the Cape Town Press Club.
MA Unisa, External appointments BCom Hons RAU, Chairman of the South African Institute of International Affairs and non-executive director of Naspers Limited.
BA Philosophy, Politics and Economics Unisa Appointed Experience David Williams May 2007 and as joint chairman David has significant experience in senior financial roles held across a range of multinational companies, with board 71 in August 2009 experience as both an executive and non-executive director.
He retired as finance director of Bunzl plc in January Joint chairman Independent 2006, having served on the board for 14 years.
He was previously a member of the Tootal management board and Yes on appointment finance director of Tootal plc.
David has also held senior independent director and committee chair roles at a number of Committee memberships companies.
Formerly a non-executive director of the Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company, Dewhirst Group Nominations chairman, plc, Medeva plc, George Wimpey plc, Taylor Wimpey plc, Tullow Oil plc, Meggitt plc and Dubai-based DP World Limited.
remuneration External appointments Qualifications Graduated in economics None.
from Manchester University, chartered accountant UK Appointed Experience David Hathorn May 2007 David has more than 25 years experience in the packaging and paper industry with strong financial and commercial 54 Independent experience of the sector.
He completed articles with Deloitte & Touche in Johannesburg in 1987.
He joined Anglo Chief executive officer No American plc in 1989 as a divisional finance manager, moving to Mondi in 1991 and going on toserve as finance director Committee memberships and then general manager of Mondi Europe until 2000, when he was appointed Chiefexecutive officer of the Mondi Executive chairman, Group.
He has led Mondi through major change, especially the demerger from Anglo in 2007, and has evolved Mondis sustainable development, strategic direction, growing it into a packaging focused business.
socialand ethics Qualifications At Anglo American plc, David was a member of the executive committee from 2003 and an executive director from 2005 Graduated in commerce from and served on the boards of a number of group companies.
the University of Natal, chartered accountant South Africa External appointments Chairman of Kore Potash Limited.
Appointed Experience Andrew King October 2008 Andrew has more than 14 years experience with Mondi in various strategy, business development and finance roles.
47 Independent He has played a key role in defining the Groups strategic direction and re-shaping the capital structure since listing.
Chief financial officer No Andrew completed articles with Deloitte & Touche in Johannesburg in 1994.
In 1995 he joined Minorco, part of Anglo Committee membership American, as a financial analyst, before assuming responsibility for the groups investment management activities, and Executive transferring to their corporate finance department in 1998.
He worked on a number of group M&A activities before being Qualifications appointed a vice president of Anglo American Corporate Finance in 1999.
He was appointed Mondis vice president of Graduated in commerce business development in 2002 and corporate development director in 2004.
He served as chief financial officer of Mondi from the University of Cape from June 2005 to May 2006.
He was then appointed as Group strategy and business development director before Town, chartered accountant becoming the Chief financial officer of the Mondi Group in 2008.
South Africa External appointments None.
Appointed Experience Peter Oswald January 2008 Peter has over 25 years experience of the sector with detailed knowledge of operations and extensive experience of the 54 Independent acquisition, disposal, restructuring, turnaround and organic growth of businesses.
He began his career with Deutsche Chief executive officer: No Bank and automotive company KTM.
He joined the Frantschach Group in 1992 as thehead of internal audit, later Europe & International Committee membership becoming corporate controller.
Division Executive After serving as chief executive of the bag and flexibles business from 1995 to 2001, he was appointed chief executive of Qualifications Mondi Packaging Europe in 2002, leading its subsequent integration with Frantschach into the new Mondi packaging division.
Graduated in law from the Having held a number of senior executive roles within Mondi, Peter was appointed Chief executive officer of the Europe & University of Vienna and in International Division in January 2008.
He was a non-executive director of Telekom Austria AG between 2008 and 2014 and of business administration from MIBA AG between 2014 and 2015 and chairman of thesupervisory board of OMV AG between 2015 and 2016.
WU-Vienna Business School On 1 February 2017, it was announced that Peter will be appointed as Chief executive officer of the Mondi Group with effect from the conclusion of the AGMs on 11 May 2017.
At the same time, Peter will be appointed as a member of the sustainable development committee and the social and ethics committee.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 79 Appointed Experience Anne Quinn CBE May 2007 and as senior Anne has extensive experience in the natural resources sector and of capital intensive manufacturing companies.
65 independent director in She spent her early career with NZ Forest Products Limited and the US management consulting company Resource Senior independent August 2009 Planning Associates.
She has wide-ranging oil and gas global experience having joined Standard Oil of Ohio, which was director Independent subsequently acquired by BP plc, following which she went on to work for BP in the US, Belgium, Colombia and the UK Yes and held a number of executive positions, including group vice president.
Previously a managing director of Riverstone Committee memberships Holdings Europe, a private equity investment firm specialising in the renewable and conventional energy and power Audit, nominations, industries and a former non-executive director of The BOC Group plc from 2004 to 2006. remuneration chairman, sustainable development External appointments Qualifications Non-executive director of Smiths Group plc.
BCom from Auckland University and MSc in management science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Awarded a CBE for services tothe natural gas industry Appointed Experience John Nicholas October 2009 John has business and commercial experience, in particular experience of capital intensive manufacturing companies.
60 Independent John spent his early career in technology-focused international manufacturing and service companies involved in Non-executive director Yes analytical instruments, fire protection and food processing.
He became group finance director of Kidde plc on its Committee memberships demerger from Williams Holdings and was group finance director at Tate & Lyle plc from 2006 to 2008.
He was a nonAudit chairman, nominations executive director of Ceres Power Holdings plc until December 2012, chairing the audit committee.
Qualifications John served six years until April 2015 as a member of the UK Financial Reporting Review Panel, which seeks Masters degree in business toensure that the provision of financial information by public and large private companies complies with relevant administration from Kingston reporting requirements.
University, chartered accountant UK External appointments Non-executive director of Hunting PLC where he chairs the audit committee and of Rotork p. l. c. where he is the senior independent director and chairman of Diploma PLC where he was previously the senior independent director and chair of the remuneration committee.
Appointed Experience Dominique October 2015 Dominique has extensive business understanding of operating in Europe and has international consumer marketing and Reiniche Independent innovation experience.
She started her career with Procter & Gamble before moving to Kraft Jacobs Suchard as director 61 Yes of marketing and strategy where she was also a member of their executive committee.
After helping Jacobs Suchard Committee memberships Non-executive director through its acquisition by Kraft, Dominique joined The Coca-Cola System in 1992, starting in sales and marketing and Nominations, remuneration then holding various roles of increasing responsibility up to general manager France.
From 2002 to early 2005 she was Qualifications president Europe for Coca-Cola Enterprises and from 2005 on she was president Europe for the Coca-Cola Company MBA from ESSEC Business and then chairman from 2013 until stepping down in 2014.
School in Paris Dominique was a non-executive director of Peugeot-Citroen SA between 2012 and 2015.
External appointments Non-executive director of AXA SA, Chr.
Hansen Holding A S, Paypal Europe and Severn Trent Plc.
Appointed Experience Stephen Harris March 2011 Stephen has extensive experience in engineering and manufacturing having spent his early career with Courtaulds plc 58 Independent and then moved to the USA to join APV Inc from 1984 until 1995, where he held several senior management positions.
Non-executive director Yes He was appointed to the board of Powell Duffryn plc as an executive director in 1995 and then went on to join Spectris Committee memberships plc as an executive director from 2003 until 2008.
He was also a non-executive director of Brixton plc from 2006 to 2009.
Audit, nominations, External appointments remuneration, sustainable development chairman, social Chief executive officer of Bodycote plc.
and ethics chairman Qualifications Chartered engineer, graduated in engineering from Cambridge University, masters degree in business administration from the University of Chicago, Booth School of Business Appointed Experience Tanya Fratto January 2017 Tanya has wide experience in product innovation, profit and loss, sales and marketing and engineering in a range of 56 Independent sectors.
Tanya also has extensive knowledge of operating in the US.
She was CEO of Diamond Innovations, Inc. a Non-executive director Yes world-leading manufacturer of super-abrasive products, until 2010.
Before that she enjoyed a successful 20-year career Committee memberships with General Electric where she ran a number of businesses and built an experience base in product management, Nominations, remuneration operations, Six Sigma and supply chain management.
Qualifications External appointments BSc in electrical engineering Non-executive director of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. Smiths Group plc and Ashtead Group plc.
