Strategic Report Managers Report Performance The year to end April 2016 was a volatile time for stock markets.
The FTSE World index returned a pedestrian 0.5%, suggesting a lot of huffing and puffing for little reward.
During the summer of 2015 commentators fretted about Chinese growth and its effect on the world economy.
As the end of 2015 approached, these worries were repeated along with fears over the prospect of rising US interest rates and continued weakness in oil and other commodity prices.
This led to a turbulent few weeks for markets, mainly during December and January.
Our job, as long-term investors, is to look past short-term headlines and identify those businesses that can sustainably grow their cash flows and earnings at above average rates.
This perspective allows us to place short-term news and events firmly in context, stick to our approach, and add value over the long Nvidia advanced graphics chips enabling virtual reality term, using gearing to take advantage of indiscriminate market weakness by buying equities at attractive valuations.
During the year to April Monks net asset value, with borrowings at fair value, returned minus 0.4%, with the second half of the period Portfolio Restructuring being a challenging environment with a number of our holdings As noted in last years report, there was a very significant portfolio suffering amidst worries about global growth.
Particularly affected reorganisation following the change of portfolio management were companies with exposure to Asian consumption and those team.
Since we settled in the most notable changes have been which had performed strongly earlier in the year.
Not surprisingly, to the Companys borrowings and an associated change in the few energy companies the portfolio did own, such as Ultra gearing position.
Petroleum and Inpex, performed poorly and both have been sold.
We view the ability of investment trusts to borrow funds to invest Many of the top contributors have come from our enthusiasm for in long-term equities as a key advantage relative to other the growth of the US economy such as Royal Caribbean investment vehicles.
We expect Monks to carry positive gearing Cruises, Markel, the specialist insurance provider, and Martin to equity markets most of the time, typically in the range of 5-15% Marietta, a leading US building aggregates supplier, and our of shareholders funds.
However, a strong rise in equity markets enthusiasm for technology such as the internet giants Amazon, over previous years had argued for some caution a year ago.
Facebook and Alphabet formerly Google.
Elsewhere Ryanair, Subsequent market volatility provided a welcome opportunity to Europes leading low cost airline, produced exceptional operating add to the equity portfolio at significantly lower levels in both and share price performance as did Japans M3, which provides September 2015 and January 2016.
At the end of April net online information for doctors: both demonstrating that great gearing to equities amounted to 6.2% and we would anticipate investments can be found within unpromising economies.
taking it higher should markets decline.
This seems appropriate If there was any real surprise in these results it was that our given the borrowing cost of our new US dollar loan is around performance came in so close to the index return.
The portfolio 1.8% per annum, which is well below the historic long term return has a high active share 93%, which means that the overlap with from equity markets.
the index is low at 7%, so we would expect very different Equity Portfolio performance for the portfolio over the long run.
If we exclude the sale of the US Treasury bond and the purchase of approximately 7% of the portfolio related to the deployment of gearing, described above, then underlying portfolio turnover during the year was relatively modest, at around 14%, which indicates an average holding period of over 7 years, consistent with our long-term investment approach.
This level of turnover means that changes in the split of the portfolio between our growth categories have been minimal.
However, reasonably significant trends can be discerned within our Growth Stalwart and Rapid Growth categories.
Historically, global consumer staples companies have made up much of our exposure to Growth Stalwarts, being companies with strong brands, low economic sensitivity and decent growth opportunities especially within developing markets.
For many years Nestl has been pre-eminent amongst such corporations and has been a prominent holding in our portfolios but we have recently sold it for two main reasons.
First, the low level of bond Novo Nordisk leading in diabetes treatment yields worldwide has forced investors into reliable dividend Universal Images Group Editorial Getty Images.
04 Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report payers, such as Nestl, in a desperate search for income.
This Outlook has driven valuations of such low risk, stable equities to unusually Whilst picking individual stocks remains at the heart of what we high levels.
Second, we fear that Nestls future growth and that do, there are three broad exposures about which we are of a number of its peers is likely to be more modest than in the enthusiastic.
The first is Asian consumption: with 100m past given trends towards healthier eating, weaker demand from consumers entering the Asian middle class every year there is a a number of markets and already high profit margins.
Instead we good deal of opportunity for companies in China and beyond to have been buying into Growth Stalwart companies with higher grow strongly.
Second is the underlying growth of the US growth potential such as software company SAP, clinical waste economy, which received another fillip in 2015 as lower gasoline collector Stericycle and the worlds leading diabetes care prices had the effect of a meaningful tax cut.
The third exposure is company Novo Nordisk.
related to companies that use technology and innovation to disrupt existing traditional business models online businesses, Within the Rapid Growth category there has been little change the use of the cloud, better use of data which is being crunched despite strong price performance from a number of our larger by ever more advanced computers and the prevalence of mobile holdings such as Amazon, Alphabet, Facebook and Naspers.
We telephony: all are creating some major changes in the world to the increasingly believe that platform and network businesses such as advantage of many new emerging businesses.
these tend to winner takes all outcomes as greater scale reduces costs and increases utility: as a result we sold Twitter and The Companys top holdings reflect these enthusiasms.
Prudential reduced eBay, both of which are falling further behind their life insurance & wealth management generates 57% of its new respective market leaders, Facebook and Amazon, respectively.
business profits from Asia where it has leading positions in many We have continued to add new holdings, taking smaller incubator countries in the region built on its strengths in distribution and around 0.5% positions in Nvidia, which designs graphic chips for product design.
The US recovery is represented by Royal advanced computing including virtual reality, Autohome, a Caribbean Cruises cruise holidays are very popular with Chinese online car portal, and Grubhub, which is involved with Americans, CRH an Irish domiciled building materials company online ordering and physical delivery of takeaway meals.
Such with extensive US interests and CarMax US second hand car companies face considerable challenges and risks but offer very retailer.
Examples of technology companies include significant potential upside should they succeed and this Amazon, Alphabet formerly Google, the worlds biggest search asymmetry of returns is what we are explicitly trying to capture.
engine, SAP software for business customers and TSMC the largest semi-conductor fabrication company in the world.
The portfolio now reflects many of the very best ideas from across the globe, researched by a wide range of our colleagues across the different investment teams within Baillie Gifford.
We believe the portfolio is set to grow at an above-average rate, even in an environment of only modest economic expansion.
The broad spread of investments ensures a natural diversification while the clear structure of the portfolio provides a framework which helps both analysis and decision making.
There will be periods when fundamentals are not reflected in shareholder returns, such as when our growth style is out of favour.
However, we remain confident that our process will create significant value for investors over the long term.
Charles Plowden Spencer Adair Kirby largest tank barge operator in the US Malcolm MacColl Supplied courtesy of Kirby Corp.
In our two other categories, Cyclical Growth and Latent Growth, there were no discernible structural shifts.
We did, however, continue to sell companies when we believed the prospects were correctly priced in by the market or where the investment case was not materialising as hoped.
The funds were used to purchase companies with more exciting prospects and greater share price upside.
New holdings include train equipment manufacturer Wabtec, the Macau hotel and casino operator Sands China, Swiss conglomerate OC Oerlikon and US barge operator Kirby.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 05
