Governance Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the audited Directors Financial Statements of the Company for the year to 30 April 2016.
Information about the Directors who were in office during the year and up to the date the Financial Statements were signed, Corporate Governance including their relevant experience, can be found on page 17.
The Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 21 to 23 Ms Carol Ferguson is retiring at the Annual General Meeting and and forms part of this Report.
is not offering herself for re-election.
All the other Directors are Manager and Company Secretaries retiring at the Annual General Meeting and are offering themselves Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie for re-election.
Following formal performance evaluation, the Gifford & Co, has been appointed as the Companys Alternative Chairman confirms that the Board considers that their Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Company Secretaries.
performance continues to be effective and that they remain Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management committed to the Company.
The Board therefore recommends services to Baillie Gifford & Co. their re-election to shareholders.
The Investment Management Agreement sets out the matters over Directors Indemnity and Insurance which the Managers have authority in accordance with the policies The Company has entered into qualifying third party deeds of and directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, the indemnity in favour of each of its Directors.
The Investment Management Agreement is terminable on were in force during the year to 30 April 2016 and up to the date not less than six months notice.
Compensation fees would only of approval of this report, cover any liabilities that may arise to a be payable in respect of the notice period if termination were to third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or occur sooner.
The annual management fee payable is 0.45% of breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in total assets less current liabilities, calculated and payable quarterly.
respect of liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal The function of the Management Engagement Committee is fines, any costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings fulfilled by those members of the Board who are also members of in which the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the Audit Committee Qualifying Directors.
The Board reviews the Company in which judgement is given against him her.
In investment performance and monitors the arrangements for the addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent provision of investment management and secretarial services to that it is recovered from another person.
The Company also the Company on a continuous basis.
A formal evaluation of the maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Managers by the Qualifying Directors is conducted annually.
The Conflicts of Interest Qualifying Directors annual evaluation considered, amongst Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the others, the following topics: the quality of the personnel assigned Board on an annual basis.
The Board considers these carefully, to handle the Companys affairs: the quality of policy guidance taking into account the circumstances surrounding them and, if and explanations: the investment strategy and performance: considered appropriate, they are approved for a period of one administrative competence: the quality and coverage of papers: year.
Having considered the lists of potential conflicts there were the marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers: no actual direct or indirect interests of a Director which conflicted communication with shareholders: and the service level provided with the interests of the Company.
by, and relationship with, the Managers generally.
Following the most recent evaluation in March 2016, the Qualifying Dividends Directors are in agreement that the continuing appointment of The Board recommends a final dividend of 1p per ordinary share Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as AIFM and the delegation of which, together with the interim already paid, makes a total of investment management services to Baillie Gifford & Co on the 1.5p for the year.
If approved, the recommended final dividend on terms agreed, is in the interest of shareholders as a whole.
the ordinary shares will be paid on 5 August 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 July 2016.
The The Qualifying Directors consider that maintaining a low ongoing ex-dividend date is 7 July 2016.
The Companys Registrar offers a charge ratio is in the best interest of shareholders.
The Qualifying Dividend Reinvestment Plan see page 52 and the final date for Directors continue to give careful consideration to the basis of the elections for this dividend is 15 July 2016. management fee.
Share Capital Depositary BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited has been appointed Capital Structure as the Companys Depositary.
The Depositarys responsibilities The Companys capital structure consists of 213,963,859 ordinary include cash monitoring, safe keeping of the Companys financial shares of 5p each at 30 April 2016.
There are no restrictions instruments, verifying ownership and maintaining a record of other concerning the holding or transfer of the Companys ordinary assets and monitoring the Companys compliance with shares and there are no special rights attached to any of the investment limits and leverage requirements.
delegated the custody function to The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV the Custodian.
18 Annual Report 2016 Governance Report Dividends when the Directors believe that it would be in the best interests of the Company to do so.
This authority will continue until the The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017 or dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of the resolutions, if final dividend requires shareholder approval.
Capital entitlement Purchase of Own Shares On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the At the last Annual General Meeting the Company was granted surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion authority to purchase up to 32,073,182 ordinary shares to their shareholdings.
equivalent to approximately 14.99% of its issued share capital, Voting such authority to expire at the Annual General Meeting in respect Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is of the year ending 30 April 2016.
No shares were bought back entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one during the year under review and no shares are held in treasury.
vote for every share held.
The principal reason for share buy-backs is to enhance net asset value for continuing shareholders by purchasing shares at a Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be discount to the prevailing net asset value.
The Company may hold bought-back shares in treasury and Major Interests in the Companys Shares then: The Company has received notifications of the following interests i sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent in 3% or more of the voting rights of the Company as at 30 April under the Treasury Shares Regulations : or 2016.
There have been no changes to the major interests in the Companys shares intimated up to 13 June 2016. ii cancel the shares or any of them.
Shares will only be sold from treasury at a premium to net asset Ordinary 5p value.
shares held at Name 30 April 2016 % of issue The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% Old Mutual Plc 11,136,744 5.2 of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of passing of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General Annual General Meeting Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of the year ending Issuance of Shares 30 April 2017.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Directors are In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, seeking shareholders approval for a general authority to allot the maximum price excluding expenses that may be paid on the shares and also an authority to issue shares or sell shares held in exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of: treasury on a non-pre-emptive basis.
i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London Resolution 11 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting seeks a Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business general authority for the Directors to allot shares up to an days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and aggregate nominal amount of 1,069,819.
This amount represents 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the issue at 13 June 2016 and meets institutional guidelines.
The highest current independent bid on the London Stock Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
This authority will continue until the conclusion of the Annual The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is 5p General Meeting to be held in 2017 or on the expiry of 15 months per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines from the passing of the resolutions, if earlier.
established, from time to time, by the Board.
The Company does Resolution 12, which is proposed as a special resolution, seeks not have any warrants or options in issue.
Your attention is drawn authority for the Directors to issue shares or sell shares held in to Resolution 13 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page treasury on a non-pre-emptive basis i. e. without first offering such 50.
This authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if to do so shares to existing shareholders pro-rata to their existing holdings would result in an increase in net asset value per ordinary share for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,069,819 for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the shareholders generally.
This authority will only be used to Articles of Association issue shares or sell shares from treasury at a premium to net The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by asset value on the basis of debt valued at par value and only special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 19 Governance Report Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors confirm that so far as each of the Directors is aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they might reasonably be expected to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Post Balance Sheet Events The Directors confirm that there have been no post-Balance Sheet events up to 15 June 2016.
Independent Auditors Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as independent Auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
The Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Bribery Act The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
Recommendation The Directors unanimously recommend you vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting as it is their view that the resolutions are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
By order of the Board JGD Ferguson Chairman 15 June 2016 20 Annual Report 2016
