Governance Report Directors and Management JJ Tigue Directors Jeremy Tigue was appointed a Director in 2014 and became JGD Ferguson Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 May 2015.
Mr Tigue was James Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2002 and became fund manager of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC from Chairman in 2005.
He is chairman of Value & Income Trust plc, 1997 to June 2014.
He is currently chairman of BACIT Limited The Scottish Oriental Smaller Companies Trust Plc, The North Battle Against Cancer Investment Trust and is a director of ICG American Income Trust PLC, Amati Global Investors Limited and Enterprise Trust plc, The Mercantile Investment Trust plc and Northern 3 VCT Plc.
He is a director of The Independent Standard Life Equity Income Trust PLC.
He was a director of the Investment Trust PLC.
He joined Stewart Ivory in 1970, becoming Association of Investment Companies from 2003 to 2013. chairman and chief executive in 1989 and retiring in 2000.
He is a All the Directors, with the exception of Mr DCP McDougall, former deputy chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
are members of the Audit Committee.
CC Ferguson Managers and Secretaries Carol Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2003.
A qualified The Company has appointed Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly Chartered Accountant, she began her investment career with Ivory owned subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as its Alternative & Sime, an Edinburgh fund management group.
Thereafter, she Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Company Secretary.
moved to Wood Mackenzie, stockbrokers, becoming a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management 1984.
Her most recent position was as Finance Director for services to Baillie Gifford & Co. Baillie Gifford & Co is an Timney Fowler, a textiles company.
She is chairman of BlackRock investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Greater Europe Investment Trust plc and Invesco Asia Trust plc and Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been involved in investment senior independent director and chairman of the audit committee management since 1908. of Vernalis plc.
She is a director of Standard Life UK Smaller Baillie Gifford is one of the largest investment trust managers in Companies Trust PLC, the Chartered Accountants Compensation the UK and currently manage seven investment trusts.
Baillie Scheme and is a former chairman of the Association of Gifford also manages unit trusts and Open Ended Investment Investment Companies.
Companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the EM Harley UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of Edward Harley was appointed a Director in 2003.
He joined Baillie Gifford total around 120 billion as at 13 June 2016.
Based Cazenove & Co in 1983, becoming a partner in 1994.
He has in Edinburgh, it is one of the leading privately owned investment considerable experience of overseas markets, having worked in management firms in the UK, with 41 partners and a staff of New York and latterly with responsibility for the firms business in around 900.
Latin America, S. E. Asia and Australia.
He is currently a director at Cazenove Capital Management.
He is involved with the charitable The manager of Monks portfolio is Charles Plowden and the sector both as a trustee and as a member of investment deputy managers are Spencer Adair and Malcolm MacColl.
committees and is chairman of the Acceptance in Lieu Panel.
Charles, Spencer and Malcolm are all Partners at Baillie Gifford and have been working together since 2005.
Charles is one of DCP McDougall Baillie Giffords two joint senior partners.
Douglas McDougall was appointed a Director in 1999 and is the Baillie Gifford & Co and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited are both Senior Independent Director.
He is chairman of The Independent authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Investment Trust PLC and The European Investment Trust plc.
He is a director of Pacific Horizon Investment Trust PLC.
From 1969 to 1999 he was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co and from 1989 to 1999 was joint senior partner and chief investment officer.
He is a former chairman of the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation, the Fund Managers Association and the Association of Investment Companies.
KS Sternberg Karl Sternberg was appointed a Director in 2013.
He worked for Morgan Grenfell Asset Management owned by Deutsche Bank from 1992 to 2005 in a variety of roles, ultimately as the chief investment officer of Deutsche Asset Management Limited.
He left that role to establish Oxford Investment Partners, an investment management company for a group of Oxford colleges, where he was chief executive officer until 2013.
He is chairman of JPMorgan Income & Growth Investment Trust PLC and is a director of Alliance Trust PLC, Island House Investments LLP, Herald Investment Trust plc, Lowland Investment Company PLC and Clipstone Logistics REIT plc.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 17
