92 GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES The Directors Report is required to be produced by law.
The Financial Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, all the Directors will Conduct Authority FCA s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency stand for election or re-election on an annual basis in compliance with Rules DTRs and Listing Rules LRs also require the Company to the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the make certain disclosures.
career history of Directors in post as at the date of this Report, and the Board Committees on which they serve, can be found on pages Pages 52 to 95 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual 54 and 55.
Report incorporated by reference constitute a Directors Report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable law, Results and dividends and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that Report are The total profit profit attributable to owners of the parent and subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
non-controlling interests for the year ended 31 December 2016 was 58.5 million 2015: 38.1 million.
Profit before taxation for the same period was 87.9 million 2015: 59.0 million.
Revenue The Company was 989.2 million 2015: 911.8 million and operating profit was Legal form of the Company 107.3 million 2015: 82.9 million.
Basic earnings per share Morgan Advanced Materials plc is a company incorporated in England from continuing operations was 18.4 pence 2015: 11.9 pence.
and Wales with company number 286773.
Capital and reserves at the end of the year were 164.7 million 2015: 186.4 million.
The total profit of 52.3 million will be Name change transferred to equity.
The Company changed its name to Morgan Advanced Materials plc from The Morgan Crucible Company plc on 27 March 2013.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend at the rate of 7.0 pence per share on the Ordinary share capital of the Company, Annual General Meeting payable on 26 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close The Companys 2017 AGM will be held on Friday 5 May 2017 at the of business on 5 May 2017.
Together with the interim dividend of offices of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, Milton Gate, 60 Chiswell Street, 4.0 pence per share paid on 25 November 2016, this final dividend, London EC1Y 4AG.
A circular incorporating the Notice of AGM if approved by shareholders, brings the total distribution for the year accompanies this Annual Report.
Statutory disclosures Directors Amendment of the Articles of Association All those who served as Directors at any time during the year under The Companys constitution, known as the Articles of Association review are set out on pages 54 to 55, with the exception of Andrew the Articles, is essentially a contract between the Company and Hosty, Victoire fide Margerie, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Reynolds its shareholders, governing many aspects of the management of the Smith, who resigned from the Board on 8 January 2016, 4 February Company.
It deals with matters such as the rights of shareholders, 2016, 31 March 2016 and 6 May 2016 respectively.
the appointment and removal of Directors, the conduct of the Board and general meetings and communications by the Company.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Articles, UK legislation and any directions The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the Companys given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed shareholders and are available on the Companys website at by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Directors interests Appointment and replacement of Directors Details of Directors interests and their connected persons beneficial The Articles provide that the Company may by ordinary resolution at interests in the share capital of the Company are listed on page 87. a general meeting appoint any person to act as a Director, provided that notice is given of the resolution identifying the proposed person Directors indemnities by name and that the Company receives written confirmation of that The Company has entered into separate indemnity deeds with each persons willingness to act as Director if he or she has not been Director containing qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined in recommended by the Board.
The Articles also empower the Board Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, under which the Company to appoint as a Director any person who is willing to act as such.
has agreed to indemnify each Director in respect of certain liabilities The maximum possible number of Directors under the Articles is 15. which may attach to each of them as a Director or as a former Director The Articles provide that the Company may by special resolution, of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The indemnity deeds were or by ordinary resolution of which special notice is given, remove in force during the financial year to which this Directors Report relates any Director before the expiration of his or her period of office.
The and are in force as at the date of approval of the Directors Report.
Articles also set out the circumstances in which a Director shall vacate office.
The Articles require that at each annual general meeting any Director who was appointed after the previous annual general meeting must be proposed for election by the shareholders.
Additionally, any other Director who has not been elected or re-elected at one of the previous two annual general meetings must be proposed for reelection by the shareholders.
The Articles also allow the Board to select any other Director to be proposed for re-election.
In each case, the rules apply to Directors who were acting as Directors on a specific date selected by the Board.
This is a date not more than 14 days before, and no later than, the date of the notice of the annual general meeting.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 93 Information required by LR 9.8.
4R Shareholders rights There is no information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled: to receive dividends, when declared: to receive the Companys reports and accounts: to attend Human resources and speak at general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: Details of the Groups human resources policies and employee and to exercise voting rights.
involvement are set out on pages 49 to 51.
Details of the structure of the Companys Preference share capital and There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or the rights attaching to the Companys Preference shares are set out in employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment note 18 on pages 126 to 128. whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any Research and development agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions During the year, the Group invested 29.2 million 2015: 25.4 million on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Group did not capitalise any development costs in 2016 2015: nil.
Share allotment and repurchase authorities The Directors were granted authority at the 2016 AGM to allot shares Details of the Groups research and development during the year are in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any set out on pages 15 to 17. securities into shares in the Company up to a a nominal amount of 23,780,832 and b a nominal amount of 47,561,664 in connection Greenhouse gas emi ssions with a rights issue such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted Details of the Groups annual greenhouse gas emissions are shown under a.
This authority is due to lapse at the 2017 AGM.
At the 2017 in the Environment, health and safety section on page 48.
AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant a similar allotment authority.
Political donations Two separate special resolutions will also be proposed to renew the No political donations have been made.
Morgan Advanced Materials plc Directors powers to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to an has a policy of not making donations to any political party, representative aggregate nominal amount representing approximately 5% of the issued or candidate in any part of the world.
share capital as at the last practicable date before the publication of the 2017 Notice of AGM, and an additional 5% of the issued share capital Financial instruments which would be for use only in connection with acquisitions and Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, together with specified capital investments.
information on policies and exposure to price, liquidity, cash flow, credit, interest rate and currency risks, can be found in note 20 on The Directors did not seek an authority at the 2016 AGM to pages 130 to 138.
All information detailed in this note is incorporated repurchase shares in the capital of the Company.
As at 31 December into the Directors Report by reference and is deemed to form part 2016, there was no such authority in place.
The Directors will seek of the Directors Report.
authority from shareholders to repurchase shares at the 2017 AGM.
Employee share and share option schemes Share capital and related matters The Company operates a number of employee share and share option Share capital schemes.
One hundred and seven employees hold awards under the The Companys share capital as at 31 December 2016 is set out in note Morgan Advanced Materials plc Long-Term Incentive Plan, including 18 on pages 126 to 128.
The Companys Ordinary shares represent share options held under the Approved Performance Share Plan, 99.85% of the total issued share capital, with the 5.5% Cumulative 14 employees hold awards under the Morgan Advanced Materials First Preference shares representing 0.04% and the 5.0% Cumulative Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan and 544 employees participate Second Preference shares representing 0.11%.
The rights and obligations in the Companys UK Sharesave scheme.
Details of outstanding share attaching to the Companys Ordinary shares, and restrictions on the awards and share options are given in note 21 on page 146. transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in the Articles.
All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to being pro-rated for time and to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The Trustees of The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust the Trust have absolute and unfettered discretion in relation to voting any shares held in the Trust at any general meeting.
Their policy is not to vote the shares.
If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares, the Trustees will have absolute and unfettered discretion on whether to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares held by them.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 94 GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES continued Major shareholdings 2.
The sale of its global Rotary Transfer Systems business was As at 31 December 2016, the Company had been notified of the announced on 17 February 2017.
The business is principally located following, in accordance with DTR 5, from holders of notifiable interests at two manufacturing sites: Antweiler, Germany, and Chalon, representing 3% or more of the issued Ordinary share capital of the France.
The sale values the business at 40 million on a cash-free, Company: debt-free basis, with consideration payable in cash at completion, subject to customary closing working capital adjustments.
Number of Completion is subject to customary conditions of closing, including 1 Ordinary shares % merger clearance in Germany.
In the year to 31 December 2016, Prudential Plc group of companies M&G 28,533,428 9.99 the Rotary business generated 4.7 million of operating profit on AXA Investment Managers SA 23,560,970 8.63 19.5 million of sales.
Gross assets at 31 December 2016 were 7.1 million.
Ameriprise Financial Inc. and its group 17,271,161 6.05 Harris Associates 14,410,180 5.04 There have been no further material subsequent events.
Black Creek Investment Managers Inc. 14,246,065 4.99 1.
P ercentages are shown as a percentage of the Companys issued share capital as at Reporting, accountability and audit 31 December 2016, with the exception of AXA Investment Managers SA which is Statement of Directors responsibilities shown as a percentage of the Companys issued share capital at the time the holding The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and was disclosed.
the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance Note: As at 13 March 2017, there were no changes to the substantial shareholdings shown with applicable law and regulations.
in the above table with the exception of the following: Ameriprise Financials Inc. and its group, which notified the Company on 3 February 2017 that it had decreased its interest to 24,186,489 shares representing 8.48% of the issued share capital: AXA Investment Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Managers SA, which notified the Company on 2 February 2017 that it had decreased Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that its interest to 22,707,707 shares representing 7.96% of the issued share capital.
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and Transactions, contractual arrangements and post-balance have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements sheet events in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law Significant agreements change of control UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or UK GAAP.
The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various financial institutions.
The facility agreements generally include change A new UK GAAP accounting framework introduced by the Financial of control provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership Reporting Council FRC became mandatorily effective for the financial of the Company, could result in their renegotiation or withdrawal.
statements of UK companies in 2015.
Under this framework, the Company is required to prepare its parent Company financial The most significant of such agreements are the UK five-year statements on one of the bases permitted by the FRC.
200 million multi-currency revolving facility agreement, which was signed on 17 October 2014, and which was undrawn at the end of the As set out in the 2015 Annual Report, the Company has chosen to year, and the privately placed Note Purchase and Guarantee Agreements adopt FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, which enables the signed on 15 December 2007, 30 June 2010, and 27 October 2016, Company to take advantage of the permitted election to utilise the for which the aggregate outstanding loan amounts are USD362 million disclosure exemptions allowed under FRS 101.
financial statements of the Group on pages 100 to 152 are prepared in accordance with EU-adopted International Financial Accounting There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter Standards IFRSs and are unaffected by this accounting framework.
or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following The Company proposes to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture framework of FRS 101 in its future financial statements.
No such individual contract is considered to be significant in terms of its potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view Post-balance sheet events of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their Since the balance sheet date, the Group has announced the following profit or loss for that period.
two transactions: In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial 1.
The sale of its UK electro-ceramics business was announced on statements, the Directors are required to: 22 February 2017.
The business comprises two sites at Ruabon and Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
The transaction is structured as a sale of the business, assets and goodwill for a consideration of 47 million on a cash-free, Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
debt-free basis, payable in cash on completion and subject to For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been customary working capital adjustments.
In the year ended prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
31 December 2016, UK Electro-Ceramics generated an operating For the parent Company financial statements, state whether profit of 6.2 million on revenues of 22.7 million.
Gross assets at applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 31 December 2016 were 7.0 million.
Additionally, the Group will to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent close a small electro-ceramics site in the USA.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 95 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys The Board has prepared a Strategic Report which provides an transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the overview of the development and performance of the Groups business financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure in the year ended 31 December 2016. that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably For the purposes of DTR 4.1.
8, this Directors open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent Report on pages 52 to 95 and the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 51 and detect fraud and other irregularities.
comprise the management report, including the sections of the Annual Report and financial statements incorporated by reference.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Remuneration Each Director holding office at the date of approval of this Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant law and those regulations.
audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and that he or she has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of that information.
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Strategic Report, the Directors Report and the Remuneration In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is satisfied that the Report were approved by the Board on 23 February 2017.
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for For and on behalf of the Board shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy as required by the Code.
PAUL BOULTON COMPANY SECRETARY & GENERAL COUNSEL The Directors as at the date of this Report, whose names and functions are set out on pages 54 and 55, confirm that, to the 23 February 2017 best of their knowledge: The Groups financial statements, which have been prepared in Morgan Advanced Materials plc accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Quadrant, 55-57 High Street view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Windsor Group: and Berkshire SL4 1LP The management report comprising the Directors Report and Registered in England, No.
286773 the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS
