02 OVERVIEW ABOUT US MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS USES ITS DEEP KNOWLEDGE OF MATERIALS SCIENCE TO PRODUCE TECHNICALLY DIFFERENTIATED COMPONENTS, ASSEMBLIES AND SYSTEMS THAT DELIVER SIGNIFICANTLY ENHANCED PERFORMANCE IN A MULTITUDE OF INDUSTRIES.
Our engineered solutions are developed to exacting specifications and deliver ever greater performance through materials and production process innovation.
The Groups highly experienced scientists and application engineers are constantly engaged with our customers to find new solutions for complex and technologically demanding environments.
This work is underpinned by a passion to develop the next generation of skilled materials scientists and application engineers, coupled with a commitment to the environment, to health and safety, and to operate to highly ethical standards.
OUR STRENGTHS Leading technology and materials science capability and process know-how.
Customer focus, reputation and brand.
SELLING INTO Strong market positions.
MANUFACTURING IN 30 COUNTRIES APPROXIMATELY 8,900 EMPLOYEES MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW 03 PRODUCTS Piezoelectric sensors and transducers Morgan Advanced Materials 5% of Group revenue in 2016 manufactures an extensive range products for measurement duties of products, satisfying a variety including level, flow, vibration and pressure in aerospace, medical, of applications across numerous industrial and defence applications.
Crucibles for metals processing The principal product ranges are: 4% of Group revenue in 2016 comprehensive range of crucibles for Insulating fibre, brick and monolithics optimum performance in non-ferrous 42% of Group revenue in 2016 an metal and alloy melting in foundries, extensive range of high-temperature die-casters and metal processing facilities.
insulation products used to reduce energy consumption in industrial Personal protection 3% of Group processes and provide fire protection.
revenue in 2016 ballistic protection in the form of personal body armour Structural ceramics 17% of Group or vehicle armour, utilising the Groups revenue in 2016 advanced ceramic advanced ceramics for lightweight components which demonstrate armour systems capability.
exceptional properties in harsh environments, such as our Ceramic cores for investment casting hydrocyclones for water treatment and 3% of Group revenue in 2016 Nilcra zirconia for chemical processing.
consumable products used to create intricate internal cooling cavities Electrical carbon, linear and rotary in aero-engine and industrial gas transfer systems 16% of Group turbine blades.
revenue in 2016 primarily used for transferring electrical energy in motor In addition to these principal product ranges, and generator applications within the Morgan also offers application-specific mining, transportation and power products for each of its target markets.
These products are designed and Seals and bearings 10% of Group manufactured to specific customer revenue in 2016 carbon, graphite requirements using a wide range of thermal and silicon carbide components which structural ceramics, electro-ceramics and deliver improved performance, reliability precious metals.
and extended life to pumps and similar 989.2M equipment used in petrochemical, automotive, aerospace and water TOTAL GLOBAL SALES applications.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 04 OVERVIEW ABOUT US Morgans industrial partnership with Gripple OUR MARKETS INDUSTRIAL is just one example: Gripple, a leading The Group operates in a number manufacturer of wire joiners, tensioners, of market sectors: examples of and cable hanging systems, is highly successful in agricultural and industrial applications across the products Morgan supplies and the globe.
By including Morgans renowned its customer collaborations, are Sintox FA alumina ceramic in its range of provided on the following pages.
steel wire joiners and tensioners Gripple has distinguished itself from its competitors.
Morgans unique alumina ceramic is enabling Gripple to manufacture tensioners which are robust enough to withstand constant exposure to the elements and extremes of temperature, whilst remaining corrosion-resistant.
45.4% of 2016 revenue This year also saw Morgan partner with Pennsylvania State University in the USA to establish a Carbon Science Centre of Excellence, aimed at driving global Morgan designs and manufactures developments in carbon science.
As Morgans products for use in a broad third global Centre of Excellence, and its first range of challenging process in North America, this partnership is expected to deliver significant improvements in carbon and manufacturing environments.
materials for a range of sectors and applications.
The Group plans to invest heavily in this Centre A number of manufacturing environments of Excellence over the next few years, to create rely on Morgans material innovations a truly world-class facility.
every day, for improved reliability, efficiency, and performance industries.
Morgans industrial focus has also been expanded by the launch of its hydrocyclone The Groups advanced materials offer a wide liners to a range of industrial sectors including range of performance characteristics including mining and paper, which face similar challenges superior insulating properties, dimensional to the oil and gas sector when it comes to stability, strength and stiffness.
This is demonstrative of which are highly resistant to chemical and the Groups commitment to continually seek physical wear, corrosion and extreme additional applications for leading products temperatures support optimised process in new industry sectors.
These attributes are helping to reduce industrial waste, improve safety and lower environmental impact.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW 05 As global demand for silicon carbide continued TRANSPORTATION PETROCHEMICAL to grow, Morgan announced a dedicated volume silicon carbide manufacturing facility in Stourport, UK.
This enabled the Group to augment sales in Europe and worldwide with higher performing silicon carbide materials.
From the facility, Morgan produces both silicon carbide and graphite-loaded silicon carbide materials, primarily for mechanical seals and radial bearings.
These components are used both in domestic water pumps and in heavy-duty industrial water and chemical pump applications, including cooling pumps for plastic injection moulding machines.
21.7% 8.5% of 2016 revenue of 2016 revenue Morgans silicon carbide ceramics continue to give high performance when pumping contaminated, abrasive and corrosive fluids and provide excellent sealing at high pressures.
Morgan makes high-performance Morgan makes critical components They have a low thermal expansion coefficient products to exacting standards for tough assignments in the global and high thermal conductivity, improving for aerospace, automotive, marine petrochemical industry.
overall pump reliability and reducing operational costs and downtime.
The petrochemical industry operates in demanding environments, creating a Aerospace, automotive, marine and rail requirement for more durable, resistant and applications require high-performance efficient materials.
Morgans components are components and sub-assemblies manufactured used globally in critical applications to meet to exacting standards, which is where Morgan onand offshore exploration challenges, and leads the global market for advanced materials.
support drilling and downstream processing, thanks to their resistance to chemical and The Group combines its materials science and physical wear, corrosion, and extreme manufacturing capabilities to offer consistent temperatures.
and reliable products in flexible production quantities, from small even one-off runs, Morgan supplies carbon graphite, zirconia to high volumes.
For example, Morgans materials and silicon carbide into a range of carbon brushes and collectors are used critical components such as mechanical seal extensively in trains.
High-temperature faces, pump bearings and specialist valves.
fibre products are widely used for emission control in a wide variety of vehicles, specially The last year saw the Group push the engineered to customer requirements.
rheology of materials to new levels with the launch of its innovative range of extruded Morgan continues to expand its activity in materials, which can achieve more complex the rail sector, with its plain carbon strips geometries, to satisfy increasingly challenging and metallised collector strips for high-speed environments.
Made from grades of railway application helping to double the magnesium oxide, alumina, silica and hafnia, service life of high-speed rail networks.
Morgans range of extruded products have These products offer a longer-lasting strong insulating properties and thermal alternative to the carbon typically used in rigid conductivity, with the new range further catenary systems, which is prone to strong controlling density, strength, and particle electric wear from electric sparks and arcs, size distribution to meet unique and resulting in a shorter service life.
already been used in the 300km h level high-speed railway system in China, where they have doubled service life compared with previous collectors installed.
This translates to a significant reduction in operational and maintenance costs for the high-speed railway.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 06 OVERVIEW ABOUT US continued Morgan has continued to grow its presence OUR MARKETS continued SECURITY AND DEFENCE in the defence market, securing a 1.1 million contract with the UK Ministry of Defence to supply ballistic shields and supporting services.
Morgans ballistic shields combine outstanding ENERGY levels of multi-hit protection, with the latest in lightweight armour, ensuring maximum mobility and protection for army personnel in the arena of combat.
The global reach of Morgans security and defence products was further demonstrated with a contract to supply specialist armour for 16 development prototypes for the US Marine 6.3% Corps next-generation Amphibious Combat of 2016 revenue Vehicles.
Key to being awarded the contract was the multi-hit protection that Morgans CAMAC armour provides, and the fact that 6.7% it is typically 50% lighter than steel alternatives, Morgan Advanced Materials of 2016 revenue allowing a vehicle to benefit from improved supplies precision-engineered manoeuvrability and enhanced handling, materials, components and with an improved centre of gravity.
Morgan Advanced Materials assemblies to meet the exacting Meanwhile Morgans LASA ballistic shield develops products for power standards of the international continued to attract global attention after distribution and generation from defence and security markets.
achieving National Institute of Justice renewable and traditional sources certification, and the blast testing of our The security and defence industries are Silverback 4020 Elite demonstrated the and insulation materials for constantly balancing the need for greater outstanding survivability and protection heat management.
protection with the requirement for offered by our specialist bomb disposal more lightweight materials, from platform suits in a range of challenging situations.
Morgan has an enviable reputation for designing applications to personnel protection.
and engineering both world-class components Morgan Advanced Materials supplies for power distribution and generation, and precision-engineered materials, components energy and heat management.
and assemblies to meet the exacting standards of the international defence and Morgans advanced thermal insulation is used security markets.
to insulate heat recovery steam generators in power and industrial plants.
Morgans carbon Morgan combines its manufacturing capability brushes offer world-leading performance in and materials technology to produce solutions power generation applications.
Morgan has that deliver real performance benefits for developed new carbon material grades for security and defence applications, in the most wind generation applications that extend life demanding environments.
The Group has and reduce service costs.
considerable experience in the area of explosive ordnance disposal, where comfort and freedom of movement need to combine with optimum protection for the user.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW 07 HEALTHCARE ELECTRONICS 5.6% 5.8% of 2016 revenue of 2016 revenue Morgan Advanced Materials Morgan Advanced Materials makes produces components used in components that help the electronics medical monitoring and diagnostic industry in its drive towards higher instrumentation and tools for performance and reliability in smaller, treatment and surgery.
Medical engineering requires the highest Electronics manufacturers are under constant standards of precision, accuracy, reliability pressure to meet competing demands on and performance, which is why many medical component size, functionality and cost.
original equipment manufacturers OEMs Morgan Advanced Materials eases some choose materials from Morgan to help of this burden by engineering high-purity, improve the performance of their equipment.
high-specification components which are used globally in semiconductor fabrication Morgans experienced team of materials and electronic products.
scientists have an unrivalled understanding of the uniquely demanding environment in which Morgans research and development teams equipment for the global medical market is work closely with customers to design and developed.
This allows the Group to produce manufacture intricate components with specific a broad variety of components for use in electrical and thermal properties within medical monitoring and instrumentation restricted and challenging size constraints.
as well as in tools for treatment and surgery.
The Groups piezoceramics and high-quality By combining materials innovation with dielectric components are used in everything high-quality manufacturing capabilities, from mobile phones and televisions to lighting Morgan produces parts which are optimised controls, instrumentation and high-voltage to meet precise and complex physical and systems.
In addition, Morgans ceramic chemical specifications.
metallisation processes have played a major role in the commercialisation of modern Morgans deep understanding of ceramic communication, signalling and control material properties, together with expertise technologies, including ultra-high-frequency in braze alloy design, allows the Group signal transmission.
to produce high-density, highly reliable feed-throughs for a range of medical applications, including cochlear implants and neuro-stimulation.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS
