34 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS STATEMENTS Going concern Viability statement The Directors have made a robust assessment The Groups business activities, together In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK of the principal risks facing the Group and their with the factors likely to affect its future Corporate Governance Code, the Directors potential impact and the adequacy of the development, performance and position are have assessed the viability of the Group over headroom relative to a severe but plausible set out in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to a three-year period, taking into account the combination of these risks.
The financial position of the Group, its cash Groups current position and the potential has considered all the principal risks identified flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, impact of the principal risks documented on by the Group, the following were focused are described earlier in this Financial Review.
pages 18 to 22 of the Annual Report.
Based on for enhanced stress testing: technological In addition, note 20 to the financial statements, on this assessment, the Directors confirm that obsolescence: single point exposure, export includes the Groups policies and processes they have a reasonable expectation that the compliance: and the risks from a deep global for managing financial risk: details of its financial Company will be able to continue in operation recession.
The geographical and product instruments and hedging activities: and its and meet its liabilities as they fall due over diversification of the Groups operations exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
the period to 31 December 2019. helps minimise the risk of serious business interruption or a catastrophic damage to our The Group meets its day-to-day working The Directors have determined that a reputation.
Furthermore, the spread of the capital requirements through local banking three-year period to 31 December 2019 is an Groups end-markets is such that Morgan is arrangements underpinned by the Groups appropriate period over which to provide its not reliant on one particular group of clients 200 million unsecured multi-currency viability statement.
This is the period reviewed or sector.
revolving credit facility maturing October 2019. by the Group Board in the Groups strategic The Groups forecasts and projections, taking planning process and is considered to be Whilst this review does not consider all of the account of reasonably possible changes in appropriate given the dynamics in the markets possible risks that the Group could face, the trading performance and exchange rates, in which Morgan Advanced Materials plc Directors consider that the approach adopted show the Group operating comfortably operates.
and the work performed is reasonable in the within its debt financial covenants for the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty next 12 months.
To allow the Directors to make this involved and that it allows the Board to confirm assessment, a business base case has been that it has a reasonable expectation that the The current economic climate continues to built up, initially using a detailed bottom Group will be able to continue in operation have an impact on the Group, its customers up approach and then applying what the and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the and suppliers.
The Board fully recognises the Directors consider to be an appropriate set period to 31 December 2019. challenges that lie ahead but, after making of assumptions in respect of growth, margins, enquiries, and in the absence of any material working capital flows, capital expenditure, uncertainties, the Directors have a reasonable dividends and all other matters that could expectation that the Company and the have a significant impact on the financial Group have adequate resources to continue performance and liquidity of the Group.
in operational existence for a period of The resulting base case provides the Directors 18 months from the date of signing of this with an EBITA, debt and finance charge Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, headroom relative to current bank covenants.
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016
