14 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP STRATEGY THE GROUPS LONG-TERM STRATEGY IS TO BUILD THREE DISTINCTIVE CORE CAPABILITIES: MATERIALS SCIENCE, APPLICATION ENGINEERING AND CUSTOMER AND END-MARKET FOCUS, AND TO APPLY THESE TO A PORTFOLIO OF SCALABLE GLOBAL BUSINESSES WHERE TECHNICAL EXPERTISE AND DIFFERENTIATION ARE VALUED TO SOLVE CUSTOMERS CHALLENGING PROBLEMS.
These capabilities will strengthen the Group to deliver resilient financial performance and faster growth, at all times operating in an ethical and safe manner.
To support its strategy, the Group has set six key execution priorities: PRIORITIES IMPLEMENTATION The reorganisation to six global business units is complete.
It has led to improved global Move to a global 1 co-ordination across the Group and strengthened accountability within each global business business structure unit, simplifying the approach to customers and markets and increasing operational focus.
Research and development investment has been increased to extend Morgans technical Improve technical leadership 2 lead and to accelerate new product development.
Additional Centres of Excellence will be established allowing further concentration of development efforts in those areas that can deliver the greatest benefit globally to the Group.
Improve operational There are a number of opportunities across the global business units to improve 3 operational execution.
Resource and capital will be allocated to target specific execution improvements to efficiency and effectiveness on a business-by-business basis.
Drive sales effectiveness The Group is focused on improving a number of aspects of its sales capabilities 4 and process: sales processes and their efficiency, the management of key customer and market focus accounts and distribution channels, and deeper understanding of end-markets and faster-growing segments.
Increase investment The Group aims to strengthen its leadership capability and deepen functional capabilities 5 across the business, including in sales and engineering.
Senior leaders will be benchmarked in people management externally, new talent introduced and future leadership candidates identified from within and development the business.
Performance management will be enhanced for the Groups top management and the structures and targets for incentive schemes will be reviewed.
The Group will invest more in executive training and create clear career paths for its technologists and engineers.
The reorganisation of the business enables the Group to run each business unit on a global Simplify the business 6 basis.
A Morgan business will have sustainable presence in its end-market and be scalable, operating in attractive growing markets where it has the ability to add value to our customers.
It will have synergies with the rest of the portfolio, be organisationally robust and deliver or be capable of delivering strong financial performance.
The Group uses the characteristics of a Morgan business as set out above to test new investment opportunities, to screen its existing businesses for fit with the Group and to identify areas requiring strategic attention and action.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016
