OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 15 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development The long-term profitable strength of Morgan MORGAN IS DISTINGUISHED BY ITS DEEP Advanced Materials depends on constantly UNDERSTANDING OF ADVANCED MATERIALS refreshing the innovation pipeline to anticipate, or respond to, market needs.
The Groups SCIENCE, ALIGNED WITH ITS RANGE OF research and development R&D activities PROCESSING CAPABILITIES THAT ALLOW are headed and co-ordinated by the Chief Technology Officer, Dr Mike Murray, with ITS APPLICATION ENGINEERS TO DESIGN R&D resource deployed across the globe.
The DIFFERENTIATED SOLUTIONS FOR focus of Morgans R&D strategy is on creating critical mass within our Centres of Excellence, OUR CUSTOMERS.
allowing Morgan to accelerate its strategic priorities in order to maintain and grow its THESE CORE COMPETENCES UNDERPIN technology leadership positions.
THE GROUPS ABILITY TO ESTABLISH LONGThe Groups R&D strategy will continue to TERM, COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIPS be governed by four key underlying principles: WITH A DISCERNING CUSTOMER BASE.
To be the acknowledged leader in MORGANS SIGNIFICANT FOCUS ON materials science for our chosen technology families.
AND INVESTMENT IN RESEARCH AND 2.
To understand the application of our DEVELOPMENT ALLOWS THE GROUP materials science in our customers TO MAINTAIN THIS MARKET ADVANTAGE.
products and processes, providing maximum benefit to them through advanced application engineering.
To demonstrate a clear understanding of where our technology competences are positioned today against competitors and emerging and competing technologies, forming a clear view of where we need to be.
The depth and the breadth of our understanding will be built through a community whose culture is collaborative and which develops deep institutional knowledge.
The Groups commitment to technology is demonstrated by the Groups total R&D spend in 2016 of 29.2 million, equal to 3.0% of sales, representing a significant increase compared to the 2015 spend of 25.4 million, 2.8% of sales.
The Group anticipates increasing its investment to around 4% of sales over the next three to four years from a 2015 MIKE MURRAY actuals baseline.
CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 16 STRATEGIC REPORT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT continued Centres of Excellence The Structural Ceramics Centre of Excellence Core technologies supporting Morgan has recognised the benefits of in Stourport, UK, opened in 2015 and Morgans approach to its markets consolidating R&D efforts around its core oversees the major advanced ceramic science The Groups materials technology is and will technologies and this is reflected in the move developments for the Group.
The facility remain a unifying feature across its organisation.
towards global Materials Centres of Excellence.
concentrates on leading-edge ceramic Major technological initiatives are co-ordinated In 2016 the Group established two new materials developments to support both and introduced across the global customer Centres of Excellence for Carbon Science current and new markets.
Initial focus has been base ensuring that maximum value is derived based at Penn State University, Pennsylvania, on opportunities in the medical, aerospace from the investment made in product and USA and one for Metals and Joining based at and environmental sectors, whilst a focus on process development.
During 2016 sessions the Hayward facility in California, USA.
These new emerging markets and technologies also were held with the Groups larger existing are in addition to our two existing Centres in ensures that the Group stays at the forefront and potential customers, at which the Insulating Fibre and Structural Ceramics both of materials science.
As part of this focus the Groups senior commercial and technology in the UK.
These Centres will work on the Centre includes the R&D programme for management presented the product and strategic priorities of the businesses and Morgans additive manufacturing of ceramic technology portfolio.
Excellent engagement Group, maintaining Morgans world-leading materials.
The Centres remit will also include from a number of these customers has helped position in its chosen technology areas.
enhancing the Groups network of global drive our technology roadmaps and align them The global business units ensure the Centres technology partners to ensure it is positioned to customer and market need.
prioritise their efforts and focus and retain to work with the worlds best academics and a very strong commercial direction.
Driving innovation and growth Centres of Excellence enhance the R&D The Group takes a consistent, systematic capability of the business by delivering core The Carbon Science Centre of Excellence will approach to managing new business materials science platforms that the support the Electrical Carbon and Seals and development and R&D project management manufacturing sites transform into products.
Bearings businesses and will be located in across the organisation.
This approach allows the Innovation Park at Penn State University, the Group both to identify the largest and The Insulating Fibre Centre of Excellence in close to the universitys top talent and facilities.
most profitable growth opportunities and to Bromborough, UK, is a state-of-the-art facility The partnership with Penn State will combine make effective decisions for the deployment employing 25 dedicated scientists focused on resources and experience, creating a synergy of resource on those opportunities.
the continued development of Morgans fibre which will enable significant progress in the product range.
Morgans market-leading low development of carbon materials for a range As part of the increasing focus on technology bio-persistent Superwool fibre technology of sectors and applications.
Pennsylvania was and innovation, the Group has created a and product range continue to be developed seen as the ideal location for the new Centre Morgan Technical Advisory Board.
This brings with patented materials science.
Morgan is due to Penn States cutting-edge academic together world-leading academics who are now extending the operational temperature research and proximity to a number of recognised as subject-matter experts for a range, allowing it to provide customers with Morgans key manufacturing sites.
number of Morgans key technology families.
superior insulation performance, improved fire They provide a sounding board for Morgans protection and weight-saving opportunities in The Metals and Joining Centre of Excellence plans for technical development of ceramic, more applications.
There has been particular will support the Technical Ceramics businesses carbon and polymer composite products and success across a range of end-markets such that are involved in providing metallic joining processes, keeping Morgan abreast of the as iron and steel, aluminium processing, solutions and joining ceramic metal to metals latest developments in materials science, and automotive and passive fire protection.
This Centre will be advising on new areas of opportunity for the located in Hayward, California, at Morgans Group.
This helps ensure the Group maintains largest facility utilising this technology and and develops its leading edge in new and hence in close proximity to the business, emerging materials science around the globe.
The Centre was formally launched in 2016.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 17 Morgan is also working with the worlds best Thermal bag to counter fire risk from Salamander SiC crucible: a promising research centres to maintain and develop its lithium-ion batteries.
Morgan has further leading edge in materials science in new and battery bag, which measures 500mm x optimised its existing Salamander SiC reducing emerging applications.
One such collaboration 500mm, comprises two of Morgans specialist the wall thickness by a further 20%, and was formalised with the announcement of a thermal materials to create a sealable, increasing thermal conductivity by 60% new joint development agreement with the water-resistant compartment capable of compared with our competitors.
The University of Manchester, aimed at scaling up containing the heat spread in the event of a energy-optimised Salamander SiC now a new process for manufacturing graphene primary-lithium or lithium-ion battery fire.
increases energy transfer by more than 50%.
a one-atom thick carbon allotrope first isolated Lithium batteries are used in many everyday Field results are currently being collected, at the university ten years ago and for which electronic devices, such as mobile phones, but the data suggests that the optimised a Nobel Prize was awarded.
The worlds tablet computers and MP3 players.
While Salamander SiC may generate energy cost thinnest material and a potent conductor, they are considered a safe and effective form savings of 10-20%.
graphene is also extremely lightweight, of power storage for portable technology, chemically inert and has a large surface area there have been a number of instances of Brazing of zirconia to growing product which means that with further research and overheating, with the potential for thermal portfolio.
In demanding applications, such as testing, it could change the way we think runaway.
This has raised questions over their those within the petrochemical and industrial about electrical and chemical engineering.
safety within an aircraft environment and sectors, it is not uncommon for components driven an increase in regulation in this area.
to become damaged when subjected to Some of the specific areas of technology-led At its core, the bag benefits from Morgans sustained wear and corrosion, which can result success in the Group in 2016 are listed below: FireMaster Marine Plus technology, which in significant cost and disruption.
Where other was originally designed for use in the oil & gas materials fail, zirconia remains highly resistant Unique lightweight plate to combat the sector.
Providing thermal protection from while exhibiting high fracture toughness.
The LASA uncontrolled fire for sustained periods of time, Modifications to its existing materials science LWA III 109 ballistic insert is the latest Morgans FireMaster material is now making and process know-how have allowed Morgan addition to Morgans extensive LASArange its debut in the aviation market in the fight to braze zirconia to a whole range of metals of combat equipment.
Weighing just 1.6kg against thermal runaway.
and offer a new combination for the extreme 3.5lbs compared to a standard 2.5kg, and environments that our customers operate in.
with a thickness of 21mm 0.8 inches, the Electric vacuum pump vanes.
Morgan utilises LASA LWA III 109 ballistic insert has been its high-volume production technology to developed to directly address the safety deliver state-of-the-art material, providing concerns of military, law enforcement and cost and time efficiencies to OEMs in the security personnel against the growing threat automotive sector.
This material extends of the green tip SS109 round.
the life of the vane compared with the best alternative materials.
A modification to our existing materials range, it is capable of withstanding the harsh environment of an automotive electric vacuum pump, and successfully operates at temperatures in excess of 200C 292F.
This outstanding material performance, combined with Morgans regional manufacturing solutions, is the ideal combination for automotive OEMs and engineers looking to deliver quality and longevity, alongside cost and time efficiencies.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS
