OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 23 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS To support the Groups strategy and to historic performance.
Divisional and The KPIs are selected and reviewed to monitor performance, the Board of Directors business management use a range of further ensure they remain important to the success and the Executive Committee use a number benchmarks and other KPIs as part of their of the Group.
Financial and non-financial of financial and non-financial key performance planning and performance review processes.
performance is reviewed in more detail in indicators KPIs.
These KPIs are selected In order to measure the organic performance the Corporate Responsibility, Review of measures which are important to the Group.
of the business, management further analyse Operations and Group Financial Review Progress is assessed by comparison with the the headline KPIs to exclude the impact of sections of this Report.
Groups strategy, its budget for the year and acquisitions and foreign exchange.
PERFORMANCE COMMENTARY Financial KPIs Constant currency 1.5 % 1.2 % Creating consistent long-term At constant currency revenue declined by 1.5%.
1 revenue growth value for shareholders.
See Review of Operations on pages 24 to 33.
Focus on higher growth markets.
Group headline 11.8% 11.6% Creating consistent long-term Whilst weaker trading conditions impacted the Group, operating profit value for shareholders.
these were offset by operational efficiencies.
1 margin Focus on higher growth markets.
To have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency.
3 Free cash flow 48.0m 30.1m Creating consistent long-term The increase compared to 2015 was due to lower before acquisitions value for shareholders.
1 and dividends Return on invested 16.7% 16.0% Creating consistent long-term Return on invested capital improved as a result of lower 1,2 capital value for shareholders.
restructuring costs and reduced average third-party working capital.
Headline earnings 22.7p 20.8p Creating consistent long-term The 9.1% increase in headline earnings per share reflects 1 per share value for shareholders.
lower restructuring costs and movements in foreign exchange rates.
Dividend per share 11.0p 11.0p Creating consistent long-term The Board has held the dividend flat during 2016 as it value for shareholders.
looks to rebuild dividend cover in the medium term.
Non-financial KPIs Employee turnover 11.7% 13.6% To attract, retain, and develop This is believed to be an appropriate level of employee the right people in the right roles.
Lost Time Accident 0.27 0.45 To maintain a workplace that The improvement in this measure reflects the focus 5 Frequency focuses on the health and safety of placed on health and safety at all sites and across all per 100,000 its employees and others affected levels of the Group through thinkSAFE the Groups hours worked by the Groups operations.
Tonnes CO e 346 364 To minimise the impact of the This measure improved as the Group benefited from 2 4,5 per m revenue Groups business on the a series of projects and environmental programmes environment.
focused on the sites identified as having the greatest environmental impact.
Definitions of these non-GAAP measures, and their reconciliation to the relevant GAAP measure, are provided on pages 35 to 37.
I n 2016 the Group has included Return on invested capital as a KPI for the first time.
This replaces Return on operating capital employed as a KPI.
This measure has been included as the Directors consider that it provides a more holistic and balanced indicator of performance.
2 015 has been re-presented for the reclassification of 3.8 million of dividends paid to non-controlling interests from Cash generated from operations to Net cash flows from other investing and financing activities.
See page 36 for further details.
This KPI uses revenue at constant currency in its calculation.
The 2016 Lost Time Accident Frequency and CO e information have been subject to assurance by ERM Certification and Verification Services, see page 47 for further details.
2 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS
