Governance Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Share Rights statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to vote on all resolutions which are proposed at general meetings of the Company.
Results and Dividends The Ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends and on Details of the Companys results and proposed dividends are a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, shown on pages 11 and 2 of this Report.
the surplus assets will be paid to Ordinary shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
Investment Trust Status Borrowings The Company is registered as a public limited company registered in Scotland No.
SC006705 and has been During the year the Company agreed a new 15 million loan accepted by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland RBS which was subject to the Company continuing to meet the relevant drawn in full in May 2016 and fixed for three years at an alleligibility conditions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax in rate of 1.467%.
The new facility has been used to repay a Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements of Part 2 Chapter 3 maturing 15 million loan with RBS.
At the same time the Statutory Instrument 2011 2999 for all financial years Company repaid its Yen 1.6 billion loan with ING Bank N. V. commencing on or after 1 January 2012.
"The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted its affairs for Management and Secretarial Arrangements the year ended 31 December 2016 so as to enable it to The Company has appointed Aberdeen Fund Managers comply with the ongoing requirements for investment trust Limited ""AFML"", a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen status."
Asset Management PLC, as its alternative investment fund manager under the terms of an investment management Individual Savings Accounts agreement dated 14 July 2014.
Under the terms of the The Company has conducted its affairs so as to satisfy the agreement, the Company's portfolio is managed by Aberdeen requirements as a qualifying security for Individual Savings by way of a group delegation agreement in place between Accounts.
The Directors intend that the Company will AFML and Aberdeen.
Investment management services are continue to conduct its affairs in this manner.
provided to the Company by AFML.
Company secretarial, accounting and administrative services have been delegated by AFML to Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Capital Structure The Companys capital structure is summarised in note 15 to With effect from 1 January 2016, the Board and the Manager the financial statements.
At 31 December 2016, there were agreed a new basis for calculating the Companys 127,484,238 fully paid Ordinary shares of 25p each 2015 management fees payable to AFML.
The performance fee 127,601,952 Ordinary shares in issue and no B Ordinary has been discontinued and the annual management fee is shares in issue 2015 910,364.
At the year end there were now charged on net assets ie excluding borrowings for 1,065,838 Ordinary shares held in Treasury 2015 nil.
"investment purposes averaged over the six previous quarters ""Net Assets"", on a tiered basis."
The annual management fee Share Issuance and Buybacks is now charged at 0.575% of Net Assets up to 1,200 During the year 155,625 Ordinary shares were sold from million, 0.5% of Net Assets between 1,200 million and Treasury all at a premium to the prevailing NAV per share 1,400 million, and 0.425% of Net Assets above 1,400 2015 nil : 28,528 new B Ordinary shares were issued by million.
Included in the charge of 0.575% above is a way of capitalisation issue in lieu of dividends 2015 secretarial fee of 100,000 per annum which is chargeable 45,352 : and, 1,221,463 Ordinary shares were purchased in 100% to revenue.
A fee of 1.5% per annum remains the market at a discount to NAV for Treasury 2015 nil.
chargeable on the value of any unlisted investments.
The investment management fee is chargeable 30% against Final Conversion of B Ordinary Shares revenue and 70% against realised capital reserves.
No fees Following receipt of approval from shareholders at the are charged in the case of investments managed or advised general meetings held in April 2016, all remaining B Ordinary by the Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
The shares in issue on 30 June 2016 were converted into management agreement may now be terminated by either Ordinary shares with effect from 1 July 2016 and there was a party on the expiry of six months written notice.
On bonus issue of one new Ordinary share for every 100 B termination the Manager would be entitled to receive fees Ordinary shares held.
The final conversion and bonus issue which would otherwise have been due up to that date.
These resulted in the issue of 948,124 new Ordinary shares on 1 changes to the management fee arrangements constituted a July 2016. smaller related party transaction for the purpose of LR 11.1.
10 R of the Financial Conduct Authority's Listing Rules.
Murray International Trust PLC 31 Governance Directors Report continued Prior to 1 January 2016 the management and secretarial fees The Board has a procedure in place to deal with a situation payable to AFML had been calculated and charged on the where a Director has a conflict of interest, as required by the basis of 0.5% per annum of the value of total assets, less Companies Act 2006.
As part of this process, the Directors unlisted investments and all current liabilities excluding are required to disclose other positions held and all other monies borrowed to finance the investment objectives of the conflict situations that may need to be authorised either in Company, averaged over the six previous quarters.
Included relation to the Director concerned or his or her connected in the charge of 0.5% above there was a secretarial fee of persons.
The Board considers each Directors situation and 100,000 per annum and in addition, the Manager was decides whether to approve any conflict, taking into entitled to a performance fee.
consideration what is in the best interests of the Company and whether the Directors ability to act in accordance with The Board considers the continued appointment of the their wider duties is affected.
Each Director is required to Manager on the terms agreed to be in the interests of the notify the Company Secretary of any potential or actual shareholders as a whole because the Aberdeen Asset conflict situations that will need authorising by the Board.
Management Group has the investment management, Authorisations given by the Board are reviewed at each secretarial, promotional and administrative skills and Board meeting.
expertise required for the effective operation of the Company.
The Company has a policy of conducting its business in an honest and ethical manner.
The Company takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and has The Board procedures in place that are proportionate to the Companys The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors.
The Manager also adopts a The names and biographies of the current Directors are group-wide zero tolerance approach and has its own detailed disclosed on pages 28 to 30 indicating their range of policy and procedures in place to prevent bribery and experience as well as length of service.
Copies of the Managers anti-bribery and Balfour of Burleigh served as a Director of the Company up corruption policies are available on its website aberdeento her retirement from the Board on 26 April 2016. asset.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mrs Mackesy, Substantial Interests having been appointed on 1 May 2016, will retire and offer herself for re-election at the first AGM following her The Board has been advised that the following shareholders appointment.
The other Directors will also retire at the AGM owned 3% or more of the issued Ordinary share capital of in April 2017 and each Director will stand for re-election.
The the Company at 31 December 2016: Board considers that there is a balance of skills and experience within the Board relevant to the leadership and No.
of direction of the Company and that all the Directors Ordinary % contribute effectively.
Shareholder shares held held Speirs & Jeffrey 9,760,761 7.7 A In common with most investment trusts, the Company has Aberdeen Retail Plans 9,691,638 7.6 A no employees.
Directors & Officers liability insurance cover Alliance Trust Savings 6,603,253 5.2 has been maintained throughout the year at the expense of Investec Wealth & Investment 6,488,653 5.1 A the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association provide Hargreaves Lansdowne 6,202,624 4.9 an indemnity to the Directors out of the assets of the Charles Stanley 6,187,144 4.8 Company against any liability incurred in defending Rathbones 5,862,834 4.6 proceedings or in connection with any application to the Brewin Dolphin 5,598,489 4.4 Court in which relief is granted.
Smith & Williamson 4,410,867 3.5 A Non-beneficial interests Management of Conflicts of Interest There have been no significant changes notified in respect of No Director has a service contract with the Company the above holdings between 31 December 2016 and 10 although Directors are issued with letters of appointment March 2017. upon appointment.
The Directors interests in contractual arrangements with the Company are as shown in note 21 to Corporate Governance the financial statements.
No other Directors had any interest in contracts with the Company during the period or The Company is committed to high standards of corporate subsequently.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and, as required by the 32 Annual Report 2016 Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, has applied the Other Nom Audit MEC principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code Board Board Com Com Rem A published in September 2014 and effective for financial K J Carter 6 6 1 1 1 1 n a 1 1 years commencing on or after 1 October 2014 for the year J D Best 6 6 1 1 1 1 3 3 2 2 ended 31 December 2016.
The UK Corporate Governance M Campbell 6 6 1 1 1 1 3 3 2 2 Codes are available on the Financial Reporting Council's P W 6 6 0 1 1 1 3 3 2 2 website: frc.
Dunscombe D Hardie 6 6 1 1 1 1 3 3 2 2 The Board has considered the principles and B A Mackesy 3 3 1 1 0 0 2 2 1 1 recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance Lady Balfour of 3 3 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 as published in February 2015 AIC Code by reference to the C Burleigh AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies A Dr Carter is not a member of either the Audit Committee or the Remuneration AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, Committee but attended all Committee meetings by invitation B addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Mrs Mackesy was appointed a Director on 1 May 2016 C Lady Balfour retired as a Director on 26 April 2016 Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues which are of specific relevance to the Company.
Both the AIC Code and the AIC Board Committees Guide are available on the AICs website: theaic.
Terms of Reference The terms of reference of all the Board Committees may be The Company has complied throughout the accounting found on the Companys website murray-intl.
co. uk and period with the relevant provisions contained within the AIC copies are available from the Company Secretary upon Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate request.
The terms of reference are reviewed and re-assessed Governance Code except as set out below.
by the Board for their adequacy on an annual basis.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions Audit Committee relating to: The Report of the Audit Committee is on pages 41 to 43 of this Annual Report.
the role of the chief executive A.
1.2 : executive directors remuneration D. 2.1 and D. 2.2 : Management Engagement Committee MEC and the need for an internal audit function C. 3.5.
The MEC comprises all of the Directors.
Dr Carter is the Chairman.
The Committee reviews the performance of the For the reasons set out in the AIC Code, and as explained in Manager and its compliance with the terms of the the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers that management and secretarial agreement.
The terms and these provisions are not relevant to the position of the conditions of the Managers appointment, including an Company, being an externally-managed investment evaluation of fees, are reviewed by the Committee on an company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day annual basis.
The Committee believes that the continuing management and administrative functions are outsourced to appointment of the Manager on the terms that have been third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these Nomination Committee provisions.
All appointments to the Board of Directors are considered by the Nomination Committee which comprises the entire The full text of the Companys Corporate Governance Board and is chaired by Dr Carter.
The Boards overriding Statement can be found on the Companys website, murraypriority in appointing new Directors to the Board is to intl.
identify the candidate with the best range of skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
The Board also Directors have attended Board and Committee meetings recognises the benefits of diversity and its policy on diversity during the year ended 31 December 2016 as follows with is referred to in the Strategic Report on page 10.
When their eligibility to attend the relevant meeting in brackets : Board positions become available as a result of retirement or resignation, the Company ensures that a diverse group of candidates is considered.
During the year the Nomination Committee undertook a search for a new Director using the services of Korn Ferry, an independent specialist recruitment consultant.
Having Murray International Trust PLC 33 Governance Directors Report continued reviewed a long list and interviewed a short list of possible The Company has a 60 million loan facility with RBS which candidates Mrs Alexandra Mackesy was appointed to the is due to mature in May 2017.
The Directors are currently Board on 1 May 2016. reviewing options to replace the facility.
However, at this stage it is too early to confirm that the facility will be The Committee has put in place the necessary procedures to renewed.
If acceptable terms are available from the existing conduct, on an annual basis, an appraisal of the Chairman of bankers, or any alternative, the Company expects to continue the Board, Directors' individual self evaluation and a to access a similarly sized facility.
However, should the Board performance evaluation of the Board as a whole.
The decide not to replace the facility any maturing debt would be appraisal process concluded that the Board has a good repaid through the proceeds of equity and or bond sales.
balance of experience and knowledge of investment markets and continues to work in a collegiate and effective manner.
The Directors are mindful of the principal risks and An external evaluation was last undertaken in 2015 by uncertainties disclosed on page 9 and have reviewed Stephenson & Co an independent external board evaluation forecasts detailing revenue and liabilities.
The Directors service provider that does not have any other connections believe that the Company has adequate financial resources with the Company.
to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future and at least 12 months from the date of this Annual The Boards policy on tenure is that Directors need not serve Report.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the on the Board for a limited period of time only.
The Board going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
does not consider that the length of service of a Director is as important as the contribution he or she has to make, and Accountability and Audit therefore the length of service will be determined on a caseEach Director confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, by-case basis.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and he or she has taken all In accordance with Principle 3 of the AICs Code of Corporate the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order Governance which recommends that the directors of FTSE to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that shareholders, all the members of the Board will retire at the information.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves for re-election.
In conjunction with the Independent Auditor evaluation feedback the Committee has reviewed each of the The Companys policy is to conduct a regular review of its proposed reappointments and concluded that each of the audit arrangements.
The last tender took place in 2013 and Directors has the requisite high level and range of business following a detailed and rigorous process involving large and and financial experience and recommends their re-election at medium-sized audit firms the Boards recommendation to the forthcoming AGM.
shareholders to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP EY was duly approved.
EY, has expressed its willingness to continue in Remuneration Committee office and a Resolution to re-appoint EY as the Companys The level of fees payable to Directors is considered by the auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Remuneration Committee which comprises the entire Board Meeting, along with a separate Resolution to authorise the excluding Dr Carter and which is chaired by Mr Dunscombe.
Directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
Details of fees relating to non-audit services are disclosed on page 41.
The The Companys remuneration policy is to set remuneration Directors have reviewed the level of non-audit services at a level to attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the provided by the independent auditor during the year, Company's future development.
Further information on together with the independent auditors procedures in remuneration is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration connection with the provision of such services, and remain Report on pages 38 to 40. satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence is being safeguarded.
With effect from 1 January 2017 Deloitte Going Concern has been appointed to provide local tax compliance services The Directors have undertaken a robust review of the to the Company and EY has ceased to provide these tax Companys viability refer to statement on page 10 and services to the company.
ability to continue as a going concern.
The Companys assets consist of a diverse portfolio of listed equity shares and Internal Controls and Risk Management bonds.
The equities and a majority of the bond portfolio are, Details of the financial risk management policies and in most circumstances, realisable within a very short objectives relative to the use of financial instruments by the timescale.
Company are set out in note 18 to the financial statements.
34 Annual Report 2016 The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the Risks are identified and documented through a risk Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its management framework by each function within the effectiveness.
Following the Financial Reporting Council's Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the publication of Guidance on Risk Management, Internal FRC Guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market, Controls and Related Financial and Business Reporting the operational and reputational risk.
This helps the Managers FRC Guidance, the Directors confirm that there is an internal audit risk assessment model to identify those ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the functions for review.
Any relevant weaknesses identified significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been through internal audits review are reported to the Board and in place for the full year under review and up to the date of timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to approval of the financial statements, and this process is systems, processes and controls.
The implementation of any regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the remedial action required is monitored and feedback provided relevant sections of the FRC Guidance.
The design, implementation and maintenance of controls and The key components designed to provide effective internal procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to control for the year under review and up to the date of this manage its affairs properly extends to operational and Report are outlined below: compliance controls and risk management.
The Board has prepared its own risk register which identifies potential risks the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts relating to strategy, investment management, shareholders, which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities marketing, gearing, regulatory and financial obligations: third and review its investment performance: party service providers and the Board.
The Board considers the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined the potential cause and possible impact of these risks as well investment criteria: as reviewing the controls in place to mitigate these potential there are specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
A risk is rated by having a likelihood and an impact Reports on these issues, including performance statistics rating and the residual risk is plotted on a heat map and is and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the reviewed regularly.
The Managers investment process and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of appraisal and due diligence: internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process as a matter of course the internal audit and compliance for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by departments of AFML continually review the Managers the Company and the policies and procedures by which these operations: risks are managed.
written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third The Directors have delegated the investment management of party service providers and monitoring reports are received the Companys assets to AFML within overall guidelines and from these providers when required: this embraces implementation of the system of internal the Board has considered the need for an internal audit control, including financial, operational and compliance function but, because of the compliance and internal controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are control systems in place at the Manager, has decided to monitored and supported by AFMLs internal audit function place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit which undertakes periodic examination of business processes, procedures: and including compliance with the terms of the management twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve assessment of internal controls by considering controls are implemented.
documentation from the Manager, including its internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Aberdeen events since the relevant period end.
Groups system of internal control including its annual internal controls report prepared in accordance with the In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented International Auditing and Assurance Standards Boards contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities International Standard on Assurances Engagements ISAE that have been delegated to external professional 3402, Assurance Reports on Controls at a Service organisations.
The Board meets annually with Organisation.
The Board has also reviewed Aberdeens representatives from BNY Mellon and reviews a control process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks report covering the activities of the depositary and faced by the Company and the policies and procedures by custodian.
which these risks are managed.
Murray International Trust PLC 35 Governance Directors Report continued Representatives from the Internal Audit Department of the ability to hold Treasury shares is that such shares may be Manager report six monthly to the Audit Committee of the resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in Company and have direct access to the Directors at any managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its shares.
The Company would only sell on Treasury shares at a premium to NAV.
When shares are held in Treasury, all The internal control systems are designed to meet the voting rights are suspended and no distribution either by Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is way of dividend or by way of a winding up is permitted in exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are respect of Treasury shares.
If the Directors believe that there designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure is no likelihood of re-selling shares bought back, such shares to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can would be cancelled.
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Special Resolution 15 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of the Discount Management Policy and Special Business Annual General Meeting amounting to 19,109,887 Ordinary at Annual General Meeting shares as at 10 March 2017.
Such authority will expire on Share Buybacks the date of the 2018 Annual General Meeting or on 30 June At the Annual General Meeting held on 26 April 2016, 2018, whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the shareholders approved the renewal of the authority authority will have to be renewed at the next Annual General permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
Meeting or earlier if the authority has been exhausted.
The Directors wish to renew the authority given by Issue of Shares shareholders at the last Annual General Meeting.
The In terms of the Companies Act 2006 the Act the principal aim of a share buyback facility is to enhance Directors may not allot shares unless so authorised by the shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to NAV, shareholders.
Resolution 13 in the Notice of Annual General as and when the Directors consider this to be appropriate.
Meeting which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution The purchase of shares, when they are trading at a discount will, if passed, give the Directors the necessary authority to to NAV per share, should result in an increase in the NAV per allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of share for the remaining shareholders.
This authority, if 3,187,106 equivalent to 12,748,424 Ordinary shares or conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would result in an 10% of the Companys existing issued share capital at 10 increase in the NAV per share for the remaining shareholders March 2017, the latest practicable date prior to the and if it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any publication of this Annual Report.
Such authority will expire purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or on 30 from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek June 2018, whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
at the Annual General Meeting.
When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 561 of the Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid Act provides that existing shareholders have pre-emption on the exercise of this authority must not be more than the rights and that the new shares must be offered first to such higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
middle market quotations for a share taken from the London However, shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days the Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata immediately preceding the day on which the share is issue to existing shareholders.
Special Resolution 14 will, if purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade passed, also give the Directors power to allot for cash equity and the current highest independent bid on the trading securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,187,106 venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price equivalent to 12,748,423 Ordinary shares or 10% of the which may be paid is 25p per share.
Companys existing issued share capital at 10 March 2017, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this It is currently proposed that any purchase of shares by the Annual Report, as if Section 561 of the Act does not apply.
Company will be made from the capital reserve of the This is the same nominal amount of share capital which the Company.
The purchase price will normally be paid out of Directors are seeking the authority to allot pursuant to the cash balances held by the Company from time to time.
This authority will also expire on the date of the 2018 Annual General Meeting or on 30 June 2018, Special Resolution 15 will permit the Company to buy back whichever is earlier.
This authority will not be used in shares and any shares bought back by the Company may be connection with a rights issue by the Company.
cancelled or held as Treasury shares.
The benefit of the 36 Annual Report 2016 The Directors intend to use the authority given by widely distributed to other parties who have an interest in Resolutions 13 and 14 to allot shares and disapply prethe Companys performance.
Shareholders and investors may emption rights only in circumstances where this will be obtain up to date information on the Company through the clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, Managers freephone information service and the Companys issues will only be made where shares can be issued at a website murray-intl.
The Company responds to premium of 0.5% or more to NAV and there will never be letters from shareholders on a wide range of issues.
any dilution for existing shareholders.
The issue proceeds will be available for investment in line with the Companys The Boards policy is to communicate directly with investment policy.
No issue of shares will be made which shareholders and their representative bodies without the would effectively alter the control of the Company without involvement of the Aberdeen Group either the Company the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Secretary or the Manager in situations where direct Resolution 14 will also disapply pre-emption rights on the communication is required and usually a representative from sale of Treasury shares as envisaged above.
Once again, the the Board meets with major shareholders on an annual basis pre-emption rights would only be disapplied where the in order to gauge their views.
Treasury shares are sold at a premium to NAV of not less than 0.5%.
Responsible Investment The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the Recommendation Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks The Directors consider that the authorities granted above are associated with investment in companies which fail to in the best interests of the shareholders taken as a whole and conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors resolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their own which may affect the performance or value of the beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in Companys investments.
The Directors, through the aggregate to 114,391 shares, representing approximately Companys Manager, encourage companies in which 0.1% of the Companys issued share capital as at 10 March investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area 2017. of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company The UK Stewardship Code and Proxy Voting management to encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies in this area.
Responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of portfolio companies has been delegated by the Board to the By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC AIFM which has sub-delegated that authority to the Manager.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretary The full text of the Companys response to the Stewardship 40 Princes Street, Code may be found on the Companys website.
Edinburgh EH2 2BY Relations with Shareholders 10 March 2017 The Directors place a great deal of importance on communication with shareholders.
The Annual Report is Murray International Trust PLC 37
