Strategic Report Overview of Strategy The mechanics of how the Company operates are set out below and on the following five pages.
Investment Objective The aim of the Company is to achieve a total return greater activities is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 than its benchmark by investing predominantly in equities and 5 and the Investment Management Review on pages 13 worldwide.
Within this objective, the Manager will seek to to 18. increase the Companys revenues in order to maintain an above average dividend yield.
The Chairmans Statement and Managers Review include an analysis of the business of the Company and its principal The Companys investment objective and financial highlights activities, likely future developments of the business, the are shown on pages 7 and 2.
A review of the Companys recommended dividend and details of any acquisition of its own shares by the Company.
Business Model The Manager has its own investment process, which, in the case of the Company, is overseen by the Board.
The process is summarised below.
6 Annual Report 2016 diversified range of international companies in accordance Investment Policy with the investment objective.
Asset Allocation The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio The portfolio manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for of international equities and fixed income securities spread portfolio construction across all regional segments.
As can be across a range of industries and economies.
The Company's seen from the business model on page 6, the Aberdeen investment policy is flexible and it may, from time to time, management team utilises a Global Equity Buy List which hold other securities including but not limited to indexis constructed by each of the specialist country management linked securities, convertible securities, preference shares, teams.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations unlisted securities, depositary receipts and other equityfor each management team, which are then used by the related securities.
The Company may invest in derivatives for portfolio manager as the Companys investment universe.
the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
The Stock selection is the major source of added value.
Companys investment policy does not impose any geographical, sectoral or industrial constraints upon the Top-down investment factors are secondary in the Managers Manager.
The Board has set guidelines which the Manager is portfolio construction, with stock diversification rather than required to work within from meeting to meeting.
It is the formal controls guiding stock and sector weights.
Market investment policy of the Company to invest no more than capitalisation is not a primary concern.
15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies including listed investment trusts at the time of purchase.
A detailed description of the investment process and risk The Company currently does not have any investments in controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on page 76.
comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio is disclosed on pages 20 to 25 including a description of the Risk Diversification twenty largest investments, the portfolio of investments by The Manager actively monitors the Companys portfolio and value, attribution analysis, distribution of investments and attempts to mitigate risk primarily through diversification.
The Company is permitted to invest up to 15% of its investments by value in any single stock at the time of In addition to equity exposures, the investment mandate purchase.
provides the flexibility to invest in fixed income securities.
The process of identifying, selecting and monitoring both Gearing sovereign and corporate bonds follows exactly the same The Board considers that returns to shareholders can be structure and methodology as that for equity investment, enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is fully utilising the global investment resources of the responsible for the level of gearing in the Company and Manager.
As in the case of equity exposure, the total reviews the position on a regular basis.
Any borrowing, amount, geographical preference, sector bias and specific except for short-term liquidity purposes, is used for securities will ultimately depend upon relative valuation and investment purposes or to fund the purchase of the future prospects.
Total gearing will not in normal circumstances exceed 30% of net assets with cash deposits At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 48 netted against the level of borrowings.
At the year end, there equity and 24 bond holdings.
The Manager is authorised by was net gearing of 12.5% calculated in accordance with the Board to hold between 45 and 150 stocks in the Association of Investment Companies guidance and portfolio.
particular care is taken to ensure that any bank covenants permit maximum flexibility of investment policy.
Management Changes to Investment Policy The Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager is Any material change to the investment policy will require the Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited AFML which is approval of the shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority at a general meeting.
The Company will promptly issue an Day to day management of the portfolio is delegated to announcement to inform the shareholders and the public of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM.
AAM and AFML any change of its investment policy.
are collectively referred to as the Investment Manager or the Manager.
Delivering the Investment Policy Day-to-day management of the Companys assets has been delegated to the Manager.
The Manager invests in a Murray International Trust PLC 7 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy continued Benchmark Website The Companys benchmark is a composite index comprising murray-intl.
co. uk 40% of the FTSE World UK Index and 60% of the FTSE World ex-UK Index.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses a number of financial performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objective and determine the progress of the Company in pursuing its investment policy.
The main KPIs identified by the Board in relation to the Company which are considered at each Board meeting are as follows: KPI Description Absolute Performance: The Board considers the Companys NAV total return figures to be the best indicator of performance over time and these are therefore the main indicators of performance used by the Board.
Relative Performance: The Board also measures performance against the Benchmark and performance relative to competitor investment trusts over a range of time periods, taking into Performance consideration the differing investment policies and objectives employed by those companies.
Share Price Performance: The Board also monitors the price at which the Companys shares trade relative to the Benchmark on a total return basis over time A graph showing absolute, relative and share price performance is shown on page 12.
The discount premium relative to the NAV per share represented by the share price is closely monitored by the Board.
The objective is to avoid large fluctuations in the discount premium by Discount Premium to NAV the use of share buy backs and the issuance of new shares or the sale of Treasury shares, subject to market conditions.
A graph showing the share price premium discount relative to the NAV is shown on page 12.
The Boards aim is to seek to increase the Companys revenues over time in order to maintain Dividend an above average dividend yield.
Dividends paid over the past 10 years are set out on page 12.
The Boards aim is to ensure that gearing is kept within the Boards guidelines issued to the Gearing Manager.
Risk Management There are a number of risks which, if realised, could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition, performance and prospects.
The Board has undertaken a robust review of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Those principal risks are disclosed in the table on page 9 together with a description of the mitigating actions taken by the Board.
The principal risks associated with an investment in the Companys shares are published monthly on the Companys factsheet or they can be found in the pre-investment disclosure document PIDD published by the Manager, both of which are available on the Companys website.
Potential issues relating to the work of the Audit Committee are discussed in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 42 and further detail on financial risks and risk management is disclosed in note 18 to the financial statements.
8 Annual Report 2016 The Board regularly reviews the risks and uncertainties faced by the Company in the form of a risk matrix and a summary of the principal risks is set out below.
Description Mitigating Action Investment strategy and objectives if the The Board keeps the level of discount and or premium at which the Companys Companys investment objective becomes shares trade as well as the investment objective and policy under review and unattractive and the Company fails to adapt holds an annual strategy meeting where the Board reviews updates from the to changes in investor demand, the Company Manager, investor relations reports and the Broker reports on the market.
In may become unattractive to investors, addition, the Board is updated at each Board meeting on the make up of and leading to decreased demand for its shares any movements in the shareholder register and the Directors attend meetings and a widening discount.
Investment portfolio, investment The Board sets, and monitors, its investment restrictions and guidelines, and management investing outside of the receives regular Board reports which include performance reporting on the investment restrictions and guidelines set by implementation of the investment policy, the investment process and the Board could result in poor performance application of the guidelines.
The Manager attends all Board meetings.
The and inability to meet the Companys Board also monitors the Companys share price relative to the NAV.
Financial obligations - the ability of the The Board sets a gearing limit and receives regular updates on the actual Company to meet its financial obligations, or gearing levels the Company has reached from the Manager together with the increasing the level of gearing, could result in assets and liabilities of the Company and reviews these at each Board meeting.
the Company becoming over-geared or In addition, AFML, as alternative investment fund manager in conjunction with unable to take advantage of potential the Board, has set an overall leverage limit of 2.0x on a commitment basis opportunities and result in a loss of value to 2.5x on a gross notional basis and includes updates to its reports to the the Companys shares.
Financial and Regulatory the financial risks The financial risks associated with the Company include market risk, liquidity associated with the portfolio could result in risk and credit risk, all of which are mitigated in conjunction with the Manager.
In addition, failure to Further details of the steps taken to mitigate the financial risks associated with comply with relevant regulation including the portfolio are set out in note 18 to the financial statements.
The Board the Companies Act, the Corporation Taxes relies upon the Aberdeen Group to ensure the Companys compliance with Act, the Alternative Investment Fund applicable regulations and from time to time employs external advisers to Managers Directive, Accounting Standards advise on specific concerns.
and the FCAs Listing Rules, Disclosure and Prospectus Rules may have an impact on the Company.
Operational the Company is dependent on The Board receives reports from the Manager on internal controls and risk third parties for the provision of all systems management at each Board meeting.
It receives assurances from all its and services in particular, those of Aberdeen significant service providers, as well as back to back assurance from the Asset Management and any control failures Manager at least annually.
Further details of the internal controls which are in and gaps in these systems and services could place are set out in the Directors Report on pages 34 to 36. result in a loss or damage to the Company.
Murray International Trust PLC 9 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy continued Viability Statement with existing shareholders and to gain new shareholders with the aim of improving liquidity and enhancing the The Company does not have a fixed period strategic plan value and rating of the Companys shares.
The Companys but the Board formally considers risks and strategy at least financial contribution to the programmes is matched by annually.
The Board considers the Company, with no fixed the Aberdeen Group.
The Aberdeen Group Head of Brand life, to be a long term investment vehicle but, for the reports quarterly to the Board providing an analysis of the purposes of this viability statement, has decided that a promotional activities as well as updates on the period of five years is an appropriate period over which to shareholder register and any changes in the make up of report.
The Board considers that this period reflects a that register.
balance between looking out over a long term horizon and the inherent uncertainties of looking out further than five Board Diversity years.
The Board recognises the importance of having a range of In assessing the viability of the Company over the review skilled, experienced individuals with the right knowledge period the Directors have focussed upon the following represented on the Board in order to allow the Board to factors: fulfil its obligations.
The Board also recognises the benefits, and is supportive, of the principle of diversity in its The principal risks detailed in the Strategic Report on recruitment of new Board members.
At 31 December page 9: 2016, there were four male Directors and two female The ongoing relevance of the Companys investment Directors on the Board.
objective in the current environment: The demand for the Companys shares evidenced by the Environmental, Social and Human Rights Issues historical level of premium and or discount: The Company has no employees as the Board has The level of income generated by the Company: delegated day to day management and administrative The liquidity of the Companys portfolio: and, functions to Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited.
There are The maturity profile of the Companys 185 million loan therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of facilities which mature between May 2017 and May employees.
The Companys socially responsible investment 2020. policy is outlined below and on page 37.
Accordingly, taking into account the Companys current Due to the nature of the Companys business, being a position, the fact that the Companys investments are Company that does not offer goods and services to mostly liquid and the potential impact of its principal risks customers, the Board considers that it is not within the and uncertainties, the Directors have a reasonable scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 because it has no expectation that the Company will be able to continue in turnover.
The Company is therefore not required to make operation and to meet its liabilities as they fall due for a a slavery and human trafficking statement.
period of five years from the date of this Report.
In making this assessment, the Board has considered that matters Socially Responsible Investment Policy such as significant economic or stock market volatility, a The Company supports the UKs Stewardship Code, and substantial reduction in the liquidity of the portfolio or seeks to play its role in delivering good stewardship of the changes in investor sentiment could have an impact on its companies in which it invests.
While the delivery of assessment of the Companys prospects and viability in stewardship activities has been delegated to the Manager, the future.
the Board acknowledges its role in setting the tone for the effective delivery of stewardship on the Companys behalf.
Promoting the Company Further details on stewardship may be found on page 37.
The Board recognises the importance of communicating the long-term attractions of your Company to prospective Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions investors both for improving liquidity and for enhancing The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report the value and rating of the Companys shares.
The Board from the operations of its business, nor does it have believes an effective way to achieve this is through responsibility for any other emissions producing sources subscription to and participation in the promotional under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and programme run by the Aberdeen Group on behalf of a Directors Reports Regulations 2013. number of investment companies under its management.
The Company also supports the Aberdeen Groups investor Kevin Carter relations programme which involves regional roadshows, Chairman promotional and public relations campaigns.
The purpose 10 March 2017 of these initiatives is both to communicate effectively 10 Annual Report 2016
