Strategic R Strategic Re eport port Managers Review yielding zero in the summer, the monetary vandalism Background descended to new depths.
Such actions proved not just It is said the most valuable currency in the world is trust.
offensively ironic but also the ultimate insult to savers.
Earned through honesty, integrity and truth, where it exists, Widespread condemnation of global economic management the possibilities are endless.
Inspiring confidence for intensified and into the economic vacuum flowed the individuals, business and government, trust allows financial language of change.
Based on neither sense nor substance, activity to flourish.
Without it, there can be no commercial promises of increased fiscal spending, tax cuts, job creation, exchange, no international trade, no global investment and higher wages and economic reinvigoration became the no social democracy.
In a world increasingly frustrated by lexicon of choice.
All talk, no action but disillusioned voters unfulfilled promises and austerity fatigue, the single most embraced such reflationary rhetoric with great gusto.
The influential global development over the past twelve months half-empty glass became not just half full but somehow was the dramatic devaluation of trust.
As Central Banks, the positively overflowing!
Choosing to ignore systemically political elite, academia and the media were seen entrenched excessive debt, lingering over-capacity, fiscal increasingly to be out of touch with public opinion and insolvency, income impoverishment and deficient demand, detached from the disconnect between policy and reality, sentiment soared in anticipation of stronger growth and respect for them tangibly eroded.
higher corporate profits in the future.
The effects on equity, bond and currency markets were nothing short of The political cost associated with such widespread trust remarkable.
debasement proved deep and far-reaching.
Antiestablishment sentiment escalated on a wave of nationalistic Weakness in Sterling against virtually all its major trading populism, securing power and elected representation partners had significant influence on overall portfolio returns.
seemingly against the odds and often against public opinion.
Apart from staying relatively unchanged against the Mexican In a global political climate where it became prudent to Peso, Sterling suffered second half weakness of between -15 expect the unexpected, leadership change, policy change and to -20% against most portfolio currencies.
Against the government change swept across the landscape.
Credibility South African Rand it declined 26% and against the Brazilian loss was most pronounced towards Central Bank Real it lost over 30% of its value.
Suffice to say the overall policymakers.
Four consecutive years of grossly inaccurate depreciation of Sterling materially enhanced capital and economic forecasting condemned the Federal Reserve in the income returns of the Trust.
United States to making increasingly hollow-sounding policy predictions.
Domestic interest rates were nudged up slightly, Latin America provided the strongest regional equity market but widespread scepticism prevailed.
Similar doubt and returns in Sterling terms, up 58.4% over the period.
Behind indecision accompanied policy directives in the UK.
The the benchmark strength, Brazil excelled against a backdrop of Bank of Englands fragile veneer of respectability was declining bond yields, interest rate cuts, political resolution shattered following Britains vote to leave the European and currency strength.
The portfolio benefitted significantly Union.
Hostage to unsustainable fiscal and current account from its Brazilian bond and equity exposure, both in terms of deficits, the Brexit Referendum result delivered the long income enhancement and capital appreciation.
Conversely, expected devaluation of Sterling as international capital took sentiment towards Mexico suffered from vitriolic bile fright.
In the ensuing temporary panic, policy discipline was associated with Republican campaigning in the United abandoned.
Displaying infinitely more consistency in futile States.
Portfolio holdings were not unduly affected but policy implementation, the European Central Bank and the progress was unequivocally constrained.
Somewhat Bank of Japan kept on printing banknotes.
Creating farce and surprisingly, North American equity markets surged to record fallacy whilst simultaneously destroying hard earned savings, highs despite further declines in corporate profits.
such actions were beyond contempt.
Yet oblivious to public Momentum eclipsed fundamentals, particularly during the derision, global Central Bank policymakers ploughed on final six week, post-election rally.
Rising protectionism fears regardless, in denial of the painfully obvious issuing more and associated weakness in Chinese equities slightly debt to solve a debt crisis simply doesnt work.
restrained what otherwise proved exceptionally strong returns from Asia ex Japan.
Portfolio performance returned Accompanying withering trust in establishment orthodoxy 32.1% in Sterling terms from Asian equities, plus healthy was escalating anxiety over economic performance.
The double digit total returns from selective Asian bonds.
predominant mood of influence early in the period had been Similarly Japan, although fundamentally deteriorating from one of deflation.
Declining global growth forecasts, ineffective monetary policy and structural economic malaise, combined with extreme commodity price weakness, had kept pace with most global markets.
Sterling returns of politicians and policymakers paralysed from persistent 41.9% from the Japanese portfolio were well above macro-economic disappointment.
Ongoing political wrangling between the UK and evolving events, they watched as global bond yields plunged Europe coupled with numerous profit warnings from leading to historic lows.
When Germany issued a ten year bond Murray International Trust PLC 13 Strategic Report Managers Review continued UK and European companies at times haunted the Eurozone return of 49.3% in Sterling terms over the period came from backdrop.
The UK market clung onto historical highs set a combination of yield compression and currency uplift.
towards year end, but conviction investing remained absent More than justifying the relative underperformance cost of from a fragile environment of rising tensions and increased establishing such exposure over the 2014 15 period, nationalism.
Europes total return of 19.7% proved almost improving domestic fundamentals remain supportive of this entirely a consequence of Sterling weakness against the Euro.
Last, but not least, 2016 provided powerful positive returns from the portfolios emerging market bond portfolio.
A total Performance The NAV total return for the year to 31 December 2016 with net dividends reinvested was 40.3% compared with a return on benchmark of 25.8%.
The top five and bottom stock contributors are detailed below: A A % Top Five Stock Contributors % Bottom Five Stock Contributors Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing 2.40Zurich Insurance -0.17 Daito Trust Construction 1.55 Nordea Bank -0.11 Sociedad Quimica Y Minera fide Chile 1.53 Engie -0.08 Unilever Indonesia 1.34 Federal Republic of Brazil 10% 01 01 23 -0.06 Banco Bradesco 1.20 Tesco Lotus Retail Growth -0.05 A % relates to the percentage contribution to gross NAV return Attribution Analysis The attribution analysis below details the various influences on portfolio performance.
In summary, of the 8.1% before expenses of performance above the benchmark, asset allocation contributed 2.8% and stock selection a further 5.3%.
Structural effects, relating to the fixed income portfolio and gearing net of borrowing and hedging costs, added a further 6.4% of relative performance.
Company Benchmark Contribution from: Asset Stock Weight Return Weight Return Allocation Selection Total % % % % % % % UK 14.7 37.5 40.0 18.9 1.9 2.3 4.2 Europe ex UK 14.4 24.1 10.0 19.7 0.9 1.1 0.2 North America 18.4 37.2 37.7 34.1 1.1 0.3 0.9 Japan 4.9 41.9 5.7 22.7 0.1 0.8 0.9 Asia Pacific ex Japan 28.9 32.1 5.1 31.7 1.1 0.1 1.0 Other International 18.7 42.6 1.5 44.0 1.7 1.0 2.6 Gross equity portfolio return 100.0 33.9 100.0 25.8 2.8 5.3 8.1 FX instruments, fixed interest, cash 7.6 and gearing effect Net portfolio return 41.5 Management fees and administrative 1.2 expenses Tax charge 0.4 Share issuance effect 0.1 Technical differences 0.4 Total Return 40.3 25.75 Benchmark is 40% FTSE W UK and 60% FTSE W World ex UK Notes to Performance Analysis Asset Allocation effect measures the impact of over or underweighting each asset category, relative to the benchmark weights.
Stock Selection effect measures the effect of security selection within each category.
Share Issuance the enhancement to performance of new shares being issued at premium to NAV.
Technical differences the impact of different return calculation methods used for NAV and portfolio performance Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC & BNP Paribas Securities Services Limited.
Figures may appear not to add up due to rounding.
14 Annual Report 2016 North America UK Americas domestic economic landscape continued to Economic sceptics maintain that in the purest form of polarise opinion.
This ranged between those emphasising democracy, everyone gets what nobody wants.
If rational deflationary risks associated with a chronically over indebted expectations dictate decision making, then economic choice nation and those accentuating potential inflationary is enhanced by certainty and stability.
The conclusion of yet pressures inherent with maintaining abnormally low interest another turbulent twelve months in UK economic history rates.
Neither side produced sufficient evidence to witnessed almost the exact opposite prevailing.
The seismic unequivocally prove their point.
The net result was policy shock associated with Britains vote to leave the European inertia.
For the marginalised American, desperate for clarity Union reverberated around every aspect of domestic activity.
on employment, wages and onerous debt obligations, such For the elected UK Government, Brexit meant Brexit, but for policy paralysis proved unwelcome.
To fill the void, the beleaguered UK economy Brexit meant exactly what?
increasingly radical political promises were made, cumulating Within the eerie silence that descended, nothing could in profound changes to government and leadership ideology.
accurately be assessed about future investment, international trade, immigration, employment, security or growth simply Financial markets, forever eager to embrace exuberance, because no precedent existed.
Into the vacuum stepped the indiscriminately accentuated perceived positives.
The speculators of doom and gloom, or progress and prosperity Northern American index rise of 34.1% in Sterling terms depending on which unsubstantiated illusion the respective over the period reflected a market drunk on sentiment, with orator wished to emphasise.
Into the vacuum also ventured its most recent libation imbibed in linguistic form Make the Bank of England with perhaps the most inexpedient America Great Again.
interest rate cut in living memory.
For an economy already burdened with unsustainable current account and budget Exactly why such emotive rhetoric should inspire such deficits, excessively leveraged public and private sectors, unquestioning confidence is unfathomable.
Beyond electoral stagnating real incomes and over-extended property prices promises, US economic fundamentals dictate a very different such additional uncertainty proved extremely unwelcome.
The current business expansion arguably shows signs Sterling plunged as the UKs Achilles Heel of foreign capital of increasing exhaustion.
Seven consecutive quarterly dependency was cruelly exposed.
declines in US corporate profits eclipse the unenviable record set in the 1930s, unequivocally illustrating the fatigue in US For the broader public, and more importantly its diminishing earnings momentum.
Rising bond yields, and more disposable income, currency devaluation quickly translated importantly a stronger dollar, would only further compress into higher import costs.
Inelastic necessities, such as food corporate margins.
Clearly Americans want to believe in the and energy, witnessed sharply higher prices which in turn revival of animal spirits but declining corporate profits have rekindled inflationary concerns and pushed bond yields long been associated with the end of business cycles, not the higher.
For businesses, tough decisions on capital allocation beginning.
The new President inherits an economy that between investment and cost containment became infinitely received the largest monetary stimulus in history yet more problematic.
Somewhat surprisingly, with the seeds of struggled to achieve annualised growth of just 2% over the economic recession being scattered all around, for those past seven years.
Will four jingoistic words deliver what four disciples of profitless prosperity none of this mattered.
The trillion dollars of monetary largesse could not?
UK equity market maintained its upward momentum with complete disregard to fundamental fragilities.
Ignoring In rational terms it is reasonable to doubt.
The sheer growing threats to corporate profitability and dividend cover, enormity of US debt suggests deflationary risks remain.
by year end the FTSE had surpassed historical highs set Unless policymakers are irresponsible enough to impose sixteen years ago.
significant losses on creditors, then the debt overhang remains.
Meantime the US Monetary Authorities attempt to Unimpressed by extended valuations against such an opaque set policy within an opaque fiscal landscape full of economic and political backdrop, UK investment was speculation and supposition.
Delivering election promises are maintained around historical lows.
From a performance likely to be infinitely more difficult than pronouncing them.
perspective, UK portfolio exposure or more accurately lack of UK exposure contributed most to relative returns.
Portfolio exposure, focused on defensive above-average Superior stock selection in a market that trailed all other yielding businesses, performed well under the circumstances regional indices proved very beneficial.
with overall returns exceeding those of the market.
All seven North American holdings appreciated over the period, with Strong stock selection from holdings in Weir Group, BHP core telecommunications holdings in Verizon and Telus Billiton and Royal Dutch Shell enhanced both absolute and particularly strong.
Profit-taking in consumer staples relative performance, with only Vodafone disappointing reduced total exposure to 15.0% by year end.
A new position in leading satellite Murray International Trust PLC 15 Strategic Report Manager's Review continued company Inmarsat was initiated, with a long term view Following on from Brexit, Europe faces an increasingly towards its involvement in the provision of internet for complex year ahead, fraught with political pitfalls: Elections global airlines.
in Germany, France and Netherlands: Britains negotiated exit from the EU: Greeces simmering debt crisis and Italys emerging bank crisis.
All need to be resolved, managed and Europe defused against an extremely challenging economic backdrop The European Central Bank remained uncomfortably in which corporate profits and dividends remain under ensnared in its self-made monetary trap throughout 2016. pressure.
Hostage to policy-obsessed financial markets, policymakers intensified futile monetary attempts to reinvigorate Latin America economic activity.
Escalating purchases of troublesome sovereign and corporate debts from crippled European banks Ordern e Progresso Order and Progress.
Such scripture failed to stimulate activity.
Designed to relieve the debt circles the globe at the centre of Brazils iconic green, blue burdens of domestic banks, yet again such practices merely and yellow flag.
Without question these are commendable transferred private sector debt obligations onto the public ideals but in practice they have seldom been adhered to.
Expecting loan growth to pick up against a Brazilian economic, political and financial history is littered backdrop of stubbornly high unemployment, negative real with periods of the exact opposite, but the most recent income growth, job insecurity and fragile consumer chapter, concluding with impeachment of disgraced confidence throughout the region was, at best, nave if not President Dilma Rouseff, witnessed an end to her accidentdownright ignorant.
The legacy of existing, non-performing prone term in office and offered encouraging signs of relief loans remains a powerful contractionary force that will haunt for one of Latin Americas most conflicted nations.
Whilst Europe for some considerable time to come.
Yet still the hope followed by disappointment is arguably a particularly monetary madness continued, pushing bank deposit rates Brazilian cycle, recent developments could cautiously be and bond yields deeper into negative territory.
Unrecognisable evolving monetary conditions questioned the Emerging from its deepest recession since the 1980s, the very sustainability of banking and insurance businesses in a benefits of an extremely internationally competitive negative yield, negative deposit rate environment.
exchange rate soon became obvious.
An expanding trade surplus attracted significant foreign direct investment Such concerns prompted the outright sales of large portfolio inflows, the consequences of which translated into an holdings in Nordea Bank in Sweden and Zurich Financial in appreciating currency and declining inflation.
Manipulative mischief in corporate bond endured three years of steadily rising interest rates such markets and increasingly unreliable guidance over credit stability finally provided the platform to begin monetary quality suggest an increasingly opaque outlook for European easing.
Against a backdrop of potentially accelerating financials.
Watching from the side-lines how all this unravels interest rate cuts and renewed credit-sensitive growth, seemed the safer and more prudent option.
Brazilian financial markets performed very well.
Portfolio exposure to sovereign bonds, corporate bond and equities The widening financial and economic cracks that fractured delivered significant capital and income returns in Sterling further during the period arguably paled into insignificance terms.
when compared to the emerging political chasm that threatened the very existence of European unity.
For Over the period Brazilian equity exposure returned over without doubt 2016 will go down in history as the year when 100% in Sterling terms, with Banco Bradesco, Vale and the European political voice erupted in defiance of European Telefonica fide Brasil contributing the most to absolute establishment orthodoxy.
At its core, unemployment, performance.
With corporate profit and dividend upgrades stagnant growth and broken promises: at its extremities, likely to materialise, the current exposure will be maintained.
disillusionment with austerity, distrust of the ruling elite and discredited policies that failed to deliver.
In essence a Conversely, whilst Mexico shares few similarities with Brazil, disenfranchised electorate disproportionately enduring the as an inherently conservative nation, order and progress have associated deflationary pains.
Fuelled by fear and paranoia, essentially been delivered since the dark days of Mexicos nationalist populism thrived.
own financial crisis over twenty years ago.
Recent developments proved no exception, but rising political During the period exposure to European equities was tensions with the United States severely tested its resolve.
significantly reduced to an historical low of 10.3%, down Despite rising oil prices, buoyant consumer spending and from 18.2% at year end 2015.
Residual exposure remains competitive exports, the country remained suffocated by defensively positioned towards pharmaceuticals and xenophobic electoral rhetoric in the United States.
The consumer staples companies with an overweight towards Central Bank hiked interest rates five times in defence of a Switzerland.
16 Annual Report 2016 fragile peso which in-enviably became the international business fundamentals are supportive, but the attractions barometer of protectionist sentiment.
Unfortunately, it may remained severely limited.
Macro-economic paralysis be some time before it discards this unwelcome tag.
brought about by an aging population, insufficient immigration and constant financial market manipulation will Despite decent returns from dollar-denominated Mexican not be alleviated until such times as Japan recognises its bonds, equity exposure within the portfolio struggled to flawed policies and practices.
Such mea culpa is unlikely to make progress.
Positive absolute returns of 14.1% were happen anytime soon.
recorded but positions in Femsa and Kimberley Clark fide Mexico constrained relative performance.
Patience will be In Asia it might be considered churlish to criticise a regional required, but solid corporate fundamentals support asset that in aggregate delivered 31.7% in Sterling terms.
In aggregate, when Against any historical or relative yardstick this proved an including Chilean exposure initiated and built-up over the exceptionally strong return.
What is of interest on closer 2014 15 period, the total return from Latin American inspection behind headline numbers are the marked portfolio holdings was 44.3% in Sterling terms in 2016. differences in performance which contributed to both total This was further enhanced by maturing Venezuelan sovereign benchmark and total portfolio performance.
Better than bonds and Brazilian corporate bonds, which contributed expected growth, inflation and progress on fiscal reform fed significant capital and income gains.
Given the possibility of through into currency strength in India and Indonesia further fundamental improvements and predominately low allowing for further interest rate cuts and ongoing declines in consensus expectations, selective opportunities will continue bond yields.
Total equity returns of 17.6% and 40.2% to be pursued.
respectively in Sterling terms reflected material differences in starting point valuations despite similar economic progress.
Portfolio returns from Indonesian and Indian bond exposures Japan and Asia were very strong enhancing both capital and income.
No The review period witnessed the third anniversary of Japans Indian equity exposure due to prevailing high valuations and unorthodox monetary reflation plan.
Introduced to universal low dividend yields could be regarded as a missed enthusiasm and widespread acclaim, the new economic plan opportunity, but only what is owned ultimately influences had been championed to deliver Japan prosperity from the performance.
Thirty six months later, the economic consequences of an extraordinary monetary experiment In this regard the large position in Unilever Indonesia which devalued the yen and inflated asset prices make contributed positively.
Of materially greater significance sobering reading.
For those more interested in reality, what were returns from exposures to Taiwan and Thailand.
was high on ambition proved woefully short on substance.
Representing close to 12% of overall assets, solid stock Declining real wages, higher sales taxes and more expensive selection produced total returns of 47.5% and 53.8% imports condemned the average Japanese persons living respectively, adding to both absolute and relative standards to fall.
Weak economic growth, faltering capital performance.
Taiwan Semiconductor and recently initiated investment and sluggish corporate profitability restrained Siam Commercial Bank proved standout performers in this overall business conditions.
Further robust stock returns from Coca Cola Amatil, failure to resolve the Japanese deflationary mentality MTR Corp and Public Bank may not have matched the coupled with negative bond yields dictated for the first time overall regional benchmark but that is not to criticise.
All ever, that an aging demographic of Japanese savers watched contributed desired diversification across Australia, Hong helplessly as pension promises evaporated.
No economic Kong and Malaysia respectively and as such positively textbook exists that can provide guidance for what comes enhanced the investment objective.
Asian asset exposure, which was increased by a further 77.3m over the period, include Auckland Airport in New Against this backdrop, it is never easy constructing an Zealand and Tesco Lotus Retail in Thailand.
Finding quality companies in Japan with relatively small growth companies well positioned to prosper above 4% yields and sustainable dividend growth is virtually from increasing consumer spending across the Asiatic region.
Corporate Japan has no desire to raise dividends Both emphasise the strategy to invest in different companies when competing long duration bond yields yield zero!
The in different businesses operating in different countries with two companies currently owned have solid, double-digit, five different positive growth dynamics.
In a global context, year dividend growth histories, with strong balance sheets to numerous such opportunities exist in Asia hence the suggest this can continue.
But with yields of around 3.0%, portfolios significant exposure there.
the current exposure is primarily there for capital gain.
As such, the 41.9% total return in Sterling terms over the period more than achieved its objective.
Outlook and deeply concerning fundamentals, there are no places to hide.
The bottom line, of which we are acutely aware, is that Should future generations ever search for the seminal both bond and equity markets are very expensive on an moment in economic history where so many supposedly absolute and relative basis.
Portfolio diversification, through intelligent people masquerading as Central Bankers and their which exposures reflect preferred investment opportunities, financial market cheerleaders descended to the depths of does have the benefit of a wide opportunity set.
For Murray discredited stupidity then 13 July 2016 will be as good as International, the flexibility to invest anywhere in the world any.
For on this day Germany issued a ten year Bund with remains a powerful advantage.
Trusting in tried and tested no coupon.
An income investment with no income.
To methods of stock and bond selection also brings a degree of emphasise this particular hideous distortion from numerous familiarity to an unfamiliar world.
Despite overall valuation others which have polluted financial markets over the past concerns, it is still possible to differentiate between whether five years is not an attempt to rank its significance.
It serves a business is cheap or expensive, whether it is quality or not.
only to highlight just how incredibly far the world has shifted With an emphasis, as ever, on capital preservation and from economic orthodoxy when savers expected, and were maintaining dividends, diversification remains the strategy of entitled to, a return on their savings.
The tangled web woven preference, extreme caution the modus operandi.
around spiralling debts, insolvent banks, unsustainable deficits, mis-allocated capital and erosion of real wealth Bruce Stout exists only to distort and deceive.
When such disrespect of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited real capital value exists, in what can we trust?
Senior Investment Manager 10 March 2017 It may appear disconcerting, but is no doubt worth repeating, against such a backdrop of unfamiliar extended valuations 18 Annual Report 2016 Portfolio The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of investments.
At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 48 equity and 24 bond holdings.
The Manager is authorised by the Board to hold between 45 and 150 stocks in the portfolio.
Standard Chartered PLC is an international banking group operating principally in Asia, Africa and the Middle East that is currently active in 70 countries.
