Strategic Report Our business model and strategy Delivering long-term shareholder value withthe right business model and strategy At National Express we believe our business model should start with our customers.
By serving our customers with operational excellence, we are able to create profit and cash, thereby generating shareholder value.
The cash we generate is used to fund investment in the business, which drives further growth enabling us to better serve our customers and also to create new and skilled jobs.
Allied to this, our core values of excellence, safety, customers, people and community inform us as to how we should operate.
1 We serve our customers Community Government 2 With 5 4 operational excellence Funding Driving growth investment People Safety Excellence 3 To create profit and cash Generating shareholder value Creating jobs 16 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
We serve our customers At National Express we believe our business model should start Allied to this, our core values of excellence, safety, customers, with our customers.
By serving our customers with operational people andcommunity guide us as to how we operate.
excellence, we are able to create profit and cash, thereby generating shareholder value.
The cash we generate is used to fund investment Transporting a record 921 million passengers in 2016 in the business, which drives further growth enabling us to better By understanding and meeting the needs of our customers in serve our customers and also to create new and skilled jobs.
ourlocal markets, we strive to deliver high levels of customer satisfaction and encourage more passengers to use our services.
With operational excellence Not only do our customers require high performing transport our existing markets, and opening up new markets such as services, but they also need high levels of safety.
At National theGerman rail market and the urban bus market in Bahrain.
Express, safety is our highest priority in whatever we do across The quality of our employees, is integral to the provision of the business and is a key tenet of our core values.
Operational highsafety and operational standards with continual training excellence also helps to drive sustainable growth for the Group and focus on excellence at the core of our operations.
through building customer loyalty and winning new business in 3.
To create profit and cash, generating shareholder value Profit and cash Shareholder value Ultimately, delivering operational excellence through good Through our robust and sustainable business model we aim to customer service drives revenue and profit growth across the deliver shareholder value through higher returns with growth in Group and generates cash which can then be re-invested into dividends supported by growth in earnings and strong cash flows.
each of our businesses to drive further improvements for our customers and also fund new business opportunities, driving Creating jobs higher returns for our shareholders.
Through our strong and sustainable cash flows, we are able tofund further growth in our businesses, which in turn creates newand skilled jobs, helping the local communities in which we serve and providing good career prospects for our employees.
Driving growth Our strong cash flow generation enables us to fund investment We also use our strong cash generation to invest in new across the business with the provision of new fleet, technologies business opportunities, which drives further growth in and services, driving improvements for our customersand ourcoremarkets as well as developing our position in encouraging further growth in passenger demand.
ournewmarkets, such as Germany and the Middle East.
Our strategy: how our business model and strategy work together Our Vision Our Vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers byconsistently delivering frequent, high performing public transportservices which offer excellent value.
Our Values Our five values continue to underpin the Vision and help us toprioritise what we focus on: Excellence Safety Customers People Community Our four strategic priorities 2.
Deployment of technology As our business evolves, we constantly review our strategic Investing in technology to raise customer and safety priorities to ensure that they remain appropriate as drivers for standardsand drive efficiencies throughout our business, long-term and sustainable growth and adhere to our five core generating sales, margin and cash.
Values, aiming to deliver for all our stakeholders.
At the heart ofthis is our constant focus on operational excellence, driving 3.
Growing our business through acquisitions innovation and raising standards throughout our businesses.
We continue to look to grow our unique portfolio of internationalbus, coach and rail businesses through 1.
Delivering operational excellence selectivebolt-on acquisitions.
We aim to lead the market in delivering excellence, whichwillraise standards and also drive revenue growth, 4.
Diversification into complementary markets margin progression and cash generation.
We continue to look at opportunities to diversify into new marketsthat are complementary to our existing businesses andare fast growing, urbanising and seeing liberalisation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 17
