Strategic Report Business review: UK Coach Robust performance with new revenue management system starting to impact 2016 2015 Year ended 31 December m m Revenue 282.8 281.2 Operating profit 33.3 32.3 Tom Stables Operating margin 11.8% 11.5% Managing Director, UK Coach Overview of 2016 UK Coach continues to focus on delivering frequent, value for money services efficiently and marketing them in an increasingly personalised and targeted way using sophisticated digital technologies and techniques.
Market overview Total revenue increased by 0.6% to 282.8 million 2015: National Express has the only nationwide network of services, with 281.2m.
Core network revenue increased by 1.9% as further other competitors tending to focus on specific regions or corridors.
marketing improvements and the benefits of an upgraded Selective competition comes from rail, particularly on discounted revenue management system RMS more than offset a fares, and from large bus operators and localised services.
Drivers significant decline in revenue from our Eurolines business.
for demand include the level of fare discount to rail, cost of private Growth motoring and environmental friendliness.
Customer satisfaction is % also an important driver for longer-term loyalty through consistent Passenger yield 0 service and high customer safety standards.
Passenger volume 2 Change in core express revenue 2 Market size Destinations Other revenues 4 300m 900 Total revenue 1 of contested revenues in the UK scheduled coach scheduled coach market marketleader Overall divisional performance has been strong in the face of Revenue growth through competitive pricing, better industry-wide challenges, the disposal of Airlinks and significant distribution channels and greater understanding of challenges at Eurolines.
Eurolines suffered a year on year customers and their needs decline in revenue of 31% and an operating loss of 0.4 million Longer-term implementation of improved retailing systems 2015: Profit 1.6m due to suppressed demand after the terrorist attacks in Europe and heightened competition.
We have restructured management, bringing Eurolines into the core coach business, reduced mileage and other costs, and enhanced marketing and commercial capabilities, including through its inclusion in our RMS.
Despite this, profit grew by 3.1% to 33.3 million 2015: 32.3m reflecting revenue growth in the rest of the coach business and an ongoing focus on cost efficiencies.
Operating margin rose by 30basis points to 11.8% 2015: 11.5%, building on the strong gains of recent years.
Passenger numbers on the core network also grew by nearly 2%.
m 2015 normalised operating profit 32 Net impact of growth and new routes 1 Cost inflation 3 Cost efficiencies 3 2016 normalised operating profit 33 54 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Cash and returns significantly enhances our capability to actively manage pricing, The UK Coach business model has a particularly strong return helping to drive revenue, profit and incremental demand.
We on capital and cash generation, outsourcing the majority of fleet have already seen the benefits, with targeted reductions in price provision and services to its partner operators in a capital-light driving passenger increases and overall revenue growth in the model.
In 2016, we delivered another strong performance, fourth quarter.
With full installation complete in December, the generating operating cash of 36 million with cash conversion immediate benefit was an increase in revenue of 1% during the of 109% of operating profit.
month and improved seat utilisation rates.
The benefits should grow through the year as the system gains increasingly Delivering operational excellence sophisticated data and analytical capabilities.
With further investment in customer service, including new apps with enhanced journey planners, easier payment and We have also made further improvements to our digital free on-board entertainment systems, we are pleased to have platforms in the past year, such as the launch of a new and recorded a 3% improvement in our customer satisfaction score improved mobile website, app, journey planner and PayPal and a 2% increase in customers likely to recommend our payment system, helping us to engage with our customers services, to 88%.
We have delivered a 1% improvement in in a more personalised way while also increasing revenue.
punctuality on our services and have again been rated number one in the Institute of Customer Services Customer Service Creating new opportunities Index for ground transportation.
Attractive pricing, coupled with the upgraded RMS, will continue to grow volume, improve load factors and drive profitability.
Our relentless focus on safety has delivered a significant We have also grown our CRM database by 13% in the year improvement in our Fatalities and Weighted Injuries Index score from an already strong position, and we will continue to exploit for the year and has been recognised with another five-star our enhanced capabilities here in 2017, developing further rating from the British Safety Council, with an improved score tailored and customised offers for our customers.
We are also delighted to have been awarded the prestigious British Safety Council Sword of Honour for the We continue to look for new contract opportunities and have second consecutive year.
secured a three-year contract, in conjunction with UK Bus, to provide corporate transport services for Amazon to distribution Awarded a four-star rating by the European Foundation for centres around the UK, and a contract to provide transport Quality Management in its first assessment in 2014, we are services to UEFA for the 2017 Champions League Final.
We also delighted UK Coach achieved a five-star rating in 2016, look to increase our sales distribution through the development demonstrating our commitment to achieving excellent of existing relationships and the creation of new partnership operational standards.
arrangements, and in 2016 have secured new partnership agreements with Expedia, UCAS and Groupon, and expanded Deployment of technology our existing partnerships with Ryanair, thetrainline.
com and We have been determined to be at the forefront of new RBS.
We plan to launch a trial in 2017 to provide end to end technology adoption to enhance our offer to customers, journey services, working in partnership with taxi and private ability to compete and improve safety performance and hire car firms.
As well as reviewing our network efficiency, we also look to add An example of our investment in customer service leadership new routes where we see growth opportunities.
First introduced is the launch of VUER, an innovative, free digital infotainment in 2013, our Christmas Day services are helping secure news and entertainment system.
This service is resulting in significant growth over the festive period: we broke our record a 5% increase in customer satisfaction for those passengers for the number of passengers carried in a day and had two who have used the system, helping to drive customer loyalty dayswhere we took over 1 million in revenue.
In 2016, we and incremental demand.
alsolaunched new services serving passengers between London and Stansted, further strengthening our position in Technology has an important role to play in raising safety theairport market where we continue to see strong growth.
We have rolled out the Lytx DriveCam technology across the whole of our network during 2016 with the recently In December we acquired Clarkes, a private hire coach acquired Clarkes following this year.
This technology enables company based in Kent.
This acquisition of a well-known us to improve driving performance and tailor training through coach brand has two principal benefits.
Firstly, by expanding theanalytics and videos generated.
Our initial pilot in one depot our presence in the Kent commuter markets in an efficient way, showed a 10% reduction in the collision rate and annualised enabling the sharing of spare fleet and management synergies.
repair costs reduced by around 30%.
Secondly, it provides efficiency opportunities for our core coach operations, through attractively placed depots and access to an In the past year we have implemented active real-time RMS expanded driver pool in London.
across the whole of the network.
This upgraded system Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 55
