Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Relations with Shareholders Highlights Investor relations programme in 2016 Roadshows following financial results February Meetings between Chairman, Non-Executive Directors 2015 Full Year results presentation London andshareholders Meetings with shareholders on remuneration and March sustainability issues Full Year results roadshow London and Edinburgh Investor conferences participation Annual General Meeting April Meetings with shareholders ahead of the AGM The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good communications with the Companys shareholders to ensure May mutual understanding of the Groups strategy, objectives, Q1 Interim Management Statement governance and performance.
Conference call with analysts and investors Annual General Meeting Birmingham During the year shareholders are kept informed of the progress of the Group through regular corporate communications: the July Preliminary Results Announcement, the Annual Report and 2016 Half Year results presentation London Accounts, the Half Year Results Announcement, the Notice September ofAnnual General Meeting, Interim Management Statements and press releases regarding any other significant Investor conferences London developments, as well as the dissemination of regulated information.
Such communications are made available to the October Q3 Interim Management Statement London Stock Exchange and are simultaneously available on the Companys website, www.
Conference call with analysts and investors 400 million bond placing with roadshow for bondholders The Companys website houses a wide range of information Institutional shareholders about the Group, including the Annual Report and Accounts, press releases, share price data and links to subsidiary The Board is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with shareholders and recognises the importance of that relationship company websites.
A focused and proactive investor relations programme is in place.
The Chairman, Group Chief From time to time the Company invites research analysts and institutional investors to presentations and site visits that are Executive and Group Finance Director have held a number of meetings with existing and prospective institutional shareholders designed to provide more understanding of the strengths andcapabilities of its business operations and strategy.
during the year and given presentations following the fullyear and half year results.
They have also met and given presentations to Shareholders can receive documentation such as the Annual research analysts and stockbrokers sales teams.
The Companys appointed brokers and investor relationsadvisers in turn have Report and Accounts electronically and are also able to cast their votes by proxy electronically.
The Company also has an provided regular confidential feedback to theCompany on the electronic proxy appointment service for CREST members.
views of the major institutions.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are also given the opportunity to meetinstitutional shareholders and are available by contact through the normal channels.
The Board is provided with regular updates on the views andissues raised by the Companys investors.
During the yearthe Board received external presentations from advisers onshareholder and market perception of the Groups performance and strategy.
Formal written responses are given to correspondence received from shareholders, as well as bilateral engagement through the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Companys investor relations function.
84 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Analyst coverage Voting on theresolutions was conducted by poll.
Some 84% The Company is aware of 16 analysts who have published ofthe sharesin issue were voted and all the resolutions were equity research notes covering National Express Group PLC passed.
The results were published on the Groups website during 2016.
The names and contact numbers of those shortly afterthe meeting.
firmswhich currently follow us are shown on our website.
We look forward to welcoming shareholders to our 2017 Annual Private shareholders General Meeting and updating them on the progress of the We welcome contact from our private shareholders and business this year.
arepleased to answer their queries.
We encourage our Geographical breakdown as at 31 December shareholders to make use of our website to access Company reports, notices of meeting and general shareholder and 80 dividend information.
The website also provides a direct link to 66.0 64.7 Shareview www.
co. uk, which enables shareholders 60 to view and manage their shareholder account online.
Annual General Meeting 40 Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers 23.7 21.9 aresent to shareholders at least 20 working days before 20 themeeting.
Last years Annual General Meeting included 8.6 6.4 4.8 3.9 apresentation by the Group Chief Executive on the 0 progressofthe business and an opportunity for shareholders 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 UK Europe North America Rest of world toask questions.
All of our Directors were available to answerquestions formally during the meeting and many circulated andtalked to shareholders informally afterwards.
