Business review: North America Strong bid season and high returns from acquisitions 2016 2015 Year ended 31 December m m Revenue 877.2 683.2 Operating profit 84.0 66.8 David Duke Chief Executive, Revenue US$1,189.0 US$1,040.6 National Express Corporation Operating profit US$113.9 US$101.8 Operating margin 9.6% 9.8% R evenue and operating profit at constant currency, adjusting for Canadian Dollar to US Dollar foreign exchange rate movement in the year.
Market overview National Express is the second largest player in the North Tragic accident in Chattanooga American school market with a 13% share of the outsourced The tragic accident in Chattanooga, Tennessee, has taken six school bus market.
33% of the market is outsourced with recent children far too soon, has injured others, and left families and increases in outsource conversion being driven by pressure on friends grieving.
We are profoundly sorry that such an accident public funding.
This trend is likely to continue as school district should happen on one of our school buses.
Typically customers are local school boards where local relationships are key andservice We sought to move quickly, but respectfully, to offer appropriate delivery is very important.
National Express alsooperates in support to the families and local community.
We have theNorth American public transit market, 32%of which is and will continue to provide any assistance to the ongoing outsourced and where there is an increasing demand for investigations.
While we have accelerated existing pilot accessible public transportation services, for fixed route, programmes the installation of Lytx DriveCam and a cloudparatransit and employee shuttle services.
based communications portal with customers we will also learn any lessons identified and implement appropriate changes.
Market size Operates Overview of 2016 Our North American business has delivered strong growth $24bn 22,800 in revenue and operating profit.
On a constant currency basis school buses revenue grew by 14.3% with operating profit increasing by Bolt-on acquisition opportunities in School Bus and Transit 11.9% to $113.9 million 2015: $101.8m.
Since 2009, our New business growth from winning contracts in school North American division has grown profit by 188%.
bidding season and through new transit contracts We continued to focus on driving profitable growth and improving the quality of our portfolio, through acquisitions, winning new business that generates attractive returns and exiting those contracts that fall below our minimum return criteria an up or out strategy.
We have had another successful bidding season, achieving price increases of 7% on those contracts up for renewal and an average price increase across the entire portfolio of 3.7%.
This has offset increased costs fromongoing driver wage pressure and regulatory requirements such as Obamacare.
These trends of increasing prices and wage pressure have continued into the current bid season.
Wecontinue to maintain a relentless focus on costs and the streamlining of operations with the benefits of the up or out strategy helping to offset pressure on drivers wages.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 49 Strategic Report Business review: North America continued Insurance costs have increased following a thorough review Delivering operational excellence of our open claims by our new Group Director of Insurance Our North American operation already delivers best in class andRisk and as a result of providing the full deductible for margins.
Traditionally, the school bus industry is a capitaltheclaims associated with the accident at Chattanooga.
In the past year we have continued to focus on increasing the return on capital During the period we have seen a strong contribution from the across our portfolio of more than 500 contracts.
Where we are acquisitions we have made in the past two years.
We are very not able to obtain financial returns above our minimum criteria, pleased with the level of returns we are achieving, with the we have exited the contract in the 2016 17 school year bid acquisitions made in 2015 achieving around 15-20% return season we relinquished nine such contracts amounting to 550 oncapital.
We also generated operating cash flow of buses.
We continue to cascade buses where they meet the $133million in North America which was nearly twice the appropriate age criteria, thereby increasing fleet utilisation.
cashconsideration paid in year for our bolt-on acquisitions.
We have added a further 590 buses from new contract wins $m in2016 in both School Bus and Transit operations.
We had 2015 normalised operating profit 102 another successful year in Transit, growing annualised revenues by 60% to around $200 million with three new contracts wins Exchange movement CAD to USD 0 and through bolt-on acquisitions, while maintaining a 100% 2015 normalised operating customer retention rate.
profit at constantcurrency 102 Net impact of revenue growth 9 In line with our strategy to increase investment in new growth Fuel cost 2 opportunities in North America, we have made eight small bolt-on acquisitions, with four of those made in the final quarter Cost inflation 16 of the year.
Over the period we have added a net 1,030 buses, Cost efficiencies 10 with the new business wins and acquisitions more than Insurance costs 9 offsetting the contracts we regretted losing or chose to exit.
Weather 1 Number Change in school bus numbers 2016 bid season of buses Acquisitions 19 Regretted losses 670 Acquisition costs expensed 4 Exited per up or out strategy 550 2016 normalised operating profit 114 Acquisitions 1,560 Cash and returns Conversion and share shift 590 Operating cash flow represented a conversion of 117% of Organic growth 100 operating profit with $133 million of operating cash delivered in the year.
This represents a significant increase from 2015 and Change in buses operated for 2016 17 school year 1,030 primarily reflects an inflow from working capital.
Our relationship-based approach continues to deliver superior service standards, with over 90% of our customers willing to recommend us on the basis of quality of service, safety and value.
It is also securing an industry-leading contract retention rate of 97% for the last bidding season, excluding those contracts which we chose to exit.
We were delighted that our commitment to excellence and our pursuit of continuous improvement has been recognised for the second consecutive year with a Bronze Award from the Illinois Performance Excellence Recognition Programme, increasing our score by 50%.
This is a North American equivalent to EFQM.
50 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Deployment of technology During 2016, in line with this growth strategy, we invested in We are increasingly looking at how we utilise technology in order eight small bolt-on acquisitions that are either close to our to raise customer and safety standards, drive efficiencies and existing business and where we can therefore drive synergies generate sales, margin and cash.
and operational improvements, or provide strategic entry to new markets.
The acquisitions were five school bus businesses two We remain committed to raising safety standards and are rolling of which included transit operations and two shuttle, private hire out Lytx DriveCam technology across our locations, with the and paratransit businesses.
These acquisitions have helped us aimof having this technology installed on our vehicles by the create new hubs in strategic locations, such as New York, where end of 2019.
DriveCam enables us to monitor individual driving we now have a presence in the coach, charter, school bus and behaviours and provide tailored training to each of our drivers.
We also made the strategic acquisition of This should not only result in fewer collisions but also help to Ecolane, a planning and scheduling software business in the reduce insurance and associated costs of claims.
paratransit market, which provides us with a market-leading bespoke technology platform.
Ecolane strengthens our We have also been trialling a cloud-based complaints credentials in this attractive market, providing the potential management portal, enabling our customers to communicate togrow revenues through new third party contracts.
With with us more quickly and efficiently, and we are aiming to have 14new contracts won in the period since acquisition, it has this available in all our locations by the end of 2017. alsoincreased its success rate in tenders and the Ecolane employees are already discussing with ALSA how their Following a successful trial in 2015 and in response to positive technology could drive efficiencies.
This is something we customer feedback, we have continued to roll out the Wheres arealso looking to apply in other divisions.
My Bus app, which provides parents with real-time tracking information.
In total these acquisitions added 1,560 buses, 1,110 of which were school bus and 450 were transit vehicles.
All are expected Creating new opportunities to be accretive within the first 12 months and have delivered We have been highlighting, for some time now, the attractive returns between 15% and 20%, demonstrating our discipline growth opportunities available in the North American school bus and focus on returns.
We have developed a real strength in and transit markets and have significantly increased our level of identifying, completing and securing synergy benefits from, investment in both of these markets over the last two years.
We have an active pipeline of further opportunities school bus market remains highly fragmented with over 1,000 both in School Bus and Transit and, while remaining disciplined private school bus businesses in the US and we continue to and focused on our strict returns criteria, believe there continues believe that there is real opportunity in this market.
We also to be significant opportunity for growth and excellent seethe transit market as a strong business development shareholder value in this market.
opportunity and building on another successful year in 2016.
We will again approach the upcoming bid season in a disciplined manner, including addressing the ongoing wage pressure the industry is experiencing.
We will also continue toseek further capital-light opportunities through conversions and further improve the quality of the existing portfolio.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 51
