Strategic Report The trends shaping our business Capitalising on opportunities Here we give an overview on how the megatrends are shaping demand for travel and public transport and the opportunities ahead.
Economic Deregulation, liberalisation Urbanisation and environment and outsourcing demographic changes The propensity to travel is generally Our markets are created when state Our services benefit from increasing affected by levels of economic activity, provision of public transport is transferred urbanisation around the world, in particular asrepresented by GDP growth.
There are different driving demand for bus operations.
Althoughlevels of transportation and models for this, with examples ranging Existingtowns and cities are expanding, mobility remain relatively stable through from the deregulated markets of our UK inaddition to the creation of new centres the economic cycle, periods of GDP Bus and UK Coach divisions, through the ofpopulation.
In 2014, 54% of the worlds growth generate additional volume concessions and franchises of Spain, population lived in urban centres and this is demand and pricing benefit.
Morocco and Rail, to the School Bus projected to grow to 66% by 2050, whilst andTransit contracts of North America.
73% of the population in Europe and 82% of the population In North America already live This is supported by a trend towards in urban centres.
These trends are driving market liberalisation, such as European the requirement for additional transportation Union directives focused on opening services, both within and between locations, uprail networks.
Cost saving is so our UK Bus, UK Coach and Rail increasingly afactor too, through operations are increasingly in demand.
recognition of the superior efficiency Inaddition, population growth in the UK, ofprivately operated services.
Europe and North America will drive further demand for public transport services.
Opportunity Opportunity Opportunity North America is showing relatively The current size of the European UK population growth is forecast to grow stablegrowth, whilst the Spanish publictransport market is estimated by 7% over the next decade driving the economy appears to be strengthening, tobeapproximately 150 billion.
need for further public transport services, with demand for public transport likely Liberalisationof the German and whilst the combination of an ageing and toimprove as the economy grows and Spanishrail markets present increasingly social and ethnically diverse employment levels rise.
population will drive the need for new OECD data.
products and services to meet changing customer needs.
Average GDP growth Global urban population growth is propelled by the growth of cities of all sizes % 4.0 6,000 3.5 5,000 3.0 4,000 2.5 2.0 3,000 1.5 2,000 1.0 1,000 0.5 0.0 0 2014 2015 2016 -0.5 UK Spain US Germany Morocco Bahrain Urban areas smaller than 500,00 Large cities of 5 to 10 million 2010-15 average 2016-18 average Cities of 500,000 to 1 million Megacities of 10 million or more Medium-sized cities of 1 to 5 million Source: IMF Source: United Nations World Urbanisation Prospects 2014 14 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Population millions Environment Modal shift and congestion Technology Modal shift is the move by individuals Environmental concerns continue to have Technology and innovation are playing their fromone form of transport to another.
For an influence on customer behaviour.
Bus, part, with travel apps providing real-time National Express, the relevant move is from coach and rail services are significantly information as well as customised targeted the private car to bus, coach and rail travel.
more environmentally friendly forms of offers helping to generate incremental The biggest reason for this is an increase transport than the private car or air travel, demand for journeys on public transport.
inthe cost of motoring, such as higher reducing both the level of carbon emissions Digital platforms are increasingly providing fuelprices and cost of insurance, and per person travelling and travel congestion.
customers with end to end journey theincreasing use of mobile devices, Society as a whole and individuals are planning and ticketing tools are delivering suchas tablets and smartphones, while becoming increasingly concerned about greater convenience for passengers, with travelling, although other factors such the effect of emissions on the environment innovations such as contactless payment asenvironmental concerns and congestion and are explicitly choosing public transport and Automatic Delay Repayment.
Geopolitical and demographic changes inthe Middle East are increasing demand for affordable, safe public transport in theregion.
Opportunity Opportunity Opportunity New low-price entrants into the market Improved access to city centre The proliferation of real-time travel over the last few years, such as Uber and locations, such as priority bus lanes, information and mobile devices BlaBlaCar, are resulting in fewer licences forenvironmentally friendly transport improvesthe customer experience and lower car ownership amongst andlower congestion.
makingpublic transport increasingly millennials, with demand for public moreattractive compared with the car, transport and coaches likely to whilst the introduction of smartcards and increaseover time.
contactlesspayment not only provides greater convenience for customers but help to build stronger customer relationships.
Average speed during peak travel times on Smartphone usage in the UK urban roads in England in year to June 2016 % 80 70 60 18.6 50 40 30 20 10 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Source: DfT Source: Statista 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 15
