Strategic Report Business review: Rail Good progress in Germany and strategic disposal of c2c 2016 2015 Year ended 31 December m m German Rail Revenue from continuing business 61.3 2.4 Tom Stables Operating loss 1.5 0.1 Managing Director, Rail Revenue from continuing business 75.0 3.3 Operating loss 1.8 0.1 Operating margin 2.4 % 0.3 % c2c Market overview Revenue from c2c 175.5 166.0 The UK rail market is a regulated market and is broadly Operating profit 4.9 1.7 dispersed between UK private train operators and overseas state-backed market participants.
Recent awards of franchises Operating margin 2.8% 1.0% have seen some aggressive bidding activity by train operators which has resulted in the UK rail market looking less attractive in Overview of 2016 the short term.
At the same time the number of state-backed On 10 February 2017, we announced the completed sale of the operators participating in the UK market has increased.
c2c franchise to Trenitalia, receiving 108 million through a In February 2017 we disposed of our c2c franchise to consideration of 72.6 million and the settlement of 35 million Trenitalia and now have no rail operations in the UK.
Meanwhile the German rail market is liberalising and offering 2016 itself saw c2c outperforming other UK rail franchises good growth opportunities, with over 30 contracts coming upfor manyof which are experiencing notable slowdowns in bid in the next three years.
The German rail market isalsothe passenger growth.
Last year was also the first full year of largest in Europe, worth 19 billion, and within thatthe regional ourRhine-Mnster Express RME contracts in Germany.
and urban market is worth around 9billion.
Contracts are awarded by regional Passenger TransportAuthorities.
Revenue from the continuing RME business rose to 75.0 million, with a small operating loss of 1.8 million.
We are German rail contracts are typically much smaller in size engaged in discussions with the local transport authorities inGermany to clarify certain aspects of our subsidy revenue thaninthe UK with a lower risk profile and generally lower capital requirements.
We have taken a prudent approach: our revenue policy is to only recognise revenue where these discussions aresuitably advanced and where amounts are considered Market size highly probable.
We are still targeting a small profit in 2017.
9bn c2c delivered an operating profit of nearly 5 million, currently accessible German regional and urban market givingtherail divisions combined profit of 3.4 million.
Our first two German rail contracts commenced operations in December 2015 for 15 years with two more commencing Cash and returns in June 2019 and December 2020 for 14 years and 13years In 2016, our Rail division saw an outflow of 18.6 million of respectively operating cash, reflecting: the build-up of our German rail Growth through further bid wins in Germany operations: the bid costs for the East Anglia franchise: and Liberalisation of Spanish rail market a future opportunity capital investment in c2c.
Delivering operational excellence Our relentless focus on safety delivered an improvement of over 60% in the Fatalities and Weighted Injuries Index score for the year for c2c.
These high standards were recognised with a five-star rating from the British Safety Council and we were also delighted to be awarded its prestigious Sword ofHonour.
In September 2016 the German Rail Authority EBA conducted its first safety compliance audit, passing us with no material findings.
56 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 c2cs strong performance in the year demonstrates that our operating companies of only 0.3% in 2016.
While c2c was focus on operational excellence again helped it outperform significantly outperforming this, we were concerned that the similar franchises.
Driven by a combination of December 2015s remaining obligations of over 30 million of capital expenditure new timetable, enhanced marketing and fare offers, and and lease payments for over 100 million of new trains to supported by the subsequent arrival of 24 additional carriages generate sufficient revenue to repay around 900 million of at the end of 2016, c2c saw passenger growth of 6.7%, well franchise premiums were looking increasingly challenging.
With recent franchises won on anticipated double digit compound annual revenue growth and average costs of We have taken our expertise and approach developed at c2c around 5-10 million per bid, we felt this was also an and applied it to our German operations.
In a successful first increasingly unattractive market.
year of RME services, we carried over 20 million passengers, more than achieved its punctuality targets and delivered The sale of c2c presented the opportunity to remove these operational improvements compared to the previous operator.
potential liabilities in an increasingly unattractive market and The mobilisation of our second German rail franchise, the Rhinegenerate 108 million of cash through a consideration of Ruhr Express RRX, is under way, drawing on our experience 72.6 million and the settling of 35 million of inter-company with the mobilisation of RME and providing the opportunity for loans to invest in our fastest growing markets that are cost efficiency given the complementary locations.
generating returns of between 15% and 20% on recent acquisitions.
We believe this approach is much more likely Deployment of technology togenerate shareholder value in the coming years.
c2c has pioneered technological innovation, such as the industry-leading Automatic Delay Repay compensation scheme We remain fully committed to German rail and believe there for smartcard customers and a flexible season ticket aimed at is further opportunity in this market.
Our second German rail part time commuters.
We have also led the industry with over contract, RRX, will see the first of its operations commence in 40% of season ticket holders using smartcards.
We drove June 2019, with the second starting in December 2020.
Both revenue growth through sophisticated marketing and the contracts run through to 2033.
We are planning to submit a success of new fares and products such as online advance number of German rail bids in 2017.
We continue to view the sales increasing by over 70% and Senior Rover sales rising German rail market as attractive, with franchises being smaller by 50%.
and lower risk than in the UK, and with many franchises requiring relatively low levels of capital investment.
With at least We are taking the lessons from c2c and applying them to 30 contracts coming to market in the next three years, we see Germany where this customer-focused approach is less a strong pipeline of opportunities and we will continue to be apparent.
There are currently two priority areas.
Firstly, selective in our bidding approach in order to drive the best enhanced marketing helping to drive sales, including online returns.
Our presence in Germany also provides the opportunity anddigital.
Secondly, we are developing enhanced live to enter other, complementary, markets nearby.
customer information across our various digital channels, including use of social media.
We will continue to bid in a disciplined manner.
Our decision in October 2016 to inform the local Bavarian authority that Drawing on our emerging Group strength we have also made due to delay in its award we were not able to proceed with the further improvements to our digital platforms in the past year, Nuremberg S-Bahn contract demonstrates that we maintain with faster connections and improved search and navigation a disciplined approach to bidding.
While not ruling out further enhancing the customer experience and driving higher UK rail bids, our immediate focus will be in these markets.
The launch of our new mobile app, c2c Live, with journey planners, live travel information, special offers and additional services such as payment for station car parking, enabled engagement with customers in a more personalised Our 2016 Strategic Report, from page 1topage 57, way, driving customer loyalty and incremental demand.
The hasbeen reviewed and approved by the Board of improvements to our digital platforms have driven an increase of Directors on23February 2017.
88% in online transactions over the past year, with a doubling of revenue now transacted through these channels, delivering both revenue and cost benefits.
Creating new opportunities Dean Finch The sale of c2c has both removed significant potential liabilities from the Group and provided resources to invest in our fastest Group Chief Executive 23 February 2017 growing markets.
The UK rail market is undergoing a downturn, with passenger growth in London and the South East train Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 57
