Strategic Report Business review: Spain and Morocco Strong growth in both Spain and Morocco with record passenger numbers 2016 2015 Year ended 31 December m m Revenue 597.3 502.2 Normalised operating profit 84.7 71.5 Francisco Iglesias Chief Executive, ALSA Revenue 731.2 691.8 Normalised operating profit 103.7 98.5 Operating margin 14.2% 14.2% Overview of 2016 ALSA has set another record for passengers carried in the Market overview year, with strong growth in both Spain and Morocco, helping ALSA holds the market-leading position in the regulated and to drive increases in revenue, profit and margin in the division.
highly segmented bus and intercity coach market in Spain Total divisional revenue grew by 5.7% to 731.2 million andalso operates in four cities in Morocco.
Three levels of 2015: 691.8m and normalised operating profit rose 5.3% government regulation apply in Spain: national long-distance to 103.7 million 2015: 98.5m, both in constant currency.
coach, regional regional coach and city urban bus.
Each concession is exclusive to the operator, based on compliance In Spain, revenues rose by 5.7% driven by increased passenger with the public service obligation.
Inter-city competition comes journeys together with the full year contribution from the from state-backed rail and low-cost airlines.
Bus and coach acquisition of Herranz, the benefit of a new contract to operate concessions are awarded through competitive public tender, transport services for holidaymakers Imserso and a small typically every ten years.
acquisition of a regional bus business in Ibiza.
Towards the end of the year, we also started to see the benefits of the newly implemented real-time active revenue management system Market size Concessions RMS, contributing 1% revenue growth for the year as a whole.
In Morocco we have seen another year of good growth, with 3.7bn 171 revenues up 5.4%, driven by an increase of 6% in passenger 171 concessions: 125 intercity coach concessions, journeys, supported by further expansion of services in Tangier 30 urban bus contracts, 16 others and the first full year of operations in Khouribga.
Operating Concessional renewal process at early stage margin was maintained at 14.2%, still industry-leading for a New contract wins in Spain Spanish bus and coach operator.
Revenue management generating passenger and revenue growth in Spain We have successfully renewed two small national franchises Continuing urbanisation of the Moroccan economy ahead of the new concession retendering process which with rapidmigration to the major cities wasintroduced towards the end of 2016.
We believe we are Further bolt-on acquisition opportunities increasingly well placed in the renewal process and do not expect any impact to be felt in 2017 and only minimally in 2018.
We also won a new ten-year contract to operate services at Granada Airport.
With the significant weakening of Sterling against the Euro during 2016, reported revenues increased by 18.9% to 597.3 million 2015: 502.2m and operating profit increased by 18.5% to 84.7 million 2015: 71.5m.
46 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Deployment of technology m We are increasingly looking at how we utilise technology in order 2015 normalised operating profit 99 to raise customer and safety standards, drive efficiencies and Growth 3 generate sales, margin and cash.
Acquisitions 4 As part of our ongoing focus on improving safety standards, we will install DriveCam technology in Spain within three years.
Other cost inflation 10 Evidence from our pilots shows this technology helps to reduce Cost efficiencies 5 the number of collisions and insurance costs.
During 2016 a Fuel 3 strong emphasis on driver assessment and training helped to deliver a 10% reduction in the number of preventable accidents.
2016 normalised operating profit 104 Cash and returns In the past year we have implemented a more sophisticated In 2016, ALSA delivered another strong performance, RMS, which operates on over 200 flows.
This more generating operating cash of 110 million with operating sophisticated system significantly enhances our capability cashconversion of 106%.
We have invested in a higher level toactively manage pricing on a real-time basis and provides ofcapital expenditure year on year, with growth capital acompetitive edge against the likes of RENFE and also in expenditure focused predominantly on new fleet to support futurebidding of contracts.
In 2016, RMS increased revenue thecontinuing expansion of our operations in Morocco and onthese corridors by 0.8% and boosted seat occupancy theimplementation of the new, more sophisticated RMS.
With the system now fully implemented, this should further drive revenue, profit and incremental demand.
Delivering operational excellence ALSA is widely recognised as an industry-leading operator for Leveraging UK Coachs leadership, we have made significant which it has consistently received awards.
In 2016, this included progress in 2016 in increasing our digital capabilities in areas the Best Customer Experience seal for passenger transport, such as customised e-marketing, and the development of new ranking ahead of all other ground transport and air operators in apps offering improved functionality together with personalised Spain.
We have also seen a 3% improvement in our customer journey planners, content and offers.
Shorter loading times and satisfaction score and this has helped drive a record year of over more convenient and faster methods of payment are resulting 307 million passenger journeys made on our services in Spain in higher conversion rates.
At the same time this is helping to and Morocco.
secure reduced costs of sale: in 2016 we drove a further increase in the proportion of sales through our digital channels Over the last few years we have made great progress in and ticketing machines, with nearly 40% of transactions now improving safety standards in our operations in Morocco and in conducted this way.
We have seen particularly strong growth 2016 we were delighted to have received the prestigious Prince in sales transacted through mobile channels, with the launch Michael International Road Safety Award, which recognises of the new app driving growth of 40%.
achievements and innovations in road safety management.
We have also delivered further improvements in maintenance standards resulting in a 6% reduction in breakdowns following a 20% reduction in 2015.
We continue to reduce fuel consumption through an ongoing programme of consumption improvement measures, including fuel efficient driver training.
ALSA currently holds a four-star European Foundation for Quality Management EFQM rating, and is working hard to secure a five-star rating shortly.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 47 Strategic Report Business review: Spain and Morocco continued Creating new opportunities The terms of retendering competitions have recently been The acquisition of Herranz in 2015 has made a strong altered to emphasise service quality and competitive yet contribution to growth and profits during 2016.
We have made sensible pricing that reduces the opportunity for speculative, further bolt-on acquisitions in 2016, with the purchase of a very low-cost bids and plays to our strengths.
We believe that regional bus operator in Ibiza, gaining entry into a new market our focus on operational excellence and understanding of price and increasing our exposure to the tourist market.
At the end of elasticities through our upgraded RMS which will get more the year we also acquired AlpyBus, in Switzerland, serving the sophisticated as it gathers more data and analytical capabilities lucrative ski and alpine tourist markets.
Both acquisitions are gives us unrivalled knowledge of the market and places us at expected to be accretive within the first 12 months after acompetitive advantage as concession renewal gathers pace transaction and we will consider further bolt-on acquisitions later this year.
Further, the geographic clustering of the contracts where they meet our strict financial criteria.
gives us a further advantage as we are able to secure further synergies and cost savings.
We continue to see strong growth prospects in Morocco.
Since 2012 we have grown both passengers and revenues by over We therefore enter 2017 with confidence in our ability to secure 70% in Morocco.
In 2016, we have extended our services in good results from the renewal process.
We do not expect any Tangier and saw the first full year of operations in Khouribga.
real impact on revenues or profits until 2019, and even then our Wealso won a six-year contract to operate sightseeing services recent success and the changes to the terms of the retendering in Marrakech.
As well as continuing to grow our existing competition means we are increasingly optimistic we will deliver operations, we see further growth opportunities with the a strong result then.
With no impact this year, we now expect addition of services in new cities, and have recently submitted the worst case scenario for 2018 operating profit to be a abid to operate the Casablanca Tramway, with the contract reduction of up to 3 million from those contracts up for commencing in December 2017. renewal.
While we have always expected there to be pressure on margins on the renewal of contracts, the results of our recent Our continuing focus is to ensure we are well placed for the retendering suggests there is the opportunity to maintain good concession renewal process which we expect to pick up pace margins through significant passenger growth.
Nonetheless, we towards the end of 2017.
However, not only have we won both maintain our programmes to mitigate any impact through, for concessions that have so far come up for renewal where we example: fuel savings: further cost efficiencies: the benefits from were the incumbent operator, we have also delivered strong a more sophisticated revenue management system in Spain: margins post-retendering as our fare reductions generated targeted acquisitions: and additional opportunities for growth significant passenger growth.
We are also looking at other opportunities in new markets in Europe where we can achieve attractive returns.
48 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
