Corporate Governance Directors Report Directors Report This Directors Report and the Strategic Report collectively Disclaimer comprise the management report for the purposes of This Annual Report and Accounts is intended to focus on Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
matters which are relevant to the interests of shareholders of theCompany.
The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts Additional disclosures is to assist shareholders in assessing the strategies adopted Other information that is relevant to this report, and which is and performance delivered by the Company and the potential incorporated by reference, including information required in for those strategies to succeed.
It should not be relied on by accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 and Listing Rule anyother party or for any other purpose.
4R, can be located as follows: Forward looking statements are made in good faith, based Information Page No on a number of assumptions concerning future events and Likely future developments in the business 13 information available to Directors at the time of their approval ofthis report.
These forward looking statements should be Going concern and viability statement 45 treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying Governance 58-84 any such forward looking information.
The user of this Annual Financial instruments 175-179 Report and Accounts should not rely unduly on these forward looking statements, which are not a guarantee of performance Risks 34-37 and which are subject to a number of uncertainties and other Related market transactions 190 facts, many of which are outside the Companys control and Greenhouse gas emissions 28-31 could cause actual events to differ materially from those in Long-term incentive schemes 149 thesestatements.
No guarantee can be given of future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
Waiver of dividends 179 Strategic Report Branches outside the UK The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to include The Company has branches in Spain.
a strategic report in this document.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic Report can be found on pages Results and dividends 1 to 57, which are incorporated in this report by reference.
The profit on ordinary activities before tax from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2016 was 136.3m Company status 2015: 122.7m and a profit attributable to equity shareholders of The Company company number: 2590560 was incorporated 117.2m 2015: 107.0m was transferred to reserves.
under the Companies Act 1985 as a limited company on 11March 1991 and re-registered as a public company on The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 8.41p 20October 1992 as National Express Group PLC.
The per ordinary share 2015: 7.645p which, together with Company islisted on the London Stock Exchanges main theinterim dividend of 3.87p per ordinary share 2015: 3.685p, market for listedsecurities LON:NEX and is a constituent paid on 23 September 2016, gives a total dividend forthe year member of theFTSE 250 Index.
Subject toshareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 19May 2017 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 28 April 2017.
Directors The Directors of the Company as at the date of the approval ofthis Annual Report are listed on pages 64 and 65, together with their biographical details and identification of the Board Committees on which they serve.
114 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 With effect from 1 January 2016, Dr Ashley Steel became a Directors interests in contracts Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Subsequent to the Except as stated in note 36 to the consolidated accounts financial year end, the Board appointed Chris Davies as Group onpage 190, no contract existed during the year in relation Finance Director.
His appointment will take effect from the tothe Companys business in which any Director was conclusion of the AGM on 10 May 2017.
Matthew Ashley who, after two and half successful years in this role, will be moving to become President and Chief Executive Directors interests in shares Officer for National Express North America from September The Board of Directors interests in shares in the Company 2017.
Matthew will remain as an Execuive Director.
Powers of the Directors Directors share options Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory Details of Directors share options are provided in the Directors lawand to any direction that may be given by the Company Remuneration Report on page 105. ingeneral meeting by special resolution, the business of theCompany shall be managed by the Directors, who may Directors indemnities exercise all powers of the Company which are not required The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each tobeexercised by the Company in general meeting.
ofits Directors, which are qualifying indemnity provisions for thepurpose of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in force Appointment and replacement of Directors atthe date of this report.
The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company are set out in the Articles of Association, the UK Accountability and audit Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act Statements of the respective responsibilities of the Directors 2006 and related legislation.
In accordance with the Code, all andauditors are set out on pages 119 to 129. the Directors will retire at the 2017 AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
The Board is satisfied that each of those Directors Post Balance Sheet events standing for re-election is qualified by virtue of their skills, On 11 January 2017, the Company announced that it had experience and contribution to the Board.
reached an agreement in principle for Trenitalia, the passenger rail transportation company which is part of FS Italiane Group, Directors conflicts of interest toacquirethe c2c franchise.
Completion of the acquisition, The Board has a procedure in place to deal with a situation whichwas conditional upon final consent from the where a Director has a conflict of interest, as required by the Departmentfor Transport, took place on 10 February 2017.
As part of this process, the members Thetotal consideration for the franchise was 72.6 million ofthe Board prepare a list of other positions held and all other resulting in a small profit for the Group.
conflict situations that may need authorising either in relation tothe Director concerned or his or her connected persons.
Employment policies TheBoard considers each Directors situation and decides The Group strives to meet its business objectives by whether to approve any conflict situations, taking into motivatingand encouraging its employees to be responsive to consideration what is in the best interests of the Company the needs ofits customers and continually improve operational andwhether the Directors ability to act in accordance with performance.
The Group is committed to providing equality of hisor her wider duties is affected.
Each Director is required opportunity to employees and potential employees.
This applies tonotify the Company Secretary of any potential or actual to recruitment, training, career development and promotion conflict situations that will need authorising by the Board.
forall employees, regardless of physical ability, gender, sexual Authorisations given by the Board are reviewed annually.
orientation, religion, age or ethnic origin.
All businesses in the Group report diversity data.
Directors and Officers liability insurance The Company recognises the potential personal liabilities that Full and fair consideration is given to applications for the Directors are subject to by agreeing to act as a Board employment received from disabled persons, according member and believes that it is both fair and reasonable to totheirskills and capabilities.
The services of any existing protect them from innocent error or omission.
The Company employee disabled during their period of employment are therefore maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance retained wherever possible.
inrespect of legal action that might be brought against its Directors which operates in certain circumstances.
This does not extend to cover the Directors where it is proved they acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association, the Company has indemnified its Directors and Officers in accordance with the provisions of Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
A copy of the Articles of Association is available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 115 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Employee involvement Political contributions The Group encourages employee involvement in its affairs.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and Subsidiary companies produce a range of internal newsletters accordingly none were made in the year.
However, the and circulars which keep employees abreast of developments.
Companydid attend party political conferences during the Senior management within the Group meet regularly to review yearfor which total expenditure was 14,000 2015: 13,000. strategic developments and management conferences are heldat Group and business levels to bring our senior managers Major shareholdings together to share ideas and develop policy.
Members of the As at 20 February 2017, the Company had been notified under Senior Management Group are also visible within the the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the following businesses and undertake a range of visits where they meet interests in its shares which represent 3% or more of the voting face to face with employees to gather feedback on safety and rights in the Company: Percentage other issues.
Dialogue takes place regularly with trade unions Ordinary of share Nature of and other employee representatives on a wide range of issues.
shares capital holding European Express Employee views are also sought through regular employee Enterprises Ltd 66,481,891 12.9 Direct satisfaction questionnaires, both within business units and across the Group.
Following such surveys, results are shared Newton Investment with employees and action plans are put in place to deal with Management Ltd 51,180,109 10.0 Direct issues arising.
The Group encourages innovation from all levels Prudential PLC 50,987,079 9.9 Direct of employees and has a structured programme to encourage Standard Life Investments suggestions and to recognise employees through awards.
Holdings Ltd 26,616,766 5.0 Indirect TheGroup also has a well-developed succession planning process in place and succession plans are reviewed by the The holdings for European Express Enterprises Ltd are included in Jorge Board annually.
As a key part of this process, the Company Cosmens holdings which are shown in the Directors Remuneration focuses on emerging talent to ensure the Group has the right Report on page 100. people being developed to meet our future business needs.
Talent management remains an important priority for the Group.
Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Information regarding the Companys safeguarding of human Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, rights forms part of the People section on pages 25 to 26 and on theCompanys website, www.
whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary Environmental policy resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
Information on the Groups environmental initiatives, including the mandatory reporting disclosure on greenhouse gas emissions, The Company has one class of ordinary shares with a nominal can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 28 to 31 and onthe Companys website, www.
At the date of this Annual Report, the issued share capital consisted of 511,738,648 ordinary shares of 5pence each.
At a general meeting of the Company every member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
The Notice of AGM will specify deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or by being present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company and details of shares issued during the year can be found in note 32 to the consolidated accounts on page 179.
116 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to Share schemes attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting First Names Jersey Limited is Trustee of the National Express or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if Group Employee Benefit Trust.
As at 20 February 2017 it held he or she or any person with an interest in his or her shares has 2,260,292 shares 0.44% of the issued share capital of the been sent a notice under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 Company for employee share schemes.
Further details of the which confers upon public companies the power to require Companys employee share schemes can be found in note 7 information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he tothe consolidated accounts on pages 148 to 151 and are or she or any interested person failed to supply the Company incorporated by reference into this report.
The Trustee may withthe information requested within 14 days after delivery of votethe shares held by the Trust at its discretion.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer The current Investment Association IA guidance on dilution ofany default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end limits provides that the overall dilution under all share plans seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an operated by a company should not exceed 10% over a ten-year approved transfer of the shares or all the information required period in relation to the Companys share capital, with a further bythe relevant Section 793 notice, whichever is earlier.
limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on executive plans.
National Express share plans operate within IA recommended The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share guidelines on dilution limits.
which is not a fully paid share, although such discretion may notbe exercised in a way which the Financial Conduct Authority Articles of Association regards as preventing dealings in shares of that class from Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may maybe made in accordance with the provisions of the likewise refuse any transfer of a share in favour of more than Companies Act 2006. fourpersons jointly.
Annual General Meeting The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 10 May 2017 in Hall 9 at transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: theInternational Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B12EA.
At the Meeting, special resolutions will be proposed certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by toauthorise the Directors to issue shares without applying laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and statutory pre-emption rights, to authorise the Company to pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct makemarket purchases of its own shares and to authorise Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require thecalling of general meetings other than Annual General approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Full details are provided in the Notice of AGM.
If you would like shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer to register any question you may have in advance ofthe AGM ofsecurities or voting rights.
you can do so at agm@nationalexpress.
com or youcan write tothe Company Secretary at National Express Group PLC, Resolutions will be proposed at the 2017 AGM to authorise the National Express House, Birmingham Coach Station, Mill Lane, Directors to exercise all powers to allot shares, or grant rights Digbeth, Birmingham B5 6DD.
for, or to convert any security into, shares, and approve a limited disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights.
Details are set out in the Notice of AGM accompanying this document.
The Company was granted authority at the AGM in 2016 to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
The authority was not used during the year.
The authority is renewed annually and approval will be sought at the AGM in 2017 for its renewal.
Further details are setout in the Notice of AGM accompanying this document.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 117 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Material contracts and change of control agreements The Groups UK Coach business operates a number of coach There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or andbus services from or at certain UK airports and the UK terminate upon a change of control of the Company following Coach operating subsidiary is also contracted to provide atakeover bid.
Save as disclosed below, none of these are passenger transport services for certain other third parties.
Anumber of these contracts contain rights for the counterparties to terminate them on a change of control of the relevant Under the terms of the Companys revolving credit facilities subsidiary company party to such contracts certain of which upon a change of control, the Company would have five days would be triggered by achange in control of the Company.
toenter into negotiations with the lenders to alter the terms.
Following ten days of negotiations, if no agreement has been While no one of these contracts is considered significant in the reached, outstanding balances may become repayable.
context of the Groups business as a whole, the impact on the Group if all such contracts were terminated could be significant.
Under the terms of the 1 billion Euro Medium Term NoteProgramme as updated on 3 October 2016 under which Directors and employees service contracts the Company issued Medium Term Notes MTNs to various There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors institutions on 13 January 2010, 15 June 2010 and 11 November or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 2016, there is a change of control put option such that, upon a employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy change of control event, any holder of any MTN may require the or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Company to redeem or purchase that MTN.
Auditor The Company entered into a private placement Note Purchase Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Agreement on 30 July 2012 relating to the issue by the Company Company and to authorise the Directors to determine of 78,500,000 4.55% Senior Notes due 16 August 2021.
Under theirremuneration will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
the terms of the Agreement the Company is required to offer to Note holders to repay to them the entire unpaid principal amount Disclosure of information to auditor and interest thereon upon a change of control.
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is The National Express Group PLC Long-Term Incentive Plan unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that they 2015 the Plan contains provisions as a result of which options ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change of aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the The Groups UK Bus business operates the Midland Metro provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. tramservice and the UK Bus operating subsidiary is party to a contract with Transport for West Midlands TfWM and formerly By order of the Board known as Centro governing certain aspects of such operation.
The contract with TfWm contains an event of default on a change in control of the UK operating subsidiary which would be triggered on a change in control of the Company if such change in control is not approved by TfWM.
Joy Baldry Company Secretary 23 February 2017 118 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
