Strategic Report Business review: UK Bus Resilient performance in a challenging market 2016 2015 Year ended 31 December m m Revenue 286.8 286.4 Operating profit 35.5 37.5 Peter Coates Operating margin 12.4% 13.1% Managing Director, UK Bus Overview of 2016 Along with the rest of the industry, we have experienced challenging market conditions during the year with congestion and changing travel patterns affecting revenue and profit.
Commercial revenue growth of 2% has been offset by the, as anticipated, reduction in concessionary revenues, with the result Market overview that total revenue growth for our UK Bus division was just 0.1%.
The largest five operators represent around 70% of the UK Growth deregulated bus market, with the remainder of the market made % up of a large number of private operators.
Active competition Like-for-like commercial revenue 1 comes from national and local bus operators, as well as private car and rail.
In the short term the market has been impacted by Mileage 1 economic pressures from austerity and local unemployment, but Underlying commercial revenue 2 in the longer term, economic regeneration and environmentally Concession and other revenue 4 driven public transport present growth opportunities over the car.
Total revenue 0 Market size Operates Normalised operating profit fell by 5.3% to 35.5 million 2015: 37.5m, reflecting weak revenue growth combined with 4.8bn 1,670 cost inflation.
The operating margin has declined by 70 basis UK excluding London buses, focused in the West points to 12.4% 2015: 13.1%.
While we did see a small benefit Midlands and Dundee markets from lower fuel costs in the year, we expect to see larger Increase passenger volumes through investment in benefits in 2017 and 2018 as a result of fuel hedging activity vehicles, technology and people and through delivering over the past 18 months or so.
highquality services m Low barriers to entry flexibility and scale of operations is key 2015 normalised operating profit 38 Devolved local transport budgets and services to regional combined authorities may present opportunities to enter Net impact from revenue growth 1 newregional markets Fuel cost 2 Other cost inflation 5 Cost efficiencies 2 2016 normalised operating profit 36 Cash and returns Our UK Bus business generates an excellent return on capital, delivering good asset utilisation and profitable returns on investment.
We continued to invest in our new Platinum buses in 2016, where we see significantly higher growth in passenger volumes.
This capital investment combined with a working capital outflow, in part due to the lower income from concessionary revenues, has resulted in a lower level of operating cash of 8 million.
We will continue to maintain our disciplined approach to investment, targeting areas which will deliver the greatest returns.
52 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Delivering operational excellence with growth of over 400% during the year and which now Our continued focus on delivering operational excellence represent around 20% of journeys the Swift smartcard is now andsuperior service standards has been recognised with twice as large as the next biggest smartcard outside of London.
prestigious industry awards, including the pre-eminent National We have also launched a mobile ticket app, offering yet another Transport Award for Bus Operator of the Year.
In 2016, we also innovative and convenient solution for our customers.
These achieved a 4% increase in the willingness of customers to ticketing options also help to speed up journey times as well recommend our services in the Transport Focus survey.
as reduce our sales distribution costs.
Ourintroduction of contactless payment on the Midland Metro tram also received the award for Best Customer Initiative at the We are also refocusing a greater proportion of our marketing Global Light Rail Awards.
effort to digital channels, with campaigns such as our Get more out of Christmas campaign, helping us to provide value We also continued our strong track record of improving safety, fares and drive incremental demand, while reducing costs and for both customers and employees, resulting in a lower number improving returns.
of injuries and assaults, with for example a reduction of 27% in responsible Lost Time Injuries during the year.
This also results Creating new opportunities in a reduced cost of claims.
We were delighted to be presented Following the early positive evidence from recent targeted fare with the prestigious British Safety Council Sword of Honour as reductions we are implementing a plan to boost passenger well as achieving its five-star rating.
We have extended these reductions to deeply discounted tickets in Sandwell and Dudley, supported by UK Bus has maintained a four-star rating from the European significant marketing activity, to encourage more trips among Foundation for Quality Management in its second assessment.
existing users and attract non-users as part of a granular approach to pricing that better reflects the local markets we are As part of the West Midlands Bus Alliance, we continue to work serving.
If the pilot is successful we will roll this new approach in partnership with Transport for West Midlands formerly known out across the business.
as Centro to improve the customer experience by addressing industry-wide challenges in a targeted way for example, We are complementing this new pricing with continued investment through the introduction of bus prioritisation measures at key in technology such as the roll-out of new ticket machines this year pinch points to speed up journey times, in conjunction with to provide the largest network of contactless payment in public associated investment in our state-of-the-art Platinum buses.
This will simplify ticket purchasing We continue to see significantly higher levels of passenger and provide the opportunity to reassure customers through fare growth on those routes where we offer such express services.
Our tram services have pioneered this We are also seeing high levels of customer satisfaction on these technology and already nearly 20% of on-board tickets are Platinum routes, with scores well over 90%.
Finally, UK Bus was contactless purchases.
We are also reviewing costs, including the first privately-owned public transport company to introduce opportunities for further timetable efficiencies.
the Living Wage Foundation Living Wage for all staff.
We also believe there is more scope for sales and marketing Deployment of technology through our app and other digital sources.
Our initial app and We are increasingly looking to utilise technology to raise enhanced web presence has proven popular with customers, customer and safety standards, drive efficiencies and generate generating increased sales and encouraging signs of additional sales, margin and cash.
demand: 39% of app users say its launch is making them use the bus more often.
We will shortly roll out a new combined We remain committed to raising safety standards and are rolling app to bring together journey planning, real-time information out Lytx DriveCam technology to 50% of our fleet by the middle and m-ticketing in one place.
Following the successful launch of of 2017.
This technology enables us to monitor individual driving VUER, a free infotainment system on services in the UK Coach behaviours and provide tailored training to each driver: over business, we are also trialling it on our Platinum services, to 90% of our drivers who have received subsequent coaching enhance the on-board experience and drive passenger growth.
Our initial pilots have shown this is not only leading to a lower number of incidents but also We continue to look for opportunities to grow outside of our helping to reduce insurance costs.
core bus business and have secured a number of new contracts in 2016, including the provision of corporate transport services We continue to look for more convenient ways for our customers for Amazon to their distribution centres around the UK.
The to pay, and have successfully introduced contactless payment extension, in May 2016, of the Midland Metro tram service to for the Midland Metro tram system in 2016 it already accounts therecently refurbished Birmingham New Street Station and for 20% of on-board transactions.
Drawing on this, contactless new Grand Central shopping complex has helped drive record payment is being rolled out to our buses this year.
We have growth in passenger journeys of 29% in the year and we expect continued to see strong take-up of smart ticketing options, to see further strong growth this year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 53
