BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED Investment Policy continued The coupon received when investing in floating rate loans varies with, and is periodically adjusted to reflect changes in, a generally recognised base interest rate such as LIBOR.
The Company generally seeks to focus on loans of issuers that the Investment Manager believes have the ability to generate cash flow through a full business cycle, maintain adequate liquidity, possess an enterprise value in excess of senior debt and have access to both debt and equity capital.
The Company also makes investments in senior bonds on an opportunistic basis if the Investment Manager believes that such investments are attractively valued, up to a maximum in aggregate of 20% of the Net Asset Value NAV at the time of investment, provided that no more than 10% of NAV may be invested in unsecured senior bonds at the time of investment.
Diversification The Investment Manager seeks to manage risk through in-depth credit research utilising proprietary analytic processes, diversifying across industries, companies and investment size and adjusting sector weightings based on economic and market analysis.
The Companys portfolio of investments is intended to represent at least 100 investments across a minimum of 20 industries, with a focus on those industries regarded as defensive.
Defensive industries are those the Investment Manager believes are less affected by changes in economic conditions and likely to demonstrate the strongest capital preservation.
The Board considers that it is not appropriate to make available a full portfolio listing to shareholders as the information is considered commercially sensitive.
Typically, at the time such investment is made, no industry will represent more than 15% of Net Asset Value and no single investment will represent more than 5% of Net Asset Value.
What Are Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans?
Senior secured floating rate loans are debt obligations arranged by banks and other financial entities on behalf of corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
Such loans are typically used to finance mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, recapitalisations, refinancings, capital expenditure and for other general corporate purposes.
Senior secured floating rate loans are originated by a bank or other financial institution also known as an arranger and will typically be syndicated to a pool of lenders that collaborate to provide financing for the borrower.
Once the bank loan is issued, lenders have the option to hold their portion for the life of the loan or to sell it to other investors in the secondary market.
The senior secured floating rate loans that the Company invests in are generally non-investment grade, that is rated at or below Ba1 by Moodys Investors Service or at or below BB by Standard & Poors or an equivalent rating by a third party rating agency.
The senior secured floating rate loans that comprise the Portfolio typically hold the most senior position in the capital structure of the borrower and are secured with specific collateral, giving lenders a claim on the assets that are senior to the claims of unsecured creditors, subordinated debt holders and stockholders of the borrower.
The security package typically incorporates a first priority over all of the borrowers assets including receivables, inventory, bank accounts, property and plant and equipment.
In the event of a default or bankruptcy, the holders of the loans should be in a better position to maximise recovery of their debt than other creditors due to their position in the capital structure.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 3
