FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Performance Measurement and Key Performance Indicators continued The Directors examine the revenue forecast quarterly and consider the yield on the Portfolio and the amount available for distribution: and The Board considers the peer group performance of other income funds at each quarterly Board meeting.
Management Arrangements Investment Management Arrangements On 17 July 2014, the Company, the Manager and the AIFM made certain classificatory amendments to their contractual arrangements for the purposes of the European Commissions Directive on Alternative Investment Fund Managers the AIFM Directive.
The Sub Investment Management Agreement was terminated on 17 July 2014 and Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC, which was the Sub Investment Manager, was appointed as the AIFM per the amended and restated Investment Management Agreement IMA dated 17 July 2014.
Under this agreement, the AIFM is responsible for risk management and dayto-day discretionary management of the Companys Portfolios including un-invested cash.
The risk management and discretionary portfolio management functions are performed independently of each other within the AIFM structure.
The AIFM is not required to, and generally will not, submit individual investment decisions for approval by the Board.
The Manager, Neuberger Berman Europe Limited, was appointed under the same IMA to provide, amongst other things, certain administrative services to the Company.
Please refer to Note 3 on page 68 for details of fee entitlement.
The IMA can be terminated either by the Company on one hand or the Investment Manager, on the other, but in certain circumstances, the Company would be required to pay compensation to the Investment Manager of six months management charges.
No compensation is payable if notice of termination of more than six months is given.
Administration and Custody Agreement Effective 1 March 2015, the Company entered into an Administration and Sub-Administration Agreement with U. S. Bancorp Fund Services Guernsey Limited U. S. Bancorp and Quintillion Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of U. S. Bancorp.
Under the terms of the agreement, Sub-Administration services are delegated to Quintillion Limited the Sub-Administrator.
U. S. Bank National Association the Custodian was appointed custodian to the Company effective 1 March 2015.
See Note 3 on page 68 for details of fee entitlement.
Company Secretarial and Registrar Arrangements During 2016, company secretarial services were provided by C. L. Secretaries Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Carey Commercial Limited.
Registrar services are provided by Capita Registrars Guernsey Limited.
Related Party Transactions The receipt of dividends by the Directors and the contracts between the Investment Manager and the Directors are the only related party transactions currently in place.
Other than fees payable in the ordinary course of business, there have been no material transactions with these related parties, which have affected the financial position or performance of the Company in the financial year.
Further details on related party transactions can be found under Note 4 to the Financial Statements.
