FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risks and Risk Management The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal financial and operating controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board also monitors the investment limits and restrictions set out in the Companys investment objective and policy.
The principal risks and uncertainties that have been identified and the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these areas are as follows: RISK MITIGATION Macroeconomic Conditions Macroeconomic conditions change significantly and to the The Board receives regular reports from the Investment detriment of the portfolio or the Company causing a Credit or Manager on the health of the Portfolio and the approach to Liquidity risk to crystallise.
managing credit risk and liquidity risk is set out further below.
Credit Risk The key risk for the Company remains Credit risk i. e. that the The Investment Manager carries out extensive, independent Investment Manager buys a loan or bond of a particular Issuer due diligence on each borrower, and has a particular focus on and it does not perform as expected and either defaults on a stable, performing credits that evidence strong track records payment or experiences a significant drop in the secondary through previous economic cycles.
Additionally, the size of an market value.
issuer is also considered and the Investment Manager continues to favour the larger issuers in the market, defined by having debt issuance greater than $500m or equivalent in sterling or euros.
These issuers tend to have broader syndicates, which can aid liquidity in the secondary market.
As well as screening out the smaller issuers, the Investment Manager also excludes highly cyclical industries and companies with limited earning visibility from its Investment Process.
Once a particular investment has been made, the Investment Manager is very focused on the monitoring of it.
A range of relevant data is reviewed on an ongoing basis for each investment, including, but not limited to, key financial drivers, commodity prices, stock prices, regulatory developments, financial results, press releases and management commentary to identify any indicators of credit deterioration.
To manage this risk further, the Board ensures a diversification of investments with the Investment Manager operating in accordance with the investment limits and restrictions policy determined by the Board.
The Directors monitor the implementation and results of the investment process with the Investment Manager at each quarterly Board meeting and monitor risk factors in respect of the Portfolio.
