STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Going Concern The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis, as explained in the basis of preparation paragraph in Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
In making this statement the Directors have considered the levels of working capital available to the Company, the closed ended nature of the Company and the tradable nature of the investment portfolio held.
Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over the three year period to 31 December 2019 in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 the Code.
The Board conducted this review for a period of 3 years, a period that was selected for the following reasons: The nature of the loan investments held by the Company have an aggregate maturity of approximately 3 years which allows the investment cash flows, recycling of investments, and expenditure commitments of the Company to be reasonably forecast over this timeframe.
The impacts on the Company of other factors can be reasonably assessed within this timeframe.
Beyond a 3 year timeframe, the impact of external forces, such as changes to legislation, market forces or other unknown factors, becomes less able to be predicted or assessed in analysing the viability of the company.
The 3 year review considers the Company's cash flow, cash distributions and other key financial ratios over the period.
The 3 year review also makes certain assumptions about the normal level of expenditure likely to occur and considers whether additional financing facilities will be required.
Furthermore, the 3 year review period to 31 December 2019 makes assumptions on the Companys continuation vote in 2018, and each year thereafter, as well as the annual Redemption Offer.
The Directors note that the annual Redemption Offer will be triggered if, in the last three months of each calendar year, the Companys Ordinary Shares trade at an average discount to NAV in excess of 5%.
In its assessment of the viability of the Company, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties detailed on pages 13 to 15 and in particular the impact of a significant fall in the value of the Companys investment portfolio.
The Directors have performed a quantitative and qualitative analysis that included the Companys income and expenditure projections and the fact that the Companys investments include readily realisable securities which can be expected to be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
Based on the Companys processes for monitoring operating costs, the Investment Managers compliance with the investment objective, asset allocation, the portfolio risk profile, liquidity risk and financial controls, and assuming normal market conditions the Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to 31 December 2019.
Performance Measurement and Key Performance Indicators In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the Investment Manager, the Directors take into account the following performance indicators: Returns and NAV - The Board reviews at each board meeting the performance of the Portfolio as well as the NAV, income and share price of the Company: Discount premium to NAV - At each quarterly Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the Companys discount or premium to NAV and reviews the average discount premium for the Companys peer group.
The Company publishes a NAV per share for both share classes on a daily basis through the official newswire of the LSE.
This figure is calculated in accordance with the AICs guide which includes current financial year revenue, the same basis as that calculated for the Financial Statements: ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 17
