DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Directorship Disclosures in Public Companies Listed on Recognised Stock Exchange Company Names Exchange s Mr William Frewen Armadale Capital Plc AIM, London Mrs Sandra Platts Sequoia Economic Infrastructure Income Fund Limited London UK Commercial Property Trust Limited London Mr Richard Battey AcenciA Debt Strategies Limited London Juridica Investments Limited AIM, London Princess Private Equity Holding Limited London Better Capital PCC Limited London Prospect Japan Fund Limited London Pershing Square Holdings Limited Euronext, Amsterdam Mr Rupert Dorey Tetragon Financial Group Ltd Limited Euronext, Amsterdam Tetragon Financial Group Master Fund Limited Euronext, Amsterdam AP Alternative Assets LP, AAA Guernsey Limited Euronext, Amsterdam Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited Irish Stock Exchange M&G General Partner Inc, Episode LLP & Episode Inc. Irish Stock Exchange International Public Partnerships Ltd London Certain of the Directors maintain additional directorships in companies that are not listed on any recognised stock exchange.
Details may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Life of the Company The Company does not have a fixed life.
However, under Article 51 of the Companys Articles, the Directors are required to propose an Ordinary Resolution at each annual general meeting of the Company, commencing in the year 2018, that the Company continues its business as a closed-ended investment company.
The first Continuation Resolution, which fell due on or before the third anniversary of Admission, was passed on 19 March 2014.
The second Continuation Resolution fell on 5 April 2017, being before the sixth anniversary of Admission and was also duly passed.
If a Continuation Resolution is not passed, the Directors are required to put proposals to shareholders for the restructuring or reorganisation of the Company.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy The Board of the Company has a zero tolerance approach to instances of bribery and corruption.
Accordingly, it expressly prohibits any Director or associated persons, when acting on behalf of the Company, from accepting, soliciting, paying, offering or promising to pay or authorise any payment, public or private, in the United Kingdom or abroad to secure any improper benefit for themselves or for the Company.
The Investment Manager has also adopted a zero tolerance approach to instances of bribery and corruption.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 23
