CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Groups recurring income is significant and Board composition Board effectiveness Employees has increased.
The start to the year sees Escrow and diversity renewals at 20.5m up from 19.3m in the year to 31 May 2016 and Assurance has 28.0m As Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership of The talent, dedication and experience of the people 2015: 6.8m of managed services, threat the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all we employ is vital to our success.
The motivation intelligence and monitoring renewals forecast We have a strong and balanced Board, with a range aspects of its performance.
The Board is and retention of our staff remains key for the for the current financial year.
of complementary skills to support the strategic and responsible for the Groups strategic development, Groups future.
We aim to be the employer of operational direction of the Group.
As a Group, we monitoring achievement of its business objectives, choice.
We proactively monitor staff retention and The Assurance division order books have improved recognise the importance of diversity and our Board oversight of risk and maintaining a system of manage all aspects of individuals roles, to 53.1m 2015: 32.3m and Escrow verification members have a wide range of skills and effective corporate governance.
experiences from a variety of business backgrounds.
I would like to record my own and the Boards This year we plan to further strengthen the team with thanks to all of the Groups employees who have an additional independent Non-Executive Director.
The Groups total renewals made this another successful year.
This year very and order books now stand sadly Alex Lander-Brown who was a long serving security consultant in the Assurance team passed at 104.6m 2015: 62.7m.
away, he is a great loss and our thoughts are very much with his family.
In summary, the outlook for NCC Group remains very positive.
The Group is operating in a number of fast growing international markets with a range The Group now employs 1,857 of new and innovative products and services as people across the world, including well as the existing extensive capabilities.
As a consequence of all these factors, alongside the integration and roll out of Fox-IT products and Details of the Groups diversity policy can be found services, the Board is confident that the Group can on page 35.
We have stated on a number of occasions that continue to deliver sustainable growth and enhanced shareholder value.
the responsibility for cyber security rests directly with the Board and should be approached and Outlook managed with the same vigour and transparency as audit, remuneration, health and safety and CSR.
The whole organisation is focused on client risk mitigation and delivering peace of mind, through a complementary range of services offered to an To that end, this year the Board will form a Cyber Security Committee, increasing range and number of multinational clients led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and comprising to address their business issues.
the Non-Executive Directors and the CEO.
The CEO will report monthly to the Committee on the performance of the Groups internal security NCC Group has established itself as one of the leading pure-play cyber security services businesses and defences.
We believe we are the first listed company to create with an extremely wide geographical footprint and a Cyber Security Committee at board level.
has the largest number of industry experts.
With the ever increasing threat of cyber-attacks, all listed companies Across the Group the current financial year has should have a board-led Cyber Security Committee.
started well and the market for our services remains as strong as ever.
It is still too early to assess how the decision made by the United Kingdom to leave the European Union will affect the Group but this is being carefully monitored.
Paul Mitchell Non-Executive Chairman 6 July 2016 10 11 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust THE STRATEGIC REPORT Markets and positioning Our markets continue to evolve quickly and we remain active in innovating and creating new services to address the numerous emerging opportunities.
Innovation, creation and research and Our strategy - delivering sustained development are the key touchstones of the Groups development and growth.
Never has this been more growth based on innovation, important as the world finally wakes up to the cyber threat that is now an everyday occurrence for expertise & independence businesses and individuals alike.
NCC Group is a global expert in cyber security and Both divisions are tasked with and measured on The Group is committed to making risk mitigation providing organisations worldwide providing the best client service, allied to offering the Internet a safer place for all.
with market leading escrow and verification, security appropriate services to help mitigate risk.
The Group consulting and web performance solutions.
is cautiously and diligently looking for acquisition NCC Groups continued investment opportunities of complementary businesses that in people and research led The Group set about building its future around the either further strengthen our market position, initiatives means that it is well software escrow business while looking for new geographic presence or appropriately extend the placed to call for changes to make areas of growth in the then uncharted territory of service offering.
Since then, through Boards truly accountable for the carefully constructed, controlled and sustainable security of their organisations.
organic growth along with a carefully planned and Each division has a common well-executed strategic acquisitions programme, the objective, to innovate and develop Group has developed into a leading multinational Online security continues to fail to keep up with the further its product sets, to ensure provider in both areas.
numerous types of individual and indeed that it remains at the forefront of organisations that transgress the Internet.
The threat The Group now operates in two distinct but of being hacked or having valuable data stolen thought leadership and delivery, as complementary divisions, Assurance and Escrow, continues to evolve rapidly and it is growing at a well as to expand geographically having taken the decision to withdraw from providing seemingly unstoppable pace.
Domain Services following this year end.
payment requests and ransomware attacks are every day events and have increased massively, The two Divisions do not actively cross-sell.
which provide lucrative rewards to the miscreants However, they do share information, intelligence who perpetrate these attacks.
and relationships to ensure that the appropriate products across our portfolio are made available The world in which we live cannot be made to all our clients.
completely safe from cyber crime.
As the number and range of threats proliferate, being innovative and using our experience and skills to protect against attacks becomes more important than ever.
NCC Group is doing this by providing the best security consultants to world leading clients as well as conducting world-renowned security research.
12 12 13 13 N NCC GR CC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPOR OUP ANNUAL REPORT AN T AN D AC D A COCCOUNTS UNTS www.
