THE STRATEGIC REPORT Assurance Division Escrow Division Domain Services Assurance now accounts for 81% 2015: 73% of The Groups Escrow business, the cornerstone of The Division was established in May 2012, in Group revenues with total divisional revenues NCC Group, produced another very solid years California, but has now been wound down due to increasing by 74%, 25% organically, to 168.9m performance with a substantial margin and very the slow take up of the new domains and the lack 2015: 97.0m.
strong cash conversion, as well as a high degree of of awareness of customers and businesses about recurring revenue, due to the consistent contract the changes in the domain world.
The division was Security consulting revenues grew 87% to 138.9m renewal rate of almost 90%.
set up to develop the critical infrastructure and 2015: 74.4m.
Included within this was 14.0m of know-how to create a universal environment for revenue from Fox-IT for the period December 2015 The Escrow division increased revenue by 10% to end users to operate and navigate the Internet with to the year end.
In January 2015 the Group acquired Open Registry to provide the Software Testing and Web Performance revenues Group Escrow recurring revenue renewals, grew technical know-how and software to operate as grew by 33% to 30.0m 2015: 22.6m to 20.0m 2015: 18.5m.
Group Verification a secure registry and registrar in order to offer with a recurring revenue of 7.0m within revenues grew by 20% in the year to 10.0m a complete end to end service for all of a clients Web Performance which is of 90% 2015: 91% 2015: 8.3m.
ICANN related and domain requirements.
of customers, which continues its strong track record of client retention.
Domain Services accounted for less than 2% Escrow UK 2015: 3% of Group revenues.
The Assurance division primarily provides expert This 8% growth in revenue 2015: 5% was The domain,.
trust, and associated capital assets security assurance and penetration testing, cyber delivered through contract growth and verifications, valued at 4.2m continue to be used elsewhere in defence operations, incident response and with only a limited amount coming from the effects the Group and have not been written down in value.
forensics, managed security services and security of the price increase introduced during the year.
Impairment and other charges for the remainder of operations centres as well as risk management and the Division are shown in the Exceptional items governance.
Fox-IT complements these services and Escrow UK recurring revenues increased to section on page 25. provides a number of them as well as providing 13.7m 2015: 13.2m and terminations remain threat intelligence services and cryptography based below 11%.
Escrow Europe and Escrow US Following the integration of Accumuli the Groups Escrow US revenues grew by 20% to 6.2m Managed Scanning Service MSS offerings have 2015: 5.2m and Escrow Europe revenues been consolidated so that there is a single client grew by 9% to 3.4m 2015: 3.2m.
Accumuli has been rebranded NCC Group and the majority of services offered are either Escrow UK now has 107 employees 2015: 99, security consulting or MSS, although the Group also Escrow Europe has 15 employees 2015: 14 sells a limited number of security and big data and the North American Escrow businesses have related third party products.
Software Testing delivers secure UK based testing to clients.
Web performance testing involves continuously monitoring the performance and load capability of organisations websites.
This is a SaaS-based service that relies heavily on a world-class product with the highest levels of customer support.
The business unit employs 1,323 employees globally 2015: 929 and uses 206 associates 2015: 158.
22 23 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust THE STRATEGIC REPORT Profitability and margins Exceptional items Taxation As a result of the acquisition of Accumuli in April The Groups effective tax rate is 22% 2015: 22%, 2016 2015 2015 the Group, as previously reported became which is marginally above the average standard UK 000 000 responsible for paying retention bonuses to a large rate of 20% 2015: 21%.
The higher effective rate Reported profit before tax 9,428 21,421 number of employees and former employees of reflects the higher tax rates incurred in the overseas Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 6,833 2,207 Accumuli as well as the costs of a fundamental businesses.
Share-based payments 1,191 991 restructure and reorganisation of the company.
This resulted in an exceptional charge of 1.7m.
Exceptional items 18,945 588 Unwinding of discount on contingent consideration 621 262 In November and December 2015, the Group raised Adjusted profit before tax 37,018 25,469 126.3m through a firm placing and a placing and Net financing costs 1,407 929 open offer and simultaneously acquired Fox-IT on 27 November 2015 for 133.25m 93.5m.
The costs Adjusted operating profit 38,425 26,398 associated with the fund raising and acquisition Depreciation 3,682 2,623 were 3.5m, which is comprised of fees of 2.3m Amortisation 1,578 515 and related foreign exchange exposure of 1.2m on Group EBITDA 43,685 29,536 the deferred consideration.
Following a strategic review, the Group decided in Reported operating profit 11,456 22,609 June 2016 to withdraw from the Domain Services marketplace, the Group has taken a number of one off charges, totalling net 13.7m, of which 0.9m is As product development, intellectual property The Assurance divisions margin was 15% 2015: a cash cost relating to Domain Services that will be and tool development are now such integral parts 18% due to the effects of a full year of NCC Group paid in the financial year ending 31 May 2017. of the Group, especially following the acquisition MSS product sales.
This is over 1% better than at These include: of Fox-IT, the impact of amortisation and the half year.
The underlying margin will continue to depreciation has a material effect on NCC Groups improve, ultimately achieving the divisions medium financial statements.
The impairment of capitalised assets, the critical infrastructure and know-how to create a universal Accordingly, in line with many of its peers in the UK The Escrow divisions operating margins remained environment for end users to operate and and the US, the Board has decided to publish the strong at 57% 2015: 59%, almost 1% better than navigate the Internet with complete safety and Group EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, in the first half of the year.
depreciation, amortisation and exceptional charges.
The net impairment in the goodwill in Open Adjusted Group operating profit grew to 38.4m Registry is 5.9m.
This includes the 5.9m of Group EBITDA is 43.7m 2015: 29.5m.
2015: 26.4m, including a net operational loss of deferred consideration that will not be paid as 1.7m 2015: loss 4.9m in Domain Services and the earnings targets have not been achieved.
NCC Group continues to generate strong margins excluding the amortisation of acquired intangibles, despite the increased percentage of revenue from exceptional charges and share-based charges A further 0.9m for headcount and associated the non-escrow businesses and the effects of the 27.0m 2015: 3.8m.
restructuring costs related to winding down the Domain Services operational loss, overall adjusted Division.
operating margins remained strong at 18% 2015: Adjusted Group pre-tax profit improved to 37.0m 20%.
Excluding Domain Services operating 2015: 25.5m after an interest charge of 1.4m.
Total Group exceptional charges were 18.9m The Groups reported pre-tax profit was 9.4m 2015: 0.6m.
Assurances profitability grew by 52% to 25.8m 2015: 21.4m, after the inclusion of the unwinding 2015: 17.0m and Escrows by 6% to 20.1m of the discount on the acquisitions deferred 2015: 18.9m.
consideration, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share based payment charges and the exceptional items.
24 25 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust THE STRATEGIC REPORT Earnings per share Cash The Group continues to be highly cash generative At the year end contingent payments relate to The adjusted basic earnings per share from operations was 11.3p 2015: 9.5p.
with an operating cash flow before interest and tax Fort Consult of 1.8m, which was paid in full of 23.1m 2015: 24.3m, which gives a in June 2016 and ArmstrongAdams of 1.7m due The table shows the effect on the Groups basic earnings per share of the amortisation of acquired normalised cash conversion ratio of 107% of in August 2016.
A non-contingent amount of intangibles, share based payment charges, unwinding of the discount on the contingent consideration for operating profit before interest and tax 2015: 18.5m is due to be paid to Fox IT comprising acquisitions and the effect of the exceptional items.
107% after adjusting for exceptional Accumuli of 10m in cash and 2.5m shares in working capital movements associated with November 2016 and November 2017.
2016 2015 acquisition related payments and the non-cash Pence Pence exceptional items in the cashflow.
The deferred payments of 5.9m to Open Registry Basic EPS as per the income statement 2.5 8.0 are now no longer due as the profit targets cannot It is expected as the mix of business continues to be achieved.
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 2.1 0.8 change due to the increase in Assurance revenues, Exceptional items 6.1 0.2 the percentage will be closer, normally, to 100%.
In the financial year to May 2016, due to the Unwinding of the discount on the contingent consideration refurbishment and opening of new offices, the 0.2 0.1 of the acquisitions After accounting for net cash inflows of 123.8m development of new security products and tools as Share-based payments 0.4 0.4 from the fund raisings and after the outflows for the well as the roll-out of the new IT solution, the Group Adjusted basic EPS 11.3 9.5 acquisitions and deferred acquisition payments, the spent as planned 13.5m 2015: 12.9m on capital Group ended the year, as expected, with net debt of expenditure.
The adjusted fully diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was 11.2p 2015: 9.4p while In the financial year to May 2017, the investment reported fully diluted earnings per share was 3.2p 2015: 7.8p.
In November 2015, the Group increased its banking programme capital expenditure is expected to facilities to 110m May 2015: 78m with a new increase to about 18.0m representing the five year multi bank facility, comprising a 80m May development of the Groups new head office in 2015: 78m revolving credit facility and a 30m Manchester and other facilities around the world.
Dividends May 2015: nil five-year term loan and completed a Particular consideration is being given to a firm placing for 63.1m.
In December 2015 a significant central London facility.
placing and open offer for a further 63.2m was The Board is recommending a final dividend of completed.
3.15p per ordinary share, making a total for the year of 4.65p.
This represents cover of 2.4 times 2015: In November 2015, the Group completed the 2.4 times based on basic adjusted earnings per acquisition of Fox-IT for 93.5m 133.25m of share from continuing operations.
which 76.6m 108.3m was paid on completion.
Since the Groups flotation in July 2004, the dividend has increased from 0.42p to 4.65p, a compound annual growth rate of 25%.
26 27 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust THE STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Areas Potential Impact Mitigation Recruitment & Retention An inability to attract and retain sufficient This is mitigated with a clear human high-calibre employees could become resources HR strategy, which is aligned a barrier to the continued success and to the business strategy and focused on The Group faces operational risks and uncertainties, which the Directors take all reasonable steps to growth of NCC Group.
attracting, developing and retaining the mitigate, however, the Directors recognise that they can never be eliminated completely.
Managing risk best people for NCC Group.
sensibly is key to the success of any Company.
Consistent, continuous assessment and A robust review of those risks which could seriously affect the Groups performance, future prospects management of employees underpin it and reputation has been performed.
and excellent opportunities for further career training and development.
A Group Risk Register is maintained which is reviewed in depth by the Operational Board on a bi-annual basis.
The Risk Register is then reviewed by the Audit Committee for an independent and objective In addition, there is a continual review assessment before being circulated to the Board.
Day-to-day risks faced by the Group are mitigated by of compensation and benefits to ensure management processes and procedures embedded in the Groups Quality system.
The Board and senior sector and geographic competitiveness.
management also encourage a culture of transparency and openness to ensure that issues are escalated promptly to them when required.
Conduct risk Conduct risk can arise from a number of NCC Group operates a system of policies areas such as failing to maintain discipline and procedures which are regularly The following table sets out the principal operational risks and uncertainties facing the business, in no and meet customer expectations on audited as part of the quality system.
order of priority, their potential impact and the principal mitigating factors.
project delivery, testing assignments or source code handling or from rogue These, combined with comprehensive employees who could maliciously management oversight, the risk disrupt the business and steal customer management process, project reviews Risk Areas Potential Impact Mitigation information.
All such instances could and customer feedback, mitigate the risk result in damage to reputation, loss of to successful service and project delivery.
Information Technology The Group is heavily reliant on continued The Group has made significant repeat business and potentially lead to All staff are trained regularly and backups and uninterrupted access to its IT investment in its IT infrastructure to litigation and or claims against NCC are taken wherever possible before testing systems.
If such systems failed, this ensure it continues to support the Group.
could affect the Groups ability to growth of the organisation.
provide services, result in the loss of Employees are vetted before joining and sensitive data and compromise the NCC Group has appropriate controls robust controls and processes are in place Groups reputation.
in place in order to mitigate the risk of to manage employees such as accounting systems failure and data loss, including controls, IT monitoring large downloads of Failing to successfully implement new systems back-up procedures and disaster data and controls on client site operations.
IT systems could similarly cause business recovery plans and also has appropriate disruption.
malware protection, network security As a provider of security services, The Board has constituted a Cyber Cyber risk controls and encryption of mobile devices.
the Group is a high profile target and Security Committee chaired by the the could therefore be targeted by attacks Senior Non-Executive Director to whom NCC Group has learnt valuable lessons specifically designed to disrupt the the CEO reports monthly the risks, threats from previous system implementations.
Groups business and harm the Groups and issues facing the Group.
New IT solutions are carefully scoped and reputation.
If such an attack was implementation is closely managed.
successful, it could adversely affect the Security testing is regularly carried markets perception of the Group as well out on the Groups infrastructure and Loss of Key Management Loss of key managers could result in a Existing key management, new hires or as causing business disruption.
there are extensive measures in place lack of necessary expertise or continuity management teams that are recruited to assist in identifying and dealing with to execute the Groups strategy through acquisitions are tied in through security incidents.
rewarding career structures and attractive salary packages, which include The Group has a dedicated Information participation in share schemes.
Security Management Forum which meet regularly to discuss security risks In addition, succession plans have been to the Group.
Staff also have regular developed or are being developed for security training.
key members of the management team, including through acquisitions, which are regularly reviewed.
28 29 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust THE STRATEGIC REPORT There are no persons with whom the Company Risk Areas Potential Impact Mitigation has contractual or other arrangements that are deemed to be essential to the Group.
Acquisitions A failure to execute, complete and The Board remains committed to successfully integrate targeted, valuemaking value-enhancing acquisitions.
The principal financial risks faced by the enhancing acquisitions represents a risk The process adopted by the Board Group are: to the Groups growth.
in identifying and completing such acquisitions is well established and Credit Risk.
includes a robust due diligence and This is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a integration planning process.
customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations and arises Competitive environment and failure New lower priced competitors could enter Emphasis is put on providing a high principally from the Groups receivables from to respond to market trends the marketplace.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics Competitors could also respond faster to All directors regularly review services of each customer.
offered by competitors and report to the Board accordingly.
A failure to keep pace with changes in the This is the risk that the Company will not be cyber security industry could compromise Discussion groups are held regularly to able to meet its financial obligations as they the Groups brand and lead to a loss of ensure new opportunities to improve or fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risks business.
extend the Groups existing product and by regular reviews of forecast cash flows in service offerings are taken.
line with contractual maturities of financial A new product or service area could Major new services are only introduced Investing in new areas liabilities and the revolving credit facility available.
require significant investment and after extensive review and consideration.
Forecast cash flows are reported to the Board take time to deliver a return or deliver All new significant investments require on a monthly basis.
Ethical and legal breaches A substantive ethical breach and or NCC Group has various policies and The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, non-compliance with laws or regulations operational controls in in place across the purchases and borrowings that are denominated could potentially lead to damage to NCC Group to mitigate this risk.
in a currency other than the respective functional Groups reputation, fines, litigation and currencies of the Group entities.
The Groups claims for compensation.
There is continued investment in people, management review the size and probable timing processes and training to assist the of settlement of all financial assets and liabilities Group in meeting its legal and regulatory denominated in foreign currencies.
Interest Rate Risk Failure to protect intellectual property There are a number of intellectual Patents are applied for where appropriate The Group and Company finances its operations property rights that are relevant to the and intellectual property is only through a mixture of retained profits and bank Groups services such as trademarks, disclosed under a licence agreement or borrowings.
The Group borrows and invests patents and valuable know-know.
surplus cash at floating rates of interest based rights are not sufficiently protected, upon bank base rates.
it could result in a loss of competitive advantage.
On behalf of the Board Rob Cotton Chief Executive 6 July 2016 30 31 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY NCC Group takes its corporate social responsibilities very seriously and recognises the important contributions to the business made by the wider community of stakeholders, in particular investors, employees, clients, suppliers and the local communities in which it operates.
It recognises that by acting responsibly it can deliver a sustainable business, while contributing to the community and preserving the environment.
The Group supports the UN Declaration of Human Rights and this underpins its policies and actions.
The Board takes into account social, environmental, human rights and ethical issues in its discussions and decision-making, as well as the health and safety of employees.
ON AVERAGE, IT TAKES ALMOST 120 DAYS FOR AN ORGANISATION TO FIND OUT THAT IT HAS BEEN COMPROMISED.
32 32 33 33 N NCC GR CC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPOR OUP ANNUAL REPORT AN T AN D AC D A COCCOUNTS UNTS www.
trust CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Stakeholders Stakeholders Investors.
The investors in the Group need to be comfortable People are at the heart of the Groups business The Group recognises that modern slavery is The Group is committed to diversity and offers equal that their capital is being responsibly used to provide and the support and involvement of the talented a crime and a violation of fundamental human opportunities to all.
No employee or potential them with sustainable returns.
The Group individuals who form its team is vital to the continued rights.
The term modern slavery includes not only employee receives more or less favourable treatment communicates regularly with the investors in success of the Group overall.
The Head of HR slavery but also servitude, forced and compulsory due to his or her gender, age, race, national or meetings and road shows to keep them up to date reports directly to the CEO, Rob Cotton, to ensure labour and human trafficking, all of which have in ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, sexual with both the opportunities and challenges faced high level visibility and control of all employment common the deprivation of a persons liberty by orientation, or marital status.
As part of this we work by the Company.
another in order to exploit them for personal or to ensure that all employees, whatever their personal commercial gain.
circumstances receive the same opportunities for The Group aims to attract and retain the brightest training, career development and promotion.
and best people in its industry and to make sure The Company has a zero-tolerance approach to they are given the opportunity to develop their modern slavery and is committed to acting ethically Approximately 81% of our employees are male and talents.
The Group is committed to providing a and with integrity in all of its business dealings and 19% female.
In our senior leadership team, productive working environment and recognises relationships and to implementing and enforcing approximately 89% of the team are male and 11% the importance of training and career development.
effective systems and controls to ensure modern female while on our plc Board, 71% are male and slavery is not taking place anywhere in its business 29% female.
Each employee has a training record and is or in any of its supply chains.
The Company positively encouraged to up-skill.
All roles where an communicates its zero tolerance approach to all its The Board recognises the need to positively support additional professional qualification can be achieved suppliers, contractors and business partners at the gender diversity in a technology business, which has are actively supported and rewarded.
The Group outset of the relationship and regularly thereafter.
It traditionally and historically attracted more men.
employs a training manager who ensures all relevant expects high standards from all of its contractors, While this is desirable, the root cause stems from staff have the necessary training plans in place.
suppliers and other business partners, and also the teaching of IT and Technology in our schools expects that its suppliers will hold their own and colleges where it is historically seen as an suppliers to the same standards.
The Group is endeavouring to On a daily basis the Group provides relevant engage with local schools and universities to help technical, administrative and sales training.
Most educate and instil the benefits and opportunities of of the training is provided in-house although external careers in IT and cyber security for all genders.
courses and trainers are used where it is appropriate so to do.
The Group is committed to its employees and A considerable amount of training support is through actively attempts to improve their health and on the job side-by-side coaching, internal workshops wellbeing and morale by encouraging fitness based or as part of a research team.
It is not possible to activities and taking part in charitable events.
directly quantify the total amount spent on training within the Group, as this is part of the normal The Group has its own football and netball teams working week.
that play weekly and organises cycling sportives encouraging mass employee and business The Group has a policy of keeping employees participation.
NCC Group also has a very active informed of, and engaged in, its business strategy track cycling club, cricket team, running club and through the Intranet, regular employee briefings and triathlon club.
Information is cascaded from the Board downward to ensure that relevant Group The Group takes Health and Safety in the work targets are communicated, as well as ensuring that place seriously and complies with all relevant cultural values are aligned.
There have been no work place fatalities since the Group was formed and no reported workplace accidents in the year.
Comments and suggestions from employees on the Groups performance and management are actively encouraged and a free flow of information between the Directors, managers and employees ensures that everyone has an opportunity to contribute.
Direct access to the senior management team is actively promoted and encouraged.
34 35 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Stakeholders Clients.
NCC Group values each and every client and is NCC Group believes in supporting good causes The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance proud of the long-standing nature of its client and encourages its staff to get involved too with with terms and conditions agreed when orders are relationships.
Continuing client satisfaction is central considerable success to date.
Although the Group does not follow any to its on-going success and is regularly measured code or standard on payment policy, where terms and monitored through the ISO 9001 certified The Group has donated 200,000 to good causes have not been specifically agreed, invoices dated in quality programme.
This includes written and this year, with a number of local and national one calendar month are paid close to the end of the telephone satisfaction surveys each month.
The Groups main charity following month.
At 31 May 2016, the Group had an remains Macmillan Cancer Support.
Additionally, the average of 42 days purchases outstanding in trade Rare instances of negative feedback are treated with Group provided security consulting services on pro creditors 2015: 52 days.
the utmost seriousness and dealt with swiftly by bono basis to Comic Relief and has supported a management through to resolution.
Each number of employee related smaller charity An Ethical Suppliers Policy has been adopted to Operational Director takes direct responsibility for initiatives.
A similar policy has been introduced in ensure that all suppliers to the Group comply with customer satisfaction, with the CEO investigating North America where the Group is looking to donate Health and Safety law, have an environmental policy, directly if a Divisions performance fails to meet the up to $100,000 to charitable causes.
an anti-bribery policy and behave ethically towards 75% threshold.
No investigations were required in their employees.
The Group believes in community and as importantly likes to encourage its staff to do the same.
Again The Group recognises and understands that its this year the Group has continued to sponsor local relationships with those with whom it deals are the junior football teams by buying their football kit and key to its success and, as such, takes its trophies to encourage children to take an interest in obligations and commitments to those people and sport and keeping fit.
The Group also has organisations very seriously.
The Groups co-sponsored cycle team BikeHaus NCC Group independence, reputation as a supplier of quality who are based in Manchester and race throughout services and the trust of its clients are all key the UK and Europe.
assets that it aims to protect at all times.
It aims to engender in its employees principles of honesty Every year NCC Group staff members have and integrity and the desire to work to the best of participated in and organised football tournaments, their ability.
To ensure best service for the Groups silent auctions, raffles, bake days and sport days clients all employees are required both to comply and many more fund raising activities.
with the Companys Code of Ethics and to undergo annual anti-bribery and equality and diversity NCC Group is supporting GCHQs CyberFirst Girls refresher training.
Competition in a bid to encourage young women to consider cyber as a career.
The competition, aimed at 14 and 15 year olds girls is part of the National Cyber Security Programme and is designed to inspire a new generation of females.
A team of female security consultants from the Group have been working on the initiative, producing videos with tips on how to avoid becoming a victim of a cyber attack and also speaking at roadshows in Universities up and down the country.
The Group is apolitical and does not support any political party in any jurisdiction nor has it ever made a political donation.
36 37 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Environment and sustainability Initiatives that have been put in place As a service provider with no manufacturing facilities Accordingly, the Groups Environmental Policy aims the impact of the Groups operations on the to reduce the energy our business uses by: Energy efficient lighting in the newly refurbished environment is limited compared with other industries, areas and lighting which switches off however it recognises its responsibility to respect and Conserving energy and other natural resources automatically: limit damage to the environment in every way it can.
and improving efficient use of those resources: Expanding the use of recycling in all offices The Group sought third party advice for initiatives Improving the efficiency of materials used: - there are paper recycling bins throughout the that could be implemented and followed as well as offices and bottles, cans and plastics recycling for staff education to ensure that they are thinking Reducing waste and increasing reuse and bins in the kitchens: about the environment both in work and at home.
In recycling wherever possible: the coming year the Group is planning to make the On demand boiling water and cold water taps selection of a hybrid or electric vehicles considerably Encouraging the use of alternative means of have been introduced into the kitchens to reduce more attractive to all company car drivers.
transport, for example, via the Cycle to Work wastage of water and power: scheme and car sharing: and Presently due to the size of the Group, external Dual flush cisterns have been installed in the audit is not practical but once the organisations Providing all staff with relevant environmental WCs as part of the refurbishment to reduce size becomes such that a significant impact guidance.
excess water usage: can be made, it will be introduced to verify achievements made.
Cycle to work scheme: Re-cycling of printer cartridges in all offices: Printer replacements featuring double sided printing as standard: Re-cycling of redundant IT equipment: Addition of low emission car options into the company car scheme: Video conferencing facilities available in main offices.
This reduces the need for travelling so helping the environment and improving productivity: Teleconferencing facilities available for all staff: Printer review to enable more double sided printing: and Increase staff awareness of environmental issues.
38 39 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust 2 0 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Greenhouse Gas Emissions Total tCO2e by emission type This section includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Companies Act Combustion of fuel 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2014 The Regulations.
The greenhouse gas report period is aligned with our financial reporting year and so runs from 1 June to 31 May for each reported year.
The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, together with the latest emission factors from recognised public sources including, but not limited to, Defra, the International Energy Agency, the US Energy Information Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
Our emissions cover scope 1 and scope 2 and we have used revenue as the intensity ratio as it best reflects the size and scale of the business.
Our aim is to reduce the overall carbon intensity for the group by at least 10% over the next three years.
Global Greenhouse gas emissions data 2016 2015 2014 Absolute carbon emissions tCO2e 2264 1449 1194 Group Revenue m 209.1 129.8 110.7 Carbon intensity for whole Group 10.8 11.2 10.8 Year on year carbon intensity change 0.4 0.4 3.0 Cumulative % change 22 % 18 % 22 % Electricity, heat and cooling purchases for own use On behalf of the Board Rob Cotton Chief Executive 6 July 2016 40 41 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust 7 0 4 9 1 GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Board of Directors The plc and Executive Board comprises the following Directors.
Paul Mitchell Rob Cotton Atul Patel Debbie Hewitt MBE Thomas Chambers Chris Batterham Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Senior Independent Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Chairman of Nomination Committee Member of Nomination Committee Non-Executive Director Chair of Audit Committee, Member of Audit, Remuneration Chair of Remuneration Committee, Member of Remuneration and and Nomination Committees Member of Audit and Nomination Nomination Committees Committees Paul was appointed Rob was appointed Chief Atul joined the Group initially on Debbie joined NCC Group Thomas joined NCC Group in Chris is a qualified chartered Non-Executive Chairman Executive in 2003, having joined an interim basis on 18 February in September 2008 as a September 2012.
Thomas was accountant and was Finance of NCC Group in 1999.
He is the Group as Finance Director 2011 before being appointed to Non-Executive Director.
CFO of smartphone operating Director of Unipalm plc, Non-Executive Chairman and Managing Director of the Board on a full time basis on She has an MBA, is a Fellow systems developer Symbian before becoming CFO of of Rickitt Mitchell & Partners Escrow in 2000.
He was formerly of the Chartered Institute of Limited from 2001 until its sale to Searchspace Limited until 2005.
Limited, a corporate financial a Divisional Finance Director Personnel Development and Nokia Oyj in 2009.
Prior to that He is currently Non-Executive advisory firm based in He steered the Group through within Tribal Group plc, being was awarded an MBE for he was CFO of First Telecom.
Chairman of Eckoh plc and a Manchester.
He is also its move to the London Stock responsible for the Government services to Business and the He is a chartered accountant and non-executive director of SDL Non-Executive Chairman of Exchanges main market in July and Health division, operating Public Sector in 2011.
She is has held roles with Kleinwort plc, Iomart Group plc, Blue Styles & Wood Group plc and 2007 following admission to the finance and support Non-Executive Chairman of Moss Benson, the European Bank for Prism Group plc and Toumaz a Non-Executive Director of AIM in July 2004, and through a functions as well as advising Bros plc and The Restaurant Reconstruction and Development Group Ltd. Little Greene Limited.
management buy-out in April on business transformation Group plc and Non-Executive and Price Waterhouse.
As well as delivering and business integration.
Director of White Stuff Ltd, Visa also Non-Executive Chairman at He is a qualified chartered consistent organic growth in UK Limited, BGL Group Limited, recruitment company Propel Ltd accountant.
revenue and profits, he has A qualified Chartered Accountant, Domestic and General Group and a Non-Executive Director of instigated and overseen a series Atul joined the management Ltd and Redrow plc.
Kings Arms Yard VCT plc and of strategic expansion plans consultancy division of Niu Solutions Ltd. including the acquisition of  after complementary businesses qualifying, where he focused on worldwide.
performance improvement and business transformation within global organisations.
A qualified Chartered Accountant, he previously held a number of director and senior management positions in industry.
42 43 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Senior management The senior management team detailed below is responsible for the operation of the Groups divisions.
The members of the senior management team include: Roger Rawlinson Rob Horton Daniel Liptrott Helen Nisbet Group Managing Director, European Managing Director, Group Managing Director, Group Company Secretary, Assurance Assurance Escrow Corporate Roger is responsible for the Rob is the Managing Director of Daniel is responsible for the Helen is a qualified solicitor This senior management operational management of the NCC Groups European Security management and strategic and was appointed Company team is part of an operational Groups Assurance Division.
He joined development of the Escrow Secretary in 2015. board, which meets monthly.
He has worked for NCC Group the Group in 2008 and has Division globally.
Daniel joined Senior members of the for over 20 years in a variety managed and grown Security the Group in November 2014 executive team are invited of testing and consultancy roles Consulting services in the from private practice where he to make presentations on and was appointed a Director Assurance Division, as well as had been a corporate partner at specific topics or to discuss in 2004. overseeing the integration of a number of international law particular operational issues.
a number of the acquired firms.
From 2006 until 2011 he The meetings are chaired security consulting companies had been the Groups outside by the Chief Executive and in to the Group.
counsel at Eversheds LLP and attended by the Chairman.
advised on a range of issues including its move to the Main Rob was a director of NGS Market of the London Stock Software, a security consulting Exchange in 2007 and each of company he co-founded from its the Groups subsequent formation in 2001 through to its acquisitions until 2011. acquisition by and successful integration into the Group.
44 45 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the Group and Company Financial Statements of NCC Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the financial year ended 31 May 2016.
Principal activities UK Corporate Going concern Viability statement Governance Code The Company is a public limited company In adopting the going concern basis for preparing The Directors have assessed the viability of the incorporated in England, registered number the financial statements, the Directors have Group over a three year period, in accordance with The Companys statement on corporate governance 4627044, with its registered office at Manchester considered amongst other matters, the Groups provision C2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance can be found in the Corporate Governance Report, Technology Centre, Oxford Road, Manchester principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages Code 2014, taking into account the Groups the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination M1 7EF.
Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts current position and the potential impact of the Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration and financial projections, the Board is satisfied that principal risks documented on page 28 to 31 Report on pages 56 to 95.
The Corporate The principal activity of the Group is the provision of the Group will be able to operate within the level of of the Annual Report.
Governance Report, the Audit Committee Report, independent advice and services to customers by its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this the Nomination Committee Report and the Directors way of the provision of escrow and assurance reason and as detailed in note 1 to the Financial Based on this assessment, the directors confirm Remuneration Report form part of this Directors services.
The principal activity of the Company is Statements Basis of preparation, the Directors that they have a reasonable expectation that the Report and are incorporated into it by reference.
consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the Company will be able to continue in operation going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the and Financial Statements.
Results and dividends Strategic report The Directors determined that a three-year period to 31 May 2019 is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement taking account the The Groups and Companys audited Financial Pursuant to sections 414A-D Companies Act 2006, nature of the business and a reasonable foreseeable Statements for the financial year ended 31 May the business review has been replaced with a planning horizon.
2016 are set out on pages 96 to 154. strategic report, which can be found on pages The Directors propose a final dividend of 3.15p 13 to 31.
This report sets out the development and In making their assessment, the Directors have per ordinary share, which together with the performance of the Groups business during the considered the Groups current strong financial interim dividend of 1.5p per ordinary share financial year, the position of the Group at the end of position and undertaken a sensitivity analysis over paid on 26 February 2016 makes a total dividend the year and a description of the principal risks and the key trading assumptions combined with the of 4.65p for the year.
potential impact of one or more of the principle risks on the business materialising within the three The final dividend will, if approved by shareholders year period.
at the Annual General Meeting AGM, be paid on 30 September 2016 to shareholders on the register Based on the results of the analysis outlined above, at the close of business on 2 September 2016. the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the The ex-dividend date will be 1 September 2016.
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
The process of identifying, assessing and managing the principal risks are as described in the Audit Committee Report on pages 62 to 69.
46 47 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust DIRECTORS REPORT Post balance Share capital and control sheet events At the Companys Annual General Meeting held on The holders of ordinary shares are entitled, amongst 15 September 2015, the directors were granted other rights, to receive the Companys annual Other than completing the strategic review of authority to allot up to 76,399,866 ordinary shares reports and accounts, to attend and speak at Domain Services Division there have been no representing approximately a third of the general meetings of the Company, to appoint balance sheet events that either require adjustment Companys issued share capital.
In addition, the proxies and to exercise voting rights.
to the Financial Statements or are important in the directors were granted authority to allot a further understanding of the Companys current position.
76,399,866 ordinary shares, again representing Details of the movements of the called up share approximately a third of the Companys issued capital of the Company are set out in note 23 share capital, solely to be used in connection with to the financial statements.
Major shareholders a pre-emptive rights issue.
All rights and obligations attaching to the Companys In November and December 2015, the Group ordinary shares are set out in the Companys raised 126.3m through a firm placing and a Articles of Association Articles, copies of which As at the date of this report, the Company had been placing and open offer.
At a general meeting on can be obtained from the Companies House notified of the following significant holdings of voting 16 December 2015, the directors were granted website or by writing to the Company Secretary.
rights in its ordinary shares in accordance with the authority to allot a up to 22,986,307 shares in Unless otherwise provided in the Articles or the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and connection with the placing and open offer b such terms of issue of any shares, any shareholder may Transparency Rules: amount of shares required to satisfy the deferred transfer any or all of his shares.
The Directors may consideration payable under the acquisition refuse to register a transfer of shares in certificated Percentage of agreement in relation to Fox-IT and c up to a form that are not fully paid-up or otherwise in ordinary share nominal amount of 919,331 representing accordance with the Articles.
Number of ordinary capital notified Shareholder approximately one third of the enlarged share shares notified as at 31 May 2016 capital following the firm placing and placing and Mawer Investment Management 28,524,156 10.34% open offer and a further third solely to be used in Montanaro Asset Management 21,464,591 7.78% connection with a pre-emptive rights issue.
45,936,293 new shares were issued in relation to Aviva Investors 16,920,658 6.13% the firm placing and the placing and open offer.
Capital Research Global Investors 13,890,000 5.04% As at 31 May 2016, the Companys issued ordinary Liontrust Asset Management 13,766,509 4.09% share capital comprised of 275,939,764 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1 penny each, of There were no notifications received under DTR 5 which 116,714 ordinary shares are held in treasury.
between the information in this table and 6 July 2016 when the accounts were signed.
During the year ended 31 May 2016, 687,158 shares in the Company were issued further to the exercise of options pursuant to the Companys share option schemes.
121,472 shares were transferred out of treasury in order to satisfy options exercised under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan for Executive directors and senior management.
48 49 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust DIRECTORS REPORT Authority to purchase Directors Corporate social Change of control own shares remuneration responsibility The Group and each lender shall enter into negotiation for a period to determine how the At the Companys Annual General Meeting held The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the The Corporate Social Responsibility Report on facility may continue and if after that there is no on 15 September 2015, shareholders authorised Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract pages 32 to 41 provides an update on the Groups agreement the lender has the right to cancel the the Company to make market purchases of up and retain the Directors needed to run the Group policies and activities in respect of its wider commitment.
to 22,919,959 ordinary shares representing successfully.
Details of the Directors remuneration stakeholders, employees, clients, suppliers, approximately 10% of the issued share capital.
are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages charities and the community, environmental, ethical There are no agreements between the Company This authority was not used during the financial 72 to 95. and health and safety issues and modern slavery.
and its directors or employees providing for year ended 31 May 2016.
At the 2016 Annual compensation for loss of office or employment General Meeting, shareholders will be asked to During the year the Company made no political whether through resignation, purported give a similar authority.
Directors interests redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company currently holds 116,714 ordinary shares in treasury which will be used to satisfy LTIP Greenhouse Gas Directors interests in shares and share options liabilities that will fall due to the Executive Directors in the Company are detailed in the Directors Emissions and Senior Management in July 2016.
Disclosure of information Remuneration Report set out on pages 72 to 95. to auditors The Board is committed to maintaining the Directors Directors and officers environment and limiting wherever possible its The Directors who held office at the date of greenhouse gas emissions, this is covered on insurance and approval of this Directors report confirm that so far pages 40 to 41 in the Corporate Social Details of the Companys current Directors, together as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit indemnities Responsibility Report.
with brief biographical details are set out on pages information of which the Companys auditors are 42 to 45. unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make The Company maintains Directors and Officers Subject to law and the Companys Articles of themselves aware of any relevant audit information liability insurance, which provides appropriate Association, the Directors may exercise all of the and to establish that the Companys auditors are cover for any legal action brought against its powers of the Company and may delegate their aware of that information.
The Directors of the Company have also power and discretion to committees.
entered into individual deeds of indemnity with the A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditors Company which constitute as qualifying third party The Companys Articles of Association give the will be put to the members at the Annual General indemnity provisions for the purposes of section Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment to the Board of the The deeds were in effect during the course of the Company must be recommended by the Nomination financial year ended 31 May 2016 for the benefit of Committee for approval by the Board.
The Articles the Directors and, at the date of this report, are in of Association also require two Directors to retire by force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to rotation each year end and each Director must offer certain losses and liabilities which they may incur himself for re-election at least every three years.
or have incurred in connection with their duties, However, in accordance with previous years and in powers or office.
accordance with best practice all Directors will submit themselves for re-election each year.
50 51 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust DIRECTORS REPORT Annual General Meeting Allotment of equity Publication of unaudited securities for cash financial information The notice of the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held at the Manchester Technology In connection with its acquisition of Fox-IT Holding On 24 November 2016, the company published Centre, along with details of the business to be B. V, on 24 November 2015 the Company a prospectus in connection with the acquisition of proposed and explanatory notes, will be available undertook a firm placing pursuant to which it Fox-IT Prospectus.
A copy of the Prospectus is on the Groups website together with the annual issued an aggregate 22,949,986 new ordinary available for inspection at www.
All shareholders will be notified by post or shares of 0.01 each to certain institutional and uk NSM email, at their request, when the documents have qualified professional investors at an issue price been made available.
of 275 pence per ordinary share.
The aggregate In accordance with LR 9.2.
18R, if the company nominal value of ordinary shares issued pursuant has published unaudited financial information in a Information to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
4R to the firm placing was 229,499.86. prospectus, the company must reproduce that The aggregate gross consideration received information in its annual report and accounts and by the company in respect of the Firm Placing also disclose the actual figures for the same period.
Listing Rule Detail Page Ref was 63,112,561.50.
The closing price of an LR 9.8.
4 1 Capitalised interest 52 ordinary share on 23 November 2015 being Accordingly, set out below is the unaudited the business day that the date that the Issue information extracted from the Prospectus.
4 2 Publication of unaudited information 53-55 Price was fixed was 286.25 pence.
4 4 Long term incentive schemes 73-94 published in the Prospectus are the actual figures In accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups for the same period.
4 7 Allotment of equity securities for cash 53 Statement of Principles 2015, the directors confirm that the actual level of discount achieved Contracts of significance which a director is LR 9.8.
4 10 153 interested in in respect of the firm placing was 3.9%.
The net proceeds raised were 62,416,000 LR 9.8.
4 56 8-9 & 11-14 A B Not applicable N A and all proceeds were used to satisfy the consideration payable in relation to the acquisition of Fox-IT Holding B. V. No shares were issued Capitalised interest for cash in the three year period preceding the firm placing other than in respect of shares issued pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes.
During the period, 105,000 of interest was capitalised by the Group, the tax benefit on this amount is 23,000.
52 53 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust DIRECTORS REPORT Liquidity and capital resources Net indebtedness of NCC Group in the short and medium term The capitalisation and indebtedness, distinguishing between guaranteed and unguaranteed, secured and unsecured indebtedness, of the Group are set out below.
These figures are as of 31 August 2015, and The following table shows the net indebtedness of NCC Group as at 31 August 2015. have been extracted from the Groups unaudited management accounts.
There has been no significant change to the liquidity and capital resources of the Group since 31 August 2015.
31 August 2015 m Indebtedness Cash 7.5 Liquidity 7.5 Current financial debt 31 August 2015 m Net current financial liquidity 7.5 Total current debt Non-current bank loans 69.0 Guaranteed Non-current financial indebtedness 69.0 Secured Net funds 61.5 Unguaranteed Unsecured The Group has a strong capital structure as at 23 November 2015 being the latest practical date prior to the date of this document, the total amount outstanding under Royal Bank of Scotland facilities was Total Non-Current Debt 76.4m and cash was 13.3m.
excluding current portion of long-term debt Guaranteed Secured 69.0 Unguaranteed Unsecured Total indebtedness as at 31 August 2015 69.0 Capitalisation This information is as at 31 August 2015 and has been extracted from the Groups unaudited management On behalf of the Board accounts.
There has been no material change to the capitalisation of the Group since 31 August 2015.
Shareholders Equity 31 August 2015 m Share Capital 2.3 Share Premium 24.0 Merger Reserve 42.3 Other Reserves 1.0 Total Shareholders Equity 67.6 Rob Cotton Chief Executive 6 July 2016 Capital and reserves do not include the retained earnings reserve.
54 55 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to good corporate governance principles and practices.
In respect of the year ended 31 May 2016, NCC Group has been in full compliance with the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 see www.
uk except as stated in the below.
The effectiveness of the Board is measured by Responsibilities The Company did not comply with the requirement individual director assessments and a rigorous that the Chairman meets the independence annual board evaluation exercise.
This year the criteria set out below note 27 to the financial matters considered as part of the board evaluation The Board.
statements and the section entitled independence were the composition of the board including its The Board provides leadership and is responsible The Remuneration Committee is responsible for of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors range of knowledge and skills, the independence of for the overall management of NCC Group, its determining the remuneration of the executive on page 60. its members, its diversity policy, its contribution to strategy and long term objectives.
It ensures the directors and approving the remuneration of senior Company strategy, the effectiveness of its right company structure is in place to deliver long managers.
The Board strongly believes that good corporate Committees, its ability to communicate, its attitude term value to shareholders and other stakeholders.
governance is more than just adherence to a set of to risk and its overall efficiency.
It is about ensuring that the Company is run Committees of the Board.
The Cyber Security Committee is responsible for efficiently and effectively within a defined framework The board review was positive, with useful ideas The following formally constituted committees deal assessing the current threats and incidents, the of systems and controls with clearly defined being generated, which will be acted upon in the with specific aspects of the Groups affairs in mitigations in place and to report monthly on the authority and accountability.
There is a clear division forthcoming year.
It is recognised that the Board accordance with their written terms of reference, performance of the Groups internal security and between the running of the Board and the running of needs constantly to develop its knowledge and skills which are reviewed regularly and are available on defences.
the Companys business, however the Board is very so that it can respond to evolving market conditions the Groups website www.
conscious of its responsibility to review the strategy and new business challenges and opportunities.
of the Company and to challenge, where The Audit Committee.
The Operational Board is responsible for assisting appropriate, decisions made by the executive team The different parts of the Companys governance The Audit Committees primary function is to assist the Chief Executive in the performance of his duties in a frank, open and constructive manner.
framework are listed below and how it operates in the Board in fulfilling its financial and risk including: practice.
It also reviews financial reporting, The Board also reviews the Companys appetite for risk management, the internal controls in place and developing the annual operating plan: risk and understands the processes for reviewing the external audit process.
risks and the judgments made as a result.
Its review monitoring the performance of the different ensures that the Company is identifying the correct divisions of the company against the plan: The Nomination Committee.
risks on which to focus and taking any appropriate The Nomination Committee is responsible for carrying out a formal risk review process: actions to mitigate those risks.
considering the Boards structure, size, composition reviewing the Companys policies and and for succession planning.
procedures: prioritisation and allocation of resources: and overseeing the day-to-day running of the Company.
56 57 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Operation of Governance Framework Board meetings attended Paul Mitchell Non-Executive Chairman 12 12 Role of the Board.
final approval of annual accounts and accounting Rob Cotton Chief Executive 12 12 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the policies: Atul Patel Group Finance Director 12 12 proper management of the Company, for its system approval of treasury and banking policies: Debbie Hewitt Senior Non-Executive Director 12 12 of corporate governance and for the long-term success of the Company.
Its role is to provide approval of the dividend policy: Thomas Chambers Non-Executive Director 12 12 entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of Chris Batterham Non-Executive Director 10 12 changes to the Groups capital structure: prudent and effective controls.
It is responsible for determining the nature and extent of risks it is willing major changes to the Groups corporate During the year there were three telephone Board meetings associated with the acquisition of Fox-IT.
to take to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
structure or any change to its status as a public It receives information on, at least a monthly basis to company: The Chief Executive in conjunction with the Chairman and other Board members plan the agendas, which are enable it to review trading performance, forecasts approval of the acquisition or disposal of issued with the supporting board papers during the week before the meeting.
These supporting papers and strategy and it has a schedule of matters subsidiaries and major investments and capital provide appropriate information to enable the Board to discharge its duties.
specifically reserved for its decision.
The most projects: significant of these are: delegation of the Boards powers and authorities, Composition of the Board changes to the structure, size and composition including the division of responsibilities between of the Board: the Chairman, the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors: and consideration of the independence of NonThe Board currently comprises two Executive The Senior Independent Director.
Executive Directors: receiving reports on the views of the Companys Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The Debbie Hewitt is the Senior Independent shareholders and approval of all documents put consideration of the balance of interests between proportion of women Directors and Officers of the Non-Executive Director.
The role of the Senior to shareholders at a general meeting or shareholders, employees, customers, the Board currently stands at 29% and women in senior Independent Director is to provide a sounding board circulated to shareholders.
community and the environment: management positions across the Group account for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for for 11% as a whole.
The Companys policy is to other Directors when necessary.
Her main review of the management structure and senior Operational management of the Group is delegated find, develop and keep a diverse workforce at all responsibility is to be available to the shareholders management responsibilities taking into to the Operational Board of NCC Group.
The Board levels and it is committed to developing a culture should they have concerns that they have been consideration prudent succession planning: also delegates other matters to Board committees where women can retain senior positions.
unable to resolve through normal channels or when and management as appropriate.
such channels would be inappropriate.
with the assistance of the Remuneration All Directors will submit themselves for re-election Committee, approval of remuneration policies Procedures exist to allow Directors to seek at the AGM every year.
across the Group: independent legal and professional advice in respect The role of the Company Secretary is to ensure approval of strategic plans, annual operating of their duties at the Companys expense where the good information flows within the Board and its The Chairman.
plans and budgets and any material changes to circumstances are appropriate.
Committees and between senior management and Role profiles are in place for the Chairman them: Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is and Chief Executive Officer, which clearly set The Board normally meets on a monthly basis.
responsible for facilitating the induction of new out the duties of each role.
The Non-Executive oversight of the Groups operations ensuring During the year, the Board met on twelve scheduled directors and assisting with their professional Chairman, Paul Mitchell, is responsible for the competent and prudent management, sound development as required.
All directors have access occasions, with three additional Board meetings running of the Board and promoting a culture planning, an adequate system of internal control to the advice and services of the Company being convened in relation to the acquisition of openness and debate.
and adequate accounting and other records: Secretary to enable them to discharge their duties of Fox-IT and the placing and open offer.
Executive responsibility for the running of the maintaining an appropriate relationship with the The attendance of individual Directors at the Groups business rests with the Chief Executive Groups auditors: scheduled Board meetings is shown in the table The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Officer who is supported in this by the Group opposite.
The Non-Executive Directors are reviewing the Groups risk management and that Board procedures are complied with and for Finance Director and the Operational Board of contracted to spend a minimum of 24 days per internal control principles: advising the Board through the Chairman on NCC Group.
annum on NCC Group affairs and on average spent governance matters.
The appointment and removal 30 days on Company business during the year.
health and safety matters: of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board approval of corporate policies such as the Code as a whole.
of Ethics and Open Door Policy: approval of the Groups professional advisors: 58 59 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
trust CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Independence of the Conflicts of Interest Board Effectiveness Diversity Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors The performance of the Board is a fundamental The Board values the aims and objectives of the The Companies Act 2006 requires directors to component of the Companys success and therefore Davies report on women on boards.
When avoid situations where they have, or could have, a the Board recognises the importance of reviewing considering appointments to the Board and other direct or indirect interest that conflicts or potentially After careful review, the Board has concluded that its practices regularly.
During the year, each of the senior executive positions a thorough review of the conflicts with the interests of the Company.
The Debbie Hewitt, Thomas Chambers and Chris Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and skills, experience and knowledge of the candidates Companys Articles of Association require any Batterham are independent.
In coming to this Nomination Committee carried out an internal is carried out and appointment made on merit and director with a conflict or potential conflict to self-evaluation on their effectiveness and concluded appropriateness.
assessment the Board considered the character declare this to the Board.
That director will not then that they continue to be effective and that no of the individuals concerned and the fact that none be involved in the discussions relating to the significant amendments are required to their At present 17% of the directors on the Board are of them: proposal, transaction, contract or arrangement in operating procedures.
Given the relatively small size of the board it which they have an interest, unless agreed would not seem appropriate to impose specific has ever been an employee of the Group: otherwise by the Directors of the Company in the A detailed questionnaire on the performance of the formulaic targets but it is the Companys intention to limited circumstance specified in the Articles of has ever had a material business relationship Board was also circulated to all members of the increase the gender and ethnic diversity of the board Association, nor will they be counted in the quorum with the Group or receives any remuneration Board for completion.
A summary of the results and and senior management team as opportunities arise.
or be permitted to vote on any issue in which they other than their salary or fees: the resulting recommendations were then prepared have an interest.
and circulated to the Board.
The main outcome of has close family ties with advisors, other Total the evaluation was to put focus on the Boards main Directors or senior management of the Group Woman This approach has been followed throughout the objectives for the coming year in particular the that could reasonably be expected to cause a year and the Board considers it to have operated 20% Groups succession planning in general, greater conflict: effectively.
exposure of the Non-Executives to the Operational Board and focusing on monitoring and mitigating holds cross-directorships or has significant links risks.
Areas of strength included the performance of with other Directors through involvement with the Committees, the open and inclusive culture and other companies or bodies: the quality of information circulated to the Board.
represents a significant shareholder: or Men During the financial year, the Group joined the FTSE has served on the NCC Group Board for more 80% 250 index.
Therefore the Board will ensure that an than nine years from the date of their first externally facilitated performance evaluation is election.
conducted at least every three years.
Senior management The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director The Board recognises that the Chairman does not Woman evaluated the performance of the Chairman and the comply with this assessment as he has served as 15% Chairman evaluated the performance of each Chairman for 16 years and so does not meet the director.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors requirements for the Chairman to be independent.
met independently from the Executive Directors to The Board has considered this and has put discuss with the Chairman the overall functioning of safeguards in place where this could impact his role.
the Board and his contribution in making it effective.
For areas where independence is deemed to be key to any decision making, the Senior Independent The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong Men Non-Executive Director is able to assume that independent element on the Board and are well 85% position of responsibility where necessary and has placed to constructively challenge and help develop the casting vote.
proposals on strategy and succession planning.
Between them they bring an extensive and broad Terms and conditions of appointment of NonBoard range of experience to the Group.
Executive Directors are available for inspection at Woman the Companys registered office during normal 17% business hours.
Men 83% 60 61 NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS www.
