directors Report Directors and Officers John Barton Lord Wolfson of Aspley Guise Amanda James CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR John was appointed Deputy Chairman Simon joined the Group in 1991 and from 1 April 2015 in 2004 and Chairman in 2006.
He is was appointed Retail Sales Director in Amanda joined the Group in 1995 and also Chairman of easyJet plc and a 1993, became responsible for NEXT has led the management accounting non-executive director of SSP.
John Directory in 1995 and was appointed and commercial finance teams since previously served as Chief Executive of to the Board in 1997 with additional 2005.
In 2009, Amanda was appointed JIB Group plc, Chairman of Cable and responsibilities for Systems.
Simon Commercial Finance Director and was Wireless Worldwide plc, Catlin Group was appointed Managing Director of promoted to NEXT Brand Finance Limited, Jardine Lloyd Thompson the NEXT Brand in 1999 and Chief Director in 2012.
Amanda has Group plc, Wellington Underwriting Executive in 2001. comprehensive knowledge of NEXTs plc and Brit Insurance Holdings plc operations and has played a central and as a non-executive director of WH role in the financial management of Smith plc and Hammerson plc.
AGE 71 AGE 48 AGE 44 APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD September 2002 February 1997 April 2015 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Remuneration and Nomination Chairman Michael Law Jane Shields GROUP OPERATIONS DIRECTOR GROUP SALES AND MARKETING DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Michael joined the Group in 1995 as Jane joined NEXT Retail in 1985 as a Call Centre Manager for the NEXT Sales Assistant in one of our London Directory.
Jane worked her way through Call Centre Director in 2003 and store management to be appointed in 2006 took responsibility for Sales Director in 2000, responsible Group IT.
In 2010 he was appointed for all store operations and training.
Group Operations Director, adding In 2006 Jane took additional Warehousing and Logistics to his responsibility for Retail Marketing portfolio.
Michael is now responsible and in 2010 was appointed Group for all Systems, Warehousing, Logistics Sales and Marketing Director, adding and Call Centres within the Group.
Directory and online marketing to her portfolio.
AGE 54 AGE 52 APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD July 2013 July 2013 36 nextplc.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report governance Financial Statements Shareholder information Francis Salway Steve Barber Company Secretary SENioR iNdEpENdENT iNdEpENdENT NoN-EXECUTivE NoN-EXECUTivE diRECToR diREC ToR Francis is also Chairman of Town & Steve is also a non-executive director Seonna Anderson Country Housing Group, Chairman of Dominos Pizza Group plc.
Steves of the Property Advisory Group for previous experience includes almost Transport for London and a nonthirty years in the accountancy executive director of Cadogan Group profession, principally with Price Past Directors Limited.
Formerly Chief Executive Waterhouse where he was a senior of Land Securities Group plc and partner.
Steve was formerly Finance David Keens past president of the British Property Director of Mirror Group and Chief GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Federation.
Operating Officer of Whitehead APPOINTED TO THE BOARD Mann.
Founder of The Objectivity 24 May 1991 Partnership, a member of the steering group of the Audit Quality Forum RETIRED FROM THE BOARD and Chairman of Design Objectives 1 April 2015 Worldwide.
Jonathan Dawson AGE 58 AGE 64 iNdEpENdENT NoN-EXECUTivE diREC ToR APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD June 2010 June 2007 APPOINTED TO THE BOARD 13 May 2004 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Audit Chairman, Remuneration and RETIRED FROM THE BOARD Nomination 14 May 2015 Caroline Goodall Dame Dianne Thompson iNdEpENdENT NoN-EXECUTivE iNdEpENdENT NoN-EXECUTivE diREC ToR diREC ToR Board committees Caroline is also an independent nonDianne has significant senior Audit Committee executive on the Partnership Board of management experience including Steve Barber Chairman the accountancy firm Grant Thornton fourteen years as Chief Executive Caroline Goodall UK LLP and a Trustee of the National Officer of Camelot Group.
During Francis Salway Trust and a member of its Council.
She her 42 year career, she has worked in Dame Dianne Thompson was a non-executive director of SVG marketing for several retail companies.
Remuneration Committee Capital plc, a FTSE 250 listed private More recently she was Chairman of Jonathan Dawson Chairman to 14 May 2015 equity investor, from 2010 to October RadioCentre and a non-executive Caroline Goodall Chairman from 14 May 2015 2014.
Prior to that, Caroline had over director of the Home Office.
She is Steve Barber thirty years experience in corporate currently President of the Market John Barton finance and was a corporate finance Research Society.
Francis Salway partner at the international law firm Dame Dianne Thompson Herbert Smith including five years as Head of the Global Corporate Division.
Nomination Committee John Barton Chairman AGE 60 AGE 65 Steve Barber Caroline Goodall APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD Francis Salway January 2013 January 2015 Dame Dianne Thompson COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Audit, Remuneration Chairman and Nomination 37 nextplc.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 directors Report Disclosures required under the 2013 amendment to the Large themselves for re-election is independent in both character and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and and judgement, and their knowledge and other business Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of employee matters interests enable them to contribute significantly to the work including the employment, training and advancement of and balance of the Board.
In line with the Code, the Board disabled persons, future developments, political donations was subject to an externally facilitated evaluation during the and greenhouse gas emissions are given in the Strategic year, further details of which are on page 48.
Information on financial instruments and the use The interests of the directors who held office at 30 January of derivatives is given in Notes 27 to 30 of the financial 2016 and their connected persons are shown in the statements.
Annual General Meeting & Other auditor Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue Matters in office and its re-appointment will be proposed at the AGM.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM is on pages Details of the audit tender process which will be carried out 140 to 147 and includes the following business: during 2016 17 are on page 51. dividends disclosure of information to the auditor The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 105p In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the per share be paid on 1 August 2016 to shareholders on the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, each of the persons register of members at close of business on 8 July 2016.
This who is a director at the date of approval of this report resolution relates only to the final dividend.
The directors may confirms that: in future decide to pay special dividends as long as NEXTs share price remains consistently above the Boards buyback so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit price limit.
This arrangement will ensure the Company information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: continues to return surplus cash to shareholders, whilst and maintaining the flexibility to buy back shares if and when each director has taken all the steps that they ought to the share price is at levels commensurate with the required have taken as a director to make themselves aware of Equivalent Rate of Return.
Any such special dividends will any relevant audit information and to establish that the be declared by the directors as interim dividends.
The Companys auditor is aware of that information.
announcement of any dividend will clearly indicate whether it is a special dividend or not.
authority to allot shares The Trustee of the NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust Under the 2006 Act, the directors may only allot shares or ESOT has waived dividends paid in the year on the shares grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, held by it, see Note 26. shares if authorised to do so by shareholders in general meeting.
The authority conferred on the directors at last directors years AGM under section 551 of the 2006 Act expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM and ordinary resolution The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code 14 seeks a new authority to allow the directors to allot recommends that all directors of FTSE companies stand for ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of election every year and all members of the Board will do so at 5,022,000, representing approximately one third of the this years AGM.
Directors biographies are set out on pages Companys existing issued share capital as at 23 March 2016.
Each of the directors standing for re-election has In accordance with institutional guidelines, resolution 14 undergone performance evaluation and has demonstrated that they remain committed to their role including will also allow directors to allot further ordinary shares, in making sufficient time available for Board and committee connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue, meetings and other duties as required and continue to up to a total maximum nominal amount of 10,044,000, be an effective and valuable member of the Board.
Steve representing approximately two thirds of the Companys Barber is the longest serving non-executive director, having existing issued share capital as at that date.
As at 23 March been first elected at the 2008 AGM: the ninth anniversary 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of his first election will therefore be at the 2017 AGM.
The of this document the Companys issued share capital Board is satisfied that each non-executive director offering amounted to 15,066,968 comprising 150,669,683 ordinary 38 nextplc.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information shares of 10 pence each, none of which are held in treasury.
on-market purchase of own shares The directors have no present intention of exercising this NEXT has been returning capital to its shareholders through authority which will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in share repurchases as well as special and ordinary dividends 2017 or, if earlier, 19 August 2017. since March 2000 as part of its strategy for delivering sustainable long term growth in earnings per share.
Over authority to disapply pre-emption rights this period, and up to 23 March 2016, NEXT has returned Special resolution 15 will, if passed, renew the directors over 3.4bn to shareholders by way of share buybacks and authority pursuant to sections 570 to 573 of the 2006 Act over 2.6bn in dividends, of which 652m comprised special to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them dividends.
This buyback activity has enhanced earnings per to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
This share, given shareholders the opportunity for capital returns resolution limits the aggregate nominal value of ordinary as well as dividends and has been transparent to the shares which may be issued by the directors on a non financial markets.
Share buybacks have not been made at pre-emptive basis to 1,506,000, being less than 10% of the the expense of investment in the business.
Over the last five issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 23 March years, NEXT has invested over 570m in capital expenditure 2016 excluding treasury shares.
This authority also allows to support and grow the business.
the directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for Special resolution 16 will renew the authority for the Company cash, shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the The authority being sought represents an increase of 5% 2006 Act of its ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: from the resolution passed at the AGM in 2015 due to a. the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to changes in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles.
be purchased shall be the lesser of 22,585,000 ordinary The Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles now shares of 10p each being less than 15% of the issued share provides that an allotment of up to an additional 5% of the capital at 23 March 2016 and no more than 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company may be made issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of on a non pre-emptive basis if that allotment is in connection the AGM, such limits to be reduced by the number of any with an acquisition or specified capital investment within shares to be purchased pursuant to special resolution 17: the meaning given in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement Off-market purchases of own shares, see below: of Principles which is announced at the same time as the allotment, or which has taken place in the six-month b. the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and period before and is disclosed in the announcement of the is an amount not more than the higher of: i 105% of allotment.
The directors confirm that these guidelines will be the average of the middle market price of the ordinary adhered to.
shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business In accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of days immediately preceding the date of purchase and Principles, the directors do not intend to issue more than ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last 7.5% of the share capital of the Company for cash excluding independent trade of an ordinary share of the Company treasury shares under this or previous authorities in any and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary rolling three year period without prior consultation with share of the Company as derived from the London Stock shareholders, except in connection with an acquisition or Exchange Trading system: and specified capital investment.
c. the renewed authority will expire at the AGM in 2017 or, if The directors do not have any present intention of exercising earlier, 19 August 2017. this authority which will expire at the AGM in 2017 or, if earlier, 19 August 2017.
39 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 directors Report The directors intend that this authority to purchase the Contingent contracts entered into prior to any close Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result period allow the Company to take delivery of shares in an increase in earnings per share and, being in the interests during these periods.
of shareholders generally, it is considered to promote the Competitive tendering involving up to five banks is used success of the Company.
The directors will also give careful which minimises the risk of hidden purchase costs.
The consideration to financial gearing levels of the Company and pricing mechanism ensures the Company retains the its general financial position.
The purchase price would be benefit of declared and forecast dividends.
paid out of distributable profits.
It is the directors present The Company would also have the option to set a intention to cancel any shares purchased under this authority.
suspension price in individual contracts whereby they The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp would automatically terminate if the Companys share duty liability of the Company at the rate currently of 0.5% of price was to fall.
As with any share buyback decision, the directors would The total number of employee share awards and share use this authority only after careful consideration, taking options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 23 March into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other 2016 was 5,075,009.
This represents 3.4% of the issued investment opportunities and the overall financial position of share capital at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the Company.
The directors will only purchase shares using the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to both such contracts if, based on the contract discounted price the existing authority granted at the 2015 AGM which will rather than any future price, it is earnings enhancing and expire at the 2016 AGM and the authority sought by this promotes the success of the Company for the benefit of its resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shareholders generally.
It is the directors present intention shares outstanding at 23 March 2016 would represent 4.7% to cancel any shares purchased under this authority.
of the reduced issued share capital.
Special resolution 17 will give the Company authority off-market purchases of own shares to enter into contingent purchase contracts with any of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, The directors consider that share buybacks are an important HSBC Bank plc and Barclays Bank plc under which shares means of returning value to shareholders and maximising may be purchased off-market at a discount to the market sustainable long term growth in EPS.
Contingent contracts price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
for off-market share purchases are an integral part of the The maximum which the Company would be permitted to Companys buyback strategy and offer a number of additional purchase pursuant to this authority would be the lower of benefits compared to on-market share purchases: 3,000,000 shares or a total cost of 200 million.
Contingent contracts allow the Company to purchase The principal features of the contracts are set out in Appendix shares at a discount to the market price prevailing at 1 to the Notice of the AGM.
Copies of the agreements the the date each contract is entered into.
No shares have Company proposes to enter into with any of the banks the been bought back under contingent purchase contracts Programme Agreements will be available for inspection pursuant to the authority granted at the 2015 AGM up to at the registered office of the Company, and at the offices 23 March 2016. of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, EC1Y 8YY during Low share liquidity can often prevent the Company from normal working hours from the date of the Notice of the purchasing sufficient numbers of shares on a single day AGM up to the date of the AGM and at the Meeting itself.
without risk of affecting the prevailing market price.
Contingent contracts enable the Company to purchase shares over time without risk of distorting the prevailing share price, and also spread the cash outflow.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Notice of general meetings Recommendation The notice period required by the 2006 Act for general The Board are of the opinion that all resolutions which are to meetings of the Company is 21 days unless shareholders be proposed at the 2016 AGM will promote the success of approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be the Company and are in the best interests of its shareholders less than 14 clear days.
However, the Companys AGM must as a whole and, accordingly, unanimously recommend that always be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
At the AGM they vote in favour of the resolutions.
of the Company held in 2015, shareholders authorised the Share capital and major shareholders calling of general meetings other than an AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice and it is proposed that this authority Details of the Companys share capital are shown in Note 23 be renewed.
The authority granted by special resolution 18, to the financial statements.
if passed, will be effective until the Companys AGM in 2017.
The Company was authorised by its shareholders at the In order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 2015 AGM to purchase its own shares.
During the year clear days notice, the Company will make electronic voting the Company purchased and cancelled 2,203,873 ordinary available to all shareholders for that meeting.
The flexibility shares with a nominal value of 10p none of which were offered by this resolution will not be used as a matter of purchased off-market, at a cost of 150.7m, representing routine for such meetings, but only where the directors 1.4% of its issued share capital at the start of the year.
consider it appropriate, taking account of the business to be conducted at the meeting and the interests of the Company At the financial year end 30 January 2016, the Company had and its shareholders as a whole.
150,669,683 shares in issue, which remained the same as at 23 March 2016.
The following information has been received from holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital: Notifications received up to 30 January 2016 No.
of voting rights at date of % of voting Date of notification rights Nature of holding notification FMR LLC Fidelity 20,250,185 13.44 Indirect interest 3 December 2015 BlackRock, Inc. 15,449,829 10.25 Indirect interest 8 January 2014 Based on the total issued share capital at 30 January 2016.
No other notifications were received after 30 January 2016 up to 23 March 2016.
41 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 directors Report Change of control additional information The Company is not party to any significant agreements Shareholder and voting rights which take effect, alter or terminate solely upon a change All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend of control of the Company.
However, in the event of a and vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a general change of control, the Companys medium term borrowing meeting every member present in person and every duly facilities may be subject to early repayment if a majority of appointed proxy shall have one vote and on a poll, every the lending banks give written notice to the Company within member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote 30 days of a change of control event.
In addition, should a for every ordinary share held or represented.
It is intended change of control cause a downgrading in the credit rating that voting at the 2016 AGM will be on a poll.
The Notice of the Companys corporate bonds to sub-investment grade of Meeting on pages 140 to 147 specifies deadlines for or if already sub-investment grade, a further credit rating exercising voting rights.
downgrade which is not rectified within 120 days after a change of control event, holders of the bonds have the The Company is not aware of any agreements between option to call for redemption of the bonds by the Company shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer at their nominal value together with accrued interest.
of securities and voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than The Companys share option plans, and its Long Term certain restrictions imposed by laws and regulations such Incentive and Share Matching Plans, contain provisions as insider trading laws and market requirements relating to regarding a change of control.
Outstanding options and close periods and requirements of the Listing Rules whereby awards may vest on a change of control, subject to the directors and certain employees of the Company require satisfaction of any relevant performance conditions.
Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
Directors service contracts are terminable by the Company The Companys Articles of Association the Articles may on giving one years notice.
There are no agreements only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting.
between the Company and its directors or employees Directors are elected or re-elected by ordinary resolution at providing for additional compensation for loss of office or a general meeting: the Board may appoint a director but employment whether through resignation, redundancy or anyone so appointed must be elected by ordinary resolution otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
at the next general meeting.
Under the Articles, directors Corporate governance retire and may offer themselves for re-election at a general meeting at least every three years.
However, in line with The corporate governance statement as required by the the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency directors will stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
6 comprises the Additional Information section of the Directors Report and the Corporate Governance statement included in this Annual Report.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information distributions As noted in the financial statements, during the year to January 2016, the Directors became aware that certain dividends paid in 2014 and 2015 totalling 311.2m had been made otherwise than in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 because interim accounts had not been filed at Companies House prior to payment.
At a General Meeting of the Companys shareholders held on 10 February 2016, a resolution was passed which authorised the appropriation of distributable profits to the payment of the relevant dividends and removed any right for the Company to pursue shareholders or directors for repayment.
This constituted a related party transaction under IAS 24.
The overall effect of the resolution being passed was to return all parties to the position they would have been in had the relevant dividends been made in full compliance with the Act.
The following disclosures are required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R: Publication of unaudited In January 2016, NEXT financial information published a Profit Before Tax PBT forecast for the year to January 2016 of 810m to 824m, based on a 52 week period, plus an additional 15m in respect of week 53.
Actual PBT for the 53 week period was 836.1m.
Shareholder waivers of The NEXT Employee Share dividends Ownership Trust waived its rights to receive dividends during the year.
By order of the Board Amanda James Director 24 March 2016 43 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2
