Strategic Report Business Model NEXT is a UK based retailer offering exciting, beautifully designed, excellent quality clothing, footwear, accessories and home products.
NEXT is one of the largest clothing and home products retailers in the UK by sales, and a member of the FTSE100 index.
The Group is primarily comprised of: Segment profit NEXT Retail, a chain of more than 500 stores in the UK and Eire.
The majority of our stores sell clothing, footwear, accessories and or home products: and we now operate over 20 large combined fashion and home stores.
The predominantly leased store portfolio is actively managed, with opening and closure decisions based on store profitability and cash payback.
NEXT directory, an online and catalogue shopping business with over 4 million active customers and international websites serving approximately 70 countries.
By embracing the internet, providing exceptional customer service and developing overseas opportunities, over the last ten years NEXT Directorys sales have grown by more than 140% and now represent 40% of Group sales and 46% of segment profit.
There are strong synergies between NEXT Retail and NEXT Directory: through efficient stock management and customer service opportunities such as handling Directory collections and returns in-store, the Group has been able to successfully NEXT Retail 46% develop both parts of the business.
NEXT Directory 46% NEXT international Retail, with around 200 mainly franchised stores across the world.
NEXT International Retail 1% NEXTs franchise partners operate over 180 stores in 35 countries: there are also a small number of stores which NEXT Sourcing 6% NEXT operates directly.
Other 1% NEXT Sourcing, which designs and sources NEXT branded products.
NEXT Sourcing NS is our Hong Kong based internal sourcing agent which competes for business against other suppliers to NEXT Retail and Directory.
Last year, around 40% of the Groups products were procured or produced by NEXT Sourcing.
Further information on the Groups supply chain and NEXTs commitment to ethical trading can be found on page 33.
Lipsy, which designs and sells Lipsy and other branded younger womens fashion products.
Lipsy trades from around 40 stores, online, and through wholesale and franchise channels.
Further detail on the performance and development of the Groups businesses can be found in the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 23, which forms part of this Strategic Report along with Key Performance Indicators page 25, Risks & Uncertainties page 26, Employees page 32, Social, Community and Human Rights page 32 and Environmental Matters page 34. Business Strategies and Objectives The primary financial objective of the Group is to deliver long term, sustainable returns to shareholders through a combination of growth in earnings per share EPS and payment of cash dividends.
Underlying EPS increased by 5.4% from last year and we paid ordinary and special dividends totalling 383p per share.
Over the last ten years, EPS and ordinary dividends per share have both increased by almost 250% and the Companys share price has increased by around 300%.
This long term value has been created through the pursuit of the following strategies: Improving and developing our product ranges, success in which is measured by sales performance.
Profitably increasing retail selling space.
New store appraisals must meet demanding financial criteria before the investment is made, and success is measured by achieved profit contribution and return on capital against appraised targets.
Increasing the number of profitable NEXT Directory customers and their spend, both in the UK and internationally, and complemented by our LABEL publication of branded products.
Managing gross and net margins through efficient product sourcing, stock management and cost control.
Focussing on customer service and satisfaction levels in both Retail stores and Directory.
Maintaining the Groups financial strength through an efficient balance sheet and secure financing structure.
Generating and returning surplus cash to shareholders by way of share buybacks or special dividends.
REad aBoUT oUR oBJECTivES FoR ThE YEaR REad aBoUT ThE oUTLooK FoR 2016 17 ahEad oN pagE 5. oN pagE 21.
