Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Viability Assessment The directors have assessed the prospects of the Group by reference to its current financial position, its recent and historical financial performance and forecasts, and the principal risks and mitigating factors described above.
In addition, the Board regularly reviews the financing position of the Group and its projected funding position and requirements.
The Group is operationally and financially strong and has a track record of consistently generating profits and cash, which is expected to continue.
The Group has grown strongly in recent years but maintaining such growth will continue to be challenging.
The directors review cash flow projections on a regular basis.
This included a recent review by the Audit Committee of three year cash projections which were stress tested to determine the extent to which trading cash flows would need to deteriorate before breaching the Groups facilities, both before and after anticipated shareholder distributions.
In addition, the likelihood and impact of severe but plausible scenarios in relation to the principal risks were assessed, both individually and collectively, taking into consideration mitigating actions that might be undertaken in particular situations.
Whilst the principal risks all have the potential to affect future performance, none of them are considered likely either individually or collectively to threaten the viability of the business over the three year assessment period.
The retail sector is inherently fast-paced, competitive and dynamic, particularly in respect of the fashion product cycle.
However, as illustrated in the diagram below, a wide variety of other time horizons are also relevant in the management of the business: 1 year 2 years 3 years 5 years 7 years 10 years Long term Detailed Target payback Medium term Weighted average Cash ow investment and budgets and period for nancing remaining forecasts nancing forecasts new stores considerations lease life considerations New lease Logistics capacity planning 40% commitments Retail space planning Pensions Share-based incentives Fashion lifecycle Currency hedging Management succession planning IT systems development The directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period, as they believe this strikes an appropriate balance between the different time horizons which are used in the business and is a reasonable period for a shareholder to expect a retail business to be assessed upon.
Based on this review, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over this period.
