112 | Directors Report The directors submit their report and the consolidated In May 2015 the Board approved a policy for the audited financial statements of the Group and the audited indemnification of directors, officers and other designated parent financial statements of the Company for the year beneficiaries and the entry by the Company into an ended 31 December 2016. accompanying deed of indemnity.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Large The policy clarifies that the Company will seek to provide the and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and maximum indemnification and protection to Group directors Reports Regulations 2008.
Certain information that fulfils the and officers permissible under applicable law, except in requirements of the directors report can be found elsewhere casesof fraud or wilful default, including but not limited to: in this document and is referred to below.
This information i providing compensation for losses suffered in the course isincorporated into this directors report by reference.
ofacting as a director or officer in the interests of the Group, ii providing directors and officers with quality external legal Directors and their interests representation and external professional advisers, Full biographical details of the individuals who were directors iii assisting directors or officers with repatriation following of the Company at anytime during the financial year ended athird party claim, iv continuing to make payment of a 31 December 2016 are set out on pages 70-72 of this annual directors or officers remuneration and benefits while such report.
director or officer is under suspension, investigation or detention by order of a third party, v taking reasonable Details of each directors interests in the Companys ordinary stepsto place any such director or officer in a similar position shares and options held over ordinary shares are set out in full working in another location or elsewhere in the Group which in the directors remuneration report on pages 101 and 102 would allow his her employment to continue and to respectively.
compensate for any adverse financial consequences they incur as a result of their loss of office, or vi maintaining Dividends customary directors and officers liability insurance policies.
No dividends were paid during the year ended 31 December 2016.
The deed of indemnity is intended to cover any insufficiency in the protection granted to directors and officers under No dividend is proposed to be paid in 2017 in respect of the theArticles which could expose such persons to substantial year ended 31 December 2016 due to lower revenues as a liability to third parties, including governmental authorities, result of declining oil prices.
inparticular in jurisdictions where significant uncertainty exists in relation to the interpretation and application of the Auditor law.
The deed of indemnity allows directors, officers and Each director in office at the date of this directors report other designated beneficiaries to enforce the protection confirms that a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant provided for under the Articles without any further action auditinformation of which the Companys auditor is unaware bythe Company being required.
and b he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken asadirector to make himself aware of any relevant audit Political donations information and to establish that the Companys auditor The Group has made no political donations during the isaware of that information.
Directors liabilities and indemnities Contributions to non-EU political parties The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors.
No contributions to non-EU political parties were made Alldirectors are also in receipt of an indemnity from the during the year 2016.
Company under the Companys Articles in respect of a liability incurred by any director due to the negligence, Financial risk management objectives and policies default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives affairs of the Company, or any subsidiary undertaking or and policies, including our policy for hedging are set out b any liability incurred by any director in connection with innote 32 to the consolidated audited financial statements.
theactivities of the Company, or any subsidiary undertaking, in its capacity as a trustee of an occupational pension Future developments within the Group scheme, in both instances to the extent permitted under the The strategic report on pages 2-67 contains details of likely Companies Act 2006.
Copies of the Companys articles of future developments in the business of the Group.
association the Articles are available on the Companys website or at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 113 Research and development Voting rights The Group is not involved in any activities in the field of There are no restrictions on voting rights or transfers research and development.
ofshares in the Articles and at a General Meeting every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote for Branches every share held by him.
No shareholder shall be entitled The Company is registered in England and Wales but has tovote either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other itsplace of effective management and tax residence in The right in relation to General Meetings if any sum due from Netherlands.
As the Group is a global business our interests himto the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
and activities are held or operated through subsidiaries and branches and subject to the laws and regulations of many Transfer of shares different jurisdictions.
The Articles provide that transfers of certificated shares mustbe effected in writing duly signed by or on behalf of Share capital thetransferor and, except in the case of fully paid shares, As of 31 December 2016 the Companys issued share capital byor on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain was 1,881,829.58 divided into 188,182,958 ordinary shares the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the each having a nominal value of 0.01, all of which are in free transferee is entered on the Register of Members in respect circulation.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares of those shares.
Transfers of uncertificated shares may be arefully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
The rights effected by means of the relevant electronic system unless attached to them, in addition to those conferred on their the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 provide holders by law, are set out in the Articles.
Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares Association the directors may exercise all powers of the infavour of more than four persons jointly.
Company, including the power to authorise the issue and or market purchase of the Companys shares, subject Directors, articles and purchase of shares toanappropriate authority being given to directors by The Articles were adopted on 19 May 2014 and may only shareholders in a General Meeting and any conditions beamended by special resolution at a General Meeting attaching to such authority.
The current authority, approved ofthe shareholders.
at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, for the allotment of relevant securities is for a nominal amount of up to: The directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation i 1,240,000 and ii equity securities up to a nominal and by the Articles.
In accordance with the Articles the Board amount of 620,000 less the nominal amount of any has the power at any time to elect any person to be a director.
securities allotted under part i of the authority.
Any person so appointed by the directors will retire at the next Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Furthermore, at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, Corporate Governance Code: retiring directors may be shareholders authorised the directors to make market eligible for annual re-election.
purchases up to a maximum of approximately 10% ofthe Companys issued share capital being 186,000,000 The Company did not repurchase any shares during 2016. innominal value excluding treasury shares.
Any shares The Board has the power conferred on it by shareholders to purchased under this authority may either be cancelled purchase its own shares and will seek a renewal of that power ormay be held as treasury shares provided that the number at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting within the limits of shares held does not exceed 10% of issued share capital.
set out in the notice of the meeting.
No shares were bought back during the year.
Employment policies and equal opportunities The Elian Employee Benefit Trustee Limited holds shares The Group is an inclusive and equal opportunity employer inthe Company in trust the Trust for the purposes of and complies with all applicable laws governing employment theCompanys phantom share option plan, and the rights practices.
The Group has also adopted and implemented attaching to them are exercised by independent trustees.
policies and procedures which cover the recruitment, Asat 31 December 2016 the Trust held 3,279,204 ordinary selection, training and development and promotion and shares in the Company.
Share rights Without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company may issue shares with rights or restrictions as determined by either the shareholders by ordinary resolution or, if the Company passes a resolution, the directors.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 114 | Directors Report continued Nostrum aims to create a workplace that has an open Employee communications and involvement atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment or The Group has processes in place for communicating and discrimination of any kind based on race, religion, national consulting with all its employees so that their views can origin, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation or political betaken into account in making decisions which are likely opinion or any other similarly protected characteristic is not toaffect their interests and so that employees are made tolerated.
This principle applies to all aspects of employment awareof any financial and economic factors affecting the from recruitment and promotion through to termination Companys performance.
Employee communications include andall other terms and conditions of employment.
information about the performance of the Group, on major matters affecting their work, employment or workplace.
It is the Groups aim that all employment policies are fair TheGroup has also developed an intranet, which assists in andequitable and consistent with the skills and abilities communicating with employees across borders and provides oftheemployee and the needs of the business.
Employees key information to all Group employees.
arefree to join a trade union or participate in collective bargaining arrangements.
The Company also operates an employee phantom share option plan, further details of which can be found in the Further details are included in Our people on pages 39-43. directors remuneration policy on page 108 and the notes tothe consolidated audited financial statements for the year In accordance with the Groups Code of Conduct the ended 31 December 2016.
Companys policy is to fully comply with the UK Equality Act 2010, which imposes a duty on employers to make Substantial shareholders reasonable adjustments to help disabled job applicants, As of 31 December 2016, the following significant employees and former employees in certain circumstances shareholdings of voting rights in the share capital of the and prohibits direct disability discrimination, discrimination Company had been disclosed to the Company under arising from disability, indirect disability discrimination, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5 or otherwise.
harassment relating to disability and victimisation.
Number of % of issued Name ordinary shares ordinary shares Where the duty to make reasonable adjustments arises, the Mayfair Investments B. V. 48,333,300 25.7 Companys policy is to effectively treat the disabled person Baring Vostok Capital more favourably than others in an attempt to reduce or Partners 29,050,054 15.4 remove that individuals disadvantage.
Claremont Holdings C. V. 24,888,950 13.2 The Companys policy is to give full and fair consideration Harding Loevner LP 13,559,457 7.2 toapplications for employment made by disabled people.
Aberforth Partners LLP 13,347,859 7.1 Disabled job applicants and employees are encouraged to M&G Investment tell the Company about their condition so that the Company Management Limited 10,303,791 5.5 can support them as appropriate.
Employees experiencing difficulties at work because of a disability may contact their There were no major transactions in the share capital of the supervisor or the Human Resources Department to discuss Company or any change in the structure of shareholders any reasonable adjustments that would help overcome or holding 3 or more per cent of the ordinary shares in the minimise the difficulty.
Their line manager or the Human reporting period apart from the decrease in the holdings of Resources Department may consult with the disabled person Claremont Holdings C. V. from 17.3% as at 31 December 2015 and his or her medical adviser about possible adjustments.
Mr Monstrey also notified The Company will consider the matter carefully and try to the Company that Claremont Holdings Limited, a closely accommodate the disabled persons needs within reason.
associated person, cancelled: i a call option over 5,191,491 Support provided by the Company to disabled employees ordinary shares and ii a call option over 3,310,636 ordinary may include training and career development support.
shares, the voting rights of which were held by Claremont IftheCompany considers a particular adjustment would Holdings C. V. and confirmed that this has not resulted in any notbe reasonable it will explain its reasons and try to find change to the voting rights attached to ordinary shares in the analternative solution where possible.
Company of any of Frank Monstrey, his spouse Petra No, Claremont Holdings C. V. or Claremont Holdings Limited.
The Company will monitor the physical features of its premises to consider whether they might place anyone with adisability at a substantial disadvantage.
Where necessary, itwill take reasonable steps to improve access.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 115 In addition to the above, the Company received the following TR1 notifications during the financial year: Holding Holding before triggering after triggering Percentage Date Shareholder transaction transaction of voting rights Direct indirect 13 April 2016 VTB Capital plc 6,489,364 14,511,201 7.71% Direct 24 June 2016 Harding Loevner, LP 9,080,899 9,284,699 5.02% Direct 21 July 2016 VTB Capital plc 14,511,201 11,229,364 6.08% Direct 17 August 2016 VTB Capital plc 11,229,364 8,324,887 4.51% Direct 26 August 2016 VTB Capital plc 8,324,887 5,891,093 3.19% Direct 12 September 2016 VTB Capital plc 5,891,093 5,476,500 2.96% Direct 19 September 2016 VTB Capital plc 5,476,500 5,558,841 3.01% Direct 26 September 2016 VTB Capital plc 5,558,841 5,517,458 2.99% Direct On 17 February 2017, the Company received a TR1 Terms of the Claremont Relationship Agreement notification from M&G Investments Fund 3 notifying Under the Claremont Relationship Agreement, Claremont theCompany that its shareholding had decreased from has agreed that a it will, and will procure its affiliates to, allow 9,572,738 5.09% shares to 9,210,923 4.98%.
the business and affairs of the Company and the Group to be operated in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole, Related party transactions b it will, and will procure its affiliates will, allow the Company Refer to note 29 of the consolidated financial statements for and its affiliates at all times to carry on its business adescription of related party transactions in the reporting independently of Claremont and its affiliates, c it will not, period.
and will procure its affiliates will not, act in any way which shall prejudice the ability of the Company and its affiliates to carry Significant contractual arrangements on its business independently of Claremont or its affiliates, On 19 May 2014 the Company entered into relationship d it will, and will procure its affiliates to, allow the agreements with Claremont Holdings C. V. Claremont Companyto be managed in accordance with the Corporate theClaremont Relationship Agreement and Governance Code to the extent and on such terms as may KazStroyService Global B. V. KSS Global the KSS Global bedetermined by the Board and to comply with any further Relationship Agreement and together with the Claremont amendments or supplements to the Corporate Governance Relationship Agreement, the Relationship Agreements Code as may be adopted by the Board, and it acknowledges toregulate in part the degree of influence that Claremont its obligations under, and agrees to comply with, and will and KSS Global and their affiliates may exercise over the procure its affiliates comply with, the Disclosure Guidance management of the Company.
The principal purposes of the and Transparency Rules in respect of its interests in the Relationship Agreements are to ensure that the Company is Ordinary Shares, e it will not, and will procure its affiliates capable at all times of carrying on its business independently willnot, take any action or omit to take any action to of Claremont and KSS Global and their affiliates and that all of prejudice the Companys status as a listed company or its the Companys transactions and relationships with Claremont suitability for listing under the Listing Rules after Admission and KSS Global and its affiliates are at arms length and on has occurred or the Companys ongoing compliance with the normal commercial terms.
Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules or have the effect of preventing the Company from Pursuant to its terms each of the Relationship Agreements complying with itsobligations under the Listing Rules, willcontinue until the earlier of a the ordinary shares ceasing provided that this shallnot prevent Claremont or any other to be admitted to the Official List of the Financial Conduct person from: i accepting a takeover offer for the Company Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange or made in accordance with the City Code a Takeover Offer b Claremont and or KSS Global together with any of their in relation to their respective interests in the Company or, affiliates ceasing to be entitled to exercise, or to control wheresuch Takeover Offer is made by way of a scheme theexercise of, 10% or more of the rights to vote at the ofarrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act Companys General Meetings.
aCA2006 Scheme, voting in favour of such CA2006 Scheme at the court and related shareholder meetings orotherwise agreeing to sell their ordinary shares in connection with a Takeover Offer: or ii making a Takeover Offer by way of a general offer for all outstanding ordinary shares or by way of a CA2006 Scheme and fide-listing the Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 116 | Directors Report continued Company after such Takeover Offer has become wholly orhold or acquire a material shareholding in one or more unconditional or, in the case of a CA2006 Scheme, after significant subsidiaries of the Company and: f it will exercise ithasbecome effective, f it will not, and will procure that its voting rights in such a manner as to procure to the extent itsaffiliates will not, influence the day-to-day running of the possible : i at least half of the Board comprises independent Company at an operational level or hold or acquire a material directors excluding the chairman of the Board : ii the Audit shareholding in one or more significant subsidiaries of the Committee shall comprise entirely independent directors Company: and g it will exercise its voting rights in such and the Remuneration Committee shall comprise not less amanner as to procure to the extent possible : i at least than three independent directors: and iii the Nomination halfof the Board comprises independent directors and Governance Committee and any other committee of the excludingthe chairman of the Board : ii the Audit Board to which significant powers, authorities or discretions Committee shall comprise entirely independent directors are delegated shall at all times consist of a majority of and the Remuneration Committee shall comprise not less independent directors.
than three independent directors: and iii the Nomination and Governance Committee and any other committee Deed of adherence with Mayfair Investments B. V. oftheBoard to which significant powers, authorities or On 30 January 2015 KSS Global transferred its 50 million discretions are delegated shall at all times consist of ordinary shares in the Company as follows: a 48,333,300 amajority of independent directors.
shares to Mayfair Investments B. V. Mayfair, a company indirectly owned by KSS Globals three principal shareholders Terms of the KSS Global Relationship Agreement on the date of the transfer, and b 1,666,700 shares to Under the KSS Global Relationship Agreement, KSS Global KSSGlobals other shareholder on such date.
has agreed that a it will, and will procure its affiliates will, allow the Company and its affiliates at all times to carry on In connection with such transfer, Mayfair entered into a itsbusiness independently of KSS Global and its affiliates, Deedof Adherence with Nostrum pursuant to which Mayfair b itwill not, and will procure its affiliates will not, act in any has undertaken to Nostrum to be bound by the KSS Global way which shall prejudice the ability of the Company and its Relationship Agreement in all respects and to observe affiliates to carry on its business independently of KSS Global andperform all of the provisions and obligations of such or its affiliates, c it will comply with, and will procure relationship agreement previously applicable to or binding itsaffiliates comply with, the Disclosure Guidance and on KSS Global in so far as they fall to be observed or Transparency Rules in respect of its interests in the ordinary performed on or after the date of the transfer.
shares, d it will not, and will procure its affiliates will not, takeany action or omit to take any action to prejudice the Change of control Companys status as a listed company or its suitability for The following are significant agreements the Company has listing under the Listing Rules after Admission has occurred entered into which would be affected on a change of control or the Companys ongoing compliance with the Listing Rules of the Company following a takeover: and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules or havethe effect of preventing the Company from complying 1.
In the event of a takeover of the Company all options with its obligations under the Listing Rules, provided that underthe Companys employee share option plan shall thisshall not prevent KSS Global or any other person from: bedeemed to have vested and the Board shall direct i accepting a Takeover Offer for the Company in relation ElianEmployee Benefit Trustee Limited to allow each totheir respective interests in the Company or, where such optionholder to exercise his or her options at any time Takeover Offer is made by way of a CA2006 Scheme, voting fromthe date of the change of control up to the tenth in favour of such CA2006 Scheme at the court and related anniversary of the date of grant.
Any options that have shareholder meetings or otherwise agreeing to sell their notbeen exercised will lapse at the end of this period.
ordinary shares in connection with a Takeover Offer: or ii making a Takeover Offer by way of a general offer for 2.
The 2012 Bonds and the 2014 Bonds contain change allthe outstanding ordinary shares or by way of a CA2006 ofcontrol provisions.
If a change of control occurs the Scheme and fide-listing the Company after such Takeover Company will be required to offer to repurchase the 2019 Offer has become wholly unconditional or, in the case of Bonds and the New 2019 Bonds at 101% of their principal aCA2006 Scheme, after it has become effective, e it will amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date not, and will procure that its affiliates will not, influence the ofpurchase.
day-to-day running of the Company at an operational level Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 117 Greenhouse gases Information regarding the Groups greenhouse gas emissionsfor activities for which the Group is responsible isset out onpages 46-47.
Corporate governance statement Pursuant to Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7, certain parts of the corporate governance statement are required to be outlined in the directors report.
This information is laid out in the corporate governance section ofthis Annual Report.
Information regarding the main features of the Companys internal control and risk management arrangements in relation to the financial reporting process can be found in the Strategic Report andthe report of the Audit Committee.
Going concern The financial position and performance of the Company andthe Group and its cash flows are set out in the financial review section of this annual report on pages 61-67.
The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out in note 2 of the consolidated audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 118 | Directors Report continued Requirements of the listing rules The following table provides references to where the information required by listing rule 9.8.
Listing rule requirement A statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group during Please refer to note 8 in the financial statements the period under review with an indication of the amount and treatment of any related tax relief.
Any information required by LR 9.2.
18R publication of unaudited Not applicable.
Details of any long-term incentive schemes as required by LR 9.4.
Details of any arrangements under which a director of the company has No such waivers.
waived or agreed to waive any emoluments from the company or any subsidiary undertaking.
Where a director has agreed to waive future emoluments, details of such waiver together with those relating to emoluments which were waived during the period under review.
Details required in the case of any allotment for cash of equity securities No such share allotments.
made during the period under review otherwise than to the holders ofthe companys equity shares in proportion to their holdings of such equity shares and which has not been specifically authorised by the companys shareholders.
Where a listed company has listed shares in issue and is a subsidiary Not applicable.
undertaking of another company, details of the participation by the parent undertaking in any placing made during the period under review.
Details of any contract of significance subsisting during the period Please refer to the Directors Report.
underreview: a to which the listed company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, isaparty and in which a director of the listed company is or was materially interested: and b between the listed company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, and a controlling shareholder.
Details of contracts for the provision of services to the Company or any Not applicable.
of its subsidiary undertakings by the controlling shareholder, unless: a it is a contract for the provision of services which it is the principal business of the shareholder to provide: and b it is not a contract of significance.
Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or Under the trust deed relating to the Phantom Share Option agreed to waive any dividends, where a shareholder has agreed to waive Plan, the trustee has agreed to waive any dividends on future dividends, details of such waiver together with thoserelating to shares held under the Phantom Share Option Plan.
dividends which are payable during the period under review.
Board statement in respect of relationship agreement with the Not applicable as the Company does not have a controlling controlling shareholder.
shareholder within the definition under Listing Rule 6.1.
2A R, however, please see Directors Report for details of relationship agreements the Company has entered into with certain shareholders.
Important events since the end of the financial year There were no major events that occurred between 31 December 2016 and the date of this annual report.
On behalf of the Board Kai-Uwe Kessel Tom Richardson Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 27 March 2017 27 March 2017 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 119 Responsibility statement To the best of the directors knowledge: The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair applicable law and regulations.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit orloss of the Company and the undertakings included The directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to inthe consolidation taken as a whole: and prepare accounts for each financial year and, with regards toGroup accounts, in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS b the management report includes a fair review of the Regulation.
The directors have prepared individual accounts development or performance of the business and the in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The accounts position of the Company and the undertakings included are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with position of the Company and the Group and the performance adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties that for that period.
The directors must not approve such they face.
accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fairview of the state of affairs of the Company and the By order of the Board consolidated Group.
The Directors consider that the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, in preparing the financial statements, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Kai-Uwe Kessel Tom Richardson Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer brought to the attention of the Board during the year into account, and having reviewed the Annual Report including 27 March 2017 27 March 2017 the strategic report, the directors consider the Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, providing the information necessary forshareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The directors have responsibility for: ensuring that the Company and the Group keep accountingrecords which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006: taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities: and the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 1 financial information on the Companys website.
1 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 120 | Consolidated Group financial statements Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
