GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 74 75 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited No person has any special rights of control over the Companys consolidated accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016. share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Results With regards to the appointment and replacement of Profit for the year after taxation was 61,479,000 2015 Directors, the Company is governed by the Articles, the UK 66,802,000.
Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of directors are set of 10.9p per share on the Ordinary shares.
This dividend, if out in the Articles.
approved, will be paid on 23 September 2016 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 19 August 2016.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for An interim dividend of 5.1p per share was paid on the Ordinary compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs shares on 11 January 2016. because of a change of control.
Principal activities Interests in shares The Company is an investment holding company.
The following interests in the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company have been notified to the Company in A list of subsidiary companies is shown in Note 16 to the accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5 of the Disclosure accounts.
and Transparency Rules: Close company status So far as the Directors are aware the close company provisions 30 April 7 June 2016 2016 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
Aviva Plc 7,783,670 7,665,644 5.84% 5.75% Capital structure Schroders plc 7,454,107 7,454,107 Details of the issued share capital, together with details of any movements during the year, are shown in Note 23.
The 5.60% 5.60% Company has one class of Ordinary share which carries no Aberforth Partners 6,773,063 6,773,063 right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote 5.08% 5.08% at general meetings of the Company.
BlackRock Inc. 6,686,835 5.01% The cumulative Preference shares of 50p each entitle the holder to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the Artemis Investment 6,536,818 6,536,818 rate of 5% on the paid up capital and the right to a return of Management Ltd 4.90% 4.90% capital at either winding up or a repayment of capital.
The Norges Bank 5,728,257 5,728,257 cumulative Preference shares do not entitle the holders to any 4.30% 4.30% further or other participation in the profits or assets of the Old Mutual Plc 5,735,049 5,735,049 Company.
4.30% 4.30% The percentage of the issued nominal value of the Ordinary Legal & General 5,307,060 5,307,060 shares is 99.255% of the total issued nominal value of all share Group Plc 3.98% 3.98% capital.
No disclosable holding There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Directors general provisions of the Articles of Association the Articles Details of the present Directors are listed on pages 52 and 53. and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any All have served throughout the year except Claire Miles who agreements between holders of the Companys shares that was appointed on 27 November 2015, Paddy Gallagher who may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on was appointed on 22 February 2016 and Bill Spencer who was voting rights.
Bob Mackenzie and Jan Astrand retired from the Board on 17 September 2015 and Chris Muir Details of employee share schemes are set out in the retired from the Board on 22 February 2016.
Shares held by the Capita Trust are voted on the instructions of the employees on whose behalf they are held.
Shares in the Guernsey Trust are voted at the discretion of the Trustees.
com stock code: NTG Report of the Directors CONTINUED Resolutions to reappoint each of the Directors in office at the | the Annual report on remuneration, which sets out date of this report will be proposed at the AGM.
payments made in the financial year ended 30 April 2016 on pages 66 to 74.
The termination provisions in respect of executive Directors contracts are set out in the Remuneration These will be put to an advisory shareholder vote by ordinary Policy which is available on the Companys website: resolution.
The Directors Remuneration Policy, which sets www.
out the Companys forward looking policy on Directors remuneration including the approach to exit payments to Directors indemnities Directors and which was approved by shareholders in 2014, is As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, available on the Companys website: www.
qualifying third party indemnities for each Director of the This policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote by ordinary Company were in place throughout their periods of office resolution at least every three years and will next be put to during the year and, for those currently in office, remained in such vote in 2017. force as at the date of signing of this report.
If the Company wishes to change the Directors Remuneration the Companys Articles of Association are available on Policy, it will need to put the revised policy to a further vote the Companys website: www.
com before it can be implemented.
No such changes are proposed this year.
Employee consultation Employees are kept informed on matters affecting them as Power to allot shares employees and on various issues affecting the performance The present authority of the Directors to allot shares was of the Group through Chief Executive briefing updates, granted at the AGM held in September 2015 and expires at announcements on the Groups intranet, formal and informal the forthcoming AGM.
A resolution to renew that authority meetings at local level and direct written communications.
for a period expiring at the conclusion of the AGM to be held All employees are eligible to participate on an equal basis in in 2017 will be proposed at the AGM.
The authority will permit the Groups share incentive plan, which has been running the Directors to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of successfully since its inception in 2000.
22m of share capital which represents approximately 33% of the present issued Ordinary share capital and is within Disabled employees the limits approved by the Investment Association and the Applications for employment by disabled persons are given National Association of Pension Funds.
full consideration, taking into account the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
Every effort is made to try to ensure that The Directors have no present intention of exercising such employees who become disabled whilst already employed authority and no issue of shares which would effectively alter are able to continue in employment by making reasonable the control of the Company will be made without the prior adjustments in the workplace, arranging appropriate training approval of shareholders in a general meeting.
or providing suitable alternative employment.
It is Group policy that the training, career development and promotion of A special resolution will be proposed to renew the authority disabled persons should, as far as possible, be the same as that of the Directors to allot Ordinary shares for cash other than to of other employees.
existing shareholders on a proportionate basis in accordance with the best practice guidance set out in the Statement of the Groups equal opportunity policy is available on the Principles issued by The Pre-Emption Group and which has Companys website: www.
com been endorsed by the Investment Association.
This authority will be limited to: Political donations No political donations were made by any Group company in | firstly, an aggregate nominal amount of 3,330,000, the year.
representing approximately 5% of the current issued Ordinary share capital Resolution 14b : and Greenhouse gas emissions The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required | secondly, a further 5% of the Companys share capital, by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups provided that this additional power is only used in Accounts and Reports Regulations are included in the CSR connection with acquisitions and specified capital section of the Strategic Report on pages 44 to 49. investments which are announced contemporaneously with the issue or which have taken place in the Remuneration report preceding six month period and are disclosed in the The Directors Remuneration Report contains: announcement of the issue Resolution 15.
| a statement by Jill Caseberry, Chairman of the Companys Remuneration Committee, on pages 64 and 65: and 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 76 77 The 2015 Statement of Principles defines a specified capital It is the Boards intention that this authority would not be investment as one or more specific capital investment related used as a matter of routine but only when merited by the uses for the proceeds of an issuance of equity securities, in circumstances of the meeting and in the best interests of respect of which sufficient information regarding the effect shareholders.
of the transaction on the listed company, the assets the Authority for the Company to purchase its subject of the transaction and where appropriate the profits own shares attributable to them is made available to shareholders to The Directors propose to renew the general authority of enable them to reach an assessment of the potential return.
the Company to make market purchases of its own shares Items that are regarded as operating expenditure rather than to a total of 13,300,000 Ordinary shares representing capital expenditure will not typically be regarded as falling approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary share capital and within the term specified capital investment.
within the price constraints set out in the special resolution to The Directors have no present intention of exercising this be proposed at the AGM.
authority and confirm their intention to follow the provisions There is no present intention to make any purchase of own of The Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding shares and, if granted, the authority would only be exercised if cumulative use of such authorities within a rolling three year to do so would result in an improvement in earnings per share period.
The Principles provide that companies should not for remaining shareholders.
issue shares for cash representing more than 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three year period, Financial instruments other than to existing shareholders, without prior consultation Details of the Groups use of financial instruments are given in with shareholders.
This limit excludes any Ordinary shares the Financial Review on pages 22 to 31 and in Notes 21 and issued pursuant to a general disapplication of pre-emption 29 to the accounts.
rights in connection with an acquisition or specified capital Auditor investment.
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Disclosure of information under listing Rule Company at the date when this report was approved: 9.8.
4 | so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant Dividend waiver arrangements are in place for the employee audit information of which the Companys auditor is trusts as shown on page 73. unaware: and length of notice of general meetings | each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought The minimum notice period permitted by the Companies Act to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any 2006 for general meetings of listed companies is 21 days, but relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Act provides that companies may reduce this period to 14 the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
days other than for AGMs provided that two conditions are met.
The first condition is that the Company offers a facility for This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This condition is met accordance with the provisions of s418 Companies Act 2006. if the Company offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, A resolution for the appointment of PwC as auditor of the to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
Please refer to Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Note 6 to the Notice of AGM on page 127 for details of the Meeting.
This proposal is supported by the Audit and Risk Companys arrangements for electronic proxy appointment.
The second condition is that there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice The Directors Report, comprising the Strategic Report, the period from 21 days to 14 days.
Corporate Governance Report and the Reports of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, has been approved by the A resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum period of Board and signed on its behalf.
notice for all general meetings of the Company other than AGMs will be proposed at the AGM.
The approval will be By order of the Board effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended David Henderson that the approval be renewed.
