18 | Market overview 1 The oil and gas market inKazakhstan The Kazakh government has stated Economic growth Kazakhstan is that it expects oil and gas production andinvestment in in 2016 to amount to 77 million tons, among the increasing to 92 million tons in 2020.
Kazakhstans oil Most of this growth is expected to andgas industry worlds top come from the Tengiz, Karachaganak and Kashagan fields.
Since 2000, Kazakhstan has countries by size experienced significant economic Oil price outlook growth driven by economic reform of oil and gas and foreign investment.
Concurrently, Nostrum has managed its capital exports of crude oil have grown reserves, and expenditure prudently during significantly with a majority of the theperiod of continued oil price oilproduced being delivered to isthe second uncertainty and volatility and as international markets via pipelines such, is well positioned to withstand which run through Russia to shipping largest oil acontinuation in low oil prices over points on the Black Sea.
the short to medium term and to producer in the deliver growth at a US$50.0 bbl Major projects in Kazakhstan include long-term oil price.
the world-class Tengiz, Karachaganak FSU after Russia.
There are threemajor oil and gas refineries Overview the larger inKazakhstan supplying the north, Caspian Region west and southern regions, in Pavlodar, Atyrau and Shymkent Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan are the respectively.
Allthree are either two significant crude oil producing under the control or joint control countries in the Caspian region, ofKazMunayGas JSC NC KMG.
producing 1.7m bopd and 0.8mbopd in 2015 respectively.
Oil supply and Itisexpected that these countries will continue to lead the region in crude demand oil production.
Turkmenistan and 1 This information has, unless otherwise stated, Uzbekistan are the predominant gas beenextracted from documents, websites and According to BPs Statistical Review other publications released by the President of producers in the region.
Russia plays of World Energy 2016, as at Kazakhstan, the Statistics Agency of Kazakhstan, an important role in the region by theMinistry of Finance of Kazakhstan, the 31December 2015 Kazakhstan Competent Authority and other public sources.
providing a transportation corridor rankedtwelfth in the world by oil between the Caspian Sea and the Some of the market and competitive position reserves and fifteenth in the world Black Sea, although this part of Russia datahas been obtained from US government bygas reserves.
Kazakhstan is the publications and other third-party sources, is not a substantial source of crude.
second largest oil producer after including publicly available data from the WorldBank, the Economist Intelligence Unit, the Russia among the former Soviet annual BP Statistical Review of World Energy for Republics and has the Caspian 2016, as well as from Kazakh press reports and publications, and edicts and resolutions of the regions largest recoverable oil Kazakh government.
In the case of statistical reserves.
Kazakhstans proved oil and information, similar statistics may be obtainable gas reserves were 3.0billion tonnes from other sources, although the underlying assumptions and methodology, and consequently and 0.9 trillion cubic metres the resulting data, may vary from source to source.
Certain sources are only updated periodically.
Thismeans that certain data for current periods cannot be obtained and we cannot assure you thatsuch data has not been revised or will not be subsequently amended.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 19 3.0 billion MT Kazakhstans oil reserves 3 0.9 trillion m Kazakhstans gas reserves Benchmarking of our business against our peers Strengths Weaknesses Advantageous location gives Nostrum is subject to fluctuations access to multiple transportation in the market prices for its routes products, however, we do have Investment in infrastructure gives hedges in place the Company complete control Unavoidable geological risks ofits liquids transportation Seasonal temperature fluctuations Investment in gas plant allows in a harsh operating environment Nostrum to produce raw gas in Lack of significant population north-west Kazakhstan where reduces the size of the skilled thereis a shortage of processing workforce locally capacity High quality, light, sweet crude Sweden Finland Russia Norway Estonia Latvia Denmark Lithuania Belarus Ireland United Poland Kingdom Netherlands Germany Kazakhstan Belgium Czech Ukraine Republic Slovakia Moldova Austria Hungary Romania Switzerland France Slovenia Croatia Kyrgyzstan Bosnia Uzbekistan Serbia Georgia Bulgaria Italy Macedonia Azerbaijan Albania Armenia Tajikistan Turkmenistan Spain Greece Turkey Portugal Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
