60 | Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the the results of the drilling programme are based on the most Code, this is the second year that the Board has conducted recent Ryder Scott reserve report.
The drilling programme is based on the required programme to produce all areview of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model 2Preserves and does not cover any of the material resource and future performance, in the context of a viability assessment.
base: and the completion of GTU3, described on page 11, is assumed The Groups corporate planning process has not changed to be completed at the end of 2017 for viability purposes.
significantly during 2016 and includes mediumand longNo commercial gas is assumed to be produced until Q1 2018. term financial projections and analysis as well as annual The corporate planning process is closely linked with the budgeting and monthly forecasting, which are described riskmanagement process described on pages 50-51.
For inmore detail below: thepurpose of the Groups viability assessment the five-year The long-term financial model extends through 2032, cashflow model was used with the following scenarios: i. e. the licence term of the Chinarevskoye field, and supports base-case: using the above-mentioned assumptions: the Boards activities described on pages 75-76, including sensitivity testing: the effect of the principal risks and annual strategic planning and decision-making processes.
uncertainties listed on pages 53-59 to the extent such For the purpose of monitoring the Groups performance assessment is practicable: interms of strategic objectives, related KPIs and risks, as severe but plausible: scenarios representing a combination well as medium-term development plans as described of several principal risks and uncertainties.
onpages 15-17 the Board assesses its five-year financial projections.
The scenarios take into account the availability and likely Finally, the above-mentioned mediumand long-term effectiveness of any mitigating actions that could be taken to planning processes are cascaded down to a budgeting avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying andforecasting process, which incorporates preparation risks which would realistically be available to the Group in ofthe draft annual budget for next year in the fourth such circumstances.
In considering the likely effectiveness quarter of every calendar year, which is reviewed and ofsuch actions, the conclusions of the Boards regular approved by theBoard and the preparation of quarterly monitoring and review of risk and internal control systems forecasts during the year for the Boards review.
Consistent with the prior year approach, the Board has The directors remained mindful of the risks associated with concluded that a five-year period to December 2021 is the Groups development projects described on page 54 as areasonable time-frame over which it is possible to form well as commodity price risk, which may impact the Groups areasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term ability to meet its liabilities, including the repayment of its viability, given the inherent uncertainty involved.
This period, Notes due in 2019. being aligned with the period used for the Groups mid-term business plans, has been selected because it provides the Based on these assessments and other matters considered Board and therefore readers of the Annual Report with an by the Board during the year, the Board has a reasonable optimal balance between a reasonable degree of confidence expectation that the Group will be able to continue in and an appropriate longer-term outlook.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to December 2021.
Other than the period covered, the assumptions used for thepurposes of the assessment of longer-term viability are This strategic report is approved by the Board.
consistent with the assumptions used in the impairment testing process and also include assumptions relating to: the ability of the Group to refinance debt as it falls due.
Theability of the company to refinance its debt is based onthe six year track record it has in the bond market.
Thefirst financing was done prior to the first gas treatment facility GTU 1 and 2 being completed and since then Nostrum has been back to the market twice.
Management Kai-Uwe Kessel Tom Richardson therefore believes it is not unreasonable to assume Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Nostrum can repeat this.
27 March 2017 27 March 2017 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
