com stock code: NTG Key Performance Indicators Business Model link Description Performance Target Risk Factor link Buy Manage Sell Earnings per share EPS | Underlying EPS was 49.0p | EPS will be affected by the depreciation Financial 1 2 3 Underlying EPS performance is a key measure of our current compared to 51.0p in the previous rate unwind in the short term and is then profitability.
4 5 6 Return on Capital Employed ROCE | ROCE has reduced from 13.0% | In the short term, as the business expands 1 2 3 In a capital intensive business ROCE is an important measure of to 12.2%.
and the impact of previous depreciation performance.
rate changes continue to impact results, 4 5 6 ROCE will be adversely impacted.
Over the longer term ROCE is targeted to exceed levels previously achieved.
Asset management | Utilisation across the Group was | We continue to target utilisation levels Operational 1 2 3 Utilisation needs to be optimised in order to be operationally 89% compared to 89% in the above 90%.
efficient but must also be balanced against the need to have previous year.
This was affected 4 6 | The Group is targeting retail disposals in fleet available to meet customer demand.
by the number of vehicles offexcess of 40%.
The holding cost of vehicles is the biggest cost to the business | Channelling more disposals and therefore needs to be minimised in order to increase through our retail network profitability and returns.
increases residual values and therefore reduces holding cost.
Retail penetration increased to 27% across the Group 2015 26%.
Pricing | On a constant currency basis, | We will continue to maintain minimum hire 1 2 The revenue per vehicle achieved is a key contributor to ROCE.
revenue per rented vehicle rate thresholds, seeking to increase prices The hire rates we charge our customers need to reflect the levels was constant across the Group balanced against the full life return of our of service and flexibility that our customers enjoy.
compared to the prior year.
Customer service | The average number of vehicles | Growth in vehicles on hire is a primary 2 The average number of vehicles on hire during the year is one of on hire across the Group was objective of the Group.
However, this is the primary drivers of our revenue.
The only sought where appropriate returns reduction arose in the UK.
In order to grow the business we must deliver the highest levels of customer service to set us apart from our competitors.
NPS is | NPS for the Group was 43% | Our target is to achieve an NPS in excess of used as a key measure to monitor customer satisfaction.
Staff retention | Group staff turnover was 23% | We aim to manage staff turnover below 4 Attracting, retaining and developing the right people is key to the compared to 22% in the previous industry standards.
successful delivery of our strategy.
Staff turnover is a key measure year.
for monitoring performance in this area.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 REPORT 36 37 Business Model link Description Performance Target Risk Factor link Buy Manage Sell Earnings per share EPS | Underlying EPS was 49.0p | EPS will be affected by the depreciation Financial 1 2 3 Underlying EPS performance is a key measure of our current compared to 51.0p in the previous rate unwind in the short term and is then profitability.
See our Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 40 and 41 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6
