04 | Our investment case Positioned for growth Nostrum is a highly cash flow Stable financial platform generative company, recording with strong cash flow US$206.5 million of operating cash flow in 2016 and ending the year with and flexibility over US$100 million of cash on its balance sheet.
We have implemented a successful cost cutting programme in response to the decline in oil price, resulting in a reduction in opex by 14%to below US$4 boe.
Our hedging strategy has protected Group cash flows during a period of low oil prices, giving us the financial flexibility to actively manage the pursuit of our keyoperational goals throughout challenging oil price scenarios.
Over 450 million boe Targeting near-term of2P reserves production growth The Chinarevskoye field has been Nostrum successfully averaged daily producing crude oil since 1997 and production of over 40,000 boepd gas condensate since 2011.
Despite in2016, in line with internal targets.
the length of production, we have Wewill target average daily noteven appraised and explored production of over 44,000 boepd over a third of the potential of the in2017.
Weexpect to reach an field.
We have approximately average of100,000 boepd by 2020.
118mmboe and 622 billion cubic feet of sales gas of contingent resources, many from existing production reservoirs, and we believethere is excellent scope to further increase our 2P reserves inChinarevskoye in the future.
World-class assets Wearealso very excited about theopportunity to start to better We have four licence areas, all located understand the full potential in the pre-Caspian Basin north of oftheneighbouring licences.
Nostrums current During2016 we drilled one well in producing asset is the Chinarevskoye the Rostoshinskoye field and remain field, with the three adjacent licences optimistic that we will be able to called Darjinskoye, Rostoshinskoye and findadditional reserves to fill our .
We believe gasplant long into the future.
With there is the potential to grow reserves current reserves for our neighbouring across all our licences in the future.
three licences estimated at 87 mmboe Wecontinue expanding our world- 2P, we believe there is a good class asset base and expect to possibility to increase this.
complete construction of our new GasTreatment Unit at the Chinarevskoye field site later in 2017.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 05 Our main priority remains, as always, to continue to deliver growth and shareholder value in a responsible and sustainable way.
We maintain our simple strategy Strong governance Simple business case, ofbalancing organic growth with andresponsibility successful model and carefully considered expansion through acquisitions.
Our main sustainable strategy We are committed to achieving priority remains, as always, to best-in-class standards of corporate continue to deliver growth and governance and social responsibility.
shareholder value in a responsible Our goal is to create a positive and and sustainable way.
lasting contribution to the areas in which we operate, with a focus on Read more on pages 14-17 delivering long-term shareholder value for a sustainable future.
Experienced management team Nostrum has a world-class management team with each member holding significant experience both incountry and in their specific field.
The management team has demonstrated that it is not only able to deliver under high oil prices but isalso able to deliver on its targets under challenging conditions both operationally and financially.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
