Governance Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 20.
Directors Report 66 pages 38 to 41, and the Statement of Corporate Introduction Governance defined in the index below as the This section of this Annual Report is a Directors CG Statement pages 50 to 58, which are Report required by the Companies Act to be incorporated by reference into this Directors prepared by the Directors for the Company and Report.
The information required to be disclosed in the Report should be Index of Directors Report Directors Report can be found in this Annual Disclosures Report on the pages listed below.
Pursuant to read in conjunction This Directors Report should be read in Listing Rule 9.8.
4C, the information required to be conjunction with the Strategic Report pages 6 disclosed in the Annual Report under Listing Rule with the Strategic to 43 which includes Corporate Responsibility 9.8.
4R is marked with an asterisk.
Amendment of the Articles 67 American Depositary Receipt ADR program 70 Appointment and replacement of Directors 67 Board of Directors CG Statement, 48-49 Change of control 70 Community Corporate Responsibility, 38-41 Directors insurance and indemnities 68 Directors inductions and training CG Statement, 55 Directors interests Directors Remuneration Report, 104 Directors responsibility statement 72-73 Disclosure of information to auditors 72 Diversity Our People, 42-43 Employee involvement Our People, 42-43 Employees with disabilities 72 Future developments of the business Strategic Report, 6-43 Going concern and viability statements Strategic Report, 35 Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate Responsibility, 39 Independent auditors 72 Long term incentive plans under Listing Rule 9.4.
3 Directors Remuneration Report, 76-115 Political donations Corporate Responsibility, 41 Post-balance sheet events 72 Powers for the Company to issue or buy back its shares 69 Powers of the Directors CG Statement, 50-51 Profit loss and dividends 72 Research and development activities Strategic Report, 6-43 Restrictions on transfer of securities 68-69 Rights attaching to shares 68 Risk management and internal control How the business manages risk Strategic Report, 34-37 Note 4.8 to the consolidated financial statements 158-160 Share capital 68 Significant agreements 71 Significant related party agreements 70 Significant shareholders 70 Statement of corporate governance CG Statement, 50-58 Strategic Report 6-43, 67 Voting rights 68 slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Governance 67 The Strategic Report The Directors are required under the Companies Act to prepare a strategic report for the Company and the Group.
The Strategic Report contains the Directors explanation of the basis on which the Group preserves and creates value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group.
The Companies Act requires that the Strategic Report must: contain a fair review of the Groups business and contain a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group: and be a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the Groups business during the financial year and the position of the Groups business at the end of that year, consistent with the size and complexity of the business.
The information that fulfils the strategic report requirements is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 43.
The Company has chosen to include some of the information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report within the Strategic Report pages 6 to 43, as noted above.
Certain matters, including those of sufficient importance, that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in the Directors Report, have been set out in the Strategic Report and Statement of Corporate Governance, as noted in the index on page 66.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report or parts thereof, together with sections of this Annual Report incorporated by reference, are the Management Report for the purposes of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report, together with the sections of this Annual Report incorporated by reference, have been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
For an explanation of how the Board satisfies itself that this Annual Report meets the disclosure requirements refer to the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 50 to 58 and the Directors responsibility statement on pages 72 and 73.
Amendment of the Articles The Companys Articles, which govern a number of constitutional aspects of the Companys management, may be amended by a special resolution of its shareholders.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors The appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company is governed by the Articles.
Appointment of Directors: A Director may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the Board.
The Board or any committee authorised by the Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold any employment or executive office for such period and on such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next annual general meeting of the Company and is then eligible for re-appointment.
Retirement of Directors: At every annual general meeting of the Company, each Director shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment by the members.
Removal of Directors by Special Resolution: The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
Vacation of Office: The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns: ii his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors not less than three in number : iii he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves that his office be vacated: iv he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt: vi he is prohibited by law from being a Director: vii he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act: or viii he is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
For a description of any changes of the Companys Directors during the period see the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 50 to 58. slugline Governance Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 20.
Directors Report 68 Directors Insurance and Indemnities The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance cover for its Directors and officers as permitted under the Articles and the Companies Act.
Such insurance policies were renewed during the period and remain in force as at the date of this Annual Report.
The Company also agrees to indemnify the Directors under an indemnity deed with each Director which contains provisions that are permitted by the director liability provisions of the Companies Act and the Articles.
An indemnity deed is usually entered into by a Director at the time of his or her appointment to the Board.
Share Capital The Companys authorised and issued ordinary share capital as at 27 November 2016 comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
The shares have a nominal value of 2 pence each.
The ISIN of the shares is GB00B3MBS747.
The LEI of the Company is 213800LO8F61YB8MBC74.
As at 18 January 2017, being the last practicable date prior to publication of this report, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 629,270,054 issued ordinary shares, compared with 625,456,843 issued ordinary shares per the 2015 annual report.
Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital can be found in Note 4.9 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the period, shares in the Company were issued to satisfy options and awards under the Companys share and incentive schemes, as set out in Note 4.10 to the consolidated financial statements.
Rights Attaching to Shares The Companys shares when issued are credited as fully paid and free from all liens, equities, charges, encumbrances and other interests.
All shares have the same rights including voting and dividend rights and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as set out in the Articles, described below.
Except in relation to dividends which have been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, the shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
The Companys shares are not redeemable.
However, the Company may purchase or contract to purchase any of the shares on or off-market, subject to the Companies Act and the requirements of the Listing Rules, as described below.
No shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no shares relating to an employee share scheme which have rights with regard to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly and solely by the employees, other than in the case of the JSOS, where share interests can be transferred to a spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant of a participant in the JSOS or certain trusts under the rules of the JSOS as noted below.
Voting Rights Each ordinary share carries one right to vote at a general meeting of the Company.
At any general meeting, a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
No shareholder shall be entitled to vote in respect of a share held by him if any call or sum then payable by him in respect of such share remains unpaid or if a member has been served a restriction notice, described below.
JSOS Voting Rights: Of the issued ordinary shares, 32,830,613 2015: 34,770,981 are held by Wealth Nominees Limited on behalf of Estera Trust Jersey Limited, the independent company which is the trustee of Ocados employee benefit trust the EBT Trustee.
The EBT Trustee has waived its right to exercise its voting rights in respect of these 32,830,613 ordinary shares, although it may at the request of a participant vote in respect of 32,751,581 ordinary shares which have vested under the JSOS and remain in the trust at period end.
The total of 32,830,613 ordinary shares held by the EBT Trustee are treated as treasury shares in the Groups Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
As such, calculations of earnings per share for Ocado exclude the 32,830,613 ordinary shares held by the EBT Trustee.
Note 4.9 to the consolidated financial statements provides more information on the Groups accounting treatment of treasury shares.
Restrictions on Transfer of Securities The Companys shares are freely transferable, save as set out below.
The transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder until the transferees name is entered in the register.
The Board can decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Company does not currently have any partially paid shares.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: A is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate: B is in respect of only one class of share: and C if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Governance 69 Restriction on Transfer of JSOS Interests: Participants interests under the JSOS are generally non-transferable during the period beginning on acquisition of the interest and ending at the expiry of the relevant restricted period as set out in the JSOS rules.
However, interests can be transferred to a spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant of a participant: a trust under which no person other than the participant or their spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant has a vested beneficial interest: or any other person approved by the EBT Trustee.
If a participant purports to transfer, assign or charge his interest other than as set out above, the EBT Trustee may acquire the participants interest for a total price of 1.
Other than as described above and on page 104 with respect to agreements concerning the Directors shareholdings, the Company is not aware of any agreements existing at the end of the period between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Powers for the Company to Buy Back its Shares The Company was authorised by shareholders on 4 May 2016, at the annual general meeting, to purchase in the market up to 10% of its issued ordinary shares excluding any treasury shares, subject to certain conditions laid out in the authorising resolution.
This standard authority is renewable annually: the Directors will seek to renew this authority at the AGM.
The Directors did not exercise their authority to buy back any shares during the period.
Powers for the Company to Issue its Shares The Directors were granted authority at the previous annual general meeting on 4 May 2016, to allot shares in the Company under two separate resolutions: i up to one-third of the Companys issued share capital: and ii up to two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital in connection with a rights issue.
These authorities apply until the end of the AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 3 August 2017.
During the period, the Directors did not use their power to issue shares under the authorities, but did satisfy options and awards under the Companys option and incentive schemes.
The Directors were also granted authority at the previous annual general meeting on 4 May 2016 to disapply pre-emption rights.
This resolution, which followed the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles March 2015 on disapplying pre-emption rights the PEG Principles applicable at that time, sought the authority to disapply pre-emption rights over 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Given that shareholder support for these resolutions at the 2016 annual general meeting was not as high as the Company expected, the Company consulted those large shareholders who did not support the resolutions.
Following such consultation, the Company will modify its approach for the 2017 AGM.
A special resolution will be proposed at the 2017 AGM to renew the Directors powers to disapply pre-emption rights.
The new resolutions will seek the authority to disapply pre-emption rights on up to five per cent of the issued share capital.
The Directors intend to follow the PEG Principles when considering the case for disapplying pre-emption rights.
An authority will not be sought, however, to disapply pre-emption rights for an additional five per cent for transactions which the Board determines to be an acquisition or other capital investment, as allowed by the PEG Principles and the new template resolutions on disapplying pre-emption rights released in May 2016 by the Pre-Emption Group.
The Company will, consistent with the 2016 annual general meeting, continue to seek authority to allot shares up to two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital in connection with a rights issue only.
The Company believes such approach is appropriate given that it follows guidance set by the Investment Association on the allotment of shares.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise the authorities sought under either resolution, but the Directors wish to ensure that the Company has maximum flexibility in managing the Companys capital resources.
slugline Governance Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 20.
Directors Report 70 Significant Shareholders During the period the Company has received notifications, in accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R, of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in the table below: Number of Ordinary Percentage of Shares Voting Issued Share Nature of Rights Capital Holding The London and Amsterdam Trust Company Limited 94,396,313 15.02 Direct Indirect Apple III Limited 69,015,602 10.97 Direct The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 64,447,980 10.30 Indirect Citigroup Global Markets Limited 59,159,037 9.41 Direct Morgan Stanley Institutional Securities Group and Global Wealth Management 35,859,769 5.70 Direct Norges Bank 34,502,508 5.48 Direct Tremblant Capital LP 32,590,753 5.19 Indirect Deutsche Bank AG 32,014,813 5.09 Direct OppenheimerFunds, Inc. 31,860,520 5.07 Indirect JPMorgan Chase & Co. 31,834,666 5.06 Indirect The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 19,957,216 3.17 Indirect These figures represent the number of shares and percentage held as at the date of notification to the Company.
No changes have been disclosed in accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R in the period between 28 November 2016 and 18 January 2017 being not more than one month prior to the date of the Notice of Meeting, except as set out in the table below: Number of Ordinary Percentage of Shares Voting Issued Share Nature of Rights Capital Holding Citigroup Global Markets Limited 55,835,966 8.87 Direct Norges Bank 34,502,508 5.48 Direct Deutsche Bank AG 33,053,616 5.25 Direct Morgan Stanley Institutional Securities Group and Global Wealth Management 31,454,014 4.99 Direct The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 19,009,292 3.02 Indirect These figures represent the number of shares and percentage held as at the date of notification to the Company.
American Depositary Receipt Program The Company has a sponsored level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR program with The Bank of New York Mellon as depositary bank.
Each ADR represents two ordinary shares of the Company.
The ADRs will trade on the over-the-counter OTC market in the United States.
The CUSIP number for the ADRs is 674488101, the ISIN is US6744881011 and the symbol is OCDDY.
An ADR is a security that has been created to permit US investors to hold shares in non-US companies and, in a level 1 programme, to trade them on the OTC market in the United States.
In contrast to underlying ordinary shares, ADRs permit US investors to trade securities denominated in US dollars in the US OTC market with US securities dealers.
Were the Company to pay a dividend on its ordinary shares, ADR holders would receive dividend payments in respect of their ADRs in US dollars.
Significant Related Party Agreements There were no contracts of significance during the period between the Company or any Group company and either 1 a Director of the Company, 2 a close member of a Directors family or 3 a controlling shareholder of the Company.
Change of Control The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover bid except that it should be noted that: i provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover: and ii certain members of senior management not including the Directors who were employed prior to 2010 are entitled to a payment contingent on a change of control of the Company or merger of the Company irrespective of loss of employment as set out in his or her respective employment contract.
For further information on the change of control provisions in the Companys share schemes refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on page 95. slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Governance 71 Significant Agreements There are a number of agreements to which the Group is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Details of the significant agreements are summarised below.
Morrisons Operating Agreement: The Group has a number of commercial arrangements with Morrisons.
If certain competitors of Morrisons acquire more than 50% of the voting rights in the Companys shares or take control of the composition of the Companys Board, or acquire all or substantially all of the Groups business and undertakings, then Morrisons would be entitled to give notice to terminate the operating agreement by giving not less than four but not more than four and a half years notice.
Following Morrisons giving such a notice, Morrisons would be entitled to procure equivalent services from third parties, the Company ceasing to be Morrisons exclusive supplier of online grocery fulfilment services.
Similarly, all restrictions on the UK retail grocers to whom the Company is entitled to provide certain services would fall away.
At the end of the four to four and a half years notice period, the Company would be required to purchase Morrisons shares in MHE JVCo Limited the owner of the mechanical handling equipment in Dordon CFC.
Sourcing Agreement with Waitrose: The Companys primary operating subsidiary, Ocado Retail Limited ORL, is party to the Sourcing Agreement with Waitrose and its parent company, John Lewis.
If certain competitors of Waitrose or John Lewis acquire 50% or more of the shares or control of the Companys Board, then each of ORL, Waitrose and John Lewis may terminate the Sourcing Agreement.
In these circumstances, ORL is obliged to pay Waitrose the lower of 40 million and 4% of the market capitalisation of the Company.
This change of control provision will cease to bind the parties if, prior to the change of control, any party has already given a valid notice of termination.
Revolving Credit Facility Agreement: The Group has an unsecured 210 million revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Cooperative Rabobank UA for general corporate and working capital purposes.
If there is a change of control of the Company, and agreeable terms cannot be negotiated between the parties within 30 days from the date of the change of control, any lender may cancel their commitment under the facility and all outstanding utilisations for that lender, together with accrued interest, shall be immediately payable.
Directors Report 72 Research and Development Activities The Group has dedicated in-house software, logistics and engineering design and development teams with primary focus on IT and improvements to the customer interfaces, the CFCs and the automation equipment used in them.
Costs relating to the development of computer software are capitalised if it is probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will accrue to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
The Company is carrying out a number of IT and engineering design and build projects with the intention of developing new and improved automation equipment and processes for its warehouses.
Further information is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 43.
Future Developments of the Business The Groups likely future developments including its strategy are described in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 43.
Employees with disabilities Applications for employment by people with disability are always fully considered, bearing in mind the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned and our ability to make reasonable adjustments to the role and the work environment.
In the event of existing employees becoming disabled all reasonable effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Group continues.
Training, career development and promotion of a disabled person is, as far as possible, identical to that of an able bodied person.
Profit and Dividends The Groups results for the period are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 125.
The Groups profit before tax for the period amounted to 12.1 million 2015: 11.9 million.
The Directors do not propose to pay a dividend for the period 2015: nil.
Post-Balance Sheet Events There have been no material events after the balance sheet date of 27 November 2016 to the date of this Annual Report.
Independent Auditors Following the Audit Committees recommendation to the Board as a result of a tender process, the Board is proposing that shareholders approve the appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys independent auditors, effective from the end of the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions concerning the appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM and set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Deloitte LLP have indicated their willingness to be appointed as the Companys auditors.
For further information on the appointment of the auditors, refer to pages 62 to 63 of the Audit Committee Report.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors In accordance with the Companies Act, each Director who held office at the date of the approval of this Directors Report whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors section on pages 48 and 49 of this Annual Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and that each Director has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing this Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the result of the Company and the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
com Governance 73 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups corporate website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this Annual Report whose names and functions are listed on pages 48 and 49 of this Annual Report confirms, to the best of his or her knowledge, that: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and the Management Report as defined in the Directors Report on page 67 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any expected future events or results expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors concerning, amongst other things, the Groups results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business.
Persons receiving this report should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law, regulation or accounting standard, the Group does not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
The Directors Report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Neill Abrams Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Ocado Group plc Registered in England and Wales Number 07098618 31 January 2017 slugline 74 slugline Directors Remuneration Report 75 21.
Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman 76 Description of the Remuneration Committee 78 Remuneration Policy Report 80 Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 97 Annual Report on Remuneration Implementation of Policy for 2017 113 slugline
