com Strategic Report 17 Customer orders from general merchandise convenience of shopping.
Our proprietary In November 2016, we commenced operations at categories can be collated with customer grocery technology is built for range expansion, making the our latest fulfilment centre in Andover, Hampshire orders so that all products are received at the same extension of assortment and product segments a see case study.
This is the first instance where time, driving operational efficiency and minimising natural pathway and a good driver of growth.
our proprietary physical infrastructure solution is waste created by separate home deliveries.
in use, and provides a live example of the physical Platform Business Deliveries can also be made standalone from a equipment solution our platform customers would Continuous innovation and investment in our grocery order, but using the same routing software, enjoy.
integrated software and physical infrastructure or by courier enabling us to service areas outside solutions drives a virtuous cycle of growth in our CFC reach.
Read more in the Andover CFC and New both our retail and platform businesses.
Our Technologies case study on page 19 Progress future platform customers will benefit from We have seen strong growth in our general years of learning and development in a live retail Future Focus merchandise categories, up to over 40% yearenvironment to enable a sustainable launch or Our approach of continuously embedding our on-year, and which now account for almost improvement in their online operations with market leading capabilities which we believe are A 7% of our Gross Sales Retail.
This has been minimal capital investment and associated risk.
market leading into the Ocado Smart Platform driven by continued extension of the range of is designed to drive long-term shareholder Progress products offered.
For example in October 2016 we value and makes it an increasingly attractive In August 2016, we announced an extension to our introduced our new Smart Home section, where proposition to current and future partners.
We agreement with Morrisons, to host and deliver their products such as smart home lighting, heating continue to be in discussions with multiple online operations.
The extension underlined the and security were incorporated into the Ocado.
potential partners, and expect to sign multiple quality of our proposition and our strong relationship com hypermarket, allowing customers to extend deals in the medium term.
with Morrisons as a platform provider.
The renewed their basket even further in a single shop.
contract operates in a format aligned to our Ocado Read about Ocado Smart Platform on Smart Platform structure and principles.
pages 12 and 13 In August 2016, we launched our dedicated Read more in the Morrisons Update case study on page 21 premium beauty shop, Fabled, in partnership with Marie Claire.
Fabled has access to an extensive We have added additional capabilities to our Risks range of beauty products, from well-known names Ocado Smart Platform offering, namely the to new and niche branding, allowing customers to inclusion of a store pick module, which will allow Risk of not signing multiple OSP deals in the stock up on their beauty essentials overnight.
corporate customers the flexibility to choose medium term how to service their customers and provides an Future Focus alternative method for delivery in more remote We plan to launch additional destination sites catchment areas.
Morrisons will be our first to offer our customers even more variety and platform partner to utilise this technology.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 Case Study Fabled targets a more premium beauty focus Expanding our extensive range into the premium than other online retailer offers and provides an beauty segment accelerates growth in our authoritative niche range which sets us apart from business as it allows us to utilise our best-in-class pure bricks and mortar competitors.
The focus of fulfilment solution to enter an attractive, higher Fabled is on the key beauty categories of makemargin segment of retail.
In August 2016, we announced the launch of our up, skincare, fragrance and haircare, supported premium beauty shop, Fabled, in partnership by a wellbeing offer to capitalise on this growing with Marie Claire.
Marie Claires brand authority trend.
combined with Ocados e-commerce expertise Fabled utilises our superior fulfilment proposition aims to bridge the gap between content and allowing the site to offer an extensive range to commerce.
Fabled utilises Marie Claires editorial customers, as well as industry leading delivery expertise to provide an enhanced user experience and customer service metrics, all supported when shopping.
This is evident in both our by the Ocado customer service centre and by webshop interface as well as our flagship store, dedicated beauty specialists for independent which is designed and set out in brand clusters to product advice and aftersales support.
There provide an interactive shopping experience with are clear synergies between the Marie Claire and high quality advice across the beauty spectrum.
Ocado customer profiles, which will help it drive the success of the partnership.
slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 8.
Our Strategic Objectives: Maximising Efficiency 18 Progress Future Focus Operational Efficiency As we continue to expand existing and open new We built our latest solutions with the future in mind, Our proprietary technology and infrastructure CFC sites we expect to harness our experience and have developed our physical infrastructure have been developed in-house over many years and learning to improve our operational efficiency solution in such a way that any manual touchpoints for the sole purpose of running and optimising quantified by units processed end-to-end per within the densely packed fulfilment infrastructure the efficiency of our online businesses.
This spans labour hour even further.
Ocado Smart Platform are located on the periphery of the structure so that the entire shopping and delivery life cycle from will provide a service offering for our operational they can be retrofitted with robotics and automated customer facing interfaces which power our capabilities to be packaged and replicated to technology as and when these are appropriately webshop, mobile and tablet applications to our provide these high service metrics to other retail developed.
This ensures that we are able to optimised delivery routing for the final mile service.
improve our economics as we can efficiently adapt The core design principles that drive efficiency to the technology of the future using existing core Alongside our proprietary software and algorithms throughout our business are automation, use of infrastructure.
we have continued to develop our best in class proprietary technology and aggregation of scale physical infrastructure solution.
The first utilisation As our customer base expands we will continually via the use of our large CFCs.
By combining these of this has been in our Andover CFC and we expect look to innovate and improve our technology and attributes we have been able to develop the most it to demonstrate the power of utilising and infrastructure solutions to ensure operational sophisticated and operationally efficient grocery integrating our proprietary software and algorithms excellence in every aspect of the fulfilment and shopping and delivery solution in the world.
with our physical solutions to provide the end-todelivery life cycle.
We face the unique challenge that around half of our end solution for our customers.
Capital Efficiency sales lie within fresh and chilled categories and as a delivery operation we have to ensure this freshness is Read more in the Andover and New We currently operate three CFCs in Hatfield, Technologies case study on page 19 preserved right up to our customers front doors.
To Dordon and Andover, which opened in 2002, enable this we operate a shelf life promise whereby a 2013 and 2016 respectively.
Our CFCs constitute We complete the final mile of our grocery minimum of approximately two thirds of the total life what we believe to be the worlds largest, most deliveries through our CFC and spoke network.
of the product is guaranteed by the time it reaches sophisticated and most efficient single pick All stock is currently stored and picked in our the customer.
In traditional store-based competitors grocery warehouses.
Combined with our extensive three operational CFCs in Hatfield, Dordon and this is difficult for a number of reasons including spoke network, they form a critical part of our Andover or in our General Merchandise warehouse additional human touchpoints and disrupted stock unique online grocery operating model.
Around one third of rotation due to manual customer intervention as orders are then delivered directly from these Progress they personally handle the products.
Our model CFCs to customer homes in the CFC catchment enables us to carry lower inventory levels and to During the period, we made several changes areas and the remainder are trunked in larger operate a perfect first in first out stock rotation to Hatfield CFC and Dordon CFC with limited vehicles to one of our 17 spoke sites, from where dependent on shelf life.
This allows us to operate capital expenditure, to enable additional capacity local delivery in one of our delivery vans takes with what we believe to be the lowest product waste from these sites - now totalling over 20,000 place.
The opening of CFCs enables a rebalancing in the industry at 0.7% of sales across our CFCs OPW additional order capacity for Ocado.
We of spoke facilities to lower trunking costs, for and underlines the sustainability benefits of our commenced operations in our Andover CFC example upon opening Andover we were able to operating model.
This houses our new MHE transfer capacity from the Southampton spoke to solution.
Our solution is modular can be built All of our delivery routes are optimised in real Andover and improve operational costs.
to different sizes, scalable can be increased in time using our proprietary software: this enables size and we expect future iterations to be faster Due to increased demand from existing operationally efficient delivery routes to be to deploy shorter build and commissioning catchments, we opened two additional spokes calculated taking into account our customer lead times allowing for reduced up front capital during 2016 in Peterborough and Crawley.
This one-hour delivery slots, house locations and order commitment.
will enable us to further develop and optimise volumes.
By carefully modelling these attributes our delivery network to drive efficiency in the it increases the likelihood our drivers can Despite the additional fixed costs associated long-term.
successfully deliver orders on time, maintaining with opening a new CFC, the new solution our high customer service metrics.
together with its innovative design means that the economic drag of opening is minimised.
As a new CFC increases its operational throughput, the improved efficiency benefits increase.
KPIs Risks Delays in the implementation of new 94.9% 99.0% capacity for both Ocado and Morrisons Delivery punctuality Order accuracy 160 176 0.7% CFC Average deliveries Product efficiency per van per week waste slugline
