com Strategic Report 21 Case Study The agreement is structured in a similar Morrisons Update way to potential Ocado Smart Platform In 2013 we signed a 25 year agreement agreements, and includes the following to provide technology, infrastructure and elements: operating services to launch and operate Morrisons.
com, the online business of Wm We will operate a proportion of our CFC in Morrison Supermarkets PLC, becoming our Erith for Morrison.
The site is first platform partner in the UK.
due to commence operations in financial year 2018, allowing the Morrisons online Since launch in January 2014, Morrisons.
com business to continue its substantial growth has grown substantially.
development of its online business has enabled the retailer to attract new and Morrisons will pay recurring fees for its share existing customers with a compelling of the mechanical handling equipment proposition whilst operating with attractive MHE capacity, but will not own any of the cost economics.
This will allow significantly lower up front capital costs for Morrisons.
com is currently operated from We have committed to providing a store pick our Dordon CFC and utilises several of our solution for Morrisons to allow them to better spoke operations.
Operations are enabled service the harder to reach geographies.
by our end-to-end fulfilment solution and proprietary software.
com acts The exclusivity restrictions on UK grocery independently in making all commercial retailers has been renegotiated, allowing decisions regarding marketing, range, price the Ocado Smart Platform services to be and promotions.
available to a larger potential pool of UK In August 2016 we announced an extension retailers.
of this service contract a testament to the Read about Ocado Smart quality of our end-to-end solution.
Platform on pages 12 and 13 slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 9.
Chief Executive Officers Review 22 Robust progress in a Progress against our strategic challenging market objectives Tim Steiner, OBE Our 2016 performance highlights the strength We have a number of core complementary Chief Executive Officer of our core retail business model.
In a grocery actions, which form a framework to achieve our market with limited growth we delivered double strategic objectives for our retail and corporate digit sales growth through the year, consistently customers, intended to deliver long-term ahead of both the UK online grocery segment and shareholder value.
These actions are to: the grocery market as a whole.
We commenced Constantly improve the proposition to operations at our latest CFC in Andover, customers: Hampshire, which has the first installation of our next generation physical infrastructure solution.
Strengthen our brand: We progressed with the building of our largest Develop more capital and operationally ever CFC in Erith, South East London.
We also efficient infrastructure solutions:... we delivered extended the scope of our agreement of services to Morrisons.
com, and advanced discussions with Constantly enhance our end-to-end double digit sales multiple potential international partners to utilise technology systems: and Ocado Smart Platform.
growth through the Enable Morrisons and future partners online We continued to deliver on our strategic businesses.
year, consistently objectives, namely, to drive growth, maximise Constantly improve efficiency and utilise our proprietary knowledge.
ahead of both the the proposition to These objectives are shared among both our retail UK online grocery customers and platform businesses and enable us to ideally position ourselves for the continuing shift to Our core focus remains on offering the best market and the online that is taking place in the grocery industry, possible proposition to our customers, which we both in the UK and globally.
believe is central to driving growth for both our grocery market as retail and partner businesses.
This progress has been made in a UK grocery a whole.
market that has faced significant challenges From a retail perspective, we continued to focus throughout 2016.
Intense competition, influenced on improving each of the core elements of our by continued changing trends in customer customer proposition - providing excellent behaviour with ongoing shifts to using discount service and user experience, an extensive range and smaller format stores and online, has driven of products, and offering competitive prices.
Our sustained price deflationary pressures across efforts in improving the proposition to customers the grocery industry.
Input cost inflation, largely have been evidenced by the award of the Best fuelled by labour cost rises, and more latterly Online Supermarket for the second consecutive the impact of currency devaluation following the year at The Grocer Gold Awards 2016.
EU referendum, has added to the challenging Providing a compelling proposition to consumers environment and resulted in margin pressure and is critical to attracting new customers to Ocado, uncertainty across the industry.
Our continued and to encourage loyalty and retention for future focus on improving our proposition to customers shops.
We constantly analyse and review our and driving the efficiency of our business through offering against the wider market and focus on technology helps to protect us in these conditions.
innovation in order to seek to stay ahead of our peers.
A consistently positive user experience is at the heart of our service and we always strive to improve the customer experience through enhancements to the speed, convenience and ease of using our service.
This provides our customers with the freedom and flexibility to navigate easily and complete their weekly shop wherever and whenever they please.
slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Strategic Report 23 Mobile has continued to grow in significance with Our Low Price Promise LPP basket matching over 55% of all orders at Ocado being checked scheme ensures that we are price competitive Strengthen out using our latest apps and browsers on mobile against the market leader.
This transparent pricing our brands devices.
Given the importance of mobile, and strategy gives confidence to our customers in We continued to reinforce our retail brand equity the constant development and improvement of the prices they are paying for their shopping.
and values to our wide range of stakeholders underlying mobile device technologies, it is critical Despite price reductions and broader food price including our existing customers who have we continually improve our capabilities to enable deflation in the market, nearly three quarters of recognised the quality of our proposition, easy to use shopping.
our customers baskets were already cheaper at evidenced by winning a number of awards Ocado when checking for LPP.
The cost of LPP We strive to be at the forefront of innovation and including Best Online Retailer at the Best of to Ocado in the form of vouchers used during new developments and have continued to focus Organic Market Awards and Best Online Retailer at the period slightly increased but remained low, on improving functionality and personalisation the Loved By Parents Awards.
reflecting our competitiveness in prices and for our customers to enhance their shopping sustained promotional activity.
Our Ocado own-label continues to grow, experience, with features such as customised further reinforcing our brand recognition.
This gifts based on prior shopping habits, calorie saver Our bundled customer benefit membership year we have seen sales up over 10% against suggestions and personalised online coupons.
scheme, Ocado Smart Pass, continued to be the equivalent period last year, with growth We have introduced additional shop-in-shops popular this year, with over half of regular sales constrained by our contractual obligations with including our Picard shop specialising in high end conducted with Smart Pass customers.
The average customer basket now frozen food and the Discovery Shop in partnership Pass offers customers multiple benefits including contains over six Ocado own-label products, with the Grocery Accelerator to help food and free deliveries whilst enabling us to drive customer with over 90% of our customers having bought drink start-ups trial concepts and get to market, loyalty, shopping frequency and ultimately Ocado own-label products.
The value of our further assisting customers to find more of their increase total spend per customer.
brand and strength of these products is evidenced requirements in easily and carefully curated areas Our general merchandise product sales, including by multiple awards for our Ocado-own label of our shop.
those from our destination sites, notably Fetch.
These include the Gold award In June 2016 we launched a Supply Ocado co. uk, our dedicated pet store, have grown at over for the Ocado own-label Veg and Salad Box by entrepreneurship portal, which allows potential 40% year-on-year, and now constitute almost 7% Womens Fitness and several awards in organic suppliers from businesses of all sizes, from across of Ocado retail sales.
In August 2016, we launched food and baby product categories at the Loved by the globe, the opportunity to access our buying our latest destination site, Fabled, our premium Parents Awards.
team and apply to supply Ocado with feedback beauty store in partnership with Marie Claire.
Our active customer base continued to expand to provided to all applicants.
The online shop is complemented by a flagship 580,000 2015: 509,000, up 13.9% as we continued store in Tottenham Court Road, London, offering We further extended our delivery choices in some to grow in all of our existing catchment areas.
a physical showcase opportunity to the many catchments with the earliest slot now starting at Similarly our total order volumes have shown premium brands we now work with.
The early 5:30am to cater for the very early risers among robust growth of 17.9% to an average of over performance of Fabled is encouraging and we our customers.
Order accuracy was 99.0% 2015: 230,000 orders per week OPW 2015: 195,000 look forward to further developing this and our 99.3%, with delivery punctuality orders delivered OPW, with the highest OPW exceeding 270,000 other destination sites.
These destination sites on time or early standing at 94.9% 2015: 95.3%.
are complementary to our Ocado.
com offerings We believe our order accuracy and delivery giving our customers access to significant The average basket size at Ocado.
com excluding punctuality continue to be market leading, both additional assortments across everyday general the impact of smaller standalone orders from our critical elements in providing a high quality, merchandise categories.
destination sites declined by 2.7% to 108.10 reliable and consistent service for our customers.
2015: 111.15, primarily due to price deflation Any improvements and innovations added to With what we believe to be the broadest range across the industry.
There was also some impact our retail proposition enhance the key features of products in the industry, our customers were from the continued uptake of our Ocado Smart we can apply to the technology embedded able to choose from over 50,000 SKUs by the Pass offering which tends to drive increased in our platform, allowing our existing and end of 2016 2015: 47,000 SKUs when shopping customer frequency but with smaller basket sizes.
future corporate customers to benefit from our at Ocado.
Our diverse range includes basic continued development.
Our existing destination brands continue to everyday items, own label products from both strengthen.
We anticipate Fabled, benefiting from Ocado and Waitrose, other favourite brands, the strong brand association of our partner, Marie specialist and international product ranges, as Claire, will develop into an attractive destination well as general merchandise items ranging from retail brand for premium beauty products.
basic clothes to standard electrical appliances.
slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 9.
Chief Executive Officers Review 24 We continue to work on our Ocado Smart We continued to develop our fourth CFC in Erith, Our focus on innovation has allowed us Platform offering, utilising our Ocado Smart South East London.
The building is now complete consistently to improve our own skills.
Our Platform branding to strengthen the marketing of and fit out works started during 2016.
We plan innovation is enabled by our extensive and the service to international commercial partners.
The MHE growing technology and engineering teams.
solution in this CFC is estimated to cost 135 By the end of the period our technology team While not an external brand, we have been active million and will add over 200,000 OPW of capacity comprised over 950 IT and software professionals in promoting the strength and values of Ocado to our operations.
Similar to our Andover CFC, operating from multiple technology centres in the Technology.
Brand development has been this CFC will also use our proprietary modular, UK, Poland, Spain and Bulgaria, taking advantage focused on awareness activities largely through scalable fulfilment solution which will enable us of the significant technological expertise found in editorial and speaking opportunities, including to phase the investment over time in line with these regions.
participating in features with titles such as the our capacity requirements.
We expect this to be Harvard Business Review, New Scientist and the In addition to our technology team, we have a our most capital efficient CFC to date, and we technology section of wider publications such as dedicated engineering team of over 200 qualified anticipate it will enable us to efficiently expand the Wall Street Journal.
This focus ensures we are engineers deployed in current operations, CFC our UK capacity.
Approximately 30% of the Erith able to recruit the best talent to develop the most development and build, and platform business CFC capacity will be utilised for Morrisons.
com innovative technology for use within our business.
This team, working closely with the under the extension agreement that was signed technology team, are core to developing, building during 2016.
In addition we plan to open a second Continuously develop and commissioning our proprietary infrastructure general merchandise facility in 2018 to enable our more capital and equipment solution, now deployed in Andover CFC.
general merchandise sales to continue to grow operationally efficient rapidly.
Enable Morrisons and infrastructure solutions future partners online Enhancements to our routing system, increased Our two mature Customer Fulfilment Centres in businesses availability of Sunday delivery slots and improved Hatfield and Dordon continued to operate to high customer density led to an improvement in We have built our retail business through levels of accuracy and with improved efficiency average deliveries achieved on a van route and developing and utilising proprietary solutions in we consider a CFC to be mature if it has been has helped us increase deliveries per van per technology, engineering and operations.
As we open for 12 months by the start of the half year week across all shifts DPV to 176 2015: 166. continue to develop and innovate in our retail reporting period.
With limited investment we We increased our delivery capacity within existing business we embed any improvements into have increased capacity in both facilities to more catchments by extending and rationalising our our platform for existing and future partners, than their designed maximum limits, and now hub and spoke network.
In 2016 we opened enhancing the opportunity to commercialise expect to be able to operate at over 165,000 two new spoke sites in Peterborough and our IP.
The commencement of operations at OPW from Hatfield CFC and at over 190,000 at Crawley, while relocating operations from, and our Andover CFC will, we hope, provide further Dordon CFC.
This benefits not just Ocado but also subsequently closing, our Southampton spoke to evidence of the capabilities and showcase to Morrisons.
com, as we have now taken the capacity our Andover CFC.
future Ocado Smart Platform customers the of Dordon CFC above the anticipated capacity attractiveness of our proprietary solutions.
level at the time of our 2013 agreement.
Using the units per labour hour efficiency measure UPH, Enhance our end-to-end Morrisons.
com launched as an online business the average productivity for the period in these technology systems in January 2014 using our broader platform operations was 160 UPH 2015: 155 UPH.
Our technology and service capabilities Core to our business and competitive advantage have enabled its strong growth, which continued We commenced operations at our new CFC in is our proprietary IP, knowledge and technology through the 2016 period.
To enable its further Andover, Hampshire, in November 2016, which that supports our market leading proposition to growth, in August 2016 we announced an extension will ramp up in future periods.
This is particularly customers and drives our operating efficiencies of this agreement with Morrisons to include our significant as Andover CFC houses the first and to enable attractive economics.
The renegotiated terms for additional installation of our new proprietary modular, continually strive to improve and develop our capacity, which will come on stream in 2018, are scalable physical fulfilment solution.
This solution technology and believe that this innovation more in line with the format of how we wish to will also offer many other benefits, such as continues to create a competitive edge across operate with future platform partners.
Among other the ability to pick an entire order in less than 5 our business.
Our patent activities help to create things the agreement provides Morrisons with a minutes compared with an average of over two a web of protection for our IP.
As at the end of the 30% share of the capacity from our Erith CFC as hours in our earlier CFCs.
This will significantly period, we had filed patent applications covering well as the provision of a store pick module, which reduce order processing lead times and give more over 50 separate innovations and the first few will allow Morrisons.
com to service its customers flexibility to offer improved services for customers.
patents were granted during 2016. from their store estate, alongside the CFC fulfilment At maturity Andover CFC will add approximately Ocado provides, and also reach customers not 65,000 OPW of capacity at an estimated capital served by our current CFCs.
cost of 45 million for the material handling equipment MHE.
com Strategic Report 25 During the period, we continued to engage and Our Code for Life programme, which teaches develop discussions with multiple international children coding skills using a free resource, now retailers about how we might assist them in has almost 70,000 users, including almost 1,400 launching or improving online businesses in their schools, in the UK and from another 60 countries.
own markets using our technology and solutions We believe this scheme is vital to help equip the We commenced collectively branded as Ocado Smart Platform.
next generation with key skills from which they Ocado Smart Platform customers will benefit from will benefit: we are proud of its widespread uptake operations at our experience and from the latest technology and across the globe.
our new CFC innovations we apply to our own retail business, We continuously strive to be the UKs greenest offering flexible fulfilment through CFC or storegrocery supplier, operating at what we believe are in Andover... based operations and last mile options home the lowest waste levels in the industry.
Working in delivery and pick up services.
We have recently houses the first partnership with Ecometrica we hope to publish appointed Luke Jensen, who has extensive centralised waste data during 2017.
Throughout experience in strategy, online and grocery installation of our 2016 we have also seen the recycling of Ocado retailing, to a new role as CEO - Ocado Smart uniforms as part of an offenders retraining new proprietary Platform, to help accelerate our discussions.
He programme, enabling us to help offenders learn will start in mid-February.
We remain confident new skills as well as repurpose and sell new modular and in the quality of our commercial proposition and garments with all proceeds going to the Ocado expect to sign multiple deals in multiple territories scalable physical Foundation.
fulfilment Outlook statement People, awards and We reported robust gross sales Retail growth CR initiatives solution.
of 13.6% for the period and we anticipate By the end of the period, we employed almost continuing to grow ahead of the online market in 12,000 people, a net addition of over 1,700 new the year ahead.
Our employees support our retail business, our Morrisons.
com platform We anticipate that capital expenditure in 2017 business and the development of Ocado Smart will be approximately 175 million, including the Platform.
development of further capacity in the Andover and Erith CFCs, and further development to our We will continue expanding our pool of talented infrastructure and technology solutions.
The staff in 2017, including plans to add over 100 capital expenditure requirements for any Ocado technology and engineering professionals.
The Smart Platform deals signed are not expected to launch of the Andover CFC, and the continued be significant in 2017. growth in our business will continue to create new opportunities for existing and new employees in various roles throughout 2017.
The commitment and energy of our people is central to our success and I want to once again acknowledge their remarkable contribution throughout this very busy and exciting time.
The efforts of our people were recognised during the year with a number of awards and we regularly receive feedback highlighting the outstanding service provided by our Customer Service Team members who make the Ocado.
slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 10.
Key Performance Indicators 26 Group Sales m Average Orders per Week Why we use Why we use this measure this measure Measures growth at Group level Measures order growth in our retail reflecting retail sales and platform businesses business fees 2016 performance 2016 performance 17.9% v 2015 15.1% v 2015 Strategic link Strategic link A CFC Efficiency UPH Gross Sales Retail m Why we use Why we use this measure this measure Measures CFC operational Measures sales growth of our retail efficiency business 2016 performance 2016 performance 13.6% v 2015 3.5% v 2015 Strategic link Strategic link A EBITDA m Product Waste % Why we use Why we use this measure this measure Measures operating profitability Measures efficiency of our operations in terms of waste minimisation: the lower the better 2016 performance 2016 performance 3.3% v 2015 0ppt v 2015 Strategic link Strategic link See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 slugline 2013: 46 2013: 843 2013: 852 2014: 1,027 2014: 72 2014: 972 2015: 82 2015: 1,116 2015: 1,204 2016: 1,267.4 2016: 84 2016: 1,386.7 2013: 1.0 2013: 135 2013: 143,000 2014: 0.8 2014: 167,000 2014: 145 2015: 0.7 2015: 155 2015: 195,000 2015: 160 2016: 0.7 2016: 230,000 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Strategic Report 27 Average Order Size Delivery Punctuality % Why we use Why we use this measure this measure Measures aggregate impact on Measures punctuality of our delivery average shopping basket operations 2016 performance 2016 performance -2.7% v 2015 -0.4ppt v 2015 Strategic link Strategic link Average Deliveries per Van per Week Active Customer Base Why we use Why we use this measure this measure Measures efficiency of our service Measures growth in our core customers delivery operation who shopped in the last 12 week 2016 performance 2016 performance 6.3% v 2015 13.9% v 2015 Strategic link Strategic link Order Accuracy % SKU Count Hypermarket Why we use Why we use this measure this measure Measures order accuracy pre Measures growth in range offered at substitution Ocado.
Chief Financial Officers Review 28 For the period to 27 November 2016, we grew total orders 17.9% year-on-year.
Operating maintained solid sales growth in what has profitability in the period was adversely impacted Duncan Tatton-Brown remained a challenging competitive environment.
by the continuing pressure on margins reflecting At Group level, sales increased driven principally the competitiveness and deflationary pressures in Chief Financial Officer by growth in our retail business with the balance the market, the impacts of the national living wage coming from our agreement with Morrisons.
and our continued investment in a number of strategic initiatives to aid the future growth of the Solid growth in Retail sales, order volumes and business.
This was offset in part by more efficient the number of active customers in the period operational fulfilment mainly at Dordon CFC and demonstrated the appeal of our retail proposition.
improvements in average deliveries per van per Revenue m Every year since we launched, we have seen week.
over 10% growth in orders and in the period we FY 2016 FY 2015 m m Variance 1 Revenue 1,271.0 1,107.6 14.8% Gross profit 435.3 375.1 16.0% A EBITDA before exceptional items 84.3 81.5 3.3% Operating profit before share of result from JV and A exceptional items 21.9 19.1 14.7% Share of result from joint venture 2.1 2.3 8.7 % Profit before tax and exceptional items 14.5 11.9 21.8% Exceptional items 2.4 - - Profit before tax 12.1 11.9 1.3% A EBITDA m 1.
Revenue is sales net of returns generated at Ocado.
com, and the other retail banners - Fetch, Sizzle and Fabled, including charges for delivery but excluding relevant vouchers offers and value added tax.
The recharge of costs to Morrisons and fees charged to Morrisons are also included in revenue 2.
Morrison MHE JVCo impact includes the income arising from the leasing arrangements with Morrisons for MHE assets and share of results from joint venture Revenue FY 2016 FY 2015 m m Variance Retail 1,171.6 1,033.7 13.3% Morrisons recharges 79.9 55.1 44.9% Morrisons fees 19.5 18.8 3.7% Total revenue 1,271.0 1,107.6 14.8% Revenue increased by 14.8% to 1,271.0 million of items partly due to the increased frequency of for the period.
Revenue from retail activities was shop from our customers.
Overall average basket 1,171.6 million, an increase of 13.3% which we size fell by 3.7% due to these effects and also believe continues to be ahead of the UK online the dilutive effect on the average order size from grocery market.
Revenue growth was driven by an increased mix of standalone destination site a 17.9% year-on-year increase in the full year orders which are typically smaller average size.
average orders per week to 230,000.
Product The Morrisons arrangement contributed 99.4 sales from the general merchandise destination million of revenue in 2016 2015: 73.9 million.
sites grew by over 85% year-on-year driven by The growth was mainly driven by increased the increasing popularity of the Fetch pet store revenue from recharges for services provided and the launch our new beauty destination site, to support the expansion of the Morrisons.
com Fabled, during the second half of the period.
The fee income remained broadly in line The increase in order growth was partially offset with the prior year and comprised of the initial by a reduction in average hypermarket order licence fees for the setup of technology services size, down 2.7% from 111.15 in 2015 to 108.10 and annual fees relating to technology support, in 2016, primarily due to deflation in the average research and development and management item price as experienced across the grocery services.
industry and a small reduction on the number See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 slugline Ocado Annual Report 2016 front.
com Strategic Report 29 Gross profit FY 2016 FY 2015 Variance m m Retail 335.9 301.4 11.4% Morrisons recharges 79.9 54.9 45.4% Weve maintained Morrisons fees 19.5 18.8 4.1% solid sales Total gross profit 435.3 375.1 16.0% growth in what Gross profit rose by 16.0% year-on-year to 435.3 MHE assets, is generated from charging MHE lease million 2015: 375.1 million and was 34.2% costs to Morrisons and equates to the additional has remained of revenue 2015: 33.9%, ahead of 2015 due depreciation and lease interest costs that we incur to additional gross profit attributable to the for the share of the MHE assets effectively owned a challenging Morrisons arrangement in the period, reflecting by Morrisons.
competitive the sustained growth in the Morrisons.
Retail gross profit reduced to 28.7% of environment.
Operating profit before the share of result from the retail revenue 2015: 29.2% primarily as a result of joint venture and exceptional items for the period selling price deflation.
Other income increased to 52.9 million, up 7.9% Distribution costs and administrative expenses year-on-year 2015: 49.0 million.
Supplier income included costs for both the Ocado and Morrisons was 3.3% of retail revenue 2015: 3.1%.
Supplier fulfilment and delivery operations.
Total income grew year-on-year and continues to distribution costs and administrative expenses grow ahead of the rate of increase in revenue as including costs recharged to Morrisons grew by we engage our suppliers in media opportunities 15.2% year-on-year.
Excluding Morrisons, costs on our customer interfaces including website, grew by 10.4% year-on-year, below the growth mobile apps and mobile websites.
Other income Profit Loss before Tax and in average orders per week of 17.9%.
The costs also included 2.5 million 2015: 2.5 million Exceptional Items m relating to the Morrisons operations are recharged of rental income relating to the lease of Dordon and included in revenue.
CFC and 11.7 million 2015: 11.2 million of income arising from the leasing arrangements with Morrisons for MHE assets.
This income, for the FY 2016 FY 2015 m m Variance 1 Distribution costs 247.5 216.6 14.3% 1 Administrative expenses 78.8 73.4 7.4% 2 Costs recharged to Morrisons 79.8 54.9 45.4% 3 Depreciation and amortisation 60.3 60.1 0.4% Total distribution costs and administrative expense 466.4 405.0 15.2% 1.
Excluding chargeable Morrisons costs, depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 2.
Morrisons costs include both distribution and administrative costs 3.
Depreciation and amortisation excludes exceptional items for the period which amounted to 0.7 million impairment charge 2015: nil At 247.5 million, distribution costs increased delivery slots.
During the period we opened two by 14.3% compared to 2015.
Overall mature CFC new spokes in Crawley and Peterborough.
As UPH for Hatfield CFC and Dordon CFC combined a result of these new spoke openings and the was 160 in 2016 compared with 155 in 2015.
The annualised impact of three spokes Dagenham, improvement in mature CFC UPH for the period Milton Keynes and West Drayton, the expansion of was driven mainly by the improved productivity the Bristol spoke and additional fixed costs arising at Dordon CFC which had grown by 5.6% yearfrom the move of the London spoke at White on-year to 174 UPH in 2016 and had regularly City to Park Royal in 2015, spoke fixed costs as a exceeded 180 UPH by the end of the period.
percentage of sales increased in the period.
Deliveries per van per week have improved by 6.3% year-on-year to 176 2015: 166 as customer density improved and we increased Sunday slugline Ocado Annual Report 2016 front.
Chief Financial Officers Review 30 FY 2016 FY 2015 Variance m m 1 Central costs other 63.0 55.1 14.3% 2 Central costs share-based senior management incentive charges 4.1 7.8 47.3 % Marketing costs excluding vouchers 11.7 10.5 11.6% 1 Total administrative expenses 78.8 73.4 7.4% 1.
Excluding chargeable Morrisons costs, depreciation, amortisation and impairment Total administrative expenses excluding The impairment charges in the period relate to Net finance costs depreciation, amortisation and costs recharged to our head office move, write offs related to the Net finance costs of 9.5 million 2015: 9.5 Morrisons increased to 78.8 million 2015: 73.4 exit from the Southampton spoke site and from million were in line with the prior year.
million and as a percentage of retail revenue this a detailed review of our legacy systems as we reduced to 6.7% 2015: 7.1%.
The year-on-year rewrite a number of key systems as part of our Profit before tax cost increases were mainly due to additional costs software replatforming.
Profit before tax and exceptional items for the to operate Morrisons.
com which are not recharged period was 14.5 million 2015: 11.9 million.
Share of result from joint to Morrisons but for which the Group earns fees, venture and continued investments in our strategic Taxation MHE JVCo Limited MHE JVCo was incorporated initiatives to support future growth in both our The Group provided for 0.1 million of corporation in 2013 on the completion of the Morrisons general merchandise business and for the Ocado tax for one of its legal entities that does not have arrangement, with Ocado owning a 50% equity Smart Platform.
These cost increases were offset available prior year losses or capital allowances.
MHE JVCo holds Dordon CFC by lower share-based management incentive Ocado had approximately 268.6 million 2015: assets which are leased to Ocado to service its and costs driven by the net effect of the maturity of the 287.8 million of unutilised carried forward Morrisons businesses.
The income generated by 2013 LTIP scheme.
tax losses at the end of the period.
During 2016 MHE JVCo comprises interest income on finance Ocado incurred 43.4 million 2015: 36.2 million Marketing costs excluding voucher spend were leases granted to Ocado, offset by administrative in a range of taxes including fuel duty, PAYE and higher at 11.7 million 2015: 10.5 million and expenses and depreciation on minor assets not Employers National Insurance and business rates.
in line with the prior year as a percentage of retail subject to lease and administration charges.
Earnings per share The Group share of MHE JVCo profit after tax in the period amounted to 2.1 million 2015: 2.3 Total depreciation and amortisation costs Basic earnings per share was 2.02p 2015: 2.01p million, the year-on-year decrease driven in main excluding exceptional items were 60.3 million and diluted earnings per share was 1.96p 2015: by a higher tax provision.
2015: 60.1 million, broadly flat year-on-year and 1.91p.
A this includes impairment charges of 0.7 million Exceptional items 2015: 1.8 million.
Higher depreciation and Exceptional items in the period were 2.4 million amortisation arose from increased investment in 2015: nil.
Of this 1.7 million was recognised in vehicles and new spokes to support our continued EBITDA and related to our head office move and order growth offset by lower depreciation as litigation against payment providers.
The balance a result of lower capex spend at our existing of 0.7 million is related to the accelerated CFCs over the last few years.
We commenced depreciation charge as a result of our planned operations at Andover CFC at the end of the head office move.
As a result the capital work in progress of Andover CFC and its associated software did not have a depreciation impact in the period.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Strategic Report 31 Capital expenditure Capital Expenditure Capital expenditure for the period excluding share of MHE JVCo was 153.0 million 2015: 122.1 million and comprised of the following: FY 2016 FY 2015 m m Mature CFCs 3.4 3.2 New CFCs 64.6 52.9 Delivery 20.6 25.3 Mature CFCs Technology 34.3 23.0 New CFCs Fulfilment Development 19.7 13.3 Delivery Technology Other 10.5 4.4 Fulfilment development 1, 2 Total capital expenditure excluding share of MHE JVCo 153.0 122.1 Other 3 Total capital expenditure including share of MHE JVCo 156.9 126.5 1.
Capital expenditure includes tangible and intangible assets 2.
Capital expenditure excludes assets leased from MHE JVCo under finance lease arrangements 3.
Capital expenditure includes Ocado share of the MHE JVCo of 3.9 million in 2016 and of 4.4 million in 2015 Total investment in Mature CFCs was 3.4 million, headcount grew to over 950 staff at the end of which excludes the capital expenditure relating the period 2015: over 700 staff as increased to MHE JVCo of 3.9 million.
The investments at investments were made to support our strategic Hatfield CFC were primarily resiliency projects, for initiatives, including major replatforming of example installing additional chillers and crane and Ocados technology and migration of most of our conveyor improvements.
There have also been some systems to run on a public or private cloud.
This capacity and productivity projects at the existing will allow Ocado to achieve greater technical agility sites such as upgrading pick station scanners.
and enable the technology to support possible international expansion opportunities.
In addition, We incurred 64.6 million of costs in the period we invested internal technology resources as part of for the build and installation of our proprietary developing capital projects for Dordon CFC and the infrastructure at our new CFCs.
At the end of the further development of the Morrisons proposition.
period, we commenced operations at our Andover CFC.
This is the first of our CFCs to use our new Fulfilment development capital expenditure of proprietary infrastructure equipment solution and 19.7 million 2015: 13.3 million was incurred software, which will support the ongoing growth to further develop our next generation fulfilment of our business.
Andover CFC has an expected solution which will be used in our new CFCs and capacity of 65,000 OPW.
Our fourth CFC located in for Ocado Smart Platform customers.
Erith, South East London, will be larger than any Other capital expenditure of 10.5 million, of our existing CFCs with an expected capacity included 5.8 million of capital expenditure of over 200,000 OPW, and is planned to open in related mainly to our head office move.
We incurred 38.6 million of addition to this we spent 3.5 million in our costs on this site in the period.
general merchandise business to support growth Delivery capital expenditure was 20.6 million in capacity in our existing general merchandise 2015: 25.3 million.
This included investment facility and the fit out and costs associated with in new vehicles of 13.6 million 2015: 14.0 the development of our new Fabled flagship store million to support our business growth and and online offering.
replace vehicles at the end of their useful lives.
At 27 November 2016, capital commitments These assets are typically on five year financing contracted, but not provided for by the Group, contracts.
There was investment in new spokes amounted to 34.4 million 29 November 2015: of 2.0 million, which included the Crawley spoke 22.3 million, this increase is mainly driven by which opened in April 2016 and the Peterborough commitments in our new CFCs.
We expect capital spoke which opened in August 2016. expenditure in 2017 to be approximately 175 We continued to develop our own proprietary million which mainly comprises the continuing software and incurred 26.8 million 2015: 18.1 investment in the next generation of fulfilment million of internal development costs which were solutions, roll out of our new CFCs and additional capitalised as intangible assets in the period, with investment in new vehicles to support business a further 7.5 million 2015: 4.9 million spent on growth and the replacement of vehicles coming to computer hardware and software.
Our technology the end of their five year financing contracts.
slugline 2014 2015 2016 Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 11.
Chief Financial Officers Review 32 Cash flow During the year the Group generated improved operating cash flow after finance costs of 96.9 million, up from 82.8 million in 2015, as follows: FY 2016 FY 2015 Operating cash m m A EBITDA 84.3 81.5 flow increased Working capital movement 18.5 2.3 by 14.6 million 3 A Exceptional items 1.7 1 Other non-cash items 4.9 8.7 during the year.
Finance costs paid 9.1 9.7 Operating cash flow 96.9 82.8 Capital investment 123.9 99.1 2 Dividend from joint venture 8.4 8.1 Increase decrease in debt finance obligations 22.2 26.8 Proceeds from share issues net of transaction costs 1.1 4.5 Other investing and financing activities 0.4 Increase in cash and cash equivalents 5.1 30.5 1.
Other non-cash items include movements in provisions, share of income from MHE JVCo and share-based payment charges 2. Dividend received from MHE JVCo of 8.4 million 2015: 8.1 million 3.
Total exceptional items of 2.4 million 2015: nil includes a 0.7 million impairment charge to property, plant and equipment, which is a non-cash item The operating cash flow increased by 14.1 investments in Andover CFC and Erith CFC, million during the year as a result of an increase development of our next generation fulfilment in EBITDA of 2.8 million and a positive working solution and expenditure on our delivery assets.
The positive In the period there was a net increase in debt working capital movement includes a 25.2 and finance obligations of 22.2 million 2015: million increase in trade payables primarily due net repayments of 26.8 million.
This included a to increased trade accruals and trade payables 52.5 million drawdown on the Revolving Credit attributable to inventory increases prior to year Facility 2015: nil.
We continue to reinvest our cash for future growth and as a result the cash outflows due to capital investment increased to 123.9 million comprising See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Strategic Report 33 Balance sheet Bank facility The Group had cash and cash equivalents of 50.9 In the prior year, the 3 year 100 million revolving million at the period end 2015: 45.8 million with unsecured facility was extended by a further two the increase mainly owing to a net cash inflow years to July 2019 and the amount of the facility from financing activities in the period.
At the end of the period we had drawn down 52.5 million of the External gross debt at the period end, which facility.
excludes finance leases payable to MHE JVCo, was 107.1 million 2015: 53.3 million.
The Change of external auditors increase of 53.8 million was mainly driven by Following a tender process of the external audit, a drawdown of 52.5 million on the Revolving Deloitte LLP is being recommended at the Annual Credit Facility excluding capitalised transaction General Meeting for appointment as the Groups fees of 1.2 million, currently used for funding external auditors for the 2017 financial year.
capital investment in the new distribution centres.
The balance was a result of 16.6 million of additional vehicle and property debt, offset by net repayments of 14.1 million of borrowings.
Gross debt at the period end of 215.8 million 2015: 172.8 million and includes amounts owing to MHE JVCo of 108.7 million 2015: 119.5 million.
Net external debt at the period end was 56.2 million 2015: 7.5 million.
slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 12.
How We Manage Our Risks 34 a system of financial reporting, business other control measures outlined elsewhere The Risk Management planning and forecasting processes: in this Annual Report including legal and Framework regulatory compliance and health and safety.
a capital approval policy that controls Ocados Ocados risk management process is designed to capital expenditure and a post-completion Key Developments in 2016 improve the likelihood of delivering our business review process for significant projects: objectives, protect the interests of our key The process described on this page for stakeholders, enhance the quality of our decision identifying, evaluating and managing the monitoring the progress of major projects by making, and assist in the safeguarding of our principal risks faced by the Group operated management, the Executive Directors and the assets, including people, finances, property and during the period and up to the date of this Board: reputation.
Such a system can only provide a Risk Committee which monitors Ocados risk reasonable, and not absolute, assurance, The Board is responsible for the identification of control processes: as it is designed to manage rather than Ocados key strategic and emerging risks, and for eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business an Information Security Committee which the review and approval of the risk management objectives.
monitors Ocados information security: framework.
The Audit Committee, delegated by the Board, is responsible for the independent During 2016, Ocado continued to enhance an Internal Audit and Risk function that review of the effectiveness of risk management, its approach to risk management.
This provides independent assurance on key the system of internal control, and the monitoring included the development of a physical programmes and controls: of the quality of financial statements and security policy, testing of our capabilities for consideration of any findings reported by the a treasury policy overseen by a Treasury information security and business continuity, auditors,  PwC, in Committee that manages Ocados cash and and production of a roadmap to enhance our relation to Ocados control environment and its deposits, investments, foreign exchange and disaster recovery capability.
interest rates, so as to ensure liquidity and The Audit Committee, on behalf of the minimise financial risk: The key features of our system of internal control Board, undertook an annual review of the a food and product technology department, and risk management, including those relating to effectiveness of risk management and responsible for designing and monitoring the financial reporting process, are: the system of internal control, covering compliance with Ocados processes for the all significant controls including financial, an organisational structure with clear procurement and handling of foods and other operational, compliance controls, and risk segregation of duties, control and authority, goods for resale: and management systems.
and a framework of policies covering all key areas: 1.
Our strategy informs the setting of objectives across the business and is widely communicated.
Executive Directors evaluate the most significant strategic risks for the Group.
In addition, each divisional Director prepares a risk register for their respective division, highlighting their significant risks.
The Risk Committee oversees risk control processes and risk analysis from each part of the business, and reviews these top down and bottom up representations to ensure that no significant 4. risks have been omitted.
Divisional directors identify how they will manage or Management Risks Risks mitigate their significant risks.
These actions are then summarised into a description of the Group-wide mitigation process for each risk.
Group-wide risks and mitigation processes are regularly reviewed by the Risk Committee and by the Audit Committee.
Implement Mitigation slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Strategic Report 35 For further information on the review of In assessing going concern, the Directors take term plans, is used to set targets for the Group for financial reporting, refer to page 60 of the into account the Groups cash flows, solvency the upcoming financial year and is used by the Audit Committee report and liquidity positions and borrowing facilities.
Remuneration Committee to set performance At period end, the Group had cash and cash targets for the Annual Incentive Plan.
A longer 2017 Plan equivalents of 50.9 million 2015: 53.3 million, term business model, which is refreshed by A Activities to improve our strategic, programme external gross debt excluding finance leases the Board annually, provides less certainty of and operational risk management capabilities, payable to MHE JVCo of 107.0 million 2015: outcome, but provides a sensible planning tool including business continuity and information 45.8 million and net current liabilities of 141.2 against which strategic decisions can be made.
Our trading strategy million 2015: 59.5 million.
The Group has a mix This plan contemplates the impact of a number is reviewed and amended as necessary to reflect of short and medium term finance arrangements of different strategic initiatives, including possible the increasingly competitive grocery trading and has a 210 million revolving credit facility Ocado Smart Platform transactions, possible trials environment.
which contains typical financial covenants of new technology, new CFCs, potential increases and runs until July 2019.
The facility has been in CFC capacity and changes in the rate of retail The Internal Audit and Risk function will continue drawndown by 52.5 million.
The Group forecasts customer growth.
The plans make assumptions to provide independent and objective assurance its liquidity requirements, working capital position about the business including projected capital and advisory services designed to add value and and the maintenance of sufficient headroom expenditure, financing requirements, available improve the operations of the business.
Its scope against the financial covenants in its borrowing finance and compliance with any financial encompasses the examination and evaluation facilities see below.
The forecasts involve the covenants.
of the adequacy and effectiveness of Ocados Directors making judgements about future governance, risk management and internal To assist the Directors assessment, the financial revenue, EBITDA and capital expenditure and the control processes.
projections in the longer term business model cost of future financing.
The financial position of were subject to severe but plausible stress tests Assessment of the Groups the Group, including information on cash flow, whereby certain key assumptions were adjusted can be found in Our Financials on pages 118 to prospects downwards, notably a material decline in the 189.
In determining whether there are material The Directors have assessed the Groups rate of sales growth and lower gross margins or uncertainties, the Directors consider the Groups prospects, both as a going concern and its increase in operating costs and a combination business activities, together with factors that are viability longer term.
This assessment informs the thereof.
The tests were intended to show various likely to affect its future development and position following distinct statements: outcomes including the impact on the Groups see pages 36 to 37 and the Groups principal A net debt and cash flow over the three years and 1.
The Directors considered it appropriate to risks and the likely effectiveness of any mitigating an assessment of the impact on the financial adopt the going concern basis of accounting actions and controls available to the Directors see covenants in the revolving credit facility, all of in the preparation of the Companys and the pages 36 and 37. which are relevant to assessing the solvency and Groups financial statements.
liquidity of the Group in this context.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation sales growth or margins or increase in operating In addition to the going concern assessment, that the Company and the Group will be able costs can result from a range of principal risks in the Directors have considered the viability of the to continue in operation and meet its liabilities the retail business including failure by the Group business.
as they fall due over the period of their to maintain a competitive pricing position, a assessment.
The Code requires that the Directors assess the decline in customer service levels and a delay prospects of the Group over an appropriate in implementing new capacity, including the Both assessments are closely linked to the period of time selected by them.
The Directors Andover CFC and the Erith CFC.
The Directors Directors robust assessment of the principal risks have considered whether the Group will be able consider that it is reasonable to believe that the facing the Group including those that would to continue in operation and meet its liabilities Groups 210 million revolving credit facility, which threaten its business model, future performance, as they fall due over the three year period from runs until July 2019 falling during the three year solvency or liquidity, which is outlined on pages approval of this Annual Report.
Although the assessment, will be refinanced or extended to 36 and 37.
Groups strategic plan forecasts beyond three provide continuing finance to the Group.
The years, the Directors took into account the impact Going concern statement Directors assessment also took into account the on forecast outcomes of the rapid growth of the other principal risks and mitigating actions.
Accounting standards require that the directors business and its changing strategic opportunities, satisfy themselves that it is reasonable for them The above considerations form the basis of the among other factors in concluding that three to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare Boards reasonable expectations that the Group years was the most appropriate period for financial statements on a going concern basis.
will be able to continue in operation and meet assessing the Groups prospects.
There has been no material uncertainty identified its liabilities as they fall due over the three year which would cast significant doubt upon the The Directors rely on a number of existing period from approval of this Annual Report.
Groups ability to continue using the going processes to justify their viability assessment.
concern basis of accounting for the 12 months The annual budget, which provides a greater following the approval of this Annual Report.
level of certainty of outcome than the longerSee Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 12.
How We Manage Our Risks 36 The Board carried out its assessment of principal risks during the period.
Set out below are details of the principal risks and uncertainties for the Group and the key mitigating activities used to address them.
Strategic Change During Objective Risks Mitigation Action Control the Year Failure to maintain competitive Continuation of our LPP basket matching price comparison pricing position Maintaining a competitive number of promotional offers and increased availability of free delivery slots for price sensitive customers Creation of a choice of tiered price points within each category Driving Growth Risk of decline in high service Weekly monitoring of the key indicators and the underlying drivers against levels published targets Due to operating close to maximum capacity Failure to develop retail Growth of the Ocado own-label range alongside continued provision of the proposition to appeal to broader Waitrose range customer base and sustain Growth of branded ranges and expansion of supplier base growth rates Alternative sourcing scenarios considered in the event that the Waitrose sourcing Due to increased relationship terminates competition in food Continuation of investment and optimisation of the marketing channels to distribution acquire new customers Continued improvement of webshop and apps Failure to develop sufficient Second and third overseas technology centres opened management and technology Improved IT prioritisation process capability or bandwidth to deliver on all our strategic priorities Risk of not signing multiple OSP Investment in our platform which enables OSP is also required for Ocados deals in the medium term expanding Retail business.
Initial deployment will be in Andover CFC and Erith CFC Impact of not signing multiple OSP deals in the medium term is restricted to the Andover CFC has gone lost opportunity to increase our earnings from our Platform business live.
OSP product can The amount of capital invested in our platform is carefully controlled and we have be demonstrated.
the ability to reduce costs by scaling back the speed of the development Risk of negative implications Collaborating with trade organisations to follow developments and express our caused by final Brexit terms such concerns to government as increase in import costs or Taking part in BRC analysis to determine impact of WTO tariff rates on imports difficulty in hiring employees and exports New risk A risk of delays in the Dedicating resources to the modularisation of technology and logistics systems implementation of new capacity to enable faster replication for both Ocado and Morrisons New capacity in development at Andover CFC and Erith CFC Regular Executive Board steering and full Board reporting of new technology Maximising projects Efficiency slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Strategic Report 37 Strategic Change During Objective Risks Mitigation Action Control the Year Technological innovation Engagement with a wide number of international grocers to understand market supersedes our own and offers needs improved methods of food Experienced teams in place who understand the current solutions and are aware distribution to consumers of global alternatives used in other industries Utilising Failure to protect our IP Processes introduced to identify patentable inventions and to apply for patents Proprietary Knowledge Established Ocado Innovation Committee to review our patent portfolio and discuss other IP issues Increased levels of IP protection via patents Failure to ensure that our Conducting freedom to operate searches on selected technologies technology can be freely operated Where appropriate, obtaining specialist or legal advice without infringing a third partys IP Increased scope of Ocado innovations, into increasingly complex areas A risk of a food safety or product Experienced legal, food and product technology professionals monitor safety incident compliance against policies and procedures Supplier approval and certification process Food and product safety policies and quality management with appropriate Operational operational procedures A risk of changes in regulations Regular monitoring of regulatory developments to ensure that changes are impacting our retail business identified model or the viability of OSP Monitoring operational performance to minimise environmental impact deals Regulatory due diligence carried out at appropriate stages in the OSP process Risk of major cyber-attack or IT systems are structured to operate reliably and securely data loss Denial of service protection service is in place The security of our IT systems is regularly tested by third parties No customer payment card data is held in Ocados databases Access to customer personal data is restricted to those who need this information as part of their job Business interruption IT systems are structured to operate reliably and securely Dedicated engineering teams on site with daily maintenance programmes to support the continued operation of equipment Insurers advise on engineering and risk management in the design and operation of the CFCs High level of protection for CFCs and equipment For further information on the financial risks, see pages 158 to 160 of the notes to the financial statements.
Key Risk has Increased Risk has Decreased No Change Not Applicable slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 13.
Corporate Responsibility 38 The Ocado Way: 2020 Corporate Responsibility Strategy continued to develop and embed across the business in 2016.
Progress was made in each of the four pillars, some of the highlights are set out in this section.
The Ocado Way: 2020 Strategy Education Entrepreneurship Environment Eating well Education Code for Life Code for Life, our freely available school resource designed to teach children to code, continues to be well received both globally and here in the UK.
As of the end of November 2016, we had 75,000 users and interest from over 59 countries at over 1,300 schools.
Road Safety We have started an innovative road safety education programme to provide pedestrian safety training to school children.
Over the coming year, we will continue to work closely with Hertfordshire County Council to roll out Pedestrian Training Skills to schools across Hertfordshire, teaching children about the dangers of large vehicles.
Our aim is to take this successful model and replicate it across other locations in the UK.
The provision of high-viz tabards has enabled more children to be offered Pedestrian Skills training in Key Stage 2 ready for their transition to secondary school.
Hertfordshire County Council is delighted to be working with Ocado to support road safety education in schools.
Hertfordshire County Council is delighted to be working with Ocado to support road safety Heather Hill Team Leader, Hertfordshire CC Road Safety in Schools education in schools slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Strategic Report 39 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Waste During the reporting period, our CO emissions We expect that centralised waste data will be 2 moderately increased as a percentage of sales to compiled and published during 2017. the previous year.
The business has continued to Throughout this year we have been closely significantly grow, with a number of newly opened measuring food waste, particularly that which can Entrepreneurship Spokes now fully operational and the Andover be redistributed to those in need.
Over the last 12 Supporting small suppliers CFC also open.
months, more than 206 tonnes has been donated We like to make sure our customers are spoilt for Our vehicle fleet continues to be our largest to food bank partners.
This is a combination of hot choice when it comes to shopping, thats why contributor to carbon emissions 66% of reported meals served in shelters and refuges, in cafes such were always on the lookout for amazing new emissions, and during the period the fleet grew as those of our partner The Real Junk Food Cafe, products to add to our range.
Historically, it can be by a further 27% in response to our continued food parcels and donations.
a struggle for small and artisan suppliers to secure growth and that of Morrisons.
In the spirit of trying to avoid as much waste to a meeting with a buying manager of a retailer, so Despite the growth, we have continued to invest landfill as possible, the last 12 months has also we have developed a user friendly site aimed at in carbon efficiencies.
This has included the seen the recycling and refashioning of Ocado helping small suppliers complete the necessary replacement of lighting with LED at both Hatfield uniforms.
Partnering with HMP Northumberland, paperwork and application to increase their CFC and the General Merchandise Distribution Ocados uniforms are refashioned as part of an chances of success.
Centre as well as at a number of our Spokes: and offender retraining programme enabling the It works by suppliers logging an application on installation of airlock doors at a number of Spokes upskilling of offenders to learn a trade whilst www.
Here they are asked for to reduce refrigerant wastage on our white box enabling Ocados uniforms to be repurposed and all the mandatory criteria necessary to be listed, refrigerated storage units.
ultimately be available for sale, with all proceeds ensuring that if they are successful, they can be going to the Ocado Foundation, for further listed quickly.
Details of their products are then The quality and integrity of our data is something charitable donations.
uploaded and this information is then routed to we have particularly concentrated on during the the relevant Ocado buying manager to review and period, bringing us far greater accuracy of content follow up with.
We have had more than 500 small and significantly fewer estimates.
This year, less suppliers complete applications in the first few than 1% of all carbon data is estimated compared months, and we look forward to reporting on this to 5% last year.
PwC has carried out a limited assurance engagement on selected GHG emissions data table below in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance engagements on greenhouse gas statements ISAE 3410, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board and, in respect Environment of the intensity measure, in accordance with the We continue to make progress with our International Standard on Assurance Engagements environmental data management, working 3000 Revised Assurance engagements other than closely with our partner Ecometrica to provide a audits or reviews of historical financial information centralised data management system.
A copy of the limited assurance carbon emissions from our CFCs, Spokes and report is available in the Our Responsibilities vehicles.
We are expanding it to track all waste section of the Companys corporate website.
Refashioned Ocado uniform GHG Emissions Tonnes CO e 2 2015 16 2014 15 2013 14 Scope 1 Direct 75,891 63,151 50,198 Scope 2 Indirect 28,675 28,602 26,493 Total Emissions 104,566 91,753 76,691 Intensity measures: Tonnes CO e 100,000 orders 762.5 725.4 815.1 2 View more information about the basis of preparation of our emissions data online at ocadogroup.
