Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 6.
Ocado Smart Platform 12 Ocado Smart Platform is our proprietary solution partner.
All solutions will be powered by Ocado benefits in matching capacity requirements to which will enable the operation of online retail Smart Platforms cutting edge technology.
It fully integrates our end-to-end a sustainable solution that is constantly being Customers of Ocado Smart Platform will benefit software and technology systems with our enhanced with future developments and that can from years of innovation originating from our own physical fulfilment solution, both of which are be extended as a retailer grows its online business.
retail business that will enable us to replicate our developed in-house and tested in our live retail unique capabilities at a significantly lower cost to To enhance the customer proposition, other environment of Ocado.
In comparison to other third products, applications or features can be We recognise that a retailers priorities may be party providers of services and software, we have integrated into Ocado Smart Platform such different depending on their geography, level of developed our end-to-end solutions specifically as general merchandise, loyalty schemes or maturity and strategic direction.
Ocado Smart with grocery retail in mind.
This means that grocery range extensions.
We would expect these Platform is offered as a fully integrated managed every part of the solution has been designed and additional features to help to increase customer service which will provide customisable solutions engineered with the qualities and characteristics retention and drive growth.
Commercialisation depending on the retailers specific requirements that grocery shopping requires, which has allowed of our intellectual property via Ocado Smart and the service they wish to offer their customers.
us to develop what we believe to be a market Platform offers significant value creation This will allow the retailer the flexibility to choose leading solution for Morrisons.
com and our future opportunities in the UK and abroad.
Morrisons how to service customers through alternative corporate customers.
is our first platform partner and has seen strong fulfilment solutions of centralised warehouse growth in their online business since launching in Our physical infrastructure solution can be or store picking solutions.
Equally, Ocado 2014 See Morrisons Update case study.
We are retrofitted into standard warehouse buildings: Smart Platform will support alternative last confident in signing multiple deals utilising our it is modular in nature can be built to different mile operations such as delivery, pick up, locker capabilities over the medium-term.
sizes, scalable can be increased in size over boxes or courier services.
This will allow the time and will be fast to deploy short build and best strategic package to be developed for each commissioning lead times, providing significant Case Study Our vision for Ocado Smart Platform Proposition A complete modular and scalable Ocado Smart Platform: Providing e-commerce, fulfilment and last mile solution Flexibility for Corporate Customers There are two fulfilment systems offered by Ocado Smart Platform Growth Drivers Proposition ideally positioned to take which will enable the flexibility for our partners to tailor their advantage of the ongoing channel shift to solution to their strategic priorities.
The CFC centralised pick online grocery shopping globally solution allows for the MHE and software to run centralised Pace of development of the online market picking and fulfilment, where customer orders are picked and drives competition and therefore innovation packed within a modular grid that can be scaled with growth.
This throughout the industry functionality would allow for a compelling customer proposition providing high picking accuracy and a large range for customers.
Learning in a live retail environment enables us to constantly improve, enhance and Alternatively a store pick solution can be adopted, whereby innovate Ocado Smart Platform to remain customer orders are picked and packed directly from a partners best in class existing stores.
Despite expected weaker economics at scale, this alternative picking solution would, we believe, enable a quick to Service provided stimulates and encourages market option allowing full geographic coverage to areas where the online growth for partners centralised picking solution does not reach.
It is complementary Economic Model The platform is offered as a managed service to CFC fulfilment and would enable retailers to utilise their existing solution, with fee structures aligning to sales store estate to build online sales volume that could later be growth of each partner transferred to more efficient CFCs.
Limited upfront costs for retailers and These fulfilment solutions are not mutually exclusive and can be therefore lower risks associated with operated in conjunction with each other to enhance the flexibility adopting Ocado Smart Platform of our offering for different partners.
As online retail business grows the platform Read the Morrisons Update can be scaled whilst achieving cost case study on page 21 efficiencies slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Strategic Report 13 How does Ocado Smart Platform work?
Ordering Fulfilment Last Mile Solution Ocado Smart Platform will provide the full Ocado Smart Platform provides two different Ocado Smart Platform will provide the e-Commerce software solution.
This will fulfilment systems: routing and in-van technology to complete include what we believe will be a best-inthe last mile delivery services.
This helps Customer Fulfilment Centre CFC class grocery webshop, mobile and tablet track the orders right up to the customers centralised pick applications tailored to meet the customers front door to minimise errors and waste retail requirements.
The platform also Store pick while driving cost efficiencies for the includes the back-end systems required to retailer by planning the most effective and The MHE required for the CFC solution will power the site content and the algorithms economic route to sequence the deliveries.
be installed in the retailers building, serviced devised to analyse consumer habits by our engineers who will be onsite 24 7 Alternative last mile services, including pick and customer data.
This can enable the to maintain it.
The dual solution approach up or courier services, can be enabled using shopping experience to be personalised via of both a centralised CFC picking or store our technology solutions.
features such as product recommendations picking option will provide Ocado Smart and targeted product sampling as available Platform partners with the flexibility to on Ocado.
choose how to operate their business to give the best service, greatest coverage and best economics.
All software and systems to operate fulfilment activities will be provided under Ocado Smart Platform.
3rd PARTY POST or COURIER RETAILER'S RETAILER'S SUPPLIERS CLICK & COLLECT RETAILER'S STORES OCADO POWERED SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT RETAILER'S RETAILER'S RETAILER'S DELIVERY NETWORK DRIVERS WAREHOUSE OCADO POWERED OCADO RETAILER'S OCADO POWERED ROUTING AND POWERED RETAILER'S ONLINE OCADO WEBSHOP, TABLET IN-VAN DELIVERY SATISFIED CUSTOMERS & MOBILE APPS FULFILMENT MHE TECHNOLOGY PROCESS CUSTOMERS RETAILER'S STORES OCADO POWERED STORE PICK SOFTWARE REPEAT SHOP ASSISTED BY TARGETED ADVERTISING AND CUSTOMER INSIGHT, POWERED BY OCADO Read the Morrisons Update case study on page 21 slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 7.
Our Strategy 14 Powered by fresh thinking, we strive for new and improved ways to deliver the worlds most advanced end-to-end online grocery shopping and delivery solutions.
Our strategy is designed to deliver shareholder value through our three strategic objectives of driving growth, maximising efficiency and utilising proprietary knowledge.
In order to achieve our strategic objectives we align the business to operate through five strategic actions.
Our objectives and actions allow us to provide a market leading proposition to our customers and shape the online grocery market of the future.
Objectives Driving Growth Maximising Efficiency Utilising Proprietary Knowledge Continually enhancing the value Harnessing our years of learning Utilising our IP to create competitive of our proposition for our retail and we continually strive to innovate advantages in our retail business and corporate customers.
and develop our technology and to monetise IP through our platform operations to consistently improve business.
our economic and operating performance.
Read more about Driving Growth on Read more about Maximising Read more about Utilising Proprietary pages 16 and 17 Efficiency on pages 18 and 19 Knowledge on pages 20 and 21 slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Strategic Report 15 Actions Continuously develop more Enable Constantly Constantly capital and Morrisons and improve Strengthen our enhance end-tooperationally future partners proposition to brands end technology efficient online customers solutions infrastructure business solutions For our retail Develop and expand Operating efficiency: Remain the best Continuously develop customers, this brand offerings to Optimise every aspect in the world by and enhance Ocado is centred on the appropriate retail and of the fulfilment constantly evolving Smart Platform to three core pillars of corporate customer and delivery life and innovating enable a compelling the proposition to groups cycle to improve our customer proposition Use the customers service, economics and our and competitive Reinforce brand developments of range and price customer proposition economics to add equity and values to Ocados technology significant value for For our corporate existing customers Capital efficiency: and engineering partners customers, it is Continuously lower teams to innovate embedding the the cost of investment and improve our endimprovements to our required for online to-end processes retail proposition grocery activities to into Ocado Smart support growth in our Platform and own retail business extending our and those of our offering with new Ocado Smart Platform capabilities including partners store fulfilment and pick up Read more about Strategic Actions in the CEOs Review on pages 22 to 25 slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 8.
Our Strategic Objectives: Driving Growth 16 customers.
Our operating model, combined with niche items from a variety of regions or suppliers, Grocery our market leading technology and software, which wouldnt typically be found in traditional In the online arena it is critical to ensure a positive underpins our strong customer service metrics, supermarkets.
By categorising our interfaces in customer experience as the cost and ease of with 94.9% on time deliveries and 99.0% order this way we provide niche suppliers who may switching between retailers is low.
struggle for premium shelf space in conventional have focused on improving every element of store formats exposure and the ability to drive Efficiency gains enabled by our proprietary the consumer shop through the quality of our sales, which enhances our relationships and solutions can be reinvested into our competitive service and our user interfaces, the freshness attracts suppliers to work with us.
pricing policy: we operate a price matching of our products, the breadth and availability of initiative whereby each customers shop is Kantar Worldpanel data shows that 55% of range, and the competitiveness of our prices.
This evaluated against an equivalent order with online shoppers use the same shopping list from drives customer retention and helps us capture Tesco.
We ensure this scheme is fully one purchase to the next: we understand these market share with the intention of providing longtransparent by communicating directly with consumer habits and continuously update our term value for our shareholders.
Ocado Smart the customer any variances between our interfaces with features such as favourites imports Pass, a bundled benefits scheme, further drives benchmarked shop, with any additional expense and tailored shopping promotions to facilitate and customer loyalty and frequency of shop it offers refunded to our customers in the form of enhance the customer shopping experience and holders unlimited free deliveries for a fixed price, vouchers.
enhancing the benefits of the proposition.
Over half of all sales is conducted with our Smart Pass Progress Future Focus customers.
In a tough grocery market we have demonstrated In order to retain our loyal customers and capture Through our technological innovations we strong growth in our retail business of 13.6%, market share we must not get complacent.
While continuously improve our user interfaces to impacted by deflation on item prices and taking inspiration from technology and other ensure an increasingly personalised and easy constrained by capacity utilisation in our mature industries we are committed to innovating and to use shopping experience.
The value of our proposition to our pushing the boundaries in online shopping and the development of our mobile and tablet customers is evidenced by the growth in our active fulfilment and have invested in our dedicated applications, which are increasingly significant, customers over the year 13.9% as well as our technology and engineering teams to ensure this with over 55% of our orders being checked out via progress in sales of our Ocado own label products remains core to our offering See Fabled case study.
Growth in Ocado own label products General Merchandise has been constrained by contractual obligations Online grocery shopping has unique challenges Our centralised operating model has enabled us under our agreement with Waitrose.
not found in other online retail segments.
This to expand our offering into general merchandise includes significant basket volumes, refined To attract and retain customers and encourage categories.
As well as general merchandise delivery slots and efficient order turnaround.
spend from our customer base we have continued products sold on Ocado.
com, we have dedicated We offer our customers full flexibility by offering to invest in our range, which is enabled by our destination sites which focus on specialist product one-hour delivery time slots seven days a week, centralised operating model.
We now offer over ranges, such as our pet store, Fetch, our kitchen with a wide availability of slots ranging from 50,000 SKUs on our Ocado.
com webshop we and dining store, Sizzle and our new premium 5.30am 11.30pm, and same day delivery service believe the most extensive offering from a UK beauty offering, Fabled.
Hosting these dedicated within certain catchment areas.
We advertise and showcase our destination sites drives the range of products service by operating our centralised model where range through our dedicated shop-in-shop made available to us by niche suppliers and we are able to drive efficiency and accuracy in facilities we now have over 60 different shop-inbrands, allowing us to vastly extend our range our fulfilment process.
This ensures high stock shops, which allow customers to quickly search beyond conventional supermarkets.
availability with minimal substitutions for our through themed product offerings and select KPIs Risks Failure to maintain a competitive pricing position 230,000 108.10 Decline in high service levels Average orders per week Average order size Failure to develop a retail proposition to appeal to broader customer base and sustain growth rates 580,000 50,000 Active customer base SKU count Failure to develop sufficient management and technology capability or bandwidth to deliver on all our strategic priorities Risk of negative implications caused by final Brexit terms such as increase in impact costs or difficulty in hiring employees slugline
