com Strategic Report 19 Automated inbound and outbound processes are Future Focus Resilience and reliability utilised to move products and completed orders We have been developing our largest and, we Our proprietary solution operates in a centralised into and out of the hive.
This flow is enabled by expect, most capital efficient warehouse in Erith, manner, with all processes being fed into our proprietary communications system which South London since 2015.
We expect first orders our densely packed hive.
This allows parallel controls and coordinates thousands of fast, from this CFC to initiate in financial year 2018.
Like processing to operate within the grid, limiting space efficient, densely located robotic devices Andover, this CFC will utilise both our proprietary upstream downstream dependencies and that each roam and occupy a single location software and physical solutions and we expect it therefore minimising bottlenecks and disruptions on the surface of the hive.
A proprietary system will be capable of handling over 200,000 orders in the end-to-end process.
allows communication between the robotic per week, equivalent to around 1.2 billion of devices which enables efficient and flexible item Flexibility sales when operating at full capacity.
This is larger retrieval of any product, in any order, stored in The three dimensional hive can be constructed than our existing CFCs, and will demonstrate the hive.
The flow of information is constantly to varying scales: for example our next CFC which the scalability of our end-to-end solution.
As we being updated and refined based on real time is due to open in 2018 in Erith, South London will develop and learn through our CFC roll-out plan information of incoming customer orders and have capacity to hold over three times the tote we expect to be able to continuously advance our product locations.
holding locations we have in our Andover CFC, CFC capital efficiency increasing the benefits of across chilled and ambient temperature zones operating our centralised model in comparison The challenge surrounding the vast variety of ready for single item picking.
The design allows to alternative ways.
Through our model we can product characteristics associated with grocery this flexibility due to its modular nature, which deliver attractive economics in a difficult retail shopping such as size, density, crushability and means the solution can be built to accommodate environment where we see enhanced competition shape means that the final pick from our solution is the size and shape of the designated warehouse.
conducted by hand this ensures wastage is kept This demonstrates the power of the Ocado Smart to a minimum and products remain undamaged.
New equipment solution Platform, which packages our solution and To ensure this operates in the most operationally Online grocery shopping faces pressures not illustrates the value it can have to a wide array of efficient way this ultimate part of the pick-process seen in other online retail segments such as retail partners.
into customer baskets follows a one-to-one goodsdifferent temperature regimes, volume of items, to-man approach where relevant stock items are IP Protection multiple product lines and irregular demand presented to the picker at the same time as the To safeguard our competitive advantage our patterns for different users.
Our new proprietary order tote.
This enhances the quality of the picking MHE solution is now the subject of filed and solution is specifically designed to tackle this as its and packing of customer orders as whole totes planned patent applications and other intellectual framework offers very dense and efficient storage can be picked and packed by the same person.
through the use of a three dimensional grid, or This mechanism also makes the entire process hive, to stack and store products and transport extremely efficient and accurate and would allow Read about Ocado Smart Platform on them within the facility.
the picking of an entire customer order to be pages 12 and 13 completed in under five minutes, significantly shortening lead times for ordering and delivery.
Case Study Andover CFC and New Technologies CFC Sites 1.
CFC 1 Hatfield In November 2016, we commenced operations at our latest CFC in Andover, Hampshire.
CFC 3 Andover first implementation of our new, internally developed, integrated MHE and associated software.
CFC 4 Erith planned to open 2018 scalable nature of the solution, the MHE and other automation such as picking stations can be continually added in line with sales growth of our business.
At maturity, the solution will, we believe, be capable of driving significant productivity and fulfilment benefits in a highly modular and flexible fashion, and we expect it will 2 increase our fulfilment capacity by around 65,000 orders per week, or approximately 350 million in sales value.
We expect Andover and future CFCs using our new solutions to provide efficiencies both in capital costs and operating expenses.
We will continue the process of value engineering to further improve capital 1 efficiency in our CFCs, reflected by the capital ratio expected in our Erith CFC.
Below we indicate the anticipated improvements in our mature CFCs.
3 4 Commenced Capital Operational 1 2 CFC operations in efficiency efficiency UPH Hatfield 2002 NA -150 Dordon 2013 16% 175 Andover 2016 13% 180 Erith 2018 11% 200 1.
Ratio of MHE infrastructure cost to sales capacity 2.
Target UPH figures expected 34 years after CFC opening slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 8.
Our Strategic Objectives: Utilising Proprietary Knowledge 20 In August 2016, we announced the extension of Our Intellectual Property Patent applications our agreement with Morrisons to provide the Our proprietary IP, knowledge and technology is infrastructure, host and support for their online covering over at the core of our business.
It supports our market operations see Morrisons case study on page 21. leading proposition to customers and drives our The growth of Morrisons.
com, which has driven 50 separate operating efficiencies.
We seek to continually the contract extension, highlights the advantages improve the technology we use and believe that innovations and competitiveness of our technology solutions.
innovation creates competitive advantages across The renewed agreement is now more aligned our business.
to how we would structure future Ocado Smart The key to success of our IP is that we have Platform deals and illustrates the flexibility of our 1 3 focused on developing optimal solutions solely for offering, allowing future partners much lower 2 online grocery retail and have been able to refine entry points for capacity commitments.
and test our solutions in a live retail environment.
Future Focus Practically, this means we have tackled traditional We are committed to invest in our solutions to challenges associated with grocery baskets 4 drive growth and innovation in our retail and such as large order volumes, goods spanning 5 platform businesses with the intention of creating three different temperature zones and narrow long-term shareholder value.
We continue to one-hour delivery slots.
Our capabilities span advance our conversations with multiple potential our proprietary processes, physical infrastructure platform partners and are confident of signing solutions, systems and software to provide a Technology development centres multiple deals in multiple territories in the 1.
Hatfield, UK complete end-to-end solution.
Krakow, Poland medium-term to capitalise on our knowledge.
Barcelona, Spain To ensure rapid innovation and advancement In order to retain our competitive advantage of our intellectual property and to maintain from our technology innovations we take careful technological leadership we continue to invest measures to protect our intellectual property and in both our Ocado Technology currently over inventions and file multiple patent applications to 950 people and engineering development safeguard this.
Our largest technology development centre is in the UK, but Our patent activities are intended to create a web of we also have two in Poland and one in each of protection for our intellectual property.
Bulgaria and Spain helping to build our reputation Progress as a global technology leader, attracting quality talent to underpin our technology expertise.
As at the end of the period, we had filed patent applications covering over 50 separate innovations.
By creating these capabilities internally we can Of the patent applications filed so far the majority ensure that our solutions are continually updated relate to our physical infrastructure solution, and integrated without having to liaise and which is now live in Andover.
Our first patents were co-ordinate lengthly change processes with granted in 2016. multiple third party providers.
This allows us both Risks the flexibility to innovate at a rapid pace and also Future Focus the continual evolution of our solutions with the Our focus for the future is to retain our market Technology innovation supersedes our intention of creating long-term shareholder value.
leading position in our technology solutions for own and offers improved methods of Throughout the year we have focused on the online grocery market.
We will ensure this by food distribution to consumers development and deployment of our physical continuing to innovate and protect our intellectual Failure to protect our IP infrastructure solution and associated software property through the patent application process.
The first live instance of this infrastructure Failure to ensure that our technology Read about the Morrisons Update case is in our Andover CFC and we expect it to highlight can be freely operated without study on page 21 significant capital and operational efficiency infringing a third partys IP advantages, demonstrating the power of our capabilities to our future platform partners.
Read about Andover and New Technologies case study on page 19 slugline
