Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 26 Business Nedbank review IFRS profit after tax and non-controlling The strategy is defined by the following five interest attributable to Old Mutual plc key strategic focus areas: declined by 7% to R5,617 million.
This was Delivering innovative, mainly due to the R1.0 billion impairment market-leading client provision for ETI and R203 million of recycled foreign currency translation experiences losses on the acquisition of Banco nico.
We launched competitive and innovative products such as the Nedbank Return on average ordinary shareholders Pay-as-you-use Account: MyPocket: equity ROE, excluding goodwill, of Nedbank GAP Access: MasterPass: and 16.5% 2015: 17.
0% and ROE of 15.3% Interactive Teller.
In addition, a new client 2015: 15.7% reflect a slightly lower return relationship management capability on assets ROA of 1.23% 2015: 1.25%, enhanced the contact centre experience, mostly resulting from the loss in increasing volumes by 8% a year.
Membership of our Greenbacks Rewards Economic profit EP decreased to Programme increased 20%, with R1,565 million 2015: R2,525 million due redemption values increasing 18%.
to the impact of ETI and a higher cost of equity COE of 14.2% 2016: 13.0 %.
Digitally-enabled and digitally-active retail clients grew strongly, driving up the value of Our tier 1 capital ratio of 13.0% 2015: Nedbank App Suite transactions 60% to 12.0% and our average liquidity coverage R25 billion.
ratio LCR for Q4 of 109.3% 2015 quarterly average: 88.5% are both well above To date 44% of our outlets have been regulatory requirements of 8.375% and converted to new-format branches and we Nedbank is 70.0%, respectively.
On a pro forma basis plan to have 63% of all outlets converted by committed our net stable funding ratio is above 100%.
These outlets are smaller, with fewer to long-term staff, and are more digitally focused than traditional branches.
value creation Strategic Our Wealth Cluster launched the for all our Nedgroup Investments Global Property priorities stakeholders Fund, expanding our Best of Breed product range.
Our digital client value and outlook proposition was enhanced through the launch of Contracts for Difference CFD Nedbank Group is committed to long-term on our online stockbroking platform: new value creation for all our stakeholders, in digital self-service functionality: QuoteMe, line with our vision to be the most admired offering funeral and personal accident financial services provider in Africa by our solutions as well as funeral policy staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and servicing through video capability at communities.
Our journey so far Growing our transactional Our five strategic focus areas were banking franchise faster refined in 2016 and strategic enablers than the market introduced to ensure that we deliver on Nedbanks retail franchise attracted 3.0% our mediumto long-term financial additional main-banked clients, within a targets of increasing our ROE, total client base of 7.
4 million, translating excluding goodwill, closer to our into retail transactional NIR growth of 8.7%.
mediumto long-term target of COE plus Altogether 69.7% of our retail main-banked 5% currently estimated around 19% and clients have more than two other products.
reducing our cost-to-income ratio from Our transactional banking progress 56.9% to within our mediumto long-term was reflected in market share gains in target of 50.0% to 53.0%.
Good progress household and transactional deposits continued to be made in these key areas.
Nedbank Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 27 The CIB integrated model enabled deeper client penetration and increased cross-sell, generating 39 primary-bank client wins.
CIBs leadership in key specialist areas supported NIR growth, which was acknowledged by CIB winning nine of the 32 Spire awards for excellence across the commodity derivatives, currency derivatives, Despite challenging fixed-income derivatives and bond markets.
macroeconomic conditions, Being operationally the long-term growth excellent in what we do potential of financial services Cost discipline remains an imperative, in the Rest of Africa cannot with ongoing initiatives such as our strategy to decrease the number of core systems be overlooked from 250 to 60, of which 21 have been decommissioned in 2016, bringing the total decommissioned to 106: the elimination of duplicative processes: the reduction of the cost to serve and acquire clients: and the reduction of floor space 2 in RBB by 30,000 m by 2020, of which 2 18,743 m has been achieved since 2014.
Nedbank Wealth made good progress towards implementing a single policy financial services in the Rest of Africa Giving clients access to administration system in insurance, which cannot be overlooked.
We therefore the best financial services will support operational excellence.
remain committed to our strategy and network in Africa investments in the Rest of Africa and We remain on track for delivery by The macroeconomic environment in the continue to support ETI as our partner Old Mutual of the full target of R1 billion of Rest of Africa remains challenging due in Central and West Africa.
pretax run rate synergies in 2017, of which to slowing economic growth, foreign approximately 30% should accrue to Nedbanks strategic investment in ETI exchange and liquidity shortages, and Nedbank.
To date this has amounted to over has been impaired in accordance with increasing regulatory pressures across R250 million for Nedbank, driven largely by the IFRS accounting considerations and a number of jurisdictions.
the main driver of this was the significant In Central and West Africa, since the change in the economic estimates and Managing scarce establishment of our alliance with ETI, macroeconomic assumptions from Nigeria.
resources to optimise 192 accounts have been opened in 25 ETI remains an important long-term countries for 82 of our wholesale clients economic outcomes investment for Nedbank, providing our that bank with ETI.
We work closely with We maintained our focus on growing clients with a pan-African transactional ETI on joint pipeline deals in the power and activities that generate EP, such as growing banking network across 39 countries and infrastructure sectors, and opportunities in transactional deposits, with current access to dealflow in Central and West trade and commodity finance.
accounts up 9.3%: increasing transactional Africa since its acquisition in 2014.
We banking activity, with commission and fees remain supportive of ETIs endeavours of In SADC and East Africa we successfully up 6.8%: and achieving earnings growth of delivering an ROE in excess of its COE in implemented our Flexcube core banking 15.5% in CIB and 1 1.2% in RBB.
Our selective due course, and our 21.2% shareholding system in Namibia and Swaziland, and origination of personal loans, home loans offers our shareholders the opportunity we continued to launch new products and commercial-property finance has to participate in this growth over time.
and grow our distribution footprint.
Our proactively limited downside risk in this Conditions in the key markets in which shareholding in Banco nico increased by challenging operating climate, enabling ETI operates are currently expected to 1 1% to 50% plus one share in October 2016 a CLR of 68 bps, below the midpoint of remain difficult in 2017, before improving as a progression of the 2014 transaction.
At the same time in 2018 and beyond.
our balance sheet metrics remain strong Despite challenging macroeconomic and we continue to deliver good conditions, which are likely to persist for dividend growth.
2017, the long-term growth potential of
