Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 06 MANAGED SEPARATION BUSINESS MODEL TRANSITION Actively manage the separation of our four strong businesses to realise their full potential as standalone entities, in a manner that creates maximum value to shareholders over time.
Current state Emerging Markets plc Head Office Four strong underlying businesses have benefited from significant investment.
Each has excellent growth prospects in sizeable markets, is competitively positioned, with strong balance sheets and appropriate governance.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 07 Our three transition anchors 1 3 Working with our Fulfilling Old Mutual businesses to separate plcs ongoing regulatory from Old Mutual plc, obligations: and managing prepare to be standalone its debt obligations, businesses and continue central cost reductions to deliver enhanced and distributions performance relative to shareholders.
2 Stewardship of the managed separation process, balancing value, cost, time and risk.
Managed End state separation Base Stakeholder case interaction Emerging Markets External Management parties alternatives We have designed a base case route that will be Four strong independent businesses evaluated on an ongoing basis taking into account with continued collaboration between stakeholder interaction, management alternatives OMEM and Nedbank.
and dependencies on external parties to deliver the managed separation according to our key principles: Balance value, cost, time and risk Focus on distributing assets to shareholders Limit market and third-party dependencies Retain strong operational focus on subsidiaries Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 08 MANAGED SEPARATION BUSINESS MODEL TRANSITION CONTINUED Intellectual capital Natural capital Old Mutual plc and We have four strong brands that are A clear position on climate change is our four businesses leaders in their respective markets: central to the commitment of our businesses deploy resources to enable positive futures and their main OMEM, Nedbank, OMW and OMAM.
objective is to play a significant role in the that create value for transition to a sustainable-energy future.
Each of the businesses works with its our stakeholders Our four businesses track and monitor their customers to enable their goals.
We Our future success under the managed direct carbon footprint and are deepening recognise that partnerships are key to separation strategy depends on us their understanding of the carbon intensity delivering value and we have identified a managing our resources in a different of their investment portfolios.
Our carbon number of key partnerships to help deliver way which sustainably delivers greater emissions cover our Scope 1 and 2 value at an operational and strategic level.
value to stakeholders over time.
emissions in our employee occupied These include the Cambridge Institute for locations and our investment property Sustainability Leadership, GlobeScan, Financial capital portfolio.
Our total carbon footprint Opportunity International and many more.
In 2016, Old Mutual plc generated Scope 1 and 2 emissions was 1,667 million AOP pre-tax 2015: 1,663 Social and 489,949 tonnes CO e 2015: 502,728.
2 million and FUM were 394.9 billion as relationship capital Our carbon intensity for 2016 was at 31 December 2016 2015: 327.
Old Mutuals four businesses have a role to 2 The 2016 IFRS profit pre-tax was 1,216 play in creating a thriving society and have million compared to 1,201 million in 2015.
The activities of Old Mutual identified the stakeholders with whom they We will work with each of our businesses plc and our four businesses should work to deliver value through the to deliver enhanced performance relative enable us to create value business.
The businesses focus on financial to their peer groups, while repurposing wellbeing and responsible investment will for our stakeholders the plc Head Office to become an active ensure that they are doing their part to portfolio manager and to eventually close.
support their customers, their families, m 2016 communities and the wider society.
1 Human capital Returns to shareholders 451 The four businesses have invested a total 2 Our businesses recognise that investing in Returns to bondholders 88 of 15.2 million to date in community their people is key to partnering successfully 3 Taxes to governments 2,109 programmes focusing on financial with their customers to do great things.
1 Ordinary cash dividend education and financial literacy.
OMEM We have 68,527 employees across the plc 2 Interest paid on plc debt has committed investment of 3.5 billion head office and our four businesses and 3 Total taxes paid and collected.
in other infrastructure to date.
OMEM are proud to have a diverse workplace with and Nedbank together are the biggest 53% of employees being female.
Since the debt and equity investors in renewables announcement of our managed separation in South Africa with 3.2 billion of strategy in March 2016, we have reduced committed investment to date.
the number of employees at the plc Head Office by approximately 50%.
Manufactured capital Our businesses partner with their customers by delivering a range of products through face-to-face support, branch advisers and virtually through digital platforms.
Our businesses will continue to enhance their capabilities and develop innovative solutions to meet their customers needs.
Gender split for permanent staff only, including those on long-term disability We use Defra stipulated country-specific emission factors for Scope 1 and 2.
