Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 92 CORPOR A TE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED appropriateness of the AOP measure However, some commitments will not Membership of on an ongoing basis.
It also reviews the be taken forward as a result of changes the committee Long-Term Investment Return rate annually.
brought about by the managed separation.
During the year, Vassi Naidoo joined the The committee seeks to validate that the committee.
Vassi has brought additional External auditor adjustments made in determining AOP are skills to the committee, including recent effectiveness appropriate to the objective of presenting a and relevant financial experience, which During the year, we reviewed KPMG LLPs measure of the long-term profitability of the complements the existing mix of finance effectiveness as our current auditor with business to users of the financial statements and business skills.
A majority of the support from Group Internal Audit and and is mindful of the FRCs expectations in members of the committee have confirmed satisfaction with the quality this area.
competence in accounting and auditing of the audit.
The review analysed critical and committee members as a whole During the year, the committee considered competencies expected of our external have experience of insurance, banking a proposed change to AOP to continue to auditor and included feedback from and investment.
include the results of OMAM within AOP, key finance personnel from Group and despite it being held for sale, as it had subsidiary entities and audit committee Going concern and been a subsidiary throughout the year.
members at subsidiaries and Group level.
viability statement The committee agreed to this change, as We reviewed the materials submitted to to exclude OMAM from AOP would be We also noted that a review by the FRC the Board in support of the going concern confusing to users and would complicate of the 2015 Group audit had identified statement and longer-term viability the use of AOP in dividend and no matters of concern.
statement, and discussed the appropriate remuneration decisions.
More generally, The outcome underpins our duration of and wording for this for the the committee considered whether it was recommendation to reappoint KPMG LLP Board to approve.
The viability statement appropriate to continue to use AOP during in relation to the audit for the year ending required appropriate consideration in the 2017.
The committee decided that it was still 31 December 2017 at this years AGM.
light of the managed separation and its appropriate, as it is widely used by users anticipated timetable.
of the financial statements and is a key Non-audit services determinant of dividend and remuneration Set out on page 91 is a summary of areas of The Group operates within a clearly decisions.
However, more adjustments are focus during the year, in addition to the defined policy on the nature and amount likely to be necessary to deal with the effects committees usual oversight responsibilities, of non-audit services that can be provided of the managed separation.
which are described in the table on page 93. by the Groups external auditor see Audit arrangements later in this Annual Report.
Audit tender and rotation Solvency II The policy itself is formally reviewed A competitive tender for the Groups The committee has received regular reports annually.
Under the revised policy which external audit was last carried out in 2014. during the year on the Groups Solvency II was adopted during the year, which The outcome of the process was that the reporting to the PRA and has received incorporates the FRCs final draft of its committee recommended that the Board reports from the Group Chief Actuary revised ethical standards, total fees for should retain KPMG LLP as the Groups and the external auditors concerning the non-audit services are limited to a maximum external auditor from 2016 onwards, Solvency II information as at 31 December of 25% of the total fees for external audit subject to the usual annual shareholder 2016 contained in this Annual Report.
services unless I, as Chairman of the approval of their reappointment at committee, specifically approve any fees in forthcoming AGMs.
The Board accepted Alternative profit measure excess of this amount.
The Group makes a number of adjustments fees on a series of risk reviews in connection to IFRS profit to derive an AOP measure.
with OMWs IT transformation project, During the year, we reviewed with support This is common practice among peers.
which resulted in this limit being exceeded.
from Group Internal Audit KPMG LLPs Some of these adjustments eliminate The actual non-audit fee ratio for 2016 compliance with the commitments given to IFRS requirements that introduce distorting was 29%.
the Group as part of the tender process.
results, such as recognising gains or losses The majority of these commitments on own debt or recognising certain costs have been delivered to managements of financing in equity.
Other adjustments satisfaction and plans are in place to reach seek to adjust the IFRS result in order to alignment on the other commitments.
arrive at underlying profit by, for example, substituting a Long-Term Investment Return for the actual investment returns for the year.
