Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 34 Business Old Mutual review Wealth NCCF performance was robust at decision to focus on our core UK and Strategic 5.2 billion.
This was 25% lower than the International offshore customer base, prior year 2015: 6.9 billion and a strong selling our non-core European life priorities performance given the challenging businesses over the past four years and market for the sector where UK net reinvesting into growth strategies.
and outlook retail sales for the industry amounted to In 2013 we began a journey to transform 4.7 billion.
Net flows from Intrinsic and our UK Platform to ensure that our Our business combines controlled advice, Platform into OMGI and Quilter Cheviot award-winning systems retain their a leading investment platform, attractive were 1.8 billion, an increase of 6% from leading-edge features and ability wealth management solutions, and 2015 1.7 billion.
Investors have remained to adapt in a rapidly changing high performing asset and investment cautious on the global economic and technological environment.
management to offer customers and political developments particularly advisers an end-to-end planning and relevant for our UK client base was the In July 2014 we acquired distribution investment solution that is outcome based.
We experienced more through Intrinsic and in February 2015 We are committed to operating the normalised levels of flows following the we expanded our investment offering business responsibly, ensuring we US presidential election result as markets by acquiring discretionary investment enable financial wellbeing and began to stabilise in the short term, manager Quilter Cheviot.
with Q4 2016 net inflows of 1.1 billion.
In 2016 we made acquisitions through Net flows were 6% of opening FUM, Our journey so far Old Mutual Private Client Advisers, and excluding our closed book, demonstrating In 2012 OMW what was then called we have recently announced the acquisition robust growth in a difficult environment.
Skandia was a sub-scale platform of Attivo through Quilter Cheviot, and FUM were 123.5 billion, up 18% from and asset manager, with some closed life Caerus through Intrinsic.
In addition, the end of 2015 driven by positive NCCF books across Europe and no advisory or we have developed our in-house asset of 5.2 billion in the period and positive discretionary management capabilities.
management capabilities, growing market performance of 13.9 billion.
Since then, we have reshaped our business OMGI from a fledgling business in 2012 Average FUM were 1 1% ahead of the into a modern, integrated wealth and to one with assets of 31.4 billion at prior year and heavily weighted to the asset management business.
We took the 31 December 2016, in part due to the market rally in H2 2016. launches of outstanding fund management solutions, for example: WealthSelect and our Managed Portfolio Service Cirilium multi-asset fund range Old Mutual Absolute Return Government Bond Fund Old Mutual UK Specialist Equity Fund Old Mutual Silver and Gold Fund Old Mutual Style Premia Absolute Return STAR Fund.
Since 2012, we have reshaped our business into a modern, integrated wealth and asset management business Old Mutual Wealth Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 35 Our commitment to quality advice is Priorities achieved in 2016 Delivering good supported by our investment in our Expanding our distribution customer outcomes Financial Adviser School FAS which has We continue to invest in distribution, The delivery of good customer outcomes seen the first cohort of students graduate recognising the importance of sound is a priority for OMW.
The school is open to financial advice in securing good customer we announced the implementation of a 1% other advisory firms as well as OMW.
We have recently announced cap on UK Heritage pensions exit charges We expect some of the graduates to the acquisition of Caerus, one of the UKs for our customers aged over 55 years join OMW as advisers.
leading primarily restricted financial and the restructuring of our UK Heritage planning firms which enhances our pension product fees.
This has improved We are investing in Quilter Cheviots opportunity to grow our distribution outcomes for our customers and provides business development and have signed capability.
With offices in Swindon and increased choice for customers through a share purchase agreement to acquire Manchester, Caerus has over 300 advisers, improved access to market-wide pension Attivo Investment Management, the including 150 restricted financial planners investments, following the UK Governments discretionary investment management arm and more than 4 billion of assets under pension reforms introduced in 2015.
In H2 of Attivo Group Limited.
The acquisition complements our 2016, the FCA announced that exit charges has received regulatory approval and we existing controlled distribution footprint in across the pensions industry will be capped expect the deal to complete by the end of the UK and is a modest in-fill.
Q1 2017, at which point approximately 300 million of FUM will transfer to Quilter We are committed to improving the strength We have achieved strong investment Cheviot.
This is a small in-fill acquisition and sustainability of the financial advice performance in OMGI, with 74% of all that readily integrates into the existing industry and improving customer access funds above target over three years on an infrastructure of Quilter Cheviot.
Before taking into account the AUM-weighted basis at 31 December 2016, Caerus acquisition, Intrinsics restricted compared to 66% at December 2015.
Our strategy is to further diversify the range financial planners have increased by Our single manager funds continue to of funds managed by OMGI across sectors 193 since 2015 to 1,423 31 December 2015: perform well, with 69% of funds ahead and within single strategy, multi-asset and 1,230, including 38 advisers in OMWPCA of their target.
In addition, 60% of our absolute return funds.
which is our branded national advice multi-asset fund ranges are above We completed the sale of Old Mutual service.
OMWPCAs advisory capabilities their target.
Wealth Italy on 9 January 2017 to Phlavia and coverage was enhanced during 2016 Our largest absolute return fund, Investimenti previously ERGO Italia, through numerous small-scale acquisitions.
Global Equity Absolute Return GEAR owned by Cinven.
The sale is the final part We have increased the level of referrals fund, continues to outperform target of the divestment of OMWs European from Intrinsic and OMWPCA to Quilter performance and competitor offerings.
businesses allowing us to focus on our Cheviot and expect momentum in this The fund experienced strong net inflows of core UK and cross-border markets.
part of the business to grow in 2017.
1.7 billion 2015: 1.6 billion as investors Since 2012 OMW has divested of nine OMWPCA, which started in January 2016, continued to look for alternative investment businesses operating in Continental now has over 1 billion of assets under options delivering positive returns in a low Europe where we lacked scale, and has advice and delivered over 0.1 billion interest rate environment.
received c. 550 million in proceeds which of assets under management to Quilter has been remitted to Old Mutual plc, Cheviot in 2016.
We expect this to increase offsetting the significant investment made in 2017. in acquiring Intrinsic and Quilter Cheviot.
In March 2016 we completed the modest acquisition of AAM Advisory in Singapore as part of the expansion of our International advice capabilities.
Our newly launched Compass fund range in OMGI is designed specifically for our International customers.
