Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 80 BOARD OF DIRECT ORS Patrick OSullivan Ingrid Johnson Zoe Cruz M. Sc.
B. S. F. C. A. Ireland 67, Irish C. A. SA, A. M. P. Harvard 50, South African B.
62, US Chairman of the Board since January 2010.
Also a non-executive Independent non-executive director since January chairs the Nomination and Governance Committee director of Old Mutual Group Holdings, Old Mutual 2014.
Also a member of the Board Risk and Wealth and OM Asset Management plc Remuneration Committees Vice Chairman of Zurich Financial Services from 2007 to 2009, where he had specific responsibility for Ingrid Johnson has been Group Finance Director Co-President for Institutional Securities and Wealth its international businesses including those in South since July 2014.
Prior to taking on this role, she had Management at Morgan Stanley from 2005 to 2007, Africa.
Prior to that, he had been CFO of the ZFS 20 years broad-based financial services experience where she was responsible for running major Group and CEO of Eagle Star Insurance Company.
with Nedbank Group in both line and financial roles.
revenue-generating businesses, including overseeing He held positions at Bank of America, Goldman She was appointed to the Nedbank Group Executive their securities risk management and information Sachs, Financial Guaranty Insurance Company Committee in 2008.
Her most recent responsibility technology.
From 2009 to 2012, she was involved in and Barclays BZW.
there, in addition to being a Prescribed Officer, was founding and running her own investment as Group Managing Executive: Retail and Business management firm, Voras Capital Management.
Previous non-executive roles have included Banking.
She assumed this role in August 2009, Prior to becoming Co-President of Morgan Stanley, Chairman of the UKs Shareholder Executive, Deputy taking responsibility for the turnaround of the Retail she had been its Global Head of Fixed Income, Governor of the Bank of Ireland, Senior Independent Banking cluster and managing the integration of Commodities and Foreign Exchange from 2001 Director at Man Group plc and Chairman of the Imperial Bank, in addition to retaining her role of until 2005.
She joined the company in 1982 and Audit Committee at Collins Stewart plc and Cofra leading the commercial cluster, Business Banking, was the third founding member of the foreign Group AG.
which she had held since 2005. exchange group.
Senior Adviser at Promontory Financial Group, LLC.
Founder and CEO of EOZ Global.
69, British Alan Gillespie Group Chief Executive.
D. 66, British Independent non-executive director since September of Nedbank Group Limited, Nedbank Limited, 2009.
Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and Old Mutual Emerging Markets, Old Mutual Group a member of the Group Audit Committee Holdings and Old Mutual Wealth Senior Independent Director since May 201 1, Principal Consulting Actuary and Head of Life having joined the Board as an independent Bruce Hemphill has been Group Chief Executive practice at the consulting actuarial firm Milliman non-executive director in November 2010. since November 2015.
He was previously Chief from 2002 to 2009.
Prior to that, he had been Also a member of the Nomination and Executive of Wealth, Insurance and Non-Bank the senior partner at the practice from 1995.
He Governance and Remuneration Committees Financial Services at Standard Bank Group, the is a past Member of Council and Vice Chairman largest African banking group by assets and Partner at Goldman Sachs from 1990, with of the Institute of Actuaries, past Chairman of earnings.
From June 2006 to February 2014, he responsibility for corporate finance and mergers the International Association of Consulting was Chief Executive of Liberty Group, an African and acquisitions in the UK and Ireland.
He jointly Actuaries and past member of the Board of financial services group listed on the JSE.
He led the firms financial services practice in Europe Actuarial Standards.
originally trained as a lawyer in the UK, practising and in 1996 established Goldman Sachs presence law in both the UK and Hong Kong.
After completing Non-executive director of Financial Information in South Africa.
After retiring from Goldman a management training programme at Anglo Technology Limited.
Sachs in 1999, he became Chief Executive of the American in South Africa, he joined the corporate Commonwealth Development Corporation in the finance team at Standard Merchant Bank, where UK.
From 2001 to 2008, he was Chairman of Ulster he eventually headed up the corporate finance, Bank, a subsidiary of Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
investment, banking, commercial banking and Senior Independent Director of United Business cash equities businesses.
Media plc and Chairman of the Economic and Social Research Council.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 81 Danuta Gray Trevor Manuel Nkosana Moyo B. Sc.
Tech, A. P. M. 61, South African Ph.
65, Zimbabwean Independent non-executive director since Non-executive director since January 2016.
Independent non-executive director since March 2013.
Also Chairman of the Remuneration Also Chairman of Old Mutual Group Holdings September 2013.
Also a member of the Group Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination and and Old Mutual Emerging Markets and a member and Remuneration Committees Governance Committee of the Board Risk Committee Founder of the Mandela Institute for Development Chairman of Telefnica O2 in Ireland until Trevor Manuel was a minister in the South African Studies MINDS.
Vice President and Chief December 2012, having previously been its Chief government for more than 20 years, serving under Operating Officer of the African Development Bank Executive from 2001 to 2010.
Prior to that, she was Presidents Mandela, Mbeki, Motlanthe and Zuma.
From 2004 to 2009, Managing a Senior Vice President for BT Europe in Germany, He served as Finance Minister from 1996 to 2009.
Partner, based in London, of Actis Capital LLP with where she gained experience in sales, marketing, Before his retirement from public office in 2014, responsibility for its African businesses.
Associate customer service and technology and in leading he was Minister in the Presidency responsible for Director of the International Finance Corporation and changing large businesses.
She previously South Africas National Planning Commission.
Managing served for seven years on the board of Irish Life Throughout his career, he assumed a number Director of Standard Chartered Bank Zimbabwe and Permanent plc and was also a director of of ex officio positions on international bodies, from 1990 to 1995 and later African Regional Head Business in the Community.
including the United Nations Commission for Trade for Corporate Banking of Standard Chartered Bank.
and Development UNCTAD, the World Bank, the Non-executive director of Aldermore Group plc, Executive Chairman of MINDS.
Member of the International Monetary Fund, the G20, the African PageGroup plc and Direct Line Insurance Group plc boards of Impala Platinum and the Africa Development Bank and the Southern African and a non-executive Defence Board Member and Leadership Institute.
He has also served on Chair of the People Committee at the UK Ministry a number of voluntary public interest commissions of Defence.
She is also a non-executive director of including Africa Commission, Global Commission Paddy Power Betfair PLC as at the date of this report, on Growth and Development, Global Ocean but will be stepping down from her role at the Commission, and the New Climate Economy.
He holds a National Diploma in Civil and Structural Engineering from the Peninsula Technikon, South Africa and completed an Executive Management Programme at Stanford University, USA.
Member of the International Advisory Board of the Rothschild Group and Deputy Chairman of Rothschild South Africa, which provides financial Vassi Naidoo advisory services to Old Mutual.
Also a C. A. SA 62, South African British non-executive director of Swiss Re.
Non-executive director of the Company and Adiba Ighodaro Chairman of Nedbank Group Limited since May LL.
Also a director of Old Mutual Group Holdings and a member of the Group Audit and Nomination and Governance Committees Independent non-executive director since January Vice Chairman of Deloitte UK from 2009 to 2014.
Also a member of the Group Audit Committee CEO of Deloitte Southern Africa from 1998 to 2006.
Joined the Commonwealth Development Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Corporation CDC in 1991, first in London, and later in England and Wales and honorary life member of in Lagos, with a remit to establish CDCs Nigerian the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
In 1995, her focus moved to the Caribbean B. Sc.
68, British as a Senior Investment Executive and Investment Manager, helping to obtain investment for and dispose of some of CDCs interests in Africa and Independent non-executive director of the Company the Caribbean.
Later she became CDCs Country and Chairman of the Group Audit Committee since Manager for Nigeria.
She also became Head of August 2010.
Also a member of the Board Risk and West Africa, with responsibility for building the Remuneration Committees investment business of CDC Actis across the region.
Actis was spun out of CDC in 2004, Former audit partner in , following which she became a founding principal where he led the audit of a number of major groups, of Actis fundraising group.
Today, as a partner including Zurich Financial Services and Lloyds TSB.
Nonkululeko of the firm, Adiba both heads fundraising across Member and former Chair of the Corporate Nyembezi-Heita the Americas and manages a number of Actis Reporting Council, a director of the Financial global strategic relationships.
56, South African Reporting Council, and a non-executive director Partner at Actis.
and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Pension Insurance Corporation.
Independent non-executive director of the Company since March 2012.
Also a director of Old Mutual Group Holdings and a member of the Board Risk and Nomination and Governance Committees Non-executive director of Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited from 2010 to 2012, a position she relinquished upon taking up her role at Old Mutual plc.
Former Chief Officer of Mergers & Acquisitions for the V odacom Group and Chief Executive Officer of Alliance Capital.
Chief Executive Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa from 2008 until 2014.
Chief Executive Officer of Ichor Coal N. V. and non-executive Chairman of JSE Limited.
