Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 84 CORPOR A TE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED To take due account of the regulatory The governance relationship with Nedbank requirement that boards of regulated recognises the latters own governance entities maintain proper controls over framework as a separately-listed entity the affairs of their respective businesses on the JSE Limited and that it has minority To protect the interests of our various shareholders.
The Company has a stakeholders, including shareholders, relationship agreement with Nedbank that creditors, policyholders and customers, sets out the Companys requirements and in all of the countries in which we operate.
expectations as its majority shareholder, which is available on the Companys website.
How the DMF operates Under the DMF and the related The Group contains two domestic arrangements with our majority-owned systemically important financial institutions subsidiaries Nedbank and OMAM, the in South Africa OMEM and Nedbank.
Company appoints up to three members Old Mutual Group Holdings Limited of its senior executive management as OMGH operates as a holding company non-executive directors on the boards of its for these two businesses, in response to the major subsidiaries to ensure transparent expected requirements of South Africas communication of information in Solvency Assessment and Management both directions.
The boards of OMW, SAM regime.
These businesses are also Nedbank Group Limited and OMEM are subject to applicable local governance independently regulated and have a expectations, including those contained majority of independent directors although in King III and, for Nedbank, the JSEs for part of the year this was not the case Listings Requirements.
in respect of OMW during a process of OMAM is listed on the New York Stock refreshing the membership of that board.
It is subject to the rules The Groups major subsidiaries also have Making of the US Securities and Exchange their own Audit, Risk and Remuneration Commission, the NYSE listing rules and Framework is Committees.
Nedbank and OMW have other requirements applicable to US independent chairmen and, during 2017, based on an publicly-listed entities, including those of the it is intended to appoint an independent active portfolio Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
In addition, chairman of OMEM.
as part of the arrangements leading up manager model The major businesses hold regular review to its IPO in 2014, OMAM entered into meetings with the Companys executive a shareholders agreement giving the committee to monitor their business Company various rights with respect to performance and managed separation the management and conduct of OMAMs preparations.
A copy of this agreement is alongside the submission of monthly available on the Companys website.
Under the active portfolio manager model, The DMF also incorporates the three lines a significant amount of responsibility for of defence principles, assigning roles and meeting local capital and liquidity responsibilities under three categories: requirements has been delegated to the acceptors of risk, overseers of the risks subsidiary boards.
However, the Board being taken, and independent reviewers retains overall responsibility as well as and reporters of risk.
specific responsibility for Group-level risks and for debt.
How big is the Board and how is it structured?
Old Mutuals Board currently has 13 members, two of whom are executive and 1 1 of whom including the Chairman are non-executive.
