Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 91 Remuneration Committee REPORT FROM THE Reports from the Boards For details of the Remuneration Committee, standing committees GROUP AUDIT see the Directors Remuneration Report.
The following reports on the activities COMMITTEE of the Group Audit, Board Risk and Other committees Nomination and Governance Committees The Board establishes special-purpose during 2016 have been submitted by their committees, as required, to deal with respective Chairmen.
The activities of the particular strategic projects or other Remuneration Committee are described matters.
In connection with the managed in the Directors Remuneration Report separation, the Board has established later in this document.
a Managed Separation Urgent Issues Committee, consisting of the Chairman, the The Group Audit Committee the Senior Independent Director, the Chairmen committee met eight times during 2016. of the Boards standing committees and the One meeting was held partly as a joint Chairman of OMGH, for the purpose of session with members of the Board Risk being able to take time-critical decisions in Committee to discuss the IT transformation Roger Marshall relation to managed separation on behalf projects in OMW and in South Africa, Chairman of the of the Board.
All members of the Board are and the OMW Heritage business.
Group Audit Committee however entitled to attend and participate in meetings of that committee.
Group Audit How the matter Committee focus area was reviewed Assumptions related to policyholder We reviewed reports from the Group Items in particular focus were the liabilities recognised by the Groups Chief Actuary and the external auditors.
accounting consequences of the insurance businesses We also reviewed the conclusions of the transfer of certain risk policies in the subsidiary Audit Committees.
South African life company to the new The Group recognised insurance Policyholder Protection Fund and the policyholder liabilities of 9,982 million at assumptions for future expenses in the 31 December 2016 2016: 7, 714 million.
Estimation of these routinely involves assessment of risk exposures, expense allocations and business persistency.
Loan loss provisions The committee considered this area in Local governance structures provide detail, particularly in light of the increased assurance on the adequacy of loan loss Loan loss provisioning requires the stresses affecting credit conditions that have provisioning and key matters arising assessment of recoverable amounts, taken place in South Africa during 2015 were routinely highlighted in reports which requires judgement in the and 2016, although conditions improved from the subsidiary audit committees.
in the natural resources sector during 2016.
The committee held a joint meeting The committee reviewed information with the Board Risk Committee in South At 31 December 2016, the Groups total advances were 44,237 million, related to detailed credit exposures.
The Africa to review the development of committee was satisfied that adequate OMEMs credit governance framework.
with related provisions of 1,129 million 2015: 31,724 million and 759 million.
provisions were carried at 31 December 2016 under current accounting standards.
Loans outstanding are principally from Nedbank.
Goodwill The committee reviewed the impairment This analysis supported the committee in calculations on a preliminary basis in concluding that goodwill and intangible Goodwill and intangible assets amounted December 2016 and then reviewed assets were in general appropriately to 2,471 million at 31 December 2016 updated calculations at the end of valued but that an impairment in relation 2015: 3,276 million.
The committee also to goodwill carried in our East Africa principally relate to the OMW business looked at sensitivity analysis on the basis business was appropriate.
but there are also significant balances of declining growth rates and increasing in OMEM and Nedbank.
Valuation of investments and securities The committee considered the valuation The committee was, in general, of investments and received reports from satisfied with the valuation processes.
Total investments and securities were management and the external auditors.
The committee considered managements 100,533 million at 31 December 2016 The vast majority of investments can be proposal for an impairment in the carrying 2015: 84,019 million and investments in valued using current market practices.
value of ETI, which included value-in-use associated undertakings and joint ventures However, for certain private equity estimates on a number of different were 542 million at 31 December 2016 investments and others where there have scenarios and agreed the proposed 2015: 514 million.
not been recent market transactions, impairment was appropriate.
This issue more judgement is required.
was also examined in detail by the Nedbank Audit Committee.
The resulting write-down was recognised in IFRS profit and loss, but excluded from AOP.
