Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 44 Business Institutional Asset review Management weighted by the revenue generated by its In 2016 we acquired an equity interest in products.
As of 31 December 2016, assets Landmark Partners, a widely recognised, representing 49%, 55% and 73% of revenue highly regarded manager of secondary were outperforming benchmarks on a one-, private equity, real estate and real asset threeand five-year basis, respectively.
This acquisition provides meaningful exposure to an attractive, growing segment of the asset management industry.
It generates additional financial Strategic and strategic diversification for the OMAM priorities franchise and was immediately accretive to our earnings.
and outlook To fund the Landmark acquisition and support other corporate obligations, We seek to grow our business through we raised $400 million of debt in 2016. core Affiliate growth, as well as investing Our leverage ratio of 1.9x debt EBITDA in collaborative organic growth initiatives, at year-end 2016 remains within our enhancing distribution capabilities and target range of 1.75-2.25x debt EBITDA.
We retain ample funding capacity, with approximately $350 million available on We will continue Our journey so far our five-year credit facility, which expires OMAM launched its initial public offering to generate in 2019. in 2014 on the New York Stock Exchange.
core Affiliate The business has performed well since then, Our priorities going forward growth, invest achieving solid margins relative to peers We will continue to execute our growth as well as revenue growth from new client in collaborative strategy: generating core Affiliate growth cash flows into higher-fee products.
We through strong investment performance organic growth have generated meaningful asset growth and positive revenue flows: investing in initiatives, from collaborative organic growth collaborative organic growth initiatives initiatives in partnership with Affiliates increase global with existing Affiliates: increasing global and the successful expansion of our distribution opportunities for Affiliates: distribution global distribution platform.
We have also executing new Affiliate partnerships: and opportunities cultivated a wide range of relationships efficiently managing our balance sheet.
with boutique asset management firms, and execute Over the medium term, we and our and are recognised as an attractive new Affiliate Affiliates are focused on developing long-term partner.
capabilities in multi-asset class, partnerships Our priorities liability-driven investment and global achieved in 2016 non-US equities and further penetration of The volatile market environment in 2016 specialised and non-US markets through presented challenges across the asset our global distribution initiative.
However, our we continue to make good progress in business model positions us to withstand identifying and developing relationships such market cycles, as our profit share with at-scale asset management boutiques arrangement with our Affiliates provides with strong investment and executive talent a high level of structural variability to and a vision to enhance and expand their expenses.
Our Affiliates maintained their business by partnering with us.
long-term investment disciplines over this period.
We also saw growth from positive revenue flows combined with a strong market in the second half of the year.
2016 represented our fifth consecutive year generating positive revenue flows.
