Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 87 ALLOCATION OF 2016, following completion of a review How many times did the BOARD TIME DURING 2016 undertaken by the Group Chief Executive Board meet during 2016, and his senior executive team, supported and where did it meet?
The Board met 15 times during 2016, of which seven meetings were scheduled and 1 For the remainder of the year, the Board 6 eight were additional meetings, which was focused on the implementation of the 5 more frequently than has been typical in managed separation, whilst ensuring that recent years.
The increase in meetings the Companys responsibilities as a listed 4 resulted from the adoption of the new company continued to be well managed, strategy of managed separation.
Two including the following matters: 3 2 Board meetings in June and December Governance of the managed separation were held in South Africa.
The majority of process, including internal management, the rest of the meetings were held at the decision-making and use of advisers, Companys Head Office in London, with and management of its risks, following ad hoc meetings being held by telephone.
recommendations from the Board Risk Committee Non-executive Development of the investment case, 1.
Capital, business performance directors fees equity stories and business plans of the and finance 25% four underlying businesses The managed separation process has 2.
Strategy 45% The future strategy of OMEM and resulted in a significant increase in 3.
People issues and succession 5% Nedbank, and OMEMs readiness to non-executive directors workload.
Regulatory matters, stand alone as an independent business is demonstrated by the 15 Board meetings including Solvency II 10% The Companys strategy for OMAM, and 1 1 Remuneration Committee meetings 5.
Culture, responsible business including the acquisition of Landmark held in 2016 relative to a normal schedule and stakeholder matters 5% Partners, the market sell-down executed of seven to eight Board meetings and five 6.
Other 10% in December and other potential means or six Remuneration Committee meetings of monetising the Companys stake in a year.
This level of responsibility and the Strategy and developments in OMW, As previously noted, Vassi Naidoo is not resulting workload is expected to continue including its corporate governance and the progress of its IT transformation project considered independent because he is as the managed separation progresses.
Performance of the four businesses, chairman of Nedbank Group Limited, In addition, the majority of fees have not as well as the 201 7 to 2019 business plan and circumstances may arise where he been subject to a substantial review since and consideration of the first interim has to balance the fiduciary duties owed 2014, resulting in them falling well behind dividend for 2016 to both parent and subsidiary having market norms for a business of our Arrangements for the wind-down of regard to minority interests in the latter.
In this context, the the Companys Head Office, including Chairman and the Group Chief Executive the continued management of risks and Trevor Manuel is the Chairman of OMGH, took the decision to increase fees with effect processes for which the Head Office has the holding company of both OMEM and from 1 January 2017, to ensure that our been responsible and the management Nedbank Group Limited.
In light of the non-executive directors are appropriately of the Companys external debt enhanced role that OMGH is expected Briefings on economic, political and remunerated for the added responsibilities to play as the South African Twin Peaks regulatory developments in South and significant demands that the managed regulation comes into effect, Mr Manuel Africa and some of the Groups other separation has brought and will continue is not categorised as an independent major markets.
to bring over the coming period.
The fee non-executive director at plc level.
increases were positioned broadly in line In addition, the Board focused on the with the FTSE 100 median.
The fees for performance of the businesses, receiving Who is the Senior committee chair roles were positioned regular reports from the Group Finance Independent Director?
above median to reflect the additional Director.
The quality of this reporting has Alan Gillespie has been the Senior workload that the managed separation been enhanced this year, particularly to Independent Director since May 201 1.
We have also ensured that the enable the Board to have a clearer line Senior Independent Director is available fee increases are reasonable relative to of sight on the effects of volatile markets to shareholders if they have concerns that large-cap JSE companies.
on the Company and its businesses.
are unresolved after contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Group What did the Board do Are directors required Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, during 2016?
to hold shares in the or where such contact would not be For the first three months of 2016, the Company and what are appropriate.
The Senior Independent Boards focus was on reviewing and their current interests?
Directors contact details can be obtained agreeing the Companys new strategy of Under the Directors Remuneration Policy, from the Group Company Secretary.
managed separation, as well as the usual the Group Chief Executive is required activities of approving the Companys to build up a holding of shares in the 2016-2018 business plan, the second interim Company equal in value to at least 200% of dividend for 2015 and the contents of the his annual base salary within five years of 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and appointment.
For other executive directors preliminary results announcement.
The the requirement is 150% of annual base new strategy was announced in March salary within five years of appointment.
