Old Mutual Wealth W e a l t h s a n o n i d t u A l s o s S Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 31 Business Old Mutual review Wealth Intrinsic is the UKs second-largest restricted Our primary source of income is Our business continues to be recognised financial adviser network, with over 1, 400 management fees charged on customer for performance and service and all of restricted financial planners, including assets and is influenced by the level of our businesses received awards in 2016.
Old Mutual Wealth Private Client Advisers net flows we achieve and global market We achieved a Defaqto Gold rating for OMWPCA, our branded national conditions.
Not all assets have the our UK Platform service and a Platinum advice business same revenue characteristics: our asset Platform rating by Adviser Asset.
Our UK Old Mutual International is a leading management and discretionary fund Platform also won three awards at the cross-border business, focusing on highmanagement businesses typically attract Customer Experience awards, including net worth and affluent local customers higher margins than our platforms given Team of the Year Customers at the heart.
and expatriates in Asia, the Middle East, the expertise required to manage funds In addition to this, Old Mutual International Europe, South Africa and Latin America.
and provide bespoke client service.
in both our Isle of Man and Ireland businesses achieved a Defaqto We believe in talent-based conviction Manage for value Silver Rating.
investing, with our highly experienced Heritage book of legacy life and investment and fund managers striving to OMGI and Quilter Cheviot were pensions business, the majority of which deliver excellent investment performance recognised at the City of London Wealth is closed to new business and in steady, for our customers.
This is demonstrated by Management awards and Intrinsic won the managed run-off.
OMGIs 2016 investment outperformance, Best Large Network award for the third with 74% of funds ahead of their target year running at the Mortgage Strategy market index benchmark or peer median awards.
OMGI also won two awards How our over a three-year period.
By offering a at the Investment Week Fund Manager wide choice of high-performing funds and of the Year awards.
business works solutions, and by taking management action when longer-term performance Our customers receive face-to-face is below expectation, we aim to provide financial advice through independent customers with the best possible outcomes.
financial advisers IFAs, the Intrinsic network of restricted financial planners RFPs or through Old Mutual Wealth Our business model Private Client Advisers.
Our advice footprint is expanding through our Financial Adviser School graduates and the recent advice acquisitions.
Our UK and International platforms provide suitable, tax-efficient products and investment solutions.
Customer wealth is managed by third parties or through Financial Platforms OMGI or Quilter Cheviot, in line with Advice wrapper each individuals risk appetite.
We strive Better to provide excellent customer service Customer Outcomes across all businesses and regularly and review customers needs through their life Experience stages.
Our business model is designed Discretionary Asset to deliver good customer outcomes and is Wealth Management Management underpinned by shared values, a common culture, and a deep understanding of our customers through our relationships with them and their advisers.
An integrated, multi-channel model that delivers across all areas of wealth creation e h t t l M a a e n a W g e m e n t
