Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 70 REVIEW OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED set out under the managed separation upon business boards.
Independent chairs Performance measures strategy.
The managed separation is will be appointed to business boards at the In line with statutory reporting requirements planned to be executed within approved appropriate time, to the extent they are not we report profits assessed on an risk appetite and value, cost, time and risk already in place, in readiness for separation.
International Financial Reporting and the balancing of stakeholder interests.
Business committee chairs will be invited to Standards IFRS basis.
Consistent with the This will require optimising liquidity cash present key issues directly to the plc Board.
past year, we complement IFRS reporting management and cash generation at both There will be more formal interaction with with additional disclosures on various business and plc levels which will represent the businesses and with the plc Board, based alternative performance measures APMs.
an increase in exposure to market risk, on shareholder rights and regulatory APMs are not defined by the relevant ensuring all regulatory capital requirements responsibilities.
The plc and the businesses financial reporting framework which continue to be met and ongoing monitoring of will continue to prepare for forthcoming for the Group is IFRS, but we used them risk culture.
regulatory changes, cognisant of the to provide greater insight to the financial implications of the managed separation and performance, financial positions and Regulatory and governance evolving governance requirements.
In cash flows of the Group and the way it is The plc operating model has evolved particular, the incoming Twin Peaks managed.
Summary information about from that of a strategic controller, to regulation in South Africa will influence the the key APMs used in our financial review an active portfolio manager during the level of the appropriate strategic minority is provided in the following table: implementation phase of the managed stake in Nedbank held by the new SA group, separation.
This means that there will be through its ownership of OMLAC SA.
increased reliance and accountability APM Definition Why is the measure used?
Group Adjusting AOP is a normalised profit measure to reflect the underlying operating Due to the nature of the Groups businesses, Operating Profit profit of the Group.
It therefore adjusts IFRS profit for the impact of AOP is an appropriate alternative basis by AOP acquisitions and disposals: short-term fluctuations and IFRS accounting which to assess the underlying operating treatments that do not fairly reflect the economics of our operations.
It enhances the comparability and In addition, AOP excludes the results of non-core operations.
understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
The calculation of AOP adjusts the basic IFRS profit for a number of items as detailed in note C1 in the financial statements.
Adjusted Return ROE is calculated as AOP post-tax and NCI over average ordinary It is a measure of the return generated for of Equity ROE shareholders' equity.
For the purpose of this calculation, the perpetual shareholders over the reporting period.
preferred callable securities are deducted from equity to be consistent with the related finance costs which are included in AOP.
Adjusted plc NAV ANAV uses a MCEV valuation basis for OMEM covered business and the ANAV represents a better indication of the per ordinary share UK Heritage business in OMW as well as the market value of listed value of our covered and listed businesses ANAV subsidiaries.
Other businesses and other assets are included at IFRS net than the disclosure in the IFRS balance asset value.
Free Surplus Free surplus generation measures the efficiency of the businesses in Free surplus provides users of the Financial converting AOP profits into operational cash flows that support the plc results of plc with additional information on capital management policy.
the cash generation of the businesses that is not directly observed in the IFRS results.
Gross sales Gross sales are the gross cash flows received from customers during This measure is a lead indicator of reported the period.
Net Client Cash NCCF is the difference between money received from customers This measure is a lead indicator of reported Flows NCCF and money returned to customers during the period.
Emerging Markets Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 71 APM Definition Why is the measure used?
Present Value of PVNBP uses the EEV methodology of determining the present value of This measure is a lead indicator New Business new business premiums written during the reporting period.
It is calculated of reported and expected revenues Premiums PVNBP as 100% of new single premiums plus the discounted present value of new in our covered business.
Market Consistent MCEV is a reporting standard for life insurance companies that provide a It is designed to provide an accurate Embedded Value common set of principles and guidelines for use in calculating embedded reflection of the valuation and performance MCEV value.
MCEV measures the value of business in-force based on a set of of the long-term savings business and a best estimate assumptions, allowing for the impact of uncertainty in future method of comparing companies on investment returns.
Return on The annualised post-tax adjusted operating profit calculated on an It is a measure of the return generated for Embedded Value EEV basis expressed as a percentage of the opening embedded value shareholders over the reporting period adjusted for dividends paid to equity holders.
on an embedded value basis.
Nedbank Headline Earnings Headline Earnings is calculated with reference to Circular 2 2015 issued Headline Earnings is an earnings measure per Share HEPS by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Headline earnings that is required by the South African listing is a way of dividing the IFRS reported profit between remeasurements authorities.
It provides a basis to compare that are more closely aligned to the operating trading activities of the South African listed peers.
entity, and the platform used to create those results.
Efficiency Ratio The Efficiency Ratio is total expenses divided by the sum of net interest It measures the expense efficiency income and non-interest revenue.
Liquidity Coverage The Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR aims to ensure that a bank holds It provides a view of the short-term Ratios adequate unencumbered High-Quality Liquid Assets to cover total net resilience of the liquidity risk profile cash outflows over a 30-day period under a prescribed stress scenario.
Economic Profit Calculated as headline earnings less the cost of equity.
The cost of equity It is a measure of the entitys ability is calculated as the average ordinary shareholders equity excluding to generate earnings in excess of the goodwill multiplied by the cost of equity.
economic cost of the capital contributed.
OM Wealth Underlying AOP, Pre-tax AOP, adjusted for certain one-off costs and the timing impact The measure is used to provide users of the before one off of acquisitions and disposals during 2015. financial statements greater insight into the adjustments long-term earning ability of the OMW current business on a comparable basis.
Integrated This reflects the total NCCF that has flowed through two or more It is a lead indicator of revenue generation net inflows segments within OMW.
driven by an integrated business model Operating margin This is calculated as AOP over net revenue, where net revenue includes An efficiency measure that allows users gross performance fees.
of our financial statements to assess what percentage of net revenues become operating profit.
OM Asset Management Economic Net ENI is economic net income, the alternative management metric This measure is used by OM Asset Income ENI for OMAM profit.
Similar metrics are used by US industry peers.
Management to evaluate the financial performance of, and to make operational decisions for, the business.
ENI Operating The ENI operating margin is a non-GAAP efficiency measure, calculated An efficiency measure that allows users margin based on ENI operating earnings divided by ENI revenue.
