Institutional Asset Management Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 41 Business Institutional Asset review Management How our business works We offer a broad range of investment strategies to clients around the globe The breadth of our product through eight highly-regarded boutique offerings by asset class, asset management firms located across geography and investment the United States: strategy enhances our relative Acadian Asset Management earnings stability Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss Campbell Global Copper Rock Capital Partners Heitman Investment Counselors of Maryland Alternative investments OMAMs Landmark Partners Our market environment Affiliates are among the worlds leading The asset management industry is highly TSW investors in specialised asset classes competitive: OMAM Affiliates seek to such as real estate and timber, as well Our business is diversified, both among differentiate themselves through their as secondary private equity, real estate our Affiliates and within their respective ability to generate alpha and provide and real asset investments businesses.
The breadth of our product superior service to their clients.
Through offerings by asset class, geography and After a volatile first half of the year, driven our collaborative organic growth initiatives, investment strategy enhances our relative in part by Brexit and uncertainty related to we work closely with Affiliates to enhance earnings stability and provides us with the US presidential election, resilient equity their product offerings to meet institutional multiple potential sources of growth.
markets delivered strong performance in investors evolving needs and demands.
Collectively, our Affiliates offer 120 distinct, 2016.
The S&P 500 finished the year up Our global distribution platform active investment strategies in US, global, 9.5% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average complements our Affiliates existing international and emerging markets was up 13.4%.
distribution capabilities to expand their equities: US fixed income: and alternative client base globally.
While non-US developed markets were products including real estate, timber and generally flat, growing 1% in 2016, We seek to offer strong-performing secondary private equity, real estate and emerging markets generated significant products across a range of investment styles real asset investments.
In addition, there is returns, as the MSCI Emerging Markets and strategies.
We work closely with Affiliates significant diversification within many of index increased by 8.6%.
to identify areas of growing investor appeal our Affiliate firms through the breadth of and to develop new investment products to their respective investment capabilities.
Key factors in global equities at the end of address client needs: 2016 and heading into 2017 were a strong Through our Affiliates we serve a highly US equities with strong long-term shift in the broader market away from diverse investor base in the institutional performance across a range of equity yield securities toward financials and and sub-advisory channels in the US and strategies, OMAM Affiliates are well value equities.
In addition to a strong positioned to compete for new mandates US client base, our Affiliates manage assets Current institutional search activity Non-US and global equities investors for clients in 30 other countries including favours specialised strategies in asset asset allocations are shifting towards Australia, Canada, Ireland, Japan, the non-US and global mandates offered classes such as global equity, US equity Netherlands, South Africa, South Korea, by OMAM Affiliates, including emerging and alternatives.
Investors remain focused Switzerland and the UK.
markets and small-cap equities on products with potential for meaningful outperformance, as well as strategies to diversify their investment portfolios.
