Old Mutual Emerging Markets Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 15 NCCF was strongly positive at R17.
0 billion, Measuring our Strategic with solid growth in covered sales in all regions and large inflows into Old Mutual performance priorities Investment Groups OMIGs Liability Driven Investment boutique in the second and outlook OMEM delivered a robust set of results half of the year.
Outflows were under amidst challenging operating conditions.
pressure due to higher disinvestments from AOP of R12.3 billion is up 3% on 2015, savings solutions by mainly retail customers Our journey so far after improved results were achieved in as well as an increase in disability claims in Over the past several years we have the second half of 2016.
IFRS profit of both the retail and corporate segments.
focused on: R10.7 billion was 3% down on the prior Despite the tough environment we Ensuring that our core businesses year, largely due to an impairment maintained a strong Present Value of in South Africa and the SADC on goodwill of R1.3 billion in Old Mutual New Business Premiums PVNBP margin Southern and East Africa OMSEA, which region are optimally positioned of 3.2% in 2016.
Sales volumes contributed is part of the Rest of Africa.
The AOP and future fit positively to the new business margin growth was supported by the Life & Savings through improved distribution efficiencies Laying a strong foundation for operations in South Africa, which delivered in MFC and Corporate, partly offset by growth across the rest of our a strong improvement in Return on higher distribution costs in Retail Affluent.
emerging market businesses Embedded Value from 13.6% in 2015 to This was partly offset by the impact 15.7% in 2016.
Higher asset-based fee We have made significant strides in of strengthening of operating and income, lower expenses and the net achieving these objectives which have methodology assumption changes in positive impact of assumption changes of delivered high levels of growth and brings South Africa.
R1.3 billion 2015: R0.8 billion were partly us closer to ultimately becoming an African offset by less favourable risk underwriting The balance sheet remains strong, well financial services champion with strong, experience and new business strain.
diversified and resilient and will be able differentiated franchises in other select Net positive assumption changes included to withstand a number of shocks, including emerging markets.
the positive impact of transferring classes of a possible South African sovereign credit the existing risk business into a new fifth tax rating downgrade.
fund following a change in tax legislation on risk business.
The other lines of business in South Africa delivered lower profits as a result of the tougher macroeconomic environment.
In the Rest of Africa profits AOP PRE-TAX were 18% higher due to a solid performance BY LINE OF BUSINESS from the Zimbabwe business and the full Rm year inclusion of UAP.
Property & Casualty R892m 1 FUM is shown on an end manager basis.
