Old Mutual Emerging Markets Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 15 NCCF was strongly positive at R17.
0 billion, Measuring our Strategic with solid growth in covered sales in all regions and large inflows into Old Mutual performance priorities Investment Groups OMIGs Liability Driven Investment boutique in the second and outlook OMEM delivered a robust set of results half of the year.
Outflows were under amidst challenging operating conditions.
pressure due to higher disinvestments from AOP of R12.3 billion is up 3% on 2015, savings solutions by mainly retail customers Our journey so far after improved results were achieved in as well as an increase in disability claims in Over the past several years we have the second half of 2016.
IFRS profit of both the retail and corporate segments.
focused on: R10.7 billion was 3% down on the prior Despite the tough environment we Ensuring that our core businesses year, largely due to an impairment maintained a strong Present Value of in South Africa and the SADC on goodwill of R1.3 billion in Old Mutual New Business Premiums PVNBP margin Southern and East Africa OMSEA, which region are optimally positioned of 3.2% in 2016.
Sales volumes contributed is part of the Rest of Africa.
The AOP and future fit positively to the new business margin growth was supported by the Life & Savings through improved distribution efficiencies Laying a strong foundation for operations in South Africa, which delivered in MFC and Corporate, partly offset by growth across the rest of our a strong improvement in Return on higher distribution costs in Retail Affluent.
emerging market businesses Embedded Value from 13.6% in 2015 to This was partly offset by the impact 15.7% in 2016.
Higher asset-based fee We have made significant strides in of strengthening of operating and income, lower expenses and the net achieving these objectives which have methodology assumption changes in positive impact of assumption changes of delivered high levels of growth and brings South Africa.
R1.3 billion 2015: R0.8 billion were partly us closer to ultimately becoming an African offset by less favourable risk underwriting The balance sheet remains strong, well financial services champion with strong, experience and new business strain.
diversified and resilient and will be able differentiated franchises in other select Net positive assumption changes included to withstand a number of shocks, including emerging markets.
the positive impact of transferring classes of a possible South African sovereign credit the existing risk business into a new fifth tax rating downgrade.
fund following a change in tax legislation on risk business.
The other lines of business in South Africa delivered lower profits as a result of the tougher macroeconomic environment.
In the Rest of Africa profits AOP PRE-TAX were 18% higher due to a solid performance BY LINE OF BUSINESS from the Zimbabwe business and the full Rm year inclusion of UAP.
Property & Casualty R892m 1 FUM is shown on an end manager basis.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 16 Business Old Mutual review Emerging Markets Our core businesses in South Africa and A majority stake in Ghana-based life Across the Rest of Africa, our new partnership SADC have successfully defended and company Provident Life rebranded to with Jumo will enable a digital distribution grown their dominant market positions: Old Mutual Ghana channel for the delivery of products to Investment in the Apis Growth Fund, giving unbanked customers across the continent.
We continue to gain market share in the us early exposure to fintech innovations in South African life insurance industry over Our priorities going forward Africa and India the past five years, both at total level and The South African businesses form the across all our business units Our progress in 2016 bedrock of the OMEM business and We maintained our dominant market Our focus in 2016 was to position the South we will ensure that we stay competitive in positions across our SADC businesses African businesses to be future fit and South Africa and keep growing as a market We have a very strong alternatives laying a platform for growth.
Integral to this is simplifying and capability in OMIG which we further the following milestones over the past year: improving the customer experience and bolstered through acquiring the remaining enabling our asset management capability Good progress with our Integrated 50% of African Infrastructure Investment OMIG to grow and contribute meaningfully Financial Services strategy, continuing the Management AIIM to the broader group.
This encompasses: roll-out of retail branches and improving In conjunction with Business Doctor adviser productivity.
Our Money Account Enhancing the customer experience by Consortium we have built Old Mutual offering, identified by MoneyWeb as the delivering industry-leading solutions, Finance OMF from the ground up.
leading retail banking innovation in 2015, simplifying critical processes and customer This business now generates more than proved popular with customers communication and improving the R750 million of pre-tax profits per annum Formed a partnership with some accessibility and quality of advice and is a core component of our mass market experienced entrepreneurs to build a direct Winning in key target markets customer business and our integrated financial proposition in life and property & casualty segments.
We will do this by further services offering.
In 20 1 5 we increased insurance, which we expect to rival the enhancing our integrated financial our stake in OMF from 50% to 75% market leaders and have already seen services model, further developing the Through the launch of our transactional substantial progress in the first year Black Middle Income value propositions, account Old Mutual Money Account in of operation leveraging our mass market dominance South Africa and Namibia, we are able to Progressed the integration of our into the middle market, and continued complete our integrated financial offering East African business, rebranding it investment in the Wealth proposition and gain a competitive advantage relative to UAP-Old Mutual Given changing customer preferences to traditional competitors Formalised a new distribution agreement and increased regulatory pressures we We consolidated our control position in with ETI, which will deliver improved will implement changes to our distribution Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation revenue for both parties, enhance the model to ensure we remain future fit CGIC, which complements M&F South distribution opportunity, facilitate customer Unlocking further value through Africa and provides a strategic advantage growth and drive improved retention collaboration across Old Mutual South in Africa Continue to make good progress on Africa and more broadly Old Mutual, The strength of our core businesses has collaboration across Nedbank, OMEM Nedbank and M&F enabled us to invest in other key growth and M&F we are on track to deliver R1 Driving growth in OMIG to realise our businesses and markets, to realise our billion pre-tax value of synergies by the vision to become recognised globally as vision of becoming an African financial end of 201 7 Africas leading asset manager.
This will be services champion Received the 2016 Most Empowered through: continuing to build an investment A majority stake in leading East African Employment Equity Company Award, track record, strengthen our distribution, financial services company UAP, has given recognising the progress made in leverage our market-leading capabilities us regional presence and scale which will transforming our workplace and driving in alternative investment to drive growth enable us to realise our vision of becoming socio-economic change in South Africa into Africa and leveraging Old Mutual an East African financial services champion Specialised Finance OMSFIN capabilities A majority stake in Faulu, a leading Kenyan We formalised two new strategic to support Old Mutual Life Assurance microfinance organisation with a respected partnerships which will bolster our Company South Africa OMLAC SA brand, extensive branch network and a traditional distribution reach across our product offerings strong presence in the informal market core markets.
In South Africa, we entered A majority stake in the life and property into a partnership with Telkom.
The initial In M&F we continue with business & casualty businesses of Oceanic phase of this initiative is focused on the performance improvement to deliver rebranded to Old Mutual Nigeria, launch of a pre-paid funeral offering, a sustained turnaround in profitability to a Nigerian-based company has given however there are several additional ultimately enable the business to contribute us access to West Africas longand opportunities which are being investigated.
meaningfully to OMEM earnings over time.
short-term insurance markets Old Mutual Emerging Markets Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 17 This will be done by: IT landscape, including improving our South Africa direct and digital offerings, replacing Consumers remain under pressure due to Restoring the profitability of the core book, legacy systems from time to time and IT subdued economic growth, high inflation through remediation, growing on platform enablement of our East Africa business.
and interest rates, and tax increases business and enhanced underwriting skills announced in February 2017.
However, the Improving the customer experience with In South Africa we are investing to economy is showing signs of recovery with new customer value propositions, digital improve the customer experience, add new inflation expected to decline below 5.5% in solutions, improved claims processes propositions and address ageing systems.
Interest rates are expected to reduce and improved ease of doing business The key driver is to replace IT platforms in the second half of 2017 once inflation Ensuring that we have the correct skills that will reach end-of-life by 2020 and we remains sustainably inside the 3% to 6% and talent in place to improve have taken the opportunity to enhance our target range.
Although the rand has business performance South African retail propositions.
We are continued its recovery into 2017, it remains Further collaboration across implementing the changes in a staged volatile amidst political uncertainty.
The risk Old Mutual and Nedbank manner covering both the enhancing of of a downgrade of South Africas sovereign retail propositions and migrations from In the Rest of Africa, we aim to build a credit rating remains a threat.
While all the the end-of-life platforms.
business that provides leading financial ratings agencies maintained the sovereign solutions to customers, primarily through Having refined our plans we now estimate debts investment grade rating in 2016, all an integrated offering of life, property the total cost of this delivery at R3.1 billion have placed the country on a negative & casualty, asset management and and are holding an additional R350 million outlook.
An improvement will require a credit solutions: as operational risk capital against potential less fluid political environment, improved uncertainties and risks related to an economic outlook, decisive policy reforms In Southern Africa, we will defend and investment of this nature.
The delivery and convincing fiscal consolidation.
maintain our leading market positions.
To fide-risk In East Africa, we will build out an East delivery we have included a strategic Rest of Africa African Financial Services Champion implementation partner and entered into Africa is expected to deliver growth below over the next five to seven years.
We have fixed price contracts with delivery partners.
the long-term average in 2017, due largely invested significantly in this region and We continue to take a prudent approach to to struggling manufacturing sectors.
now have a strong platform to drive profit the capitalisation of intangible assets with Persistent low oil prices and falling growth which, in time, will be an important c. 40% of the annual investment being production in Nigeria could further slow source of cash generation.
In West Africa, expensed through AOP.
This expenditure economic growth in the continents most our approach over the next three years aligns with our historic annual spend on populous country.
On the upside, recent is to focus on a capital-light approach, strategic IT investments and with our rains are expected to boost agriculture in but be ready and able to take on the right future growth aspirations by enhancing the Southern and Eastern Africa and sustained inorganic growth opportunities when they customer experience through direct and higher commodity prices may improve arise.
T o this extent, we will further expand digital offerings.
The net financial position growth prospects across the continent.
our distribution partnership with ETI, of this investment, taking into account the growing our bancassurance premiums Asia and Latin America benefits that will be realised, increased cost India is set to continue strong annual In Latin America and Asia, we will compete and depreciation, remains positive.
We are growth of at least 7%, propelled by healthy on a differentiated basis and make tactical committed to growing our investment in domestic dynamics.
Economic growth in portfolio shifts to create strategic technology over time to enable innovative China is expected to slow to 6% over the optionality and deliver value in the medium growth of our business and improvement medium term as the government strives of the customer experience.
to longer term: to balance growth, stability and financial In Colombia and Mexico, we will continue Outlook reform.
Latin America is expected to return to drive the growth and profitability of Financial market sentiment toward to growth on the higher commodity prices, the businesses emerging market economies has improved however growth is expected to remain slow In India, we have a strong partner in with expectations of lower interest rates in with high inflation and the influence of the Kotak Bank and are exploring options advanced economies, reduced concern new US administrations stance on the to maximise value for the joint venture about Chinas near-term prospects North America Free Trade Agreement.
In China, we are exploring options with following policy changes to support our partner to strengthen and optimise growth, and some firming of commodity our distribution reach.
Economic conditions are however expected to remain challenging in many We continue to invest in IT to enable growth markets and continued currency and and manage risk, through a refresh of our market volatility is likely.
