Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 102 CORPOR A TE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED As the Groups ongoing viability is Does the Company have additionally subject to certain factors that any significant agreements are beyond the control of its directors, such involving change of control?
as future macro-environmental conditions The following significant agreement to and the political situation of the countries which the Company is a party contains in which it operates, further analysis has provisions entitling counterparties to exercise been performed to ensure that, barring termination or other rights in the event of a unforeseen circumstances, these do not change of control of the Company: pose a material threat to the viability of 800 million Revolving Credit Facility dated the Group.
As a consequence, the base 22 August 2014, as amended, between the case business plan and related managed Company, various syndicate banks the separation scenarios have been subject Banks and Bank of America Merrill Lynch to stress testing and risk assessment.
International Limited as agent the Agent.
The principal risks considered in these If a person or group of persons acting in scenarios are consistent with those set concert gains control of the Company, out elsewhere in this Annual Report.
In the Company must notify the Agent.
The addition to the more severe stress tests and Agent and the Company will negotiate with a view to agreeing terms and conditions scenarios, management and the Board acceptable to the Company and all of also consider milder downside sensitivities the Banks for continuing the facility.
If such as part of routine Board reports.
The negotiations fail within 30 days of the Group and Company also maintain original notification to the Agent by the contingency plans and resources to deal Company, the Banks become entitled to with potential adverse developments, declare any outstanding indebtedness Responsible which have been reviewed by the Board.
repayable by giving notice to the Agent business within 15 days of the 30-day period Has all relevant information mentioned above.
On receiving notice practices are core been disclosed to for payment from the Agent, the Company components of the auditor?
shall pay the outstanding sums within three business days to the relevant Bank s. The directors who held office at the date the Companys of approval of this Annual Report confirm risk management What is our approach that, so far as they are each aware, there is to being a responsible strategy no relevant audit information of which the business?
Companys auditor is unaware, and each Responsible business practices are core director has taken all the steps that he or components of the Companys risk she ought to have taken as a director to management strategy.
We have a network make himself or herself aware of any of people who manage and monitor our relevant audit information and to establish responsible business approach.
Each of that the Companys auditor was aware of our four businesses has named a senior that information.
executive with overall responsibility for Other Directors these issues.
Following the adoption of managed separation as our strategy, the Report matters role played by the Company in developing As an international business active in many the responsible business vision is being countries, the Group operates through transferred to the businesses.
However, subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures and a Responsible Business Forum has been associated companies established in, and established by the Company and is used by subject to the laws and regulations of, many the Companys Head of Responsible different jurisdictions.
Business to ensure that our commitment Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 103 to remaining a responsible business In addition to our ongoing approach Did the Group make throughout the managed separation is we have been working specifically on any political donations met and to enable the businesses to receive compliance with the UK Modern Slavery during 2016?
the necessary support to develop their Act 2015 MSA, focusing this work on The Group made no EU or other responsible business practices as part OMW given the managed separation.
political donations during the year.
of their preparations to stand alone We have produced a standalone MSA as independent businesses.
statement which is available to download How did the Board approve from: www.
What is our commitment The Board approved this Annual Report at Where can I find the to human rights?
It confirmed Our commitment to respect human other matters required that it considered the Annual Report and rights and to comply with the Universal to be included in the Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, Declaration of Human Rights is embedded Directors Report?
balanced and understandable and to in our Code of Conduct and employment The Company has taken advantage of provide the information necessary for practices.
This commitment has not paragraph 1A of Schedule 7 to The Large shareholders to assess the Companys changed as a result of managed and Medium-sized Companies and performance, business model and strategy.
separation and we are working with the Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations In reaching this conclusion, it took into businesses to transfer our understanding 2008 to disclose certain information that account input from the Group Audit, of the risks and responsibilities relating must be disclosed as part of its Directors Remuneration and Board Risk Committees, to human rights to them.
As part of the Report either elsewhere in this document which had previously had the opportunity transition, we are building local-level or on our website as set out below: to review and comment on drafts of the engagement and collaboration with a sections falling within their respective remits.
Important events relating to the Group range of stakeholders, including those since the end of the financial year are in our supply and investment chains, Governing law included in the Strategic Report as well to support the process.
The Strategic Report, Financial Review as in Note J9 to the financial statements A description of likely future developments and Risks section, and this Corporate Whilst each business embeds its response of the business of the Company and its Governance report collectively comprise to our Positive Futures Plan into its business subsidiaries is contained in the Strategic the directors report for the purposes of strategy, responsible investment remains a Report and the Financial Review and section 463 1 a of the Companies Act priority for all four businesses.
The Directors Remuneration Report to build on our understanding and The Groups involvement in research and contained in this Annual Report is the approach to the identification and development, insofar as relevant to its directors remuneration report for the management of the human rights risks operations, is given in the Strategic Report purposes of section 463 1 b of that Act.
to which we may be exposed through and the Financial Review and Risks section English law governs the disclosures Our financial risk management objectives our investments.
We also assess the impact contained in and liability for the and policies are described in the Risks of new investments on the protection and section of this Annual Report.
Along with Directors Report and the Directors respect of human rights and for potential Notes F1 to F5 to the financial statements, Remuneration Report.
this also addresses the Groups exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash Each business is identifying priority areas Colin Campbell flow risk to mitigate risk and taking steps to ensure Information about the Groups greenhouse Group Company Secretary it does not cause or contribute to any gas emissions is given in the business model 8 March 2017 negative human rights impacts.
This section of this Annual Report.
work will continue during the managed separation and forms part of our responsible business transition plans.
In particular, as each business puts in place risk management and responsible business governance structures at a local level which are fit for the future of its business, human rights risks are being taken into account.
