16 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ONE SPECIALIST LENDER We focus on specialist mortgage lending to consumers, entrepreneurs and SMEs in sub-sectors of the UK market where we have identified opportunities for high returns on a risk-adjusted basis and where we cantake a leading position.
GROSS NEW ORGANIC LENDING IN 2016 2.3bn 2015: 1.8bn Our confident and friendly staff communicate and deal with each customer on an individual basis.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 17 Sub-sector market specialisation dedicated marketing support leading to an intermediary NPS We focus on specialist mortgage lending to consumers, of48% in 2016. entrepreneurs and SMEs in sub-sectors of the UK market where we have identified opportunities for risk-adjusted high returns Inorganic growth and strong growth, and where we can take a leading position: The Group is focused on organic origination as its core growth private rented Buy-to-Let sector: strategy.
In addition, OSB has diversified into new lending commercial and semi-commercial: markets through business acquisitions, including SME residential development finance: Commercial and second charge residential mortgages.
bespoke specialist residential lending: second charge residential lending: and In 2016, OSB completed the purchase of portfolios of UK first shared ownership.
and second charge residential mortgages for 181m.
OSB also provides funding lines to other lenders, secured OSB will continue to actively consider inorganic opportunities as againstpools of loan collateral providing indirect access they arise to complement the core organic origination strategy.
tocertain high-yielding, specialist sub-segments, such as residential bridge finance and leasing.
As at the end of 2016, Bespoke underwriting theGroup had total loans outstanding of 122m 2015: 126m.
We adopt an expertise-based, manual approach to underwriting in each market sub-sector, specifically geared to each individual We continue to identify opportunities where we can use our customer.
We do not use automated or scorecard-based strengths to take leading sub-sector positions, adding value to processes for underwriting new loans.
the Group and maximising our use of capital.
We differentiate our service proposition by responding quickly Intermediary relationships and flexibly to requests with direct access to decision makers, We build long-term partnerships with a panel of selected and provide a service differential for more complex situations.
specialist mortgage intermediaries that are leaders in their sub-sectors, making it easier for them to serve borrowers by We leverage the expertise of our highly-skilled underwriting providing swift decision making.
team to enhance the experience of our partners.
Our Transactional Credit Committee met 101 times in 2016 to assess We provide access to specialist products and underwriting more complex or larger new mortgage applications.
through our coordinated multi-brand approach and focus on listening and working with partners to develop new What we will do opportunities and bespoke solutions.
We will continue to develop existing and new manual underwriting skills, through a training and coaching programme, We deepen our relationships with these intermediaries and ensuring that OSB staff have up-to-date skills and can continue conservatively expand the panel with whom we work.
We to deliver a high-quality differentiated service.
develop marketing and education campaigns, combined with It takes a long time to build trust and a moment to lose it.
My role revolves around people and building relationships.
I have spent my whole career getting to know brokers and listening to what is important to them.
It is all about helping them to help their clients, offering certainty and treating them properly.
Of course honesty and integrity are crucial, and that means doing the small things right, being available and responding to people swiftly but I aim to go beyond that.
Using my expertise I can act as a consultant, helping my brokers put a proposal together to ensure it can meet the needs of OSB and their client.
Sometimes that means not being afraid to say no early in the process, even suggesting a more suitable lender where a case does not meet our risk appetite.
It makes a difference to me that I can present larger and more complex cases to the Banks Transactional Credit Committee.
I see the decision making process A RELATIONSHIP BUILT first hand and what will make an application successful.
This helps me stand out to my brokers ON RESPECT and makes OSB their lender of choice.
MARC CALLAGHAN BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT MANAGER
