10 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 MARKET REVIEW ECONOMIC OVERVIEW The defining economic event of 2016 was the EU referendum in June.
Whilst prior to the vote there were widespread assumptions of a significant negative impact in the event of a vote to leave, the economy proved itself resilient with GDP growth of 1.8% driven by the manufacturing and service sectors.
Fiscal intervention, including the reduction in base rate and the devaluation of the pound, were THE HOUSING MARKET Housing transaction volumes were materially distorted in 2016 important supporting factors.
The by the Stamp Duty Land Tax SDLT change on second prospect of a hard Brexit has properties, and the underlying trend has seen a modest seen the yield curve flatten and reduction in activity, driven by a number of factors.
The most obvious of these was the outcome of the EU referendum, the interest rate outlook remains which created uncertainty throughout the second half of the benign, notwithstanding the year.
This uncertainty undermined consumer confidence, inflationary pressures that are suppressing levels of transactions.
starting to be seen and which will In addition, regulatory and tax changes adversely affected see real wage inflation stagnate.
SDLT increases first applied in 2015 continued to The Bank of England has indicated subdue the upper end of the property market and the that it will tolerate inflation rising introduction of a 3% SDLT surcharge in April 2016 on second properties further dampened transaction levels, albeit not above the 2% target in order to before a substantial spike in activity in March.
minimise any negative impacts of Brexit on the UK economy.
The stricter affordability assessments that were introduced in the Mortgage Market Review in 2014 have continued to suppress first-time buyers and home movers.
High transaction costs and relatively few properties on the market are also holding back activity.
Nonetheless, first-time buyers have been supported by various UK BUY-TO-LET GROSS ADVANCES government schemes, which have helped the number of 20102016 M 40,600 37,900 first-time buyers on an annual basis increase by 116% since its post-crisis low in mid-2009.
It is other home movers, whose 27,200 activity continues to be subdued since the financial crisis, that 20,800 are underperforming, with mover numbers up by only 44% 15,200 since the same period.
Growth in the first half of 2016 was Source: CML Research.
reversed in the third quarter as uncertainty followed the EU referendum outcome.
The fourth quarter however saw recovery with both December and January showing small gains.
UK HOUSE PRICE INFLATION 20102016 % THE MORTGAGE MARKET 10.0 The Council of Mortgage Lenders CML entered 2016 2 7.2 7.2 expecting 7.7% growth in new lending over 2015, to 237bn.
6.7 Changes to SDLT that came into effect from April gave rise to a 3.5 substantial spike in new lending in March, in particular in Buy-to-Let, and the month saw 26.3bn of lending, compared 1.6 -1.0 to an average of 18.7bn in the first half of the year excluding 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 March.
This contributed to a full year figure of 245.5bn of Source: ONS, Survey of Mortgage lenders.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 11 4 Buy-to-Let lending grew to 40.6bn in the year 2015: is a growing presence in the retail savings sector as they 37.9bn, an increase of 7%, supported by the SDLT change in develop a range of funding sources.
Despite the spike in purchase activity that this caused, overall the year saw purchase transactions fall to 102,100 We have also seen the emergence of fintech banking 2015: 117,500.
This was entirely offset by an increase in propositions.
These are yet to acquire material traction with remortgage transactions to 153,000 2015: 132,300 and UK consumers, however they do attract attention for their marks the beginning of what the CML perceive will be a trend innovative use of technology.
of lower purchase transactions offset by rising remortgage volumes to create growth.
ONESAVINGS BANKS LENDING MARKETS UK BUY-TO-LET SPECIALIST SME MARKET This expectation is driven by the introduction of the changes Buy-to-Let to personal taxation, which will be phased in from April 2017, Growth in the private rented housing sector PRS has been coupled with new regulation on Buy-to-Let underwriting and consistent since 2000, underpinned by strong tenant demand affordability assessment, key elements of which were as a result of social and demographic changes, government introduced on 1 January 2017, with further measures to be policy and the potential difficulties faced by first-time buyers implemented in September.
The major shift seen in residential mortgage lending has been to make affordability assessments THE COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE stricter, and this has curtailed lending activity, despite The UK market for lending and savings products is highly mortgage rates at historically low levels.
concentrated towards the high street banks.
It is dominated by five major players, whose strategy is to use current The PRS now provides accommodation for more than 5.3m accounts to cross-sell a range of products including savings households in Great Britain as at September 2016, nearly 20% and investments, mortgages, personal loans and credit cards.
Sector growth is expected to continue, increasing The high street banks primarily target the traditional, highto 25% of total households by 2025 Local Government volume consumer markets and rely upon economies of scale forecasting.
The total value of property in the PRS in Great and process automation.
In recent years, high street banks Britain is 1.3 trillion, driven by house price inflation HPI and 5 have been subject to heightened and sustained regulatory, PRS growth.
At the same time, social housing properties as a political and public scrutiny following several industry issues: percentage of the housing sector have decreased, with renting the need for state aid during the financial crisis, alleged the only major alternative to home ownership.
complicity in LIBOR rate fixing, mis-selling of payment protection insurance and interest rate swaps.
The Buy-to-Let mortgage market serving the PRS has increased, with the number of outstanding mortgages rising 6 This has facilitated the entry of challenger banks, a term from 120,300 in 2000 to over 1.8 million in 2016.
Expansion in applied to an emerging group of banks seeking to challenge the Buy-to-Let market has been criticised for inhibiting growth the dominant market share of the high street banks.
These in the owner-occupied market, particularly for first time challenger banks also offer current accounts as their core buyers.
Changes to tax relief, new Buy-to-Let regulation and proposition, using them to develop wider customer SDLT are expected to moderate Buy-to-Let market growth, relationships.
Smaller than high street banks and without the however the PRS is expected to remain a core component of negative brand legacy, they develop customer propositions the UK housing supply and the primary issue affecting the where they have identified areas of competitive advantage owner occupied market remains the lack of available stock such as service, accessibility and product features.
and insufficient new build starts, as was recognised in the Housing White Paper in February 2017.
More recent entrants are specialist banks, a group that includes OneSavings Bank.
The specialist banks focus on The prospect of changes to personal taxation have seen an specific UK lending niches that are underserved and do not increase in the number of landlords seeking to borrow via a offer current accounts.
A key feature of these specialist banks limited company entity.
With most of the larger lenders in the 12 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED sector not offering a limited company proposition, this has led The lending market is dominated by the high street banks.
to a shift towards those lenders who do.
With one specialist Opportunity exists for specialist lenders whose manual broker suggesting that 69% of purchase applications in the underwriting approach, and willingness to engage in a fourth quarter of 2016 were from limited companies, the dialogue to ensure robust understanding of customer inability of the market leaders to meet this demand will have a requirements can provide a service differential.
positive outcome for the pool of smaller lenders who do and marks a shift in the sector.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT The UK has experienced a long-term upward trend in real Moreover, following the implementation of the Prudential house prices, creating affordability problems as demand for Regulation Authoritys PRA revised rules on Buy-to-Let housing continues to outstrip both supply and real wage underwriting, many lenders who lend to the limited company growth.
Furthermore, turnover in the second-hand housing market offer criteria that allow for greater levels of borrowing market is subdued.
than would be available to individual borrowers.
9 The Housing White Paper published in February 2017, refers to OSB is a respected lender within the specialist Buy-to-Let a broken housing market and identified that not enough sector and is experienced in dealing with limited company homes are being built and thus prioritised initiatives that will lending.
Therefore whilst the succession of changes, both seek to address this.
Notable among the initiatives announced actual and planned, that have impacted the market will in the White Paper were a raft of measures to encourage undoubtedly dampen demand as a whole, we believe that this smaller builders to build more homes, through an improved dampening will be more acute at the amateur end of the planning framework.
They also expressed a desire that lenders market, where borrowers own a small number of properties in should back developersin building more homes.
The White their personal name.
Professional landlords will increasingly Paper represents a holistic assessment of the UKs housing grow their portfolios using limited companies.
needs, and it is encouraging to note the emphasis placed on supporting the small and medium sized developers who form COMMERCIAL our core audience for development finance.
The UK commercial property market saw investment demand increase in the second half of 2016 following the EU SPECIALIST RESIDENTIAL LENDING referendum, with the trend positive.
The Royal Institute of The high street banks typically rely on a heavily automated, 7 Chartered Surveyors have noted an increase in demand from scorecard-driven approach to lending, as this provides a foreign investors, potentially attributable to favourable cost-effective means of servicing a high volume of residential currency movements.
Whilst investor demand has grown in all mortgage loans.
This is not an effective model for the sectors, growth in the retail sector was weakest, with demand specialist market, where OneSavings Banks manual notably higher in the office and industrial sectors.
Market underwriting and individual case assessment model is more sentiment is positive, particularly outside of London.
Customers with complex asset or income structures and those seeking shared ownership mortgages are 8 Research from Savills showed commercial property ill-served by the commoditised and inflexible decision investment decline by 28% in 2016 to 51.4bn however this processes of mainstream lenders.
figure is above the ten year average of 45.9bn, the fourth quarter growth in 2016 at 39% was stronger than in 2015 Whilst MMR has been in place for some time, its consequences 25%, driven by overseas investment.
The UK is seen as an are still visible in the form of reduced home mover levels, as attractive investment opportunity given the deeper political recognised by the CML.
The market share of the top six lenders uncertainties in Europe and there is a degree of optimism in continues to decline, as specialist and challengers grow respect of capital values, helped by business confidence levels market share.
being greater than the consumer equivalent.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 13 SECOND CHARGE LENDING FUNDING LINES The second charge market saw an estimated 874m of gross There are a number of successful non-bank or alternative new lending in 2016 2015: 844m.
OneSavings Bank targets providers of finance to retail and SME customers in the UK.
good credit quality mortgage borrowers who wish to extend These businesses are funded through a variety of means their borrowing, but do not want to change their existing including wholesale finance provided by banks, high net mortgage arrangements.
Borrowers are typically seeking to worthinvestors and market based peer-to-peer finance.
OSB fund a major purchase, undertake home improvements or is an active provider of secured funding lines to the non-bank consolidate and reschedule other consumer debt without finance market, to date focusing on short-term real estate refinancing their existing first charge mortgage, as it often finance, leasing and development finance.
Through these carries a low interest rate.
activities the Bank has achieved senior secured exposure atattractive returns to asset classes that it knows well.
This The market experienced significant change in March 2016 market services a broad range of business sectors and its when market regulation was taken over by the Financial overall size is thus difficult to quantify.
OSB sees a regular Conduct Authority.
Most notably, as a result of this, flowof opportunities, adopts a very selective approach affordability assessment now mirrors the practice seen in first andhas a strong pipeline of new business.
charge lending and is aligned with the MMR.
Land Registry, UK House Price Index, 14 February 2017 2.
CML, Market Review, December 2016 Whilst the gross lending figures represent year on year growth 3.
CML, New Mortgage by purpose of loan, ML1 UK, 1 March 2017 of 3.6%, this can be attributed wholly to business volumes 4.
CML, New and Outstanding Buy-to-Let new mortgages, MM17, prior to the change.
The first quarter saw 29% growth year on 7 February 2017 year as business was written in advance of the rule changes.
See footnote 4 The remainder of the year saw a small reduction in overall 7.
RICS UK Commercial Property Market Survey Q4 2016, 26 January 2017 lending with the market settling at around 70m of new 8.
Savills, Market in Minutes UK Commercial, 21 February 2017 lending per month.
House of Commons Library briefing paper number 06416, 15 June 2016
