46 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Chief Risk Officers Report on pages 34 to 41.
Potential Governance Code, the Board of Directors have assessed the changes in its risk profile are assessed across the business prospects and viability of the Group over a three-year period planning horizon by subjecting the operating and financial and have concluded they have a reasonable expectation that plan to severe but plausible macroeconomic and idiosyncratic the Group will be able to continue to operate and meet its scenarios.
liabilities as they fall due over that period.
Stress testing is a vital discipline, which underpins the The three-year time period was selected for the following Companys ICAAP and ILAAP.
The stress scenarios are reasons: identified based on the severity of underlying assumptions, The Groups operating and financial plan covers a threerelevance to the Companys business model and alignment year period: with the Bank of Englands prescribed stress scenario.
The three-year operating and financial plan considers, In addition, the Company identified a suite of credible among other matters: the Boards risk appetite: macromanagement actions that would mitigate the impact of economic outlook: market opportunity: the competitive the stress scenarios.
The Board and executive management landscape: and sensitivity of the financial plan to volumes, use the outcome of the stress test analysis to evaluate margin pressures and capital requirements: the Companys management options and adequacy of The Board believes that there is sufficient visibility over the the Companys capital and liquidity resources to economic and regulatory landscape and the market withstand an extreme but plausible stress scenario.
outlook offered by the three-year time horizon to make a The Company holds sufficient capital to withstand such reasonable assessment of viability: a stress scenario.
Uncertainty in the UK economic outlook over the medium to long-term following the EU referendum outcome: and In addition, the Group identifies a range of catastrophic stress Significant uncertainty exists in the regulatory horizon scenarios, which could result in the failure of its current beyond this point, with the Basel Committee currently in business model.
Business model failure scenarios reverse consultation on standardised approaches to credit and stress tests are primarily used to inform the Board and operational risk.
executive management of the outer limits of the Groups risk profile.
Reverse stress tests play an important role in helping The Company is authorised by the PRA, and regulated by the the Board and its executives to identify potential recovery FCA and PRA, and undertakes regular analysis of its risk profile options under a business model failure scenario, and form an important aspect of the Companys recovery and resolution and assumptions.
It has a robust set of policies, procedures plans prescribed by the regulator.
and systems to undertake a comprehensive assessment of all the principal risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed on a The ongoing monitoring of all principal risks and uncertainties current and forward-looking basis as described in Principal that could impact the operating and financial plan, together Risks and Uncertainties on pages 42 to 45. with the use of stress testing to ensure that the Group could survive a severe but plausible stress, enables the Board to The Group manages and monitors its risk profile through its reasonably assess the viability of the business model over a strategic risk management framework, in particular through three-year period.
its risk appetite statement and risk limits as described in the My focus is to help the Group make ever more informed risk return decisions.
I work with people across the Group to continually enhance analytical, risk measurement and monitoring capabilities.
Key components of my role include the formulation and monitoring of risk appetite, modelling the impact that a range of severity scenarios have on the Groups key performance indicators.
This in turn supports the business to make ever more informed decisions across the credit lifecycle.
My team also ensures that risk and return performance is in line with or exceeds our expectations.
Throughout 2016, we have made material enhancements to our analytical and risk measurement capabilities, via the ongoing delivery of our IFRS 9 and IRB programmes.
ENHANCING OUR Throughout 2017 and beyond, we will now look to leverage these capabilities to enhance the returns across our lending ANALYTICAL AND franchises.
I believe that our constant drive and creative approach to enhancing our analytical and risk measurement RISKMANAGEMENT capabilities will set us apart from our peers, allowing us to optimise the risk and return profile in the markets we choose NICHOLAS HURST to operate in.
HEAD OF PORTFOLIO CREDIT RISK
