66 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT ROD DUKE CHAIR Dear Shareholder Also, in anticipation of Mike Faireys retirement as I am pleased to present the report Chairman at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM we have 1 ofthe Nomination and Governance instructed Per Ardua to conduct an extensive search for candidates with strong financial services experience, and Committee.
again the remit was to provide where possible a 50 50 split of female and male candidates.
The search is well MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS underway and an announcement will be made once the The Committee is required to meet at least four times final candidate is chosen.
I would like to take this per year.
In 2016, there were seven meetings held.
opportunity to thank Mike for his outstanding Iwould like to welcome Tim Hanford who became contribution to a successful IPO and the subsequent amember of this Committee on 1 January 2017. development of the Group and wish him well for Theother members are Mike Fairey, Nathan Moss hisfuture.
Taking into account these changes, we are satisfied that APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS INCLUDING THE the composition we have established is operating well, CHAIRMAN and we will continue to monitor Board and Committee Following the annual review of Board and Committee membership in 2017.
Further details on the composition composition and the skills and experience available, the and balance of the Board and its Committees are need for additional independent Non-Executive Directors provided below.
with recent relevant financial services experience was identified.
A specialist board level headhunter, Lomond 1 Consulting, was appointed to conduct a search, with the ROD DUKE specific direction to include suitable female candidates in Chair and Senior Independent Director the shortlist.
The Committee discussed in detail the skills, 16 March 2017 experience and other commitments of each candidate and agreed a shortlist of four.
The Committee received feedback from all parties and unanimously 1.
Does not have any other connection with the Company recommended to the Board that Andrew Doman and Margaret Hassall be appointed.
In addition to them both having extensive experience of the financial services industry, Andrew has significant experience leading strategy and delivering successful performance and mergers and acquisitions activity, while Margaret brings additional operations experience particularly information technology experience to the Board.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 67 RESPONSIBILITIES DIVERSITY The specific responsibilities and duties of the Committee are The Company recognises and embraces the benefits of having set out in its terms of reference which were significantly a diverse Board and workforce, and sees diversity at Board expanded in February 2016 to include conflicts responsibility level as an essential element in maintaining a competitive for Board evaluation, corporate governance and sustainability.
We believe that a truly diverse Board will include This has led to the Committee changing its name to the and make good use of differences in the skills, regional and Nomination and Governance Committee.
The terms of industry experience, background, race, gender and other reference of the Committee are available on our website distinctions between Directors.
The Board recognises that www.
diversity is the key to better decision making and avoiding group think.
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The Committee conducted a review of the composition of the These differences will be considered in determining the Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees: and its own optimum composition of the Board and when possible will be composition during 2016 carefully considering the skills of the balanced appropriately.
All Board appointments are made on existing members and looking at any skills gaps applicable to merit, in the context of the skills, experience, independence any Committee.
and knowledge which the Board as a whole requires to be effective.
Andrew Doman and Margaret Hassall were appointed to the Board.
Margaret became a member of the Risk Committee and The Committee is responsible for reviewing on an annual basis Andrew became a member of the Audit and Risk Committees.
the Companys Board diversity policy: in particular whether The Committees were further refreshed with Eric Anstee and introducing measurable objectives is appropriate for the Graham Allatt becoming Chair of the Audit and Risk Company.
In 2016, the Board voted in favour of signing the Committee, respectively.
I, Rod Duke, became a member of Women in Finance Charter.
Our aim is that 30% of Senior the Remuneration Committee and Chair of this Committee.
Management positions within the Groups UK population will be undertaken by female employees by the end of 2020.
In addition, the Committee discussed and considered the size Currently, 27% of our Board are female.
The Company has also of the Board and acknowledged the benefit of maintaining the appointed a diversity champion to promote a series of Board at its current size.
SUCCESSION PLANNING Further details relating to diversity and inclusion are set out on The Committee considered both Executive and Board level page 50. succession planning during 2016.
The Executive succession planning review highlighted the need for a formal talent GOVERNANCE development programme, which was rolled out during 2016.
The Committee reviewed the changes required following the Executives are invited to regularly attend Board and implementation of the EU Market Abuse Regulation 596 2014 Committee meetings as part of their development.
which came into effect on 3 July 2016.
Following its review, the Committee recommended the implementation of new internal dealing policies for employees and persons discharging managerial responsibilities.
The Committee also reviewed changes in the regulatory landscape and the Companys approach to addressing them.
68 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ACTIVITIES DURING 2016 In last years report the Committee identified six key priorities.
A summary of actions taken and outcomes are set out in the table below: OBJECTIVE ACTION TAKEN Continued evaluation of the skills, Regular review and appointment of knowledge and experience required for a additional Directors.
Consider succession planning for directors Succession planning for a new and other senior executives.
Chairman is well underway and an announcement will be made once finalised.
Succession planning for senior executives is also considered.
Review the structure, size, composition Appointment of additional Directors.
and diversity of the Board.
Consider composition of Board Board Committees have been refreshed Committees.
Oversee compliance with corporate Review of changes in the corporate governance best practice and the UK governance landscape and Corporate Governance Code.
Oversee sustainability matters such as The Board approved an environmental environmental, diversity and equal policy and updated the Diversity and opportunities and advising on business Equality policy principles, values and purpose.
PRIORITIES FOR 2017 The Committees priorities for 2017 are: Review and embed Board effectiveness recommendations from the Promontory Report Chairman search Succession planning for Senior Executives Developing the talent pipeline Development of corporate purpose and sustainability Oversee the successful implementation of diversity initiatives Focusing on the attainment of the Women in Finance Charter target by 2020
