18 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ONE FAIR PLACE TO SAVE We deliver straightforward products that meet customers needs for cash savings.
We offer good and consistent value to attract and retain a loyal customer base.
We offer long term value for money products without the use of short term bonus rates.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 19 Stable funding platform Customer-focused philosophy We focus on delivering a proposition to attract and retain By maintaining our strong customer-centric approach we are aloyalcustomer base, providing a stable funding platform rewarded with a loyal customer base that recognises long-term forOneSavings Bank to grow its loan book.
Our proven retail good value.
savings performance ensures secure long-term funding.
We reward our people based on the quality of service they We continued to manage long-term relationships across all provide to customers, further protecting our retail savings channels throughout 2016, offering a mixture of market franchise.
We measure customer satisfaction and net competitive rates including maturing fixed rate bonds and ISAs.
promoterscore NPS through regular customer surveys Where we target customer retention we achieve more than usingindependent experts.
We have diversified our funding using the Bank of England toourbusiness strategy.
Funding for Lending Scheme and the new Term Funding Scheme.
We measure customer satisfaction in several ways: NPS We attracted nearly 27,000 new savings customers in 2016. assesses customer advocacy the likelihood of a customer The average balance of our savings customers is 30,134.
We recommending us to someone else.
Our customer NPS also extended our savings proposition to small and medium increasedto 59% across the year.
We will continue to invest in enhancing our service in 2017, Transparent savings products based on using technology and modern practices to support We deliver straightforward products that meet customer needs thebrand traits customers have told us they prefer heritage, for cash savings.
We offer good and consistent value, without trustworthy and traditional.
We will also use our real-time having to price at the top of the best buy tables.
We do not offer customer feedback capability to identify and act on ideas new customer-only products, and new customers are not fornew products and service improvements.
offered better rates than those for existing customers.
In 2016, we were recognised by Moneyfacts as the Best Bank Savings Provider and Best No Notice Account Provider, both for the second year running and Best Cash ISA Provider for the fourth year running.
Great customer service startswith common sense and remembering what you want from a bank.
Its amazing how the little things are often the mostirritating.
Its often like that in my job.
I am responsible for making it easier for our customers to do business with us in our branches and to ensure we deliver the best service possible.
The most important thing we do is listen.
I listen to customers both through formal surveys and also by being in the branches, often working behind the counter helping to gain insights into what we can still do better.
What makes us really different is our personal and individual approach to everything we do.
We are flexible and not afraid to push the boundaries and find new ways to deliver the service our customers expect from us.
IMPROVED SERVICE WITH THE SAME HEART JENNY LONGBOTTOM BRANCH OPERATIONS MANAGER
