B5.3 Policy Report The information provided in this part of the Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the directors remuneration policy that it is proposed to apply from the close of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 February 2017.
The policy, once approved, will apply until the Annual General Meeting in 2020, unless revised by a vote of shareholders ahead of that time.
Summary of proposed changes The Companys directors remuneration policy was first approved at the 2014 AGM with over 94% votes in favour, and took effect from the date of that meeting.
No significant changes have been made to the policy approved at the 2014 AGM.
However, certain minor amendments have been made to simplify the policy, aid administration and take account of how it has been operated.
In summary, the changes made to the proposed policy as compared to the policy approved at the 2014 AGM are as follows: The Matching Share Plan no longer forms part of the policy as there are no outstanding awards held by executive directors and no further awards will be made under the MSP to executive directors Reflecting best practice, we have formally incorporated our shareholding guidelines and the clawback provisions for the cash element of any bonus into the policy A maximum defined contribution or cash equivalent pension contribution for any new executive director appointed from outside the business has been set at up to 25% of salary.
This level of contribution will only be used in exceptional circumstances with the usual contribution level expected to be in the range of 10-15% We have introduced an ability to grant tax qualifying PSP awards to provide potential savings for the Company and executives without increasing the pre-tax PSP opportunity Reflecting best practice, we have committed that dividend equivalents on DSBP awards will only be earned up to vesting in respect of the deferred share element of bonuses earned for the financial year ended 30 September 2016 and future years.
Dividend equivalents may be paid up to exercise in respect of the deferred element of the bonuses in respect of the financial years ended 30 September 2013, 30 September 2014 and 30 September 2015: and Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, to make minor administrative amendments to the PSP as described in the Notice of AGM This policy report sets out policies in respect of: Remuneration for executive directors Remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors Choice of performance measures and target setting Recruitment and conditions of service Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Consideration of shareholders views: and Legacy arrangements PAGE 126 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Elements of the remuneration policy for executive directors The executive directors receive a combination of fixed and performance-related elements of remuneration.
Fixed remuneration consists of salary, benefits and pension scheme contributions or alternative retirement benefit provision.
Performance-related remuneration consists of participation in the annual bonus plan and the award of shares under the PSP.
The performance-related elements of remuneration are intended to provide a significant proportion of executive directors potential total remuneration.
Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions strategy Base salary To provide a competitive, Remunerate fairly for While there is no maximum None.
fixed cash component individual performance, salary, if the Committee is that reflects the scope of having regard to the satisfied with the individuals individual responsibilities importance of motivation.
performance increases will and recognises sustained normally broadly follow individual performance in Base salaries are typically those awarded for the the role.
reviewed annually, taking rest of the organisation, in into account remuneration percentage of salary terms.
levels in the Group as a whole, individual and Increases above the level business performance and awarded for the rest of the objective research into organisation may be awarded comparable companies.
in appropriate circumstances which may include, but are not limited to: Changes in the scope or responsibilities of a directors role Development or performance in role A change in the size and or complexity of the business: and Change in market practice or a directors salary substantially falling behind a market competitive rate The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 127 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions strategy Benefits To provide market levels of Private health cover for Private health care benefits None.
benefits on a cost-effective the executive and their are provided through basis.
family, life insurance cover third party providers and of up to seven times salary therefore the cost to the and company car or cash company and the value to alternative.
the director may vary from year-to-year Other benefits may be offered from time to time Whilst no absolute taking into account individual maximum level of benefits circumstances.
has been set, it is intended the maximum value of benefits offered will remain broadly in line with market practice.
Retirement benefits To provide competitive post- 1 37.5 of basic annual salary Maximum pension 2 3 of None.
retirement benefits or an for each year of eligible salary at retirement or the appropriate cash allowance.
value of the annual cash alternative calculated by A cash alternative is offered the Companys actuary.
in lieu of pension accrual, equating to the approximate The maximum pension cost to the Company of contribution or cash defined benefit provision, allowance for new external normally reviewed every appointments will be up to five years.
For new external appointments a cash allowance or company pension contribution may be awarded.
PAGE 128 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions strategy Annual bonus To incentivise executives Each executive directors Maximum annual bonus The performance targets to achieve specific, annual bonus is based on a potential is 200% of salary.
are set by the Committee predetermined goals challenging mix of at the start of the year with that drive delivery of the performance measures.
For target performance a input, as appropriate, from Companys operational bonus of 100% of salary will the Chairman and Chief objectives.
25% of amounts awarded in be awarded, with additional Executive.
excess of 50,000 are deferred amounts being awarded for To reward individual under the DSBP, to be satisfied exceptional performance.
in shares, for three years.
and their weightings are Higher levels of deferment may If a bonus is awarded the reviewed annually to To encourage retention be required by the Committee minimum that could be maintain appropriateness and alignment with or, with the approval of the paid is 8.25% of salary.
shareholders interests Committee, may be elected for through a three-year by the director.
The Committee For performance below The bonus is calculated as deferral of a proportion of retains discretion to pay the threshold, no bonus is follows: bonus, awarded in shares.
whole of the bonus in cash payable.
performance against in circumstances where a range of measures, the amount to be deferred with at least 50% would, in the opinion of the relating to financial Committee, be so small as metrics and any to make operation of the balance reflecting riskDSBP unduly administratively related measures: and burdensome.
each element is then subject to a Awards under the DSBP can scale factor that can take the form of a nil-cost reduce or increase the option with a ten-year life, a bonus subject to the conditional award of shares or overall cap of 200% an award of forfeitable shares.
of salary according to performance against Awards may include the right personal and strategic to receive a benefit of a value objectives.
determined by reference to dividends that would have been paid on shares in respect of dividend record dates between grant and, except as described in the legacy arrangements section of this policy, vesting.
The benefit may assume the reinvestment of dividends and may be delivered in shares or in cash.
The annual bonus is nonpensionable.
Malus and clawback apply to the annual bonus as described in the notes to this table.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 129 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions strategy Performance Share Plan PSP To incentivise An annual award of shares Maximum award is 200% Granted subject to executives to achieve subject to continued service and of salary in any year.
Where challenging performance enhanced returns for performance conditions assessed a Qualifying PSP Award is measures that reflect shareholders.
over a three-year performance granted, the shares subject the Companys strategic period.
to the HMRC tax qualifying priorities.
Performance To encourage longoption part of the award conditions may include term retention of key The performance conditions used are not taken into account financial measures eg executives.
are reviewed on an annual basis to for the purposes of this adjusted EPS and or ensure they remain appropriate.
limit, reflecting the scale relative TSR, and or risk To align the interests back referred to in the based measures and of executives and Awards are structured as nil cost Operation column.
options with a ten-year life, a Performance measures conditional award of shares or an In determining the number and their weightings, award of forfeitable shares.
of shares subject to an where multiple measures award, the market value are used, are reviewed Awards may include the right of a share shall, unless the annually to maintain to receive a benefit of a value Committee determines appropriateness and determined by reference to otherwise, be assumed to relevance.
dividends that would have been be the average share price paid on vested shares in respect for the five days following 25% of the awards of dividend record dates between the announcement of the will vest for threshold grant and vesting.
The benefit Companys results for the performance, with may assume the reinvestment of previous financial year.
full vesting taking dividends and may be delivered in place for equalling or shares or in cash.
exceeding the maximum performance target.
For any externally appointed executive director, awards under the PSP will be subject to an additional holding period of two years following the date of vesting before they are released to the participant.
The Committee may at its discretion structure awards as Qualifying PSP Awards comprising both an HMRC tax qualifying option and a standard PSP award, with the extent to which the standard PSP award may be exercised being scaled back to take account of any gain made on exercise of the taxqualifying option.
Malus and clawback apply to the PSP as described in the notes to this table.
PAGE 130 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions strategy Sharesave Plan To provide all employees Periodic invitations are HMRC monthly savings None.
with the opportunity to made to participate in the limits apply.
become shareholders on Companys Sharesave Plan.
A savings contract over three or five years with the funds used on maturity either to purchase shares by exercising options or returned to the participant.
The option is granted at a discount to the share price at the time of grant of up to 20%.
The Plan provides tax benefits in the UK subject to satisfying certain HMRC requirements and is operated on an all employee basis.
Malus and clawback The cash element of the annual bonus, DSBP awards and PSP awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions as follows.
For up to three years following the payment of the cash element of any bonus, the Committee may clawback up to the net amount of any cash bonus if a higher bonus payment than would otherwise have been the case is paid as a result of a material misstatement of the results for the bonus year or any error or inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions relating to the bonus year or if the participant is dismissed for misconduct.
DSBP and PSP awards may be reduced or cancelled before vesting or clawed back for up to two years after vesting if the Committee determines that a larger award than would otherwise have been the case is granted or vests as a result of a material misstatement of results or any error or inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions or, in the case of post vesting clawback, if the participant is dismissed for misconduct.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 131 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Shareholding guidelines All executive directors are encouraged to hold a number of shares in the Company with a market value of 200% of their salary.
The guideline must be met within a reasonable timeframe typically expected to be within seven years of appointment and executive directors are required to retain 50% of the shares acquired on the vesting of PSP or DSBP awards after sales to cover tax until the guideline is met.
The number, net of income tax and national insurance, of vested but unexercised shares granted under the DSBP and PSP count towards the aggregate shares held by each director for these purposes.
For these purposes, the salary is the salary applying at 31 December each year and the value of shares is: 1 for shares acquired before 1 January 2017, PGCs average share price over the preceding three years: and 2 for shares acquired on or after 1 January 2017, the market value of a share at the date of acquisition or, in the case of a vested but unexercised PSP or DSBP award, the value at the date of vesting.
Operation of share plans Awards under the Companys share plans and any applicable performance conditions may be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, demerger or special dividend.
Awards under the Companys share plans may vest early in the event of demerger, special dividend or other event which the Committee considers would affect the Companys share price, or in the event of a change of control.
The extent to which PSP awards will vest will be determined taking into account the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied as assessed by the Committee and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed.
Awards may be settled in cash in appropriate circumstances as provided for in the rules of the plans.
PAGE 132 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy The chart below illustrates the remuneration opportunity provided to each executive director at different levels of performance for the coming year: 36% 2,500 2,000 36% 37% 1,500 16% 37% 33% 1,000 36% 17% 37% 17% 33% 100% 51% 28% 34% 500 PSP 100% 50% 27% 100% 49% 26% Bonus Total xed 0 Min Target Max Min Target Max Min Target Max 746 1,457 2,642 451 899 1,647 369 748 1,381 N S Terrington R J Woodman J A Heron In developing the above scenarios the following assumptions have been used: Total fixed pay is based on the latest salary, benefits and pension allowances including both the accrual under the defined benefit scheme and the cash supplement, with the amounts being calculated on a basis consistent with those shown in the single total figure of remuneration table for the year ended 30 September 2016.
Salary Benefits Pension Total fixed 000 000 000 000 N S Terrington 474 14 258 746 R J Woodman 299 12 147 458 J A Heron 253 12 140 405 Minimum is based on the directors receiving only their total fixed pay.
Target is based on what each director would receive if performance was in line with targets.
Annual bonuses pay out at 50% of the maximum for on-target performance and PSP awards vest at 25% of the maximum.
Maximum is based on 100% of the annual bonus and 100% vesting of the PSP awards.
As Sharesave awards are provided on an all employee basis they have not been included in the above analysis.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 133 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance 000s CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Elements of the remuneration policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors The Chairman receives a salary, a company car or cash alternative and is eligible for private health cover for himself and his family in the same way as the executive directors.
Non-executive directors are remunerated solely by fees.
Neither the Chairman nor the non-executive directors are eligible to participate in any of the Companys incentive or pension schemes and they are not entitled to receive compensation for early termination of their terms of engagement.
Benefits may also be provided to non-executive directors related to the performance of their duties eg travel and hospitality.
Purpose and link to Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions strategy Salary and fees To ensure that the Group Non-executive director fees Increases above those None.
can attract and retain the are reviewed on a periodic awarded for the rest of the appropriate number and mix basis and are subject to the organisation may be made of non-executive directors Articles of Association.
The to reflect the periodic with the correct experience Chairmans fee is set by the nature of any review.
to provide balance, oversight Committee, whilst the nonand challenge.
executive directors fees are Changes in the scope determined by the Board.
or responsibilities of a directors role, or the time The Board will exercise commitment required, may judgement in determining require an adjustment to the extent to which nonthe level of their fee.
executive directors fees are altered in line with The Articles of Association market practice, given the of the Company contain requirement to procure and a maximum level of fees retain the appropriate skills that can be paid annually and given the expected time to non-executive directors commitments.
This is reviewed by the Board Non executive directors are from time to time.
paid an annual base fee with additional fees for the roles of Senior Independent Director and or chairman of a board committee.
PAGE 134 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting Annual bonus The choice of the performance measures applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflects the Committees belief that incentives should be appropriately challenging and tied to the achievement of both forward and backward-looking financial objectives, risk metrics and specific individual objectives linked to the Companys strategy.
The Committee reviews the measures each year and varies them as appropriate to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead.
A sliding scale of targets is set for each measure to encourage continuous improvement and challenge the delivery of above-target performance.
PSP The PSP is subject to performance measures that reflect the Groups strategic priorities.
For the year ending 30 September 2017, awards will be subject to a combination of relative TSR and EPS growth and risk measures.
EPS is considered appropriate as the activities of the Group in developing its new lending and other income streams should result in improvements to profitability and including a profit measure such as EPS will be reflective of long term performance.
Risk represents a key area of focus for the Group in managing its long term stability and well-being.
Both of these internal measures provide a balance to relative TSR, which considers shareholder value creation and is a measure of market expectations of future performance.
The use of relative TSR, EPS growth and risk for the PSP provides a combined focus on the Groups financial performance and shareholder value creation.
Targets for EPS are set by reference to internal budgeting plans and external market expectations.
Risk performance will be assessed across a range of quantitative and qualitative measures which are business critical.
TSR targets are set on a standard practice, median to upper quartile ranking range.
Changes to performance conditions If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus or PSP performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer appropriate ie a material acquisition or divestment then the Committee will have the ability to adjust the measures and or targets and alter weightings so that the conditions achieve their original purpose.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 135 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Recruitment and conditions of service Policy on recruitment and promotion Salaries for newly recruited directors will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role.
If it is considered appropriate to appoint a new director on a below market salary for example, to allow the director to gain experience in the role the individuals salary may be increased to a market level by way of a series of above inflation increases over such period as the Committee determines, subject to their performance and development in the role.
A new appointment would be offered benefits comparable to existing directors, as well as other reasonable expenses such as legal, tax equalisation and relocation costs if necessary on a net of tax basis.
The prevailing maximum bonus opportunity for existing directors will not be exceeded for any newly recruited director and would be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year worked.
It may be necessary to set different performance measures and targets initially and or to vary the proportion of the annual bonus that will be deferred and the deferral period, dependent on the timing of the appointment and the nature of the role taken up.
Guaranteed bonuses will not be offered.
Long term incentive awards will be granted in line with the policy outlined for existing directors although, the Committee may vary or disapply any holding period that would otherwise apply to the new executive directors first PSP award, with the same maximum opportunity for any newly recruited director.
Awards may be granted shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
The maximum level of variable remuneration that may be awarded excluding buyout awards as referred to below is 400% of salary.
The Committee may make payments or grant awards to a newly recruited executive to buy out entitlements for example, bonus and share awards which will lapse on the executives departure from a previous position.
In doing so, the Committee will take into account relevant factors, including performance conditions attached to the lapsing arrangements and the time over which they would have vested.
The Committee will generally seek to structure such awards or payments on a like for like basis to the lapsing arrangement.
In the event that an existing employee is promoted to the Board, any contractual commitments made to the employee prior to such promotion will continue to be honoured even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
Notice periods and terms of engagement The Chairman and executive directors hold one year rolling contracts in line with current market practice and the Committee reviews the terms of these contracts regularly.
The dates of the service contracts for the Chairman and executive directors are set out in section B5.2.
All new executive directors will have service contracts that are terminable by the Company on a maximum of twelve months notice.
Non-executive director appointments are for three years unless terminated earlier by, and at the discretion of, the director or the Company upon three months notice.
The terms of engagement for the current non-executive directors are set out section B5.2.
PAGE 136 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Policy on termination payments The Company has discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice in respect of all or part of the notice period.
Any such payment would consist of salary, benefits and pension for the relevant part of the notice period.
Specific change of control provisions or entitlements to enhanced redundancy payments are excluded.
Any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with the termination would be paid as necessary.
In appropriate circumstances, outplacement services, legal fees and relocation expenses may be provided at normal market rates for directors, along with payments in respect of accrued holiday.
The payment of annual bonuses will be at the discretion of the Committee on an individual basis and the decision as to whether or not to award an annual bonus in full or in part will be dependent on a number of factors, including the circumstances of the individuals departure.
For example, in certain good leaver situations injury or disability, redundancy, employment transferred outside the Group, or any other reason the Committee decides a bonus may be payable at the Committees discretion, based on an assessment of performance.
Any annual bonus award amounts paid will be pro-rated for time in service during the annual bonus period and will, subject to performance, be paid at the usual time although the Committee retains discretion to pay the annual bonus award earlier in appropriate circumstances.
Any bonus earned for the year of departure and, if relevant, for the prior year may be paid wholly in cash at the discretion of the Committee.
The treatment of share based incentive awards will be determined by the Committee based on the relevant rules of the plan concerned.
The default treatment for outstanding unvested PSP awards will be that they lapse on cessation of employment.
In good leaver circumstances as described above, unvested awards will continue until the normal vesting date and vest subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions, unless the Committee decides it shall vest on the date of cessation subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions as assessed by the Committee.
In either case, the extent of vesting will be reduced to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed at the date of cessation, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
If an award is granted to an externally appointed executive director and he ceases employment in any applicable holding period, the award will ordinarily continue and be released to the extent it had vested at the end of the holding period unless he leaves due to summary dismissal, in which case it will lapse, although the Committee retains discretion to release the award at the date of cessation.
For awards granted under the DSBP, good leaver status would result in awards vesting on the date of cessation unless the Committee determines they should continue to the normal vesting date.
The leaver provisions for any buyout award granted in connection with the recruitment of a director would be determined at the time of grant.
On determination of a good leaver status or as the result of a death, awards under all plans may be exercised within twelve months of the date of vesting.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 137 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group There is no employee representative on the Committee.
However, employees have the opportunity to make comments on any aspect of the Companys activities through employee forums and surveys and the views of employees are taken into account by Human Resources.
One of the duties of the People Director is to brief the Board on employee views and, as a regular invitee to Committee meetings, this ensures that decisions are made with appropriate insight to employees views.
Directors and senior management participate in the annual bonus scheme, which is designed to incentivise executives to achieve specific, predetermined goals, reward individual performance and encourage retention through deferral of a proportion of the bonus.
All employees whose performance has been exceptional are eligible for a discretionary bonus.
Directors and senior employees are eligible to participate in the PSP.
The plan is in place to encourage the long-term retention of key executives who are considered to have the potential to influence shareholder value creation and awards are not offered to employees generally.
Employees below director and head of function level are eligible to participate in the Groups profit related pay scheme, which pays out a flat sum to all eligible staff based on a percentage of the Groups profits.
The Groups pension arrangements provide for a pension of 1 37.5 of basic annual salary to a maximum of 2 3 for every year of eligible service for directors and certain senior executives, whereas the accrual rate for other employees who are members of the Paragon Pension Plan is 1 60.
The Plan was closed to new entrants in 2002 and participation in a stakeholder defined contribution scheme was offered to new employees from that date.
In determining pay levels for the employees as a whole, the Group annually considers externally provided benchmark levels for comparable jobs as well as individual development and performance.
The general level of increase resulting from this review informs the Committees deliberations on appropriate pay levels for the executive directors, together with external data specific to their roles which is used to ensure that the levels of remuneration are appropriate.
Consideration of shareholders views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at a meeting shortly following the AGM.
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings from time to time, is then considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
In addition, the Chairman of the Committee and the Chairman of the Company regularly engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies and report their views back to the Committee, who take them into account when formulating any material changes to the remuneration policy.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years remuneration report and the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM along with any matters relating to remuneration discussed with shareholders during the year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
PAGE 138 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
