STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Viability statement Employees The directors have assessed PayPoints viability over a Our success depends upon the continuing support and three year period to March 2019. commitment of all our staff.
We would like to take this opportunity to thank PayPoints employees for their The groups plan has been tested for severe, but plausible, commitment, energy and enthusiasm in the delivery downside scenarios.
These include the loss of a major client, of these results.
the bankruptcy of a major retailer, a slower take up of new products in the market than anticipated, the level of Economic climate technical advancement increasing driving an increase in The companys bill and general payments service, which capital expenditure, a delay in the launch of new products accounts for 48.1% 2015: 47.9% of our net revenue, has and the interruption in business processes or systems and continued to be resilient, as consumers discretion in the cessation of the parcels business.
The assessment has expenditure is limited for essential services and our service considered the potential impacts of these risks on the continues to be popular.
Utility providers continue to install business model, future performance, mitigating actions new prepay gas and electricity meters, which should have a that may be required, solvency and liquidity over the period.
beneficial impact on our transaction volumes.
There has The directors have taken into account the groups robust been an adverse impact on our mobile top-ups as mobile balance sheet and its financial covenant headroom during operators continue to offer more airtime at lower cost and the period of assessment including planned distributions.
to promote prepay less than contract.
Mobile is able to offer parking authorities a more cost effective collection The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group system for parking compared to pay and display machines.
remains viable over the period of the assessment.
This conclusion takes into account the groups strategy detailed PayPoints exposure to retail agent debt in the UK and on pages 9 to 10, the principal risks described on pages 16 Ireland is limited as credit granted to retail agents is to 19, the results of the scenario planning on the groups restricted by daily direct debiting for all UK and Irish financial plan detailed above together with available cash transactions, other than EPoS mobile top-ups which are and committed borrowings, financial covenants and any collected weekly.
There is some concentration of risk in material uncertainties.
In reaching this conclusion, the multiple retail agents.
Most of PayPoints clients in the UK, directors have considered the magnitude of potential other than for top-ups, bear the cost of retail agent bad impacts resulting from uncertain future events or changes debt.
In PayPoint Romania, the risk of bad debt lies with the in conditions, the likelihood of their occurrence and the company.
In Mobile exposure is limited to receivables from likely effectiveness of mitigating actions that the directors parking authorities.
Financing and treasury policy Trends and factors The financing and treasury policy requires a prudent approach to the investment of surplus funds, external on future development financing, settlement, foreign exchange risk and internal control structures.
The policy prohibits the use of financial For the current financial year, trading is in line with the derivatives and sets limits for gearing.
Companys expectations, although investment in and the continuing losses of Mobile will lower earnings until sold.
Charitable donations Our retail networks in the UK and Romania should continue During the year, the group made charitable donations of to deliver profitable growth from our breadth of services 21,110 2015: 32,556 to charities serving the communities and extensive client base.
We will continue to invest in in which the group operates.
We encourage employees to network expansion, the roll-out of PayPoint One and new raise funds for charity and the Company matches funds raised services to improve retail network quality further.
We by the employees, subject to certain limits.
anticipate that this will enhance our competitive advantage Our UK retail network acted as a collection agent for the and increase retail yield.
We continue to focus on growth BBCs Children in Need telethon.
and on evaluating new opportunities to extend our business.
The provision of multi-channel payments and services to our client base remains an essential element of our strategy, placing us in growing markets and providing a bridge from cash to electronic payments.
Discussions continue with our joint venture partner, Yodel, over the future of Collect, following its proposed increases in its charges.
