Chairmans statement of educating, motivating and encouraging our teams to demonstrate open, pioneering, courageous and focused behaviour, both at work and in the many charitable activities we support in the communities that are important to our team members.
We have more detail on those initiatives inour Culture and values section later in this report.
Risk management is at the heart of our business.
We aim todemonstrate exceptional expertise in navigating highly regulated markets, which underpins our relationships with highly-regulated banks and financial services providers around the world, as well as with payment schemes, regulators, and of course our merchants.
We have continued to invest in these areas through 2016, and Im confident that we have the capability that enables us to react quickly to the complex and constantly evolving regulatory environment in the territories in which we operate.
At an enterprise risk management level, the Board has continued to receive regular risk reports to enable it to provide the appropriate oversight in this important area.
Tofurther enhance the Boards oversight in such matters we have decided to add a Board-level Risk Oversight Committee to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee structure.
As a further example of the Boards commitment inthis space, and in particular, in the area of information security and compliance, weve enhanced policies, training and assessments to ensure our team members have the Dennis Jones support they need to be a highly effective first line of defence Chairman across the enlarged Paysafe group.
At a Board level, we have just completed our first  Board and Committee evaluation as 2016 has been a truly foundational year amain-market listed Company.
We undertook a particularly for Paysafe.
Our first full year under our robust process, including interviews with management andexternal advisors, as well as the Directors, to obtain new name has been one of continuing a360-degree view of the Boards performance.
The results change, with growth, agility, and risk recognised the considerable progress made by the Board andits Committees over the past two years and proposed managment being the cornerstones anumber of areas for further improvements in line with best ofour business.
Were seeking to maximise value from the results ofthis programme over FY 2017, and more information isdetailed in the Governance report starting on page 58.
We have broadened our payment capabilities at a time of major change in the industry as the digitisation of commerce, In addition, we continued our search for Independent which plays to the core strengths of Paysafe, leads to new and Non-Executive Directors to increase the diversity of the Board exciting ways to pay, manage, send and receive money.
and we were able to attract a high calibre of candidates withthe benefit of our growing track record in the FTSE 250.
Paysafe ends the year with a very strong team, and the Board Impleased to report that we have made two new is delighted with the focus, determination and energy that our appointments to the Board.
Jennifer Allerton and Karen employees have deployed to help us execute against our Guerra join us on7 March 2017 and we look forward strategy.
This has clearly been borne out by another very tobenefiting from their expertise and experience impressive performance over the year.
Our business has been at the forefront of change and In line with best practice guidelines and as indicated in last innovation for many years, and we see this continuing, indeed years Annual Report, the Audit Committee has carried out accelerating, under the Paysafe brand identity.
Following the afull External Audit tender process this year.
This process transformational acquisition of Skrill we have now evolved included our current auditor, KPMG, being given the into one company, with one culture and a shared set of opportunity to re-tender alongside a number of other firms.
Our leadership team has done a fantastic job Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 4
