Corporate governance report Board of directors Top row from left: Giles Kerr, David Morrison, Susan Court Company Secretary, Dominic Taylor, Neil Carson Bottom row from left: George Earle, Gill Barr, Nick Wiles, Tim Watkin-Rees 24 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nick Wiles aged 54 Gill Barr aged 58 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive director Appointed to the board 22 Oct 2009 Appointed 1 Jun 2015 Appointed as Chairman 8 May 2015 Gill has held senior marketing positions at John Lewis, MasterCard and Kingfisher and most recently she was Nick retired as Chairman of UK investment banking Group Marketing Director for The Co-operative Group.
He has worked in banking for more than She also has valuable non-executive director experience 20 years, with the majority of this time at Cazenove & Co, with Morgan Sindall plc, UK Breast Cancer Coalition and where he was a partner prior to incorporation.
He is as a Trustee Director for the master trust pension fund currently a non-executive director of Primary Health established by Willis Towers Watson.
She was recently Properties plc.
appointed Chair, Customer Consultation Group of Severn Trent Water plc.
Dominic Taylor aged 57 Chief Executive Neil Carson aged 58 Appointed 4 Aug 1998 Non-executive director Dominic joined PayPoint in 1997 as Retail Director and Appointed 18 Jun 2014 was appointed to his current role in August 1998.
He was Neil worked for 34 years for Johnson Matthey, the FTSE a Royal Naval officer for 12 years, following which he 100 chemical company.
Starting as an engineering graduate completed an MBA at the Cranfield School of Management.
trainee, he worked in each of the divisions in a number of In 1991, Dominic joined the Vodafone Group where he led a different roles serving global markets.
He joined the board number of initiatives including the development of its SMS of JM in 1999 as Division Director of the Autocatalyst service and a bid for the National Lottery, before becoming division and became the CEO in 2004, standing down in Sales and Marketing Director for the indirect sales of mobile 2014.
Neil was a founder member of the Prince of Wales phones to retailers.
In 1996, Dominic joined Granada plc as Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change.
Neil is a director of Granada Technology Group and Managing currently Chairman of TT Electronics and is SID and Chair Director of Granada Business Technology, supplying film of the Remuneration Committee at AMEC Foster Wheeler.
and telecommunications products into the hotel and He is also Honorary President of the Society for the leisure sectors.
George Earle ACA aged 62 Giles Kerr aged 56 Finance Director Non-executive director Appointed 20 Sept 2004 Appointed 20 Nov 2015 George joined PayPoint in September 2004 and is Giles was formerly National Partner with Arthur Anderson responsible for the financial affairs of the group.
George & Co and previously held a number of positions with qualified as a chartered accountant with Touche Ross & Amersham plc within finance and corporate development, Co now Deloitte LLP in 1979, where he served in the culminating in his role as Group Finance Director.
Giles is corporate finance and audit groups, becoming a partner in Director of Finance of Oxford University and is a non- 1984.
In 1987, George moved to Saatchi & Saatchi plc, executive director of BTG plc and Senior plc.
serving as Deputy Finance Director.
George subsequently moved to The General Electric Company in 1989, where, until 2001, he fulfilled the role of Financial Services Director.
George left Marconi formerly GEC in 2001 to work as David Morrison aged 57 Group Director, Chief Executives Office at Centrica plc, Non-executive director and in 2003 was appointed as Director of Financial Control.
Appointed 12 Jan 1999 David has been Chief Executive of Prospect Investment Management Prospect since 1999, when he started the Tim Watkin-Rees aged 53 company.
He became a director of PayPoint in 1999 Business Development Director following an investment in the company by clients of Appointed 22 Sept 1998 Prospect.
Prior to establishing Prospect, he had worked in Tim was a founder director of PayPoint in 1996 and has the venture capital sector with 3i, Abingworth Management been responsible for group business development and Botts & Company.
He is currently a non-executive throughout the companys history.
He previously worked director of Record plc and several private companies.
in retail banking and payments with Lloyds Bank, KPMG Management Consultants and Nexus later Sligos and now Atos.
He is an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 25 Corporate governance report continued Chairmans statement on governance Details of the search process led by the Nomination Committee which resulted in Giles appointment are set out on page 31.
Stephen Rowley stepped down from the board on 4 February 2016 after seven years of service.
I would like to thank Stephen for his valuable contribution to the Company since 2008.
As a result of the board changes, during the year the number of independent directors for the purposes of the Code varied between three and four please refer to page 27 for details.
At the end of the year, three directors Gill Barr, Giles Kerr and Neil Carson excluding the Chairman are considered to be independent on the board for the purposes of the Code.
The board has thoroughly considered this situation and acknowledges that, while it does not accord with one of the provisions of the Code, to ensure continuity after a number of board changes during the year, the board composition will Dear Shareholder, remain as it is until the annual general meeting in 2017 when At PayPoint the board embraces its collective responsibility David Morrison is due to retire and a new independent nonfor the long term success of the Company and is committed to executive director appointed in his stead.
The board has providing entrepreneurial leadership through good governance determined that it still retains the appropriate balance of skills, and accountability for the benefit and protection of our experience, independence and knowledge, taking into shareholders.
In this governance section we outline our consideration the size and the business of the Company, to governance policies and practices, and set out how we have enable the board to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
complied with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code In accordance with the Code, the board delegates certain roles which became applicable for financial years beginning on or and responsibilities to its Audit, Nomination and Remuneration after 1 October 2014 the Code, except as disclosed below.
Committees whilst retaining overall responsibility.
This structure In the financial year under review there has been a significant allows the committees to review relevant subject matter in shift in the business of the Company and its subsidiaries the depth and gain greater insight into such matters before group with the sale of the online payments business and the reporting back to the board.
During the year the committees intended sale of the mobile payments business leading to a have worked towards ensuring that the groups policies and refocus on the multi-channel payments and services business practices are in line with the Code: the Audit Committee has where we have retail networks.
The board held a two day enhanced the risk management framework and risk reporting strategy session in February 2016 at which the board was able within the group see page 34 : the Nomination Committee led to challenge and shape the strategic plan presented by senior the director appointments, and succession planning discussions management in order to identify the strategic priorities.
On an see page 31 : and the Remuneration Committee has overseen ongoing basis the board ensures that the strategic plan is taken the changes made to executive director remuneration having into consideration in its decision making process.
regard to pay and employment conditions across the Company see page 36.
Further details of the scope of each of the Following the successful external evaluation of the board which committees and the work they have carried out in the year are took place in the last financial year, this year the board set out on pages 31 to 45.
A welcome addition to the groups undertook an internal evaluation.
The process was led by the governance structure is the Executive Board which was recently senior independent director, Neil Carson and the outcome was established and is headed by the Chief Executive.
The positive with the board concluding that it continues to work well composition of this Executive Board and its principal purpose together and perform effectively.
Further details of the internal is set out on page 27. evaluation are set out on page 29.
Good corporate governance is at the core and underpins all There were some changes to the board during the year.
As was of the boards decisions and activities.
This in turn fosters a notified in the last annual report, Eric Anstee retired from the culture of good corporate governance and accountability which board at the 2015 annual general meeting and Gill Barr joined filters down through every level of the groups operations.
Giles Kerr was appointed as a nonrecently created Executive Board further aids the embedding executive director on 20 November 2015 and brings of good governance as it implements the boards decisions considerable finance experience to the board.
Giles has been whilst ensuring adherence to PayPoint values within the group.
Audit Committee Chairman since his appointment.
Between the departure of Eric Anstee and the appointment of Giles Kerr We are confident as a board that the correct strategy has been on 20 November 2015, two meetings of the Audit Committee adopted and that our culture of good governance and took place.
On these occasions, the Audit Committee was accountability will enable us to work towards delivering the chaired by Neil Carson.
Although Neil does not hold a strategic goals while maintaining PayPoint as a sustainable professional qualification from an accountancy body, a business.
We hope that this Governance Report provides you qualifying condition suggested but not required by the Smith with insight into how governance operates in the Company.
Guidance on Audit Committees, the board was satisfied that Neil had recent and relevant financial experience given his Nick Wiles membership of the Audit Committee since 23 July 2014 Chairman and his extensive experience in an executive capacity at 26 May 2016 Johnson Matthey.
26 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval Compliance statement which is contained in the Delegation of Authority Terms of The directors recognise the importance of sound corporate Reference document available in the Corporate Governance governance, whilst taking into account the size and nature of the section of the PayPoint website: https: paypoint.
The board considers that it has complied with the en-gb investors corporate-governance.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Code as As highlighted on page 26 the Chief Executive has established issued by the Financial Reporting Council throughout the year, an Executive Board comprising: the Chief Executive who heads with the exception that for the periods from: 8 May 2015 to the Executive Board, the Finance Director, the Business 31 May 2015: 22 July 2015 to 19 November 2015: and 4 February Development Director, the Chief Information Officer, the UK 2016 to the date of this report, only three of the four current nonCommercial Director, the Company Secretary Head of Legal executive directors have been determined by the board to be and the HR Director.
The Product Director, who joined independent.
Please see the table below for details of directors subsequent to the year end, is also a member of the Executive who were considered to be independent during these periods Board.
The Executive Board is responsible for the day-to-day Therefore less than half of the board are independent nonmanagement of the groups operations.
Additional executive directors, excluding the Chairman.
The reason for this responsibilities of the Executive Board include: preparation and deviation from Code provision B1.1 is addressed on page 26.
A presentation of the strategy plan to the board, and the copy of the Code can be found at www.
uk corporate implementation of this plan and other decisions as approved ukcgcode.
This statement describes how the principles of by the board.
Prior to the creation of the Executive Board, the corporate governance in the Code are applied by the Company.
executive directors were responsible for the management of Information on significant shareholders in the Company has been the business and implementing the boards decisions.
The included in the directors report on page 54. board oversees the activities of the Executive Board.
Meetings Leadership The board and its committees meet regularly throughout the year with meetings scheduled around key dates in the Role of the board Companys corporate calendar.
There were eight scheduled The board is collectively responsible for the long term success of meetings during the year, six of which were full board meetings the Company and provides effective leadership by setting the and two were by telephone conference to consider and approve strategic aims of the Company and overseeing the efficient the interim management statements.
The table below shows implementation of these aims in order to achieve a successful and directors attendance of board and committee meetings.
In practice the executive directors prepare Where a director is unable to attend a particular meeting, he or and present the strategic plan to the board which the board she receives and reads the papers for consideration at that challenges in order to determine the strategic priorities.
The board meeting, and provides input through discussion with the also ensures that the appropriate framework of controls is in place respective chairman in advance of the meeting.
to enable the proper assessment and management of risks.
Independent Total directors Independent directors Nick Eric Stephen Neil Gill Giles directors excl.
excluding Compliant Wiles Anstee Rowley Carson Barr Kerr Chairman Chairman with Code 1 April 2015 7 May 2015 4 7 8 May 2015 31 May 2015 3 7 1 June 2015 21 July 2015 4 7 22 July 2015 19 November 2015 3 7 20 November 2015 3 February 2016 4 7 4 February 2016 26 May 2016 3 7 Chairman from 8 May 2015 Membership Directors meeting of committees Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee attendance 2015 16 Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Meetings possible Meetings possible Meetings possible Meetings possible attended to attend attended to attend attended to attend attended to attend Executive Directors Dominic Taylor 8 8 6 6 5 5 3 3 George Earle 8 8 6 6 3 3 2 2 Tim Watkin-Rees 8 8 6 6 3 3 2 2 Non-Executive Directors 2 Eric Anstee 0 3 1 2 0 2 0 2 1 Gill Barr 6 7 5 5 5 5 4 4 1 Neil Carson 7 8 6 6 6 6 5 5 Giles Kerr 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 David Morrison 8 8 5 6 6 6 5 5 3 Stephen Rowley 4 7 2 5 2 5 2 4 Nick Wiles 8 8 6 6 6 6 5 5 By In vitation.
The executive directors are not members of any of the board committees and they attended only the committee meetings to which they were specifically invited.
Gill Bar r and Neil Carson were each unable to attend one board meeting at which the third quarter interim management statement was considered.
Eric Anst ee resigned from the board on 22 July 2015.
Stephen Rowley resigned from the board on 04 February 2016.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 27 Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate governance report continued At board meetings the Chairman ensures that effective Chairman decisions are reached by facilitating debate and Nick Wiles is the Chairman and he is responsible for the consultations with management and external advisers as effective running of the board and for ensuring that the board necessary.
The work undertaken by the board during the as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development year is set out in the table below: and determination of the groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
His other main responsibilities are: The agenda for each board meeting includes the following as standing items: Setting the boards agenda and ensuring the board receives accurate, timely and clear information on all matters Board committee reports on the board committee reserved to its decision and the groups performance and meetings which are usually held prior to the board operations: meetings, including all matters which have been delegated to the committees and which require Ensuring, with the advice of the Company Secretary where board approval.
appropriate, compliance with the boards approved procedures Management report which is prepared and presented by the Chief Executive and covers group operations and for Arranging informal meetings of the directors, including the year, included progress updates on the sale of the meetings of the non-executive directors at which the Online payments business and the proposed sale of the executive directors are not present, as required to ensure Mobile payments business that sufficient time and consideration is given to complex, contentious or sensitive issues.
Group health and safety report which covers any health and safety incidents that may have occurred and the Chairing the Nomination Committee, and, in that role, actions taken in that respect, including any updates on initiating change and succession planning in board previous actions.
appointments to retain and build an effective and complementary board, and to facilitate the appointment Other matters which are covered by the board of effective and suitable members and chairmen of routinely during the year include: board committees Review of annual report and preliminary results Ensuring that there is effective communication by the group with its shareholders, including by the Chief Executive, Review of executive directors presentation of the Finance Director and other executive management, and full year results to analysts and investors ensuring that members of the board develop an Two-day strategy session at which the board considers understanding of the views of the major investors managements presentation of the strategic plan, and in the group.
gives its approval Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and Review and approval of the interim management corporate governance throughout the group and particularly statements for release to the market at board level.
Review of the conflicts of interest register Chief Executive Review and approval of the interim dividend and Dominic Taylor is the Chief Executive and he is responsible for recommendation of the final dividend running the groups business by proposing and developing the groups strategy and overall commercial objectives, which he Review of management accounts and business does in close consultation with the Chairman and the board.
He performance, including the forecast recently established an Executive Board see page 27 and he Board evaluation see page 29 together with this board are responsible for implementing the decisions of the board and its committees.
His other main Review of terms of reference and delegated powers responsibilities are: Setting of the board calendar for the year Providing input to the boards agenda and ensuring that the Executive Board gives appropriate priority to providing Other important topics covered by the board during reports to the board which contain accurate, timely and the year included: clear information.
Review of cyber security within the group including Ensuring, in consultation with the Chairman and the review of a cyber-security audit of the group carried out Company Secretary as appropriate, that he and the by the internal auditor.
Cyber security is considered by Executive Board comply with the boards approved the board to be a principal risk to the business, and procedures.
details of the steps taken to mitigate this risk are set out on page 19 Ensuring that the Chairman is alerted to forthcoming complex, contentious or sensitive issues affecting the Review of the groups requirement for and allocation group of which he might not otherwise be aware.
of capital Providing information and advice on succession planning, Review of the Companys share dealing policy to the Chairman, the Nomination Committee, and other members of the board, particularly in respect of executive Division of roles and responsibilities directors.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and Leading the communication programme with shareholders.
ensuring the effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
There is a Promoting, and conducting the affairs of the group clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief with the highest standards of integrity, probity and Executive and the Senior Independent Director which has been corporate governance.
agreed by the board as follows: 28 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Senior Independent Director The directors have disclosed all their significant external Neil Carson is the Senior Independent Director and he is commitments which the board has considered and is satisfied responsible for supporting the Chairman in his role by that all the directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the working with the Chairman and other directors to resolve Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
any issues that may arise.
His other main responsibilities are: Training and support Chairing the Nomination Committee when it is considering During the year, two new directors joined the board succession to the role of Chairman of the board.
Both received a tailored and comprehensive induction, covering: Meeting with the non-executive directors at least once a year to appraise the Chairmans performance and on The corporate and organisational structure of the group, such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
including delegation of authorities and terms of reference for each of the committees, relevant policies Availability to shareholders if they have concerns which and procedures, and access to previous board and contact through the normal channels of Chairman, committee meeting minutes, board effectiveness Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve reviews and action plans, group risk register and or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Attending sufficient meetings with major shareholders Gill Barr visited the groups operations in Romania in and financial analysts to obtain a balanced understanding order to gain a more in depth understanding of the of the issues and concerns of such shareholders.
The Chairman chairs board meetings and regularly consults Both Gill Barr and Giles Kerr met with members of with the executive directors regarding on-going business.
His the Executive Board and senior managers in the other significant commitments are disclosed in his biography business, including IT, Risk and compliance, Finance, on page 25.
The board considers that these commitments do HR and Operations.
not hinder his ability to discharge his responsibilities to the Directors are provided with clear and accurate information Company and its subsidiaries effectively.
pertaining to matters to be considered at the board and its Non-executive directors committee meetings.
This information is provided in a All the non-executive directors bring considerable knowledge timely manner to ensure an appropriate level of review by and experience to board deliberations.
Non-executive each of the directors ahead of the meetings.
In the months directors do not participate in any of the Companys share where there are no scheduled board meetings the directors schemes or bonus schemes and their service is nonreceive: management accounts and reports on the status pensionable.
The balance and independence of the board is of the business.
kept under review by the Nominations Committee.
In the course of the year, the board is briefed on any During the year, the Chairman held meetings with the nonsignificant changes in the law, governance codes or executive directors without the executives present: and the developments within the group which affect their roles both non-executive directors met without the Chairman present.
on the board and on board committees.
Experts and There were no unresolved concerns about the running of advisers are brought in as necessary to present to the the Company.
board on technical subject matters.
The directors have access to the Company Secretary as well as members of the Executive Board and senior management, and they can Effectiveness seek independent professional advice if this is deemed necessary for the proper performance of their duties.
Composition The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the The board is comprised of an appropriate balance of skills, board through the chairman on all governance matters.
experience, independence and knowledge, which enables it Evaluation to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The balance of skill and independence creates an environment that During the year the board undertook an internal evaluation the purpose of which was to evaluate its performance and encourages the effective challenge and development of proposals on strategy.
Currently there are eight directors processes, as well as individual director performance, by identifying areas which the board performs well, and any areas on the board: Nick Wiles, the non-executive Chairman, three executive directors, Dominic Taylor, George Earle and Tim for improvement.
There were two parts to the evaluation process which was led by the Senior Independent Director.
Watkin-Rees, and four non-executive directors, Gill Barr, Neil Carson, who is also the senior independent director, The first part being the completion of a comprehensive questionnaire by each of the directors covering: Giles Kerr and David Morrison.
The biographies of each of the directors can be found on page 25.
Board roles and responsibilities addressing how well Gill Barr joined the board on 1 June 2015 and Giles Kerr the board performs its primary functions: joined on 20 November 2015.
Stephen Rowley retired from Board composition and quality addressing the quality the board on 4 February 2016.
Further information of board members and their collective skills: regarding the appointment of the directors can be found in the succession planning section of this report on page 31.
Board structure and processes addressing board committees and elements of the boards meeting processes: The board has determined that Gill Barr, Neil Carson and Giles Kerr are independent for the purposes of the Code.
Board efficiency and performance addressing the overall functioning of the board: and The terms and conditions of appointment of the nonexecutive directors and the executive directors service Directors self-assessment addressing how individual contracts are available for inspection at the Companys directors feel they perform in their governance role, and registered office during normal business hours and will be their knowledge of the role.
available at the annual general meeting.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 29 Corporate governance report continued The second part of the evaluation process, following the Risk management and internal control completion of the questionnaire, was one-to-one meetings The board has overall responsibility for establishing and between each director and the Senior Independent Director.
maintaining sound risk management and internal control At these meetings the feedback given by the directors in the systems, and for monitoring of these systems to ensure that questionnaire was discussed and the directors had the they are effective and fit for purpose.
The Audit Committee opportunity to put forward any actions for improvement, provides support to the board in this regard and oversees both at individual and board levels as they thought fit.
Further information on the risk Senior Independent Director presented the results of the management and internal control system is set out in the evaluation to the board at its meeting in February 2016.
In Audit Committee report on page 32. summary, the responses from the directors were positive The directors have carried out a robust assessment of the with the board being described as transparent, interactive principal risks facing the group and how these risks could and open to debate, and a general consensus that the board affect the business, financial condition or operations of the continues to work well together with each director group.
The explanation of these principal risks including how contributing effectively and demonstrating their they are being mitigated can be found on pages 16 to 19, and commitment to the role.
a statement on how the directors have assessed the The actions arising from the evaluation process were that the prospects of the group taking into account the current board recognised the need for: more regular non-executive position and principal risks is on page 15. director only meetings to consider and give feedback to the executive directors on management performance: and Remuneration increased interaction between the executive directors and the non-executive directors to ensure the latter have a more Details of how the Company applies the principles of the in-depth understanding of the groups business.
Code in respect of directors remuneration are set out in the Re-election Remuneration report on pages 36 to 53.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code all directors submit themselves for election or re-election at each annual Shareholder relations general meeting.
The boards recommendations in respect of the election or re-election of each director can be found in The directors consider that the annual report and accounts the notice of meeting on pages 83 to 87. play an important role in providing shareholders with an Insurance evaluation of the Companys position and prospects.
The The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in board aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance respect of legal action against the directors.
The board acknowledges the importance of an open dialogue with its institutional shareholders and Conflicts of interest welcomes correspondence from private investors.
Under the articles of association, the board has authority to approve any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest that In addition to the annual report and the Companys website, are declared by individual directors: conditions may be the annual general meeting is an ideal forum at which to attached to such approvals and directors will generally not communicate with investors, and the board encourages their be entitled to participate in discussions or vote on matters in participation.
The Senior Independent Director is available to which they have or may have a conflict of interest.
address any unresolved shareholder concerns.
A register of conflicts is maintained and is reviewed at least The executive directors have an ongoing programme of annually to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
Authorisation meetings with institutional investors and analysts twice a is sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if any year for two weeks at a time.
During the year the meetings new conflicts arise.
No material conflicts were reported by the took place in May and November and were held in the UK in: directors in the financial year under review.
London: Edinburgh and Oxford: and the USA in: New York, Salt Lake City, Chicago and Boston, in addition to meetings at the Companys premises.
The discussions at these Accountability meetings covered a wide range of issues which had previously been made public including strategy, Financial and business reporting performance, management and governance.
Please refer to the following pages for information on how the board has carried out the financial and business reporting The Company held briefings with institutional fund managers, obligations as stipulated under the Code: analysts and other investors following the announcement of half yearly results and feedback from these has been Page 57 for the boards responsibility statement setting reported to the board.
out the steps taken to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Pages 2 to 23 for the strategy and business model which explains how the Company generates and preserves value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company.
Page 56 for the statement that the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
30 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS All board appointments are made on merit, in the context Committees of the board of balance of the skills, experience, independence and The Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are knowledge which the board as a whole requires to be the formally constituted committees of the board which effective, taking account of diversity in the manner deal with specific aspects of the groups affairs in described above.
accordance with the duties and responsibilities formally The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive delegated to them by the board.
The terms of reference directors are made available for inspection at the annual for each of the committees are available on the Companys general meeting.
Further details on diversity throughout the website at www.
The report on the group including information about the diversity and equality Nomination Committee is set out below and the reports policy that applies to PayPoint employees can be found on on the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee pages 22 and 23. are set out on page 32 and page 36 respectively.
Succession planning and board appointments The committee in making recommendations to the board on Nomination Committee the appointments of new directors, adopts a transparent procedure whereby the required skills, knowledge and The Nomination Committee currently comprises Gill Barr, experience are carefully identified in order to complement Neil Carson, Giles Kerr, David Morrison and Nick Wiles who and create a balance with the existing skill set on the board.
It met six times during the period and the details of meeting attendance are set out on During the year, an external search was commissioned, using an independent executive search firm, Spencer Stuart which page 27.
Gill Barr joined the committee on 1 June 2015 and Giles Kerr joined on 20 November 2015. has no other connection with the Company, to search for a non-executive director, who would also act as Audit The committee is responsible for considering and making Committee Chairman following the retirement of Eric Anstee recommendations on the appointment of additional from the board at the 2015 annual general meeting.
Spencer directors, the retirement of existing directors and for Stuart was given the candidate specification which was reviewing the size, structure and composition of the board based on objective criteria in line with the appropriate and membership of board committees, which are guidelines on diversity, and included a requirement for considered against objective criteria.
proposed candidates to have recent and relevant financial The committee considers the need for progressive experience.
Spencer Stuart submitted a shortlist of suitable candidates to the committee and each candidate was refreshment and keeps the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience of the board under review.
interviewed by the individual members of the board.
Giles Kerr was identified as the best candidate for the role and was During considerations on the appointment and retention of non-executive directors, the committee has regard to subsequently recommended to the board by the Nomination Committee on the basis that he met the desired criteria.
the need for particularly rigorous review and the need to progressively refresh the board where terms of The recruitment process for the appointment of Gill Barr as appointment are beyond six years.
non-executive director was detailed in the 2015 annual report.
Diversity policy The Chief Executive proactively manages succession The board embraces the supporting principles enshrined in planning for the Executive Board and senior management the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to board and keeps the board updated on developments as necessary.
The board is committed to ensuring an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience on its board and fully supports the Department of Business Innovation & Skills objective for FTSE 350 boards to have an appropriate female presence by 2015.
Diversity is a vital part of the continued assessment and enhancement of board composition and the board recognises the benefits of diversity amongst its members.
The board will take account of all aspects of diversity in its considerations including, but not limited to gender, industry experience, background and race.
The Nomination Committee puts particular emphasis on the importance of sourcing candidates appropriately widely so that shortlisted candidates reflect the desire for increased diversity, in line with the boards objectives as stated above.
In order to assist the board in achieving its commitment, the Nomination Committee ensures that only independent executive search firms, which subscribe to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, are commissioned in respect of board appointments.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 31 Corporate governance report continued Audit committee report The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee are as follows: monitoring the financial reporting process, including the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance including reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing and monitoring the groups internal control and risk management systems: reporting to the board on the appropriateness of the significant accounting policies and practices of the group: Dear Shareholder, considering and making recommendations to the board on the nature and extent of the principal risks I am delighted to have taken on the role of Audit Committee the group is willing to take in achieving its strategic Chairman during the year, and I would like to thank Neil objectives: Carson for his hard work and commitment in filling in as interim chair of the committee following the retirement of to develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services the previous Audit Committee Chairman, Eric Anstee at the 2015 annual general meeting.
and to report to the board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers actions or improvement On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present is needed and making recommendations: our report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
In the year under review, the Audit Committee has focused on carrying overseeing the external auditor and monitoring and reviewing the independence of our external auditors out robust assessments of the principal risks and internal control systems, and looking at how these are managed and and the provision of non-audit services to the group: mitigated.
The committee also considered the integrity of overseeing the quality of the internal and external the groups financial reporting, and provided advice to the audit processes: and board that the 2016 annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the arrangements for internal audit, including its information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and remit and programme and ensuring that it is adequately resourced.
The activities of the committee are kept under review in line with regulatory and market developments.
The committee continues to keep its activities under review in the light of regulatory and market developments The Audit Committee currently comprises myself, Gill Barr, and Neil Carson.
Stephen Rowley, who was a member of the and met six times during the period.
The details of meeting attendance are set out on page 27.
By invitation, committee during the year, retired from the committee and the board on 4 February 2016.
Gill Barr joined the committee during the year, meetings were also attended by the Chairman of the board and non-executive directors, the on 1 June 2015 and I joined on 20 November 2015.
Neil Carson held the position of interim Chairman of the Audit Chief Executive, Finance Director, Business Development Director and the Financial Controller, our external auditor, Committee from the date of Eric Anstees retirement until I joined the committee and the board and took on the role of Deloitte LLP Deloitte and internal auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP, as appropriate.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The board considers that I have recent and relevant financial experience in accordance In order to maximise its effectiveness and as part of the with the Code.
Full biographical details of each of the current process of working with the board, the committee committee members, including relevant financial experience, meetings generally take place on the same day as, but are set out on page 25. prior to, the Company board meetings.
Where all the board members have not been in attendance at an Audit Committee meeting, either as a member of the committee or by invitation, the Chairman of the committee reports to the board as part of a separate agenda item, on the activity of the committee.
Giles Kerr Chairman Audit Committee 26 May 2016 32 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the year under review the Audit Committees activities The significant issues considered by the committee in were as follows: relation to the 2016 accounts, and how these were addressed, were: Topic: Actions: Valuation of the mobile payments business Financial reporting Review of the preliminary and interim An impairment of 30.8 million has been made against results announcement and the annual the carrying value of the mobile payments business.
report Following this charge, the net assets are recorded at 1.7 million.
In light of the negotiations with interested Review of significant accounting parties, which have not resulted in a sale and the stage of issues as reported below due diligence of the remaining interested parties, we Consideration of the going concern have assessed that the best estimate of fair value less basis for preparation of the financial costs of disposal is the net asset value excluding statements and the viability goodwill.
statement Valuation of Collect Advising the board on whether the The carrying value of Collect shown in the consolidated annual report and accounts taken as a accounts is 1.6 million and in the parent company whole, is fair balanced and balance sheet, the investment is 5.9 million.
Yodel has understandable sought to increase its charges to Collect, which PayPoint has not accepted.
This has led to discussions Recommendation of the viability about the future of Collect which are ongoing, but at statement and going concern present, it is not possible to determine their outcome.
statement to the board Based on the current contractual arrangements, Review of the external auditor reports excluding the additional sums which were being paid to and the outcomes of the audit process Yodel by Collect, but which have now ceased, Collect is profitable and on this basis would be able to repay the loans from its shareholders.
Topic: Actions: Revenue recognition Internal Assessment of internal We reviewed the recognition of income to ensure that auditor auditor effectiveness the approach adopted is appropriate and consistent.
Review of internal audit reports The group has applied a consistent accounting policy in presented during the year relation to revenue recognition.
We have in place controls around the revenue cycle and the underlying systems Topic: Actions: supporting the recording of revenue to prevent errors.
Audit plans Consideration and approval of the Management override of controls internal and external audit plans We have set the internal audit programme to address the effectiveness of the key controls.
The external auditors also test the key internal financial controls.
We have Topic: Actions: reviewed the results of internal audit, the external audit Risk management Review of insurance renewal proposals and audits by clients, Link, and BSI and we review and and internal challenge managements actions to resolve any points Review of whistleblowing policy controls arising from these audits and risk reviews carried out Review of reports produced by the throughout the year.
We are satisfied that adequate Head of Risk and Compliance on risk controls are in place.
management and internal controls External audit within the group Deloitte LLP has been the external auditor for the group Review of the six monthly BSI since 2001 and was appointed following a formal tender assessment report.
The appointment of Deloitte LLP as external out independent audits of the auditor, including the rotation of the audit partner, is kept networks operations under annual review.
Hadleigh Shekle is the current audit partner and he has completed one year of his five year term.
Review of the principal risks and An annual review of the effectiveness of the external audit the mitigation of these risks as is undertaken by the committee.
set out on page 16 Review of the risk review action register which shows the actions arising from the group risk review Topic: Actions: Committee Review and update of the Audit governance Committee terms of reference Evaluation of the committee as part of the internal board evaluation exercise see page 29 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 33
