Chief Financial Officers review continued At 31 December 2016, contingent consideration payable was Equity $6.1m, up from $2.1m at 31 December 2015.
This increase Share capital and share premium increased during the year reflects consideration payable in relation to the acquisition due to the issue of ordinary shares in relation to deferred ofMeritCard in February 2016.
In addition, deferred share-based consideration paid on the Meritus and FANS consideration payable increased to $10.2m from $3.3m due acquisitions, and the exercise of various share-based primarily to the acquisition of Income Access.
On 20 December 2016 the Group announced its inaugural Payment working capital items share buyback programme of up to 100m.
The Companys Cash held as reserves, settlement assets and restricted cash robust balance sheet and cash generation provided the balances have increased to $132.3m from $95.4m at 31 opportunity to take advantage of prevailing market December 2015.
This is largely driven by increased funding conditions to repurchase shares at highly economic levels.
and deposit requirements associated with higher transaction volumes.
Merchant processing liabilities increased to $18.5m As part of this programme, as at 31 December 2016 the Group from $16.8m at 31 December 2015. has purchased 710,221 shares at a volume weighted average price paid per share of 357.4p.
All purchased shares were Other liabilities cancelled.
Trade and other payables increased to $123.9m from $88.2m, reflecting the growth of the business along with increases in Off-balance sheet arrangements employee costs payable, accrued interest costs and nonOther than as disclosed in notes 13 and 24, as at 31 December compete payments, and the acquisitions made during the 2016 the Group had no other off-balance sheet arrangements year.
that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on the consolidated financial condition, The income tax provision liability has increased during FY results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital 2016 from $11.1m to $34.4m, largely due to the recognition of resources.
The opening and closing balances also include approximately $3.9m provided for an ongoing Brian McArthur-Muscroft investigation in relation to Canadian withholding taxes, as Chief Financial Officer more fully described in note 15.
Net deferred tax liabilities of $35.9m 2015: net liability of $42.9m primarily reflect deferred tax liabilities associated with intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of Skrill, offset by deferred tax assets as set out in note 15.
Adjusted EBITDA is an alternative performance measure that the Group uses 13.
Fee revenue excludes investment income revenue.
to communicate the underlying operating profit performance of the Group.
Adjusted tax is calculated based on adjusted profit before tax which is an Adjusted EBITDA is defined as results of operating activities before alternative performance measure that excludes items including depreciation and amortisation, share-based payment expense, fair value restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other one-off gains and losses on share consideration payable, foreign exchange gains items, which do not represent the underlying performance of the Group.
and losses, and gains and losses on disposals of assets.
It is also adjusted for exceptional or nonrecurring items which are defined as items of income Further information on our alternative performance measures, including and expense of such size, nature or incidence that, in the view of definitions, explanations and reconciliations, is included in the Alternative management, are not reflective of the underlying performance of the Group Performance Measures appendix on pages 147 to 152. and should be disclosed to explain the performance of the Group.
Net debt and net debt last 12 months adjusted EBITDA are alternative performance measures which management uses to give investors and stakeholders an indication of the debt capacity of the Group.
Unaudited organic constant currency year on year revenue growth is an alternative performance measure that the Group uses to communicate the underlying revenue performance of the Group excluding the impact of acquisitions and currency movements.
The prior year represents pro-forma constant currency revenue growth.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 28
