STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key performance indicators KPIs In order to realise its strategic aims, PayPoint has identified areas of strategic focus and records a number of KPIs to measure progress against them.
Whilst these KPIs are helpful in measuring the groups performance, they are not exhaustive and the group uses many other measures to monitor progress.
Measuring our performance Strategic focus KPI Description 2016 2015 Shareholder Earnings per share Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the 58.4p 57.4p 1 return adjusted parent divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period including the impact of shares which are likely to be issued under share schemes.
Dividends Proposed final dividend and interim dividend divided by 42.4p 38.5p per share the number of fully paid shares at the end of the year.
1 Economic profit Adjusted operating profit including our share of joint 32.8 31.3 venture results after tax and a charge for capital million million employed, excluding cash, based upon the groups cost of capital.
Growth Retail networks Number of transactions processed in the year on our 668.2 667.3 transactions terminals, ATMs and on our retailers EPoS systems.
million million Mobile and Online Number of transactions processed in the year by 150.5 145.3 transactions Mobile and Online.
million million Transaction value The value of transactions processed via our terminals, 14.0 14.8 retailers EPoS systems, online merchants, ATMs, billion billion mobile payments and the sale of other retail services.
Net revenue Revenue less: commissions paid to retail agents: the 123.6 123.1 cost of mobile top-ups and SIM cards where PayPoint million million is principal: acquiring bank charges and call centre costs recharged to clients.
1 Operating margin Adjusted operating profit including our share of joint 40.5% 40.2% venture results, as a percentage of net revenue.
1 Asset Return on capital Adjusted operating profit for the year divided by 70.4% 63.6% optimisation employed average month end capital employed net assets including assets held for sale and excluding cash.
Growth decline Growth decline in net revenue from retail networks, 2.9% 4.3% in retail networks divided by the average number of sites in the period.
yield per site People Labour turnover Number of permanent employees who left during the 33% 22% year divided by average total permanent employees.
Adjusted earnings per share and adjusted operating profit exclude the impairments of 49.0 million and the profit on disposal of the online payments business of 7.0 million.
