OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION - Ongoing merchant monitoring including website tracking, MANAGING MERCHANT RISK reviews of terms and conditions and promotions.
Payment Processing specialises in servicing medium - Monitoring chargeback levels and adjusting deposit tohigher-risk merchants, for example where the risk androlling reserve levels.
ofconsumer refund requests falling due on the payment processor are elevated.
More information on the - Utilising proprietary risk rules engines that flag when a characteristics of these types of merchants is set out in the transaction with a merchant is unusual, combined with Payment Processing divisional Operating review.
In addition, human expertise in relation to expected transaction flows Paysafe helps merchants manage the risk of fraudulent within each industry we serve.
Among other practices, - Utilising proprietary and third-party device ID and wemanage risk in this division through: geolocation tools, and various identity verification tools toreduce consumer fraud.
- Comprehensive merchant know-your-customer checks in partnership with our acquiring banks, including identifying This hands-on risk management, at the heart of Payment ultimate owners, utilising third parties to conduct thorough Processing culture, supplements the measures we take due diligence, and performing sanctions and politically ataGroup level to effectively manage our credit exposure exposed persons checks.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of including those that would threaten The reverse stress test allowed the the UK Corporate Governance Code its business model, future Directors to assess the scenarios and 2014, the Directors have assessed the performance, solvency or liquidity.
circumstances that would render its viability of the Group to continue in Whilst the potential impact of Brexit business model unviable, thereby operation and meet its liabilities as was considered, this is not expected identifying potential business they fall due.
The assessment took to have a material impact on our vulnerabilities and ensuring the into account the Groups current revenue, given the geographical development of potential mitigating financial position and the potential diversity of our customer base and actions.
These include the use of data impact of the principal risks hence does not change the modelled encryption techniques, employee documented in this Strategic Report.
growth assumptions see further awareness training and constant discussion regarding Brexit in the activity monitoring to counteract the The Directors determined that an CEOs report.
impact of a potential data breach, appropriate period of assessment and the reduction of the fixed cost The assessments carried out should be the six years ending 31 base over the six year time horizon included a number of stress tests December 2022 which is the financial incase of the loss of the major anda reverse stress test, to evaluate period over which the Group is merchant.
the impact of the most severe yet scheduled to make all of the capital repayments on its 220m Term B plausible adverse scenarios the The Directors assessment placed senior borrowing.
particular emphasis on the Groups Of the assessments carried out, key ability to meet its interest and loan Based on this assessment, the scenarios included: repayment obligations throughout Directors confirm that they have the six year period of assessment, areasonable expectation that the - An assessment of the financial after meeting all other liabilities Company will be able to meet its impact of an immediate and falling due, whilst also meeting all liabilities as they fall due over the complete loss of all revenue from covenants required by the Term period to 31 December 2022. the Groups largest merchant: and Loans.
Prudent assumptions - An assessment of the financial regarding growth rates and ability In making this statement, the Board impact for the Group of a data tocut costs were applied to all tests carried out a robust assessment of breach affecting two of its three performed.
the principal risks facing the Group, divisions.
On behalf of the Board, Approval of the Strategic Report Pages 4 to 57 of the Annual Report form the Joel Leonoff Strategic Report.
President and Chief Executive Officer 6 March 2017 www.
