OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION The table below sets out our greenhouse gas GHG emissions Modern slavery for 2016 in tonnes of CO e as required by the Companies Act Paysafe is committed to ensuring that our business has no 2 2006, together with our intensity ratio.
involvement in modern slavery or human trafficking.
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human 16 Base year 2016 rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced 17 Scope 1 56 or compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which 18 Scope 2 1,916 have in common the deprivation of a persons liberty by 19 another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial Scope 3 571 gain.
Paysafe will not support or deal with any business Total gross emissions CO e 2,543 2 knowingly involved in modern slavery or human trafficking.
20 Full-time employee equivalent FTE 2,116 Intensity measurement tonnes of CO e FTE 1.20 2 Details of the steps that we have taken during 2016 to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking occurring in our Paysafes procurement and facilities teams work closely business and supply chains are set out in our Modern Slavery withall service providers to reduce environmental impact Act Transparency Statement, which has been approved andensure that products purchased, such as chairs, bythe Board and is available on the Paysafe website.
desks, IThardware and tables, have lifecycle ratings, with officesmaximising their use of natural lighting and Trade organisations and industry collaboration  furniture.
The highest proportion of As a registered online payments service provider, facilitating purchases for electronics goods comes from well-established global payments for our merchants and customers, our global manufacturers that have high levels of rigour on business is built on trust.
Thats why we comply with the environmental standards.
As part of that compliance approach, the Paysafe Group is proud to be licensed, Additionally, 2016 saw a reduction in flight and global travel, accredited to, represented on, or belong to the numerous reducing our carbon footprint.
This was achieved via new regulatory and industry organisations at both a national Company policies, with investments in office-based video andinternational level.
These include the Financial Conduct conferencing technologies and with training, adopting a Authority, Financial Services Authority, Electronic Money technology-led approach to conduct our multi-territory Association, Emerging Payments Association, Electronic meetings with a business-as-usual approach.
We continue Retailing Association and its Industry Womens Council, the toencourage use of these solutions throughout 2017.
PCI Security Standards Council, the International Association of Money Transfer Networks and a number of other prepaid, The Groups Annual Report is printed on Magno and Essential clearing house, and cards and payment networks.
Senior Offset, which has been independently certified by the Forest executives are also regularly invited to speak at payment Stewardship Council and manufactured using materials from industry forums and events.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
We encourage our shareholders to opt-in for electronic Environment communications, to avoid unnecessary printing and Protecting the environment for future generations is distribution costs in particular for our Annual Report.
Any important to us all and at Paysafe we have put a number of shareholder wishing to help us in these efforts should visit our practices in place to help us minimise our carbon emissions, shareholder portal at www.
com including saving energy, recycling office waste and adopting where they can express their communication preferences.
Community While we are a low-impact company compared to many At Paysafe, we aim to be a supportive part of the local corporations due to the online nature of our services, we communities where we operate.
We support numerous arecommitted to minimising our environmental impact.
charities at both a local and national level, and conduct Weendeavour to do this in our offices by deploying charitable giving programmes where we match charitable high-efficiency servers and ensuring computer and electrical fundraising by individual employees.
During 2016, the Group equipment is switched off when not in use.
contributed $287,000 2015: $92,882 to directly support charitable causes.
The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report 18.
Scope 2 consists of electricity used in any facilities owned or controlled Regulations 2013 requires quoted companies to report on greenhouse gas bythe Company.
This data has been gathered from our energy suppliers.
GHG emissions for which they are responsible.
Scope 3 is an optional disclosure and we report in accordance with the GHG on23 December 2015.
Protocol Corporate Standard, and include electricity used at shared data 17.
Scope 1 data consists of fuel used to heat premises owned or controlled centres not directly owned, operated or controlled by Paysafe.
As the Company does not own vehicles, there are no figures for 20.
