Culture and values Were developing a strong and empowering culture that embodies our values of being courageous, pioneering, open and focused.
values of being courageous, pioneering, open and focused.
Culture and values Our four values speak to how employees work together in our Central to Paysafes success is trust and the way we conduct Group and are at the heart of everything we do.
We believe in doing things in the right way and as for our business the values directly arose from the work of sustainably as possible.
We take our responsibilities seriously employee Ambassador Champions following workshops with and are committed to dealing fairly and with integrity with all around 1,000 employees worldwide prior to the Paysafe our stakeholders.
brand being launched in late 2015.
We are committed to investing in our entrepreneurial culture In April 2016 we carried out our first Paysafe employee and empowering our employees one of Paysafes five engagement survey, based on the internationally recognised strategic pillars.
Our focus on combining technology Gallup Q12 survey.
In a year of transition and integration, innovation with human innovation is delivering value by wescored 68%.
While this is a strong starting point, compared creating working practices that improve productivity, reduce to the average engagement rates of the winners of the 2016 costs, develop talent and provide job satisfaction.
Gallup Great Workplace Award at around 70%, were looking Corporate Social Responsibility is increasingly being to improve this metric, underpinned by programmes aimed embedded into our core strategy and underpins our at developing and retaining our talent.
Voluntary employee approach to engaging with customers, employees, attrition during the year was only 11%, a figure which reflects shareholders, the industries we serve and broader well in terms of the Groups employee engagement activity communities where we do business.
ina year of transition to the new Paysafe business and brand.
Our people As well as attracting great entrepreneurial talent to the We are a people company and one that wants to attract business, we provide many development opportunities andretain the best talent, motivated by a culture they andemployee engagement initiatives for our existing teams areproud of within a safe, stimulating and respectful around the world.
throughout the Group, and supplemented by leadership andmanagement development programmes.
Among the Building an entrepreneurial, empowered culture is critical employee initiatives launched in 2016 were: toour success.
At an operational and management level, our approach centres on empowering divisional CEOs and their Reward and recognition teams so they can make decisions quickly in ways that In September 2016, we launched a new programme to maximise success for their business lines and Paysafe as enhance how we reward and recognise our employees a whole.
commitment to the success of Paysafe.
The initiative enables staff to recognise colleagues for demonstrating outstanding Across all of our locations we continue to focus on developing behaviour in line with our four core values and complements a strong, empowering culture that embodies our Paysafe the Ambassador Champions programme involving a representative group of nominated employees helping topromote the Groups values to the rest of our staff.
Building an entrepreneurial, empowered culture iscritical toour success.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 42
