OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Directors Report Save as otherwise disclosed above, there are no other The Directors present their Annual significant agreements to which the Company is a party that Report on the affairs of the Company take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
and the Group, together with the audited Group financial statements Employment of disabled persons The Culture and values section on pages 42 to 47 sets out the and Independent Auditors report for Companys policy regarding the employment of disabled the year ended 31 December 2016. persons.
Employee consultation This Directors report covers regulatory, statutory and other Details on employee consultation are included in the Culture information and incorporates the Strategic report and the and values section on pages 42 to 47.
Governance report, which are set out earlier in this Annual Report, by reference.
Supplier policy It is the Groups policy for each of its contracting entities to Strategic report and Governance report agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions A review of the current and future development of the Groups with suppliers by means ranging from standard written terms business is given in the Strategic report on pages 4 to 57. to individually negotiated contracts.
The Group seeks to TheGroups financial and risk management objectives and ensure that payments are always made in accordance with policies are discussed in the Chief Financial Officers review such written terms and conditions.
and Risk management sections starting on pages 23 and 48 respectively.
Information on key performance indicators is set Board of Directors out on pages 16 to 19.
The Groups policies on employee The Directors who served during the year and to date are: matters, health and safety, environmental and community issues and business ethics, are discussed in the Culture and Dennis Jones Chairman, Joel Leonoff President and CEO, values section on pages 42 to 47.
Brian McArthur-Muscroft CFO, Andrew Dark, Ian Francis, Brahm Gelfand, and Ian Jenks.
The Governance report, including the Report of the Remuneration Committee, on pages 58 to 94 summarises Certain key matters in relation to the Directors are theCompanys governance arrangements and remuneration shownbelow: arrangements for Directors.
- The business of the Company is managed by its Directors, All this information forms part of, and by reference who may exercise all powers of the Company subject to isincorporated within, this Directors report.
theCompanys Articles of Association and Isle of Man legislation.
The Directors of the Company are appointed Research and development either by the Board or by shareholders under the The Company continues to invest in the development Companys Articles of Association and may resign ofnewtechnologies to further advance its systems.
Where orberemoved in a similar manner.
management is satisfied that a project will generate future - Biographical details of the current Directors are set out on economic benefits, and the Group intends to, and has pages 61 to 63.
The Directors interests in the ordinary share sufficient resources to, complete development and to use capital of the Company and any interests known to the orsell the asset, the expenditure is capitalised at cost.
Company of their connected persons are set out in the Furtherdetails are in Note 4 to the financial statements.
Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 86.
- The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity Change of control provisions for the benefit of its Directors in relation to In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement other certain losses and liabilities that they may incur in the than a scheme of arrangement for the purposes of creating course of acting as Directors of the Company or its anew holding company or certain other events, unvested subsidiaries, which remain in force at the date of this report.
Executive Director and employee share awards may, in certain - No member of the Board had a material interest in any circumstances, become exercisable.
Such circumstances may, contract of significance with the Company or any of its although do not necessarily, depend on the achievement of subsidiaries at any time during the year, except for their performance conditions or the discretion of the Remuneration interests in shares and in share awards and under their Committee.
The Company does not have any agreements service agreements and letters of appointment disclosed with any Director or officer that would provide compensation inthe Report of the Remuneration Committee, for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
The Group has facility agreements with its bank lenders which contain provisions giving those lenders certain rights on a Charitable and political donations change of control of the Company.
In addition, certain of the A note of the charitable donations made by the Company Groups agreements with acquiring banks and other suppliers during the year is included in the Culture and values section permit the acquiring bank or supplier to terminate the on pages 45 to 47.
No political donations were made agreement upon a change of control of the Company.
com 143 Directors Report continued - Holders of the deferred shares are not entitled to vote at Greenhouse gas emissions Disclosures in respect of greenhouse gas emissions are given any Annual General Meeting of the Company and are only entitled to receive the amount paid up on the shares after on page 45. the holders of the ordinary shares have received the sum of 1,000,000 for each ordinary share held by them and shall Financial instruments The Groups overall risk strategy and framework is detailed have no other right to participate in assets of the Company.
inthe Strategic report on pages 4 to 57.
The risk management - The Group operates employee share plans as set out in the policies of the Group regarding credit risk, interest rate risk, Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 78 to 94 currency risk, market segment risk, capital risk and liquidity and in Note 21 to the financial statements.
risk are set out in Note 26 to the financial statements.
- Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have Results for the year and dividends nospecial rights.
The audited financial statements of the Company and - At the Companys last Annual General Meeting on 25 May theGroup for 2016 are set out on pages 99 to 142.
Anoverview 2016 2016 AGM, the Directors were given authority to of the development of the business of the Group during 2016 purchase up to 48,110,871 of the Companys issued shares, is provided in the Strategic report on pages 4 to57.
to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 16,036.95 being one third of the Companys The Company is not intending to pay dividends for the time issued share capital and to dis-apply pre-emption rights being as it considers that shareholders are best served by inrespect of allotments of relevant securities up to an reinvesting the Groups cash to generate growth opportunities aggregate nominal amount of 4,811.09 representing in light of market conditions or, where the Board considers approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
appropriate, for the repurchase of the Groups shares.
The Company will seek to renew similar authorities at its 2017 Annual General Meeting 2017 AGM, details of which Post balance sheet events can be found in the circular to shareholders enclosed with There were no significant events affecting the Company since this Annual Report.
the year end to be reported in the financial statements.
- No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company Related party transactions is not aware of any agreements between holders of Details of transactions entered into by the Company or other securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer Group companies during the year with related parties who ofsecurities or on voting rights.
were not members of the Group are disclosed in Note 27 tothe financial statements.
Share buyback An ongoing share buyback programme the Programme Share capital ofup to 100m was announced on 20 December 2016 and Certain key information relating to the Companys shares is commenced on the same day.
The purpose of the shown below.
Programme has been to reduce the capital of the Company: - The Companys shares at the year-end comprised ordinary repurchased shares will be cancelled.
The maximum number shares of 0.0001 each, which rank equally in all respects, of shares that the Company will be able to purchase under and deferred shares of 0.01 each.
the Programme will be 48,110,871 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, under the authority granted to the - The rights attached to the shares, in addition to those Company by ordinary shareholders at the Companys 2016 conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the AGM.
The Programme was commenced using a phased Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can approach and is subject to the buyback approval resolution beobtained from the Companys website.
The Companys being approved at the Companys 2017 AGM in respect of any Articles of Association may only be amended by a Special purchases to be made after the date of that meeting.
During Resolution of the shareholders, unless expressly specified the year, the Company purchased and subsequently to the contrary in the Articles of Association.
cancelled 710,221 ordinary shares of 0.0001 each - There are no restrictions on the transfer of the ordinary representing 0.15% of the called up share capital, the shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, aggregate amount of consideration paid by the Company for except: i where the Company has exercised its right to the share purchases was 2,538,612.13.
Since 1 January 2017, suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer the Company has purchased and subsequently cancelled following the omission of their holder or any person 5,648,712 ordinary shares of 0.0001 each representing 1.17% interested in them to provide the Company with of the called up share capital, the aggregate amount of information requested by it in accordance with Article 47 consideration paid by the Company for the share purchases ofthe Companys Articles of Association: or ii where their was 21,722,854.15. holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by theFCAs Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers Further details of the Companys share capital are set out andMergers.
inNote 11 to the financial statements.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 144 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this Principal shareholders As at 6 March 2017 the following interests in 3% or more report confirms that to the best of their knowledge: oftheCompanys existing share capital had been reported - the Annual Report, including the Strategic report, inaccordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Governance report, financial statements and this Directors ofthe UK Listing Authority: report, taken as a whole, is considered to be fair, balanced % of voting Number of and understandable and that it provides the information Shareholder rights ordinary shares necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and Old Mutual Global Investors 11.8 58,027,820 the Groups position and performance, business model and Fidelity Management & Research 9.8 48,029,282 strategy.
Total voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company - the Companys financial statements and the Group financial comprising 484,349,528 ordinary shares of 0.0001 nominal value, being the statements prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted 484,349,528 ordinary shares in issue at 6 March 2017. by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 2.
Voting rights percentages include any indirect voting rights and any financial position and profit of the Company and the Group.
- the Strategic report and Governance report, along with the 3.
The Company received no notifications of interests of shareholders indicating a different whole percentage holding at 31 December 2016 other Directors report, together include a fair review of the than Norges Bank who at 31 December 2016 had notified an interest in development and performance of the business and the 3.02% of the Companys share capital.
position of the Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Disclosure of information to the Companys Auditor and the financial statements in accordance with applicable So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant law and regulations.
Isle of Man company law requires the audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware.
Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial Each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have period.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any the financial statements in accordance with International relevant audit information and to establish that the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Going concern The financial statements are required by Isle of Man law to The Directors have made appropriate enquiries and reviewed give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company the Groups cash flow projections, liquidity position, business and the Group, and of the profit or loss of the Company and activities and the financial resources the Group has available, the Group for that period.
Under company law, the Directors including borrowing facilities, as set out in Note 3 to the must not approve the financial statements unless they are financial statements, and the Groups principal risks and satisfied that this is the case.
In preparing the financial uncertainties detailed on pages 48 to 57.
Accordingly, the statements, the Directors are required to: Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue - select suitable accounting policies and apply them operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they consistently: continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the - make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and financial statements.
prudent: - state whether applicable IFRS, as adopted by the European Appointment of new Auditor Union, have been followed, subject to any material Following the appointment of Deloitte LLP by the Board in departures disclosed and explained in the financial place of KPMG Audit LLC, in line with the results of the audit statements: and tender process detailed in the Report of the Audit Committee - prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis on page 73, a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will be proposed at the Companys AGM.
and the Group will continue in business.
Annual General Meeting The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 11:30am on 9 May 2017 at the Claremont Hotel, 18-22 Loch financial position of the Company and the Group and to Promenade, Douglas, Isle of Man IM1 2LX.
The notice enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply ofmeeting and explanatory information on the resolutions with the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to 2004.
They have tobeconsidered at the Annual General Meeting are enclosed general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably separately in the circular accompanying this Annual Report.
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
On behalf of the Board, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Anthony Hunter Elaine Quine integrity of the corporate and financial information included Company Secretary Company Secretary on the Companys website.
Legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 6 March 2017 differ from one jurisdiction to another.
