4,058 3,418 2,860 2,352 1,915 1,548 Our market Capturing the opportunity The payments industry is rapidly evolving.
Understanding client needs and deploying state-of-the-art technology are key to success.
Market opportunity: Paysafe response: 1 In a digital world with over 2.1 billion smartphone users, Our business is ideally placed to support merchants and financial behaviours are rapidly changing.
For example, our largest division, Payment cross-border commerce and remittance are key areas of Processing, has a c. 70% exposure to the e-commerce market.
growth and opportunity for payments companies globally.
We adopt a niche approach using our evolving payments platform to bring value-added services and additional - E-commerce worldwide continues to grow at pace, with relevance to the sectors we target: worldwide internet retailing expected to grow up to 20% CAGR between 2016 and 2020, rising from 8.7% of total - We target niche verticals with the potential for scale, where 2 retail sales to 14.6% over the same period.
Key developed we can gain market share or where we see strong growth markets for Paysafe are expected to grow at a CAGR around opportunities: 3 the high single-digits from 2016 to 2018.
- For example, we are a market-leading provider of - Worldwide cross-border payments and remittances remain alternative payment methods to online gambling areas of growth and opportunity: merchants.
Similarly, online gambling and associated payments potential continues to grow, with estimates - Cross-border transactions continue to grow faster than 4 ranging between 5 and 10% CAGR year-on-year growth domestic e-commerce transactions.
- While growth in remittance flows worldwide is expected 5 - We specialise in verticals such as mediumto higher-risk to slow slightly from 2016 2018 to approximately 4% processing, where the risk of credit card chargebacks can CAGR, the online market is growing much faster through be higher.
We use our expertise to help manage this risk a more efficient technology and pricing for consumers 6 and facilitate increased conversion for those merchants.
c. 90% of remittances are presently handled offline.
This presents a considerable opportunity set: 700 million - We are leveraging our global footprint to offer people sent money last year with approximately $628bn cross-border expertise and are particularly excited 5 of flows expected by 2018. aboutincreasing the ease with which we can integrate alternative payment methods for our merchants with our consolidated platform.
We are also looking forward to scaling up our remittance offering within our Digital Wallets division.
- We adopt a collaborative approach with merchants and consumers.
We always strive to add value over and above payments to maintain and grow our relevance, forexample through our soft launch of our new GOLO Retail e-commerce sales worldwide, 2015-2020 mobile pick-up and delivery product.
trillions of total retail sales 5,000 4,000 3,000 1. eMarketer - Mobile Phone, Smartphone Usage Varies Globally - November 2016 2,000 2. eMarketer Worldwide Retail Ecommerce Sales: The eMarketer Forecast for 2016 August 2016 1,000 3.
UK, France, Germany, Italy, USA and Canada.
Data compiled from Verdict Consumer Payments 7.4 8.7 Country reports Retail e-commerce sales $ 4.
Mastercard 2016 constant currency cross-border growth of 12% vs overall % of total retail sales card volume growth of 9% Note: includes products or services ordered using the internet via any device, 5.
World Bank estimates regardless of the method of payment or fulfillment: excludes travel and event tickets 6.
UBS Global Research February 2016 Source: eMarketer, Aug 2016 7.
Paul Hastings The Future of Payments December 2016 Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 6 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Market opportunity: Market challenges: Payment methods continue to become more digital.
With the growth There are also a number of ine-commerce, there is a shift to digital and alternative payment methods and mobile-initiated transactions.
challenges for the payments industry Demand is increasing for real-time data analytics, and the which are driving disruption and linebetween online and bricks-and-mortar commerce isbecoming increasingly blurred.
At Paysafe, we are focused on turning these challenges into Evenindeveloped markets such as the US, non-cash transaction value is estimated to grow 36% over the next opportunities.
7 10years, from 63% to 76% of total transactions.
Alternative payment methods, such as wallets and prepaid products, aregrowing in popularity around the world.
This is driven Technology is developing quickly, bygrowing consumer demands for security, convenience which is enabling new entrants to andcontrol over spending.
compete against incumbents and respond effectively to changing Paysafe response: consumer requirements.
We have a comprehensive product suite that incorporates We are developing a consolidated platform built anumber of alternative payment methods, and so are well on state-of-the-art data analytics and security placed to benefit from evolving consumer preferences for technology that will position us well to bring new alternative payment methods that are easier, more secure ormore relevant to their needs.
We already offer products and services to market quickly, to marking-leading alternative payment methods through our cross-sell our products, and maintain our digital wallet and prepaid voucher products under the Skrill, competitive advantage.
Together these brands make up over 50% of our revenue.
We also have a growing consumer credit business in payolution - which is well Todays consumers are demanding positioned to take advantage of the consumer trend towards payment experiences that are intuitive, pay-later credit solutions.
fast, convenient and safe, all within an increasingly challenging security PAY LATER SOLUTIONS environment.
payolution has been part of Paysafe since the acquisition In line with our values of being pioneering and ofthe Skrill Group in August 2015, and forms part of the courageous, we have focused our reinvestment in Payment Processing division.
payolution offers innovative the business on technological excellence and online pay later solutions such as payments by invoice, byinstalment, by monthly invoice and electronic debit.
This enables us to respond to Asthis is a complete white-label solution, sitting behind a consumer demands and to constantly improve merchants front end, the consumer experience is seamless.
our security, fraud and risk management capabilities.
Secure payment processing is handled and guaranteed bypayolution, helping merchants offer popular, secure and relevant payment schemes to their consumers.
This increases Significant regulatory change for the our merchants conversion and addressable markets, and payments industry is creating both byindemnifying these payments we manage the consumer opportunities and challenges.
credit risk on their behalf.
We have a long track record of working payolution solves various needs for consumers.
For example, in highly regulated markets.
One of our core they may not want to share their sensitive payment-related assets is our ability to anticipate and react data online: to try before they buy, or only pay for a good positively to opportunities presented by changes after delivery.
In some European countries, offering invoicing in regulation and be highly responsive to shifting is a pre-requisite for online retailers.
Payment via invoice merchant requirements.
isgenerally the payment method of choice in .
See how we are managing our risks on pages 48 to 57 During 2016 payolution expanded outside its core markets ofGermany, Austria and Switzerland, and is now live in the Netherlands and the UK.
