Our business How PayPoint works From our origins in cash payments, PayPoint has successfully added a portfolio of high quality retail products and services which have contributed to our growth over the past twenty years.
All of this is underpinned by our innovative technology and has opened up significant opportunities in multi-channel payments and retail services.
Cash payments We service the millions of consumers We enable our clients - utilities, who need convenient local outlets with government and other consumer service long opening hours to make their essential providers - to service this demand for personal and household payments, free over-the-counter payments with unrivalled of additional charges.
national and regional coverage and innovative and robust technology.
4 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Retail services Having created uniquely strong national payment networks, our retailers have become customers for a portfolio of innovative and complementary retail services, driving further footfall, earnings and community value.
We earn service and transaction fees for these services and have high retailer take-up given the highly competitive terms we offer.
ATMs Card payments Money transfer Parcels SIM cards EPoS Future growth MultiPay PayPoint One Offers clients the ability to streamline Our new, state of the art platform consumer payment processing combines PayPoint services, and transaction routing into one, integrated card payments and seamlessly integrated solution.
It gives the flexibility to choose some or all of the Its ground breaking tablet design, complemented by channels depending on their customers needs, including Android technology, will help our customers stay ahead mobile app, online, text, phone IVR, cash in-store and of their competitors and place us at the heart of their cash out.
The solution is already live with Utilita, with store.
Powered by cloud technology, PayPoint One is a retail digital payments ratio of 70:30.
In addition, flexible and future proof, will be capable of symbol we have signed several smaller energy companies, a group integration and compatible with a wide range framework agreement with Procurement for Housing of add-on services.
and, significantly, Scottish and Southern Energy, our first Big 6 energy client.
