18 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our strategy in action STRATEGIC GROWTH DRIVER Deliver measurable outcomes Our strategy is to improve access and outcomes in education.
In other words, we want to help more learners learn more.
Effi cacy is becoming more deeply embedded into our strategy and is helping drive faster improvement in our content, assessment, services and technology.
We are the only education company committed to effi cacy with such rigour and at such scale and depth.
Strategy in action How effi cacy supports strategy Since we launched our commitment to report on the e cacy of our products back in 2013, e cacy has grown from a framework and an initiative to a core operating principle and practice.
Our e cacy and research work in uences our products and approach to customers, and, ultimately, through measurable impact will enable us to achieve our mission to help people make progress in their lives through learning.
Our e cacy strategy can be broken down into three areas.
Product improvement Our work, including e cacy reviews, impact evaluations, product analytics and educational research, helps product teams to identify areas where improvements bene ting learners can be made.
E cacy reporting We have continued to increase the breadth and depth of our public e cacy reporting: we are reporting on more products and looking in more detail at the impact those products are having.
E cacy growth and impact goals We launched these goals last year, stating our commitment to reaching and positively impacting 200 million learners annually with increasingly e ective products.
Put simply we want to help more learners, learn more.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 19 Efficacy progress As we work towards meeting our 2018 25 2018 commitment, to report publicly on the learner 94% 20 outcomes delivered by our products and to of product improvements identified by 2017 audit those efficacy reports in the same fashion 15 efficacy reviews are being implemented that we audit our financials, this year we are 2016 on track with plans.
10 increasing the number of reports and depth of those reports as well as subjecting those 5 2015 reports to a mock audit to make sure we are 82% 0 prepared for the real thing next year.
Share Share Share Mock Conduct of product impact evaluations are process plans evidence audit full audit progressing in line with study plans.
Maturity of efficacy reporting Purpose In 2017, we will continue to gather evidence Moving forward, we will track our progress of the impact that an increasingly large against the targets that we have set for both Our mission as a company is to help people number of our products have on learner the impact our products and services are make progress in their lives through outcomes.
We will ensure that insights having and how many learners those learning.
To achieve this, we must define generated by educational research or products and services are reaching.
We will the outcomes that those people want to analytics are built into product development also continue to embed these goals within achieve: measure the impact that our roadmaps.
We will also aim to increase our business processes so that they are products and services have in reaching the consistency of the implementation of progressively used to influence those outcomes: and use those insights our products and services.
Our aim is to management decisions.
to continuously improve our products eventually cover all products with this and services and customer relationships.
approach positioning more of our portfolio Having a positive impact on the outcomes for sustainable growth.
of learners is what motivates us and it is through demonstrating this impact that Efficacy reporting MyLab Math we will be commercially successful.
We have built on our efficacy reports from 2015 to 2016 to create nine new reports that Evidence suggests that learners Progress and priorities double their odds of passing illustrate how our products impact learner math if they use MyLab Math outcomes, with more to follow across 2017.
Product improvement for developmental math.
This years reports are the most rigorous We have gathered more robust evidence of and insightful we have produced.
com impact than ever before as can be seen in as the final dry run in preparation for next our efficacy reports for more information years fully audited efficacy reports.
We are now starting new Next year we will further increase the After 5.5 months, students product development with a stronger number of products that we are providing are three months ahead in foundation in educational research basing public efficacy reports for and for the first spelling compared with their peers.
our product designs on best practice time we will subject all of our efficacy highlighted by research.
com reports to a third-party external audit.
embracing the concept of continuous Efficacy growth and impact goals improvement in product and service Sistemas development leading to meaningful We have set annual targets for both the Learners out-performed improvements in outcomes.
impact our products and services will have their peers in similar and the number of learners that they will schools on every reach.
We are measuring the success of our subject tested.
businesses against their progress on these http: br.
com targets to help more learners learn more.
