14 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our strategy in action STRATEGIC GROWTH DRIVER Develop digital & services Our strategy is to improve access and outcomes in education through our world-class capabilities in educational content and assessment, and services powered by technology.
This will be focused on where we see the greatest potential for growth and scalability, and increasingly driven by our expertise in adaptive and personalised learning, enabling educators to be even more eff ective in reaching their students.
Strategy in action Direct digital access partnership with Kentucky State University In 2016, Pearson partnered with Kentucky State University KSU to launch an eTextbook initiative to improve student success and increase a ordability.
The partnership identi ed Pearson digital course materials that supported 8590% of KSUs undergraduate courses.
The University now purchases direct digital access to Pearson content for all of its students to use on those courses, from day one of class.
148 1,736 digital direct access contracts students served at signed by Pearson across North Kentucky State University America in 2016 with strong pipeline in place for 2017 I f students are prepared for class, they begin the semester with a good foundation and are more successful than students who are not prepared.
It also reduces the time it takes for students to earn a degree as well as their debt rates.
Dr Candice Love Jackson Acting Vice President, Academic A airs, Kentucky State University Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 15 Digital & services revenues % of sales Digital & services 68% 2016 revenue growth 65% 2015 62% 2014 2013 60% 2012 55% 2011 51% 2010 47% 2009 44% 2008 41% 2007 38% 2006 37% Purpose Progress and priorities In 2016, we delivered 23.6 million online summative tests to school age students in The demand for accessible, a ordable and The transition to digital has its challenges the US, and a further 14.9 million computere ective education is greater than ever.
as we experienced in 2016 in Pearsons based tests around the world for Globally, more than a billion children and largest market, US higher education professional certi cation through Pearson adults are held back by inadequate learning courseware.
We are increasing investment VUE.
Applying digital technologies makes resources, unemployment or illiteracy.
in our service capabilities and our global the setting and marking of our assessments learning platform, which will remove quicker, more secure and more reliable.
Meanwhile the costs of learning continue barriers to faster product innovation, to rise, governments nd it harder than ever accelerate our product roadmap and drive Pearson partners with to deliver high-quality education fairly to faster adoption of institution-wide digital all, and nearly half of employers struggle IBM Watson to provide direct access for Pearson courseware.
We to nd the quali ed candidates they need.
are also pricing our digital content for rental virtual tutor tutoring far more competitively cutting the prices of We already have the expertise and the capabilities around 2,000 eText works and piloting our market insights, and we are investing in own print rental programme.
As a result, by innovative learning services and assessment 2020, our goal for our US higher education tools that can have a positive impact on courseware business is to be 75% digital and the lives of the greatest number of people.
we should have not just a growing business One of the biggest opportunities for Pearson again but a much better quality one.
and for our customers and learners is the As well as creating challenges, digital enables ongoing digital revolution, which o ers Pearson to partner with educational profoundly new and innovative ways to institutions in order to scale online through address the biggest challenges in education.
In 2016, IBM Watson and Pearson announced new and exciting services.
Our online Pearson is embracing this digital revolution a new global education alliance to make programme management business, which with next generation technology applied to Watsons cognitive capabilities available to partners with universities to take courses the production of our future product millions of college students and professors.
100% online demonstrates this trend, and is o erings.
We will be able to respond to Combining IBMs cognitive capabilities with the fastest-growing part of Pearson.
In 2016, market needs quicker than ever before with Pearsons digital learning products will give our individual course enrolments for online our global learning platform allowing us to students a more immersive learning programmes reached almost 315,000 up innovate and integrate our solutions with experience with their college courses, an easy from over 265,000 in 2015.
We also grew our a platform-powered approach, and o ering way to get help and insights when they need total student base by 10% to over 70,000. it and provide instructors with insights about a world class experience to our learners.
how well their students are learning.
We are building an environment that makes Digital is also making our assessment Learn more at www.
com watson our products and services ever more businesses more e cient and better able education announcements pearson accessible, secure and stable.
to serve institutions, teachers and students.
