02 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 About Pearson Pearson is the worlds learning company, providing a range of products and services to help people across diff erent learning stages make measurable progress in their lives.
Sales by geographies Where we operate North America 65% 2,981m We report by geography because this is how we deliver Core 18% 803m learning: through providing a range of educational products Growth 17% 768m and services to institutions, governments, professional Total sales 4,552m bodies and individual learners in o ur key markets around the world, helping people everywhere aim higher and ful l their true potential.
North America Core markets Growth markets Our largest market includes all Our international business in established Our growth markets in emerging and 50 US states and Canada.
and mature education markets including developing economies, with investment the UK, Australia and Italy.
priorities in Brazil, China, India and South Africa.
70 countries We operate in 70 countries worldwide, with a focus on the markets above.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 1 Overview 03 Sales by products and services What we off er Courseware 48% 2,200m We provide content, assessment and digital services Assessment 30% 1,344m to schools, colleges and universities, as well as professional Services 22% 1,008m and vocational education to learners to help increase Total sales 4,552m their skills and employability prospects.
Increasingly, we do this through partnership models where we bring investment, expertise and scale to help deliver better learning outcomes.
Content Bug Club A dynamic school phonics reading We provide world-leading educational content programme teaching children to for use in both traditional and digital learning.
read, through an online reading world, print books and comics.
274,361 Revel Revel registrations in 2016 An interactive learning environment that enables students to read, practise and study in one enVisionMATH2:0 continuous experience.
A comprehensive maths curriculum supporting millions of students o ering the exibility of print, digital or blended instruction at all grade levels.
Assessment UK quali cations Pearson is the UKs largest We provide assessment services to measure and awarding body, o ering GCSE 9-1 validate learner progress, and to certify competency.
Combined Scienc cience e both academic and vocational quali cations.
14.9 million A guide to yo our new Pearson VUE Pearson BTE T C Nationals in Business summative tests delivered through 5.43 million Helps individuals prepare Specication a network of 8,000 test centres Pearson Edexcel Level 1 Level 2 GCSE 9 - 1 in Combined Science 1SC0 First teaching from September 2016 for their next educational or Issue 1 GCSE A level papers First certication from June 2018 career opportunity through marked in 2016 credentials that verify the 1.01 million skills and learning they need.
BTEC registrations Services Virtual schools Connections Academy is an accredited, We provide integrated services that help educational online education programme o ering institutions improve learner outcomes.
students everything they need to reach their full potential.
Online programme 72,958 management full-time equivalent We partner with colleges and students in 2016 universities to extend the reach of their degree programmes by scaling online.
