70 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Audit committee report Audit committee role Committee chairman Tim Score The committee has been established by the board primarily for the 3 Members Elizabeth Corley, Vivienne C e Co ox x, purpose of overseeing the accounting, financial reporting, internal Linda Lorimer, Tim Score control and risk management processes of the company and the and Lincoln Wallen audit of the financial statements of the company.
As a committee, we are responsible for assisting the boards oversight of the quality and integrity of the companys external financial reporting and statements and the companys accounting policies and practices.
Pearsons internal auditor has a dual reporting line to the chief financial o cer and to me, and external auditors have direct access As a committee we provide independent to the committee to raise any matters of concern and to report on the results of work directed by the committee.
As audit committee scrutiny and challenge in times of chairman, I report to the full board at every board meeting strategic shift and operational immediately following a committee meeting.
I also work closely with the chief financial o cer outside of the formal meeting enhancements throughout Pearson.
schedule to ensure robust oversight and challenge in relation to financial control and risk management.
Committee responsibilities include oversight of: Provision of non-audit services by external auditors The quality and integrity of financial reporting Reporting As a committee, we review the independence of the external and statements and related disclosure.
auditors, including the provision of non-audit services to ensure that there is an appropriate audit relationship and that auditor Group policies, including accounting Policy objectivity and independence are upheld.
During 2016, the policies and practices.
committee approved revisions to Pearsons external auditor policy to take account of changes to the regulation of non-audit External audit, including the appointment, services which may be provided by external auditors.
Learn more External quali cation, independence and the about auditors independence on p74 and note 4 to the audit performance of the external auditor.
Risk management systems and internal Risk & Audit committee changes control environment including the internal control performance of the internal audit function.
In March 2016, Lincoln Wallen joined the committee, bringing extensive technology experience: and, as a result of the work Compliance with legal and regulatory Compliance conducted by the nomination committee and Mr Taurel to examine requirements in relation to financial & governance the composition and remit of the boards committees, Elizabeth reporting and accounting matters.
Corley joined the committee with e ect from 1 January 2017.
Terms of reference As a committee, we have a good balance of skills and knowledge with experience covering all aspects of the sector in which The committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out Pearson operates education, digital and services, and our its authority and duties.
These are reviewed annually and can be key geographic markets.
found on the company website www.
com governance Attendance Fair, balanced and understandable reporting Attendance by directors at audit committee meetings We are mindful of the Codes provision C. 1.1 relating to fair, balanced throughout 2016: and understandable reporting and we build su cient time into Meetings attended our annual report timetable to ensure that the full board receives 1 su cient opportunity to review, consider and comment on the Vivienne Cox 2 4 report as it progresses.
Learn more about fair, balanced and Linda Lorimer 4 4 understandable reporting on p110 Tim Score 4 4 2 Lincoln Wallen 3 3 Risk assessment, assurance and integrity Note 1: Ms Cox was unable to attend two meetings due to i a pre-existing A key role of the committee is to provide oversight and reassurance work commitment and ii her CBE investiture ceremony.
On both to the board with regard to the integrity of the companys financial occasions, Ms Cox communicated her observations to the committee reporting, internal control policies, and procedures for the chairman ahead of the meeting.
Note 2: Mr Wallen joined the audit committee on 1 March 2016. identi cation, assessment and reporting of risk.
During 2016, we Note 3: Elizabeth Corley joined the audit committee on 1 January 2017. conducted a number of deep dives into selected principal risks, and the key risks on which the committee focused throughout the year are set out below.
Learn more about principal risks and uncertainties on p47-55 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 71 Business transformation addressed in a methodical manner, with customer and year end issues being the priority.
The committee discussed with Ongoing business transformation is one of Pearsons key risks management the lessons learned from the UK implementation, and opportunities.
The Enabling Programme TEP is an important and heard how those would help to shape the governance structure operational simpli cation project covering Pearsons key enterprise for the US deployment with plans having been developed to fide-risk resource planning technology and processes including financial and the US implementation and to phase it over a longer period, HR systems and processes, and the committee received an update expected to start in Q4 2017, with the rest of world implementation at each meeting as TEP progressed during the year.
The key area of pushed back for 12 months.
The committee will continue to consider focus for the committee throughout the year was oversight of the TEP at each meeting as the project progresses throughout 2017. implementation in the UK, which was the first sector of Pearson to Learn more about The Enabling Programme on p48 go live, acting as a pilot for some of the global design decisions.
Of particular importance before go-live were the complexities in Data security and data privacy Pearsons business model, the number of key interfaces and the The committee held deep dives with the chief technology & need to address the customer-facing platforms as a priority.
The operations o cer, chief information security o cer and chief committee focused on the schedule and risks to the UK go-live in privacy o cer to examine progress made in the second year of relation to integration, design and build, and data, considering enhancements, and consider where e orts should be focused.
how those could be mitigated.
They reviewed the operation of the A number of actions had been taken to strengthen the security TEP steering committee and agreed upon the timing and scope of of Pearsons technology estate, which increased visibility over PwCs external assurance work to complement the Groups own the infrastructure and improved resilience to external attacks.
The committee discussed the companys approach to dealing with The HR systems go-live took place in the UK without major issue.
information security and data privacy in legacy products, and how The main finance system go-live in the UK took place in July 2016, these would be addressed in products in the development pipeline.
and the committee continued to monitor TEP as the systems became They heard how technology and legal teams had conducted a embedded into business practices, noting that issues had been detailed review of Pearsons top products, including all of the key experienced due in part to complex data transition.
These were US and UK school assessment products and covering at least half Audit committee meeting focus during 2016 Area of responsibility Activity Accounting and technical updates 2015 annual report and accounts: Form 20-F and related disclosures Reporting preliminary announcement, financial including annual Sarbanes-Oxley Act Impact of legal claims and regulatory statements and income statement section 404 attestation of financial issues on financial reporting reporting internal controls Fair, balanced and understandable, Review of interim results and Going concern and viability statements trading updates Accounting matters and Analysis supporting viability statement Annual review of treasury policy Policy Group accounting policies Read more on p55 and strategy Annual review and approval of external Tax strategy auditor policy Provision of non-audit Reappointment of external auditors Remuneration and engagement letter External services by PwC of external auditors Con rmation of auditor independence audit Receipt of external auditors Review opinion on interim results 2016 external audit plan report on Form 20-F and Review of the e ectiveness of Plans for audit tender year-end audit external auditors Half year review Internal audit activity reports Assessment of the e ectiveness of Risk deep dives: data security: data Risk & and review of key findings internal control environment and risk privacy: anti-bribery and corruption: tax internal control management systems Enterprise risk management Data security incident reporting Read more on p44-46 Business resiliency, including crisis Legal risk review management 2017 internal audit plan Royalties update Health and safety Legacy product review Oversight of The Enabling Programme Fraud, whistleblowing reports Compliance with UK Review of the committees Compliance and Code of Conduct matters Corporate Governance Code terms of reference & governance The Enabling Programme Compliance with SEC and NYSE Review of the e ectiveness of the requirements including committee and the Group internal Schedule of authorities Sarbanes-Oxley Act audit function 72 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Audit committee report of Pearsons digital revenues, and had developed a detailed risk Audit committee meetings and activities management plan.
Awareness and training campaigns continued to At every meeting, the committee considered reports on the activities be rolled out to employees on both data security and data privacy, of the internal audit and compliance functions, including the results as employee education and cultural change would be key in ensuring of internal audits, risk reviews, project assurance reviews and fraud integrity of systems and protection of data, and the companys data and whistleblowing reports.
The committee also monitored the privacy governance continued to develop through implementation companys financial reporting, internal controls and risk management of new Group-wide policies and data privacy network.
procedures, reviewed the non-audit services provided by PwC and Anti-bribery and corruption ABC considered any signi cant legal claims and regulatory issues in the context of their impact on financial reporting.
The committee received an update on the global landscape for ABC regulatory enforcement actions, highlighting an increasing In February 2017, the committee also considered the 2016 annual focus in Brazil, India and China, where Pearson has a number of report and accounts, including the preliminary announcement, businesses.
The committee heard that Pearson has in place a good financial statements, strategic report and directors report.
global ABC framework that is working e ectively, and noted that Learn more about the key activities of the audit committee a particular focus area for 2017 would be third-party risk, including on p71 review of due diligence on partners and the supply chain.
Additional meeting attendees Pearsons ABC infrastructure includes a network of local compliance o cers based in-country, being mainly members of the legal team.
In addition to the committee members, advisers and executives These o cers have assumed responsibility for ABC compliance in from across the business also attended meetings during the year, their respective businesses, and function as the eyes and ears of as outlined in the table below.
This gives the committee direct the organisation with the oversight of the central compliance and contact with key leadership.
The chairman and chief executive each legal teams.
The committee also reviewed ongoing work to train attend at least one meeting per year, and the chief executive also employees throughout the business in ABC matters, and noted that attends for discussion of matters with an operational focus.
The momentum continues to build within the organisation, thanks in committee also met regularly in private with the external auditors part to the establishment of a cross-functional compliance council and the SVP internal audit and compliance.
and co-ordinated communication and awareness campaigns.
Attendees Meetings attended Tax Chief financial o cer 4 4 At a risk deep dive into Pearsons tax strategy led by the senior vice Legal counsel 4 4 president SVP tax, the committee discussed the complexities and SVP internal audit and compliance 4 4 uncertainties in the global tax environment, noting that UK and US SVP group finance 4 4 tax reform was possible as a result of the UKs decision to leave the SVP finance, group reporting 4 4 European Union and the new administration in the US, as well as the EUs clari cation on its perception of inappropriate tax bene ts in a Vice president compliance and risk assurance 4 4 number of jurisdictions, although the nature of any regime changes Company secretary 4 4 and the likely impact on Pearson was still very unclear.
Management con rmed that they were fully prepared to review Pearsons Group Audit committee training tax strategy in 2017 if required as the exact position began to take The committee receives regular technical updates as well as shape.
The committee noted that for the major countries in which speci c or personal training as appropriate.
In July 2016, Pearson operates the overall tax function was centralised and PwC led a training session for the committee on regulatory strong control operated from the Group tax function.
For other updates, culture and behaviours.
countries tax controls are fide-centralised in terms of day-to-day oversight, but the senior tax management team maintained good Committee members also meet with local management on a relationships with operations throughout the world and were well periodic basis, such as when travelling for overseas board meetings, informed as to the tax position and possible risks across Pearsons in order to gain a better understanding of how Pearsons policies global businesses.
Members All of the audit committee members are independent nonexpert, having recent and relevant financial experience, and is executive directors and have financial and or related business an Associate Chartered Accountant.
He also serves as audit experience due to the senior positions they hold or have held in committee chairman for The British Land Company plc.
other listed or publicly traded companies and or similar public The quali cations and relevant experience of the other organisations.
Tim Score, who assumed the chairmanship of the committee members are detailed on p60-61 committee in April 2015, is the companys designated financial Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 73 and is monitoring the extent to which the Group is drawing upon Committee evaluation the services of other accounting rms.
As noted elsewhere within The committee undertakes an annual evaluation process to review this report, a series of programmes is underway throughout its own performance and e ectiveness, as well as that of the Pearson to implement major e ciency improvements across all our external auditors and Pearsons internal audit function.
enabling functions technology, finance, HR to bring the general and administrative costs of running Pearson more in line with global In reviewing its own e ectiveness, the committee sought input from best practice.
These include a major transformation programme its members, the chairman, the lead external audit partner, and senior The Enabling Programme TEP which includes the executives.
The responses illustrated an e ective committee, which implementation of new financial systems and changes to our uses its time well and has an appropriate focus on the key issues.
transaction processing and control activities, which launched in the External audit UK during 2016, and is expected to be rolled out throughout our businesses by 2020.
Pearson is supported in these changes, such as Oversight of external auditors in project assurance matters, and more broadly, by external The committee reviews and recommends to the board the advisers including accounting rms.
appointment of the external auditors, taking account of the views of In its report last year, the committee expressed its intention to management.
initiate a tender process during 2018, in order for the auditor The committee reviewed the e ectiveness and independence of selected to be in place in time for the audit of the financial year the external auditors during 2016, as it does every year, and remains ending 31 December 2018.
Due to the status of TEP and the satis ed that the auditors provide e ective independent challenge involvement of accounting rms advising on TEP and other change to management.
projects, the committee is of the opinion that the level of disruption likely with a change of auditor, as well as the focus required by The external auditor review was conducted by distributing a finance and management teams to conduct the tender process questionnaire to key audit stakeholders including members of the thoroughly and e ectively, may unduly impact the Group and audit committee, the chief executive, chief financial o cer, company would not be in the best interests of shareholders.
The committee secretary, SVP internal audit and compliance, SVP finance for each therefore agreed at its meeting in December 2016 that it was business area and other heads of corporate functions.
Overall, appropriate in the current circumstances to defer the timing of the responses to the questionnaire were very positive, indicating an audit tender for the foreseeable future.
It is the current expectation of the committee that an audit tender In addition, in accordance with Pearsons external auditor policy, process will commence in 2022 in order for the auditor selected as internal audit performs an annual assessment of audit fees, services a result of the tender to be appointed for the financial year ending and independence.
Both the preceding review and the internal audit 31 December 2023.
It would be our intention to look to accelerate review are considered by the committee in forming its this timing if feasible and appropriate following the completion of recommendation to the board in respect of the appointment and TEP, and we would communicate any change in our plans to compensation of the external auditors.
shareholders in advance of any decision.
For the reasons outlined The committee will continue to review the performance of the above, the committee considers this timing to be in the best external auditors on an annual basis and will consider their interests of Pearsons shareholders and will continue to monitor independence and objectivity, taking account of all appropriate this annually in light of the e ectiveness and independence of the guidelines.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the current auditors, as well as considering whether the timing remains committees choice of external auditors.
In any event, the external appropriate in light of business developments.
auditors are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for Once the next audit tender occurs, Pearson will adopt a policy the Pearson audit every five years.
The current lead audit partner of putting the audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
rotated onto Pearsons audit in 2013.
Compliance with the CMA Order Audit tendering and rotation Pearson con rms that it was in compliance with the provisions Pearsons last audit tender was in respect of the 1996 year end, of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market and resulted in the appointment of Price Waterhouse as auditors.
Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Developments at an EU level regarding mandatory audit rotation Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 during the financial for listed companies have changed the UK landscape on audit year ended 31 December 2016.
Learn more about Auditors tendering and rotation.
The committee has reviewed the timetable independence and non-audit services on p74 for tendering and has taken into account relevant regulation and guidance.
EU regulations and the ruling by the Competition and Review of the external audit Markets Authority CMA impose mandatory tendering and rotation During the year, the committee discussed the planning, conduct requirements, with EU rules requiring a new auditor to be appointed and conclusions of the external audit as it proceeded.
no later than for the 2024 financial year end.
At the July 2016 audit committee meeting, the committee discussed In considering the appropriate audit tender timetable for Pearson and approved the external audit plan and reviewed the key risks of in light of these requirements, the committee has also taken account misstatement of Pearsons financial statements, which were of the signi cant business change being experienced by the Group updated at the December 2016 committee meeting.
74 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Audit committee report The table opposite sets out the signi cant issues considered by the The audit committee approves all audit and non-audit services audit committee together with details of how these items have provided by PwC.
Our policy on the use of the external auditors for been addressed.
The committee discussed these issues with the non-audit services has been updated to re ect the restriction on the auditors at the time of their review of the half-year interim financial use of pre-approval in the 2016 FRC Guidance on audit committees, statements in July 2016 and again at the conclusion of their audit and accordingly all non-audit services, irrespective of value, are of the financial statements for the full year in February 2017. required to be approved by the audit committee.
In particular, we now expressly prohibit the provision of certain tax, HR and other All the signi cant issues were areas of focus for the auditors.
services by our external auditor.
We will continue to review nonLearn more in the Independent auditors report on p114-121 audit services on a case by case basis, including the e ectiveness and appropriateness of our updated policy.
The policy on provision In December 2016, the committee discussed with the auditors of non-audit services by external auditors in use in 2016 was in line the status of their work, focusing in particular on internal controls with previous FRC requirements.
Where appropriate, during 2016, and Sarbanes-Oxley testing, and covering the signi cant issues services were tendered prior to a decision being made as to whether outlined below.
to award work to the auditors.
As the auditors concluded their audit, they explained to the The audit committee receives regular reports summarising the committee: amount of fees paid to the auditors.
During 2016, Pearson spent Their work in evaluating managements goodwill impairment 1.4m less on non-audit fees with PwC compared with 2015, due to exercise a reduction in billing on tax services and on the E cacy programme.
For 2016, non-audit fees represented 35% of external audit fees Their focus on segments, cash-generating units CGUs and goodwill 57% in 2015. impairment and the related impact of Pearsons transformation For all non-audit work in 2016, PwC was selected only after The work they had conducted over revenue, to apply independent consideration that it was best able to provide the services oversight and assess several complex revenue contracts, including we required at a reasonable fee and within the terms of our judgements in relation to provisions for returns external auditors policy.
To assist in ensuring that independence The work they had done to understand Pearsons tax strategy and and objectivity is maintained, for forward-looking tax advisory identify business and legislative risks, to evaluate key underlying and due diligence work PwC assigns a di erent partner from the assumptions and assess the recoverability of deferred tax assets one leading the external audit.
Their evaluation of the recoverability of investments in digital Signi cant non-audit work performed by PwC during 2016 included: platforms and pre-publication assets Audit-related work in relation to potential and actual corporate The results of their controls testing for Sarbanes-Oxley Act finance transactions section 404 reporting purposes and in support of their financial Tax compliance services related to a routine audit by the US Internal statements audit Revenue Service The results of the companys going concern and viability Tax advisory work on a number of UK, US and international statement reports tax matters Their assessment of the amounts disclosed as arising from the Consulting services related to the establishment of an auditable major restructuring programme in 2016. e cacy framework The auditors also reported to the committee the misstatements that Audit of IT general controls mandated by contractual commitments.
they had found in the course of their work, which were insigni cant, and the committee con rmed that there were no material items A full statement of the fees for audit and non-audit services is remaining unadjusted in these financial statements.
provided in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on p140.
Auditors independence In line with best practice, our relationship with PwC is governed by our external auditors policy, which is reviewed and approved Tim Score annually by the audit committee.
The policy establishes procedures Chairman of audit committee to ensure the auditors independence is not compromised, as well as fide ning those non-audit services that PwC may or may not provide to Pearson.
These allowable services are in accordance with relevant UK and US legislation.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 75 Signi cant issues Area of focus Issue Action taken by audit committee Outcome Pearson carries signi cant The committee considered the results of the Groups Annual impairment Impairment goodwill intangible asset annual goodwill impairment review and the key review nalised with reviews balances.
There is judgement assumptions which are considered to be the cash ows con rmation of exercised in the identi cation derived from strategic and operating plans, long-term impairment in the North Read more in note 11 on p147-150 of CGUs and the process of growth rates and the weighted average cost of capital.
America business and allocating goodwill to CGUs The committee considered the sensitivities to changes in su cient headroom in and aggregate CGUs and assumptions and the related disclosures required by other CGUs.
in the assumptions underlying IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
The committee noted the impairment review.
In that a signi cant impairment had arisen in North America 2016, Pearson made further as a result of revised expectations for cash ows signi cant impairments associated with the US higher education courseware to goodwill in its North business over the strategic plan period.
also considered sensitivity to assumptions in relation to other businesses.
Pearson has a number of The committee regularly reviews revenue recognition Assumptions underlying Revenue revenue streams where practice and the underlying assumptions and estimates.
revenue recognition recognition revenue recognition practices In addition, the committee has visibility of internal audit were reviewed and are complex and management findings relating to revenue recognition controls and challenged and assumptions and estimates processes and routinely monitors the views of external considered to be are necessary.
auditors on revenue recognition issues.
Progress the committee continued to monitor the impact of the new on the project to convert revenue recognition standard, IFRS 15 Revenue from to IFRS 15 and initial Contracts with Customers, and noted progress on the findings were reviewed.
conversion project including the identi cation of potential changes to revenue recognition models across the key revenue streams.
The committee noted that the standard would be adopted by Pearson in 2018 and considered the transition options permitted under the standard.
There are a number of issues The committee considered Pearsons approach to tax The committee was Tax in di erent countries where provisioning.
Pearson operates in a large number of satis ed with Pearsons management judgements and countries and, accordingly, its earnings are subject to tax approach to tax assumptions are made as to in many jurisdictions.
The judgement in relation to tax provisioning taking the correct tax treatment.
provisioning is a combination of the committees account of the views of assessment of the speci c open tax issues and also a management and the review of the time periods in which Pearsons tax a airs assessment of the are open to enquiry by local tax inspectors in jurisdictions external auditors.
where it has a larger taxable presence.
The committee addressed this matter through the presentation of two management reports on Pearsons tax a airs by the head of Group tax and through a presentation of the external auditors assessment of the companys tax provisioning.
Pearson announced a The committee reviewed progress on the restructuring The committee Restructuring signi cant restructuring programme and considered the judgements required in con rmed that the programme in early January accounting for the costs of redundancy, property accounting and 2016.
There are a number of rationalisation, renegotiation of supplier contracts and disclosure for the accounting judgements to closure of certain systems, platforms and products.
restructuring be made regarding The committee also considered the disclosure of programme was categorisation and timing restructuring in Pearsons adjusted measures.
In light of signi cant returns in The committee considered return provisioning for the Assumptions underlying Returns the period, we reviewed our higher education courseware business following a high the new returns reserve policy on reserving for returns.
level of returns from retailers during the year.
The returns methodology were methodology for this business was changed to focus more reviewed and agreed as on customer and channel rather than academic discipline.
being more appropriate in the light of recent developments.
76 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Risk governance and control Leaders and managers at all levels in Pearson are responsible Control environment for managing risk in their area of responsibility, including the The board of directors has overall responsibility for Pearsons identi cation, assessment and treatment of risk systems of internal control and risk management, which are The ERM team owns the overall risk management framework designed to manage, and where possible mitigate, the risks facing for the company and facilitates consolidated reporting on risk Pearson, safeguard assets and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or The internal audit team provides independent assurance on the loss.
The board of directors con rms that it has conducted a review adequacy of the risk management arrangements in place.
The of the e ectiveness of Pearsons systems of risk management internal audit plan is aligned to identi ed Group-level risks reported and internal control in accordance with provision C. 2.3 of the Code by the ERM team and they present issues and risks arising from and the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and internal audits at each audit committee meeting.
Related Financial and Business Reporting FRC Guidance.
These systems have been operating throughout the year and to the The involvement of the board and audit committee in the design, date of this report.
implementation, identi cation, monitoring and review of risks including setting risk appetite, determining which are principal The board has delegated responsibility for monitoring the to the company and how risk is being embedded in our culture is e ectiveness of the companys risk management and internal outlined in more detail in the risk management section of the control systems to the audit committee.
The audit committee annual report on p44-46.
oversees a risk-based internal audit programme, including periodic audits of the risk processes across the organisation.
It provides Financial management and reporting assurance on the management of risk, and receives reports on the There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and e ciency and e ectiveness of internal controls.
Each business forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the area, including the corporate centre, maintains internal controls board of directors.
Monthly financial information, including trading and procedures appropriate to its structure, business environment results, balance sheets, cash ow statements, capital expenditures and risk assessment, while complying with company-wide policies, and indebtedness, is reported against the corresponding gures standards and guidelines.
for the plan and prior years, with corrective action outlined by the Internal control and risk management appropriate senior executive.
Pearsons senior management meets regularly with business area management to review their business Our internal controls and risk oversight are monitored and and financial performance against plan and forecast.
Major risks continually improved to ensure their compliance with FRC Guidance.
relevant to each business area as well as performance against the Our risk journey is described more thoroughly in the risk stated financial and strategic objectives are reviewed management section on p44-46.
Pearsons board of directors are ultimately accountable for e ective We have an ongoing process to monitor the risks and e ectiveness risk management in Pearson and determine our strategic approach of controls in relation to the financial reporting and consolidation to risk.
They agree risk appetite targets early in the year, receive and process including the related information systems.
This includes review semi-annual reports on the ERM process and the status of up-to-date Pearson financial policies, formal requirements for top Group-level risks.
finance to certify that they have been in compliance with policies and that the control environment has been maintained throughout They are supported in the following ways: the year, consolidation reviews and analysis of material variances, The audit committee is responsible for overseeing internal controls finance technical reviews, and review and sign-o by senior finance within Pearson which includes determining the risk appetite managers.
The Group finance function also monitors and assesses recommended by Pearson executive management, reviewing these processes, through a finance compliance function.
and commenting upon key risks and ensuring that risk management is e ective Pearsons executive and leadership teams are responsible for identifying and mitigating risks, supported by the ERM team.
Risk ownership was included in Pearson executive leadership goals for 2016 where appropriate Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 77 These controls include those over external financial reporting which The SVP internal audit and compliance oversees compliance with are documented and tested in accordance with the requirements our Code of Conduct and works with senior legal and human of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is relevant to our resources personnel to investigate any reported incidents including US listing.
One key control in this area is the veri cation committee, ethical, corruption and fraud allegations.
The audit committee is which submits reports to the audit committee.
This committee is provided with an update of all signi cant matters received through chaired by the SVP internal audit and compliance, and members our whistleblowing reporting system, together with an annual include the chief financial o cer, general counsel, vice president review of the e ectiveness of this system.
The Pearson anti-bribery investor relations, company secretary as well as senior members of and corruption programme provides the framework to support our financial management.
The primary responsibility of this committee compliance with various anti-bribery and corruption regulations is to review Pearsons public reporting and disclosures to ensure such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt that information provided to shareholders is complete, accurate and Practices Act.
compliant with all applicable legislation and listing regulations.
Treasury management The e ectiveness of key financial controls is subject to management The treasury department operates within policies approved by review and self-certi cation and independent evaluation by the the board and its transactions and procedures are subject to external auditors.
Major transactions are authorised outside Internal audit the department at the requisite level, and there is an appropriate segregation of duties.
Frequent reports are made to the chief Pearson has an in-house internal audit function, supported by financial o cer and regular reports are prepared for the audit co-source agreements to augment our in-house resources, for committee and the board.
The treasury policy is described in example providing speci c subject matter expertise or language more detail in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
The internal audit function is responsible for providing independent assurance to management and the audit committee Insurance on the design and e ectiveness of internal controls to mitigate Pearson reviews its risk nancing options regularly to determine strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
The SVP how the companys insurable risk exposures are managed and of internal audit, risk and compliance reports formally to both protected.
Pearson purchases comprehensive insurance cover the chairman of the audit committee and the chief financial and annually reviews coverage, insurers and premium spend, o cer and internal audits mandate is reviewed annually by the ensuring the programme is t for purpose and cost-e ective.
Pearsons insurance subsidiary, Spear Insurance Company Limited, The internal audit plan is approved annually by the audit committee.
is used to leverage Pearsons risk retention capability and to achieve Completion and changes to the plan are also reviewed and a balance between retaining insurance risk and transferring it to approved by the audit committee throughout the year.
audit plan is aligned to our greatest areas of risk as identi ed by the enterprise risk management process, and the audit committee considers issues and risks arising from internal audits.
Management action plans to improve internal controls and to mitigate risks, or both, are agreed with the business area after each audit.
Formal management self-assessments allow internal audit to monitor business areas progress in implementing management action plans agreed as part of internal audits to resolve any control fide ciencies.
Progress of management action plans is reported to the audit committee at each meeting.
Internal audit has a formal collaboration process in place with the external auditors to ensure e cient coverage of internal controls.
Regular reports on the findings and emerging themes identi ed through internal audits are provided to executive management and, via the audit committee, to the board.
