16 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our strategy in action STRATEGIC GROWTH DRIVER Build market presence One of our key strategic drivers is to build our market-leading presence in North America, the UK and other key markets.
We also aim to build our leading presence in select developing markets to meet the growing global demand for education, while reducing the geographical complexity of Pearson in order to focus on fewer, bigger opportunities in education.
Strategy in action International growth in online programme management Were building sustainable, lasting partnerships with top academic institutions in the US and, increasingly, internationally.
We have over 45 partners and support more than 250 online degree programmes in the US.
In Australia, we partner with Monash University and Gri th University and our UK online programme management business is growing rapidly with a strong 2017 pipeline in place following the launch of our first partnership with Kings College London in 2016.
Total course Total US enrolments students 2016 2016 315,000 70,400 2015: 265,000 2015: 62,592 We are delighted to be partnering with Pearson which has a global reputation for online education provision.
The partnership will help us grow our international student base by o ering more programmes to a wider student community across a technology-enabled world.
Professor Ed Byrne AC, President & Principal, Kings College London Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 17 Leading positions in key markets We hold strong market positions across UK quali cations US higher education courseware our major products and services.
Select A level 2016 market share 12 month market share to January 2017 examples outlined include our US higher Source: MPI, BMO education courseware business: UK quali cations: and the fastest growing part 24.3% 40.4% of Pearson, online programme management.
Online programme management OPM GCSE 2016 market share 2016 market share gross revenue 28.7% 26% Source: Deutsche Bank Online Higher Education report, Source: Ofqual Capital IQ, company websites, Eduventures, Pearson Purpose capabilities, product development and English remains a key focus and we will be roll-out: focus on expanding direct digital driving growth in English Language Testing Our mission is to help people make progress access contracts: and through the roll-out and Pearson Test of Academic English in their lives through learning.
of our ebook rental programme and print a business that saw the number of testtextbook rental pilot.
We will also optimise takers almost double in 2016.
We do this through providing content our US K-12 learning portfolio.
and assessment powered by services Equally, we will be focused on expanding our and technology.
Our educational materials We will continue the stabilisation of our US virtual schools business, Connections, and in print, blended and digital format, assessment business, where we secured our online programme management combined with learning design and some key wins in 2016, including winning business one of the fastest-growing parts of technology, lead to better user experiences back a one-year contract to score School the company.
This is a business that has seen and learning outcomes.
Our assessment Assessment Tests in Tennessee.
double-digit growth in recent years and we capabilities ensure we capture information expect this to continue as more universities and insights about learners achievements, Outside of North America, we will look see the bene ts of scaling online.
to win share in the stabilising UK assessment business.
At a time of ongoing structural Over time, this leads to better outcomes, change, teachers and students value larger opportunities in our markets, PTE Academic the quality and stability that Pearson a sharper focus on fewer bigger can provide.
The English test trusted by opportunities and stronger financial universities, colleges and returns for shareholders.
In Growth markets, we will continue the governments around the world.
turnaround of our key geographies We are fully focused on executing our www.
com among them Brazil, China and South Africa corporate strategy, and holding and gaining which returned to pro t. market share in all our major markets.
Connections Academy We will be building our clinical assessment Progress and priorities business and looking for continued growth Fully accredited online public in Pearson VUE, our professional schools for students in Pearson continues to make progress on grades K12.
assessment business that secured strong holding or gaining market share in our major wins in 2016 including being awarded markets and in 2017 our priorities are clear.
com a contract extension to administer the In our largest market, US higher education UK driving theory test for the Driver and courseware, we will defend this business Vehicle Standards Agency DVSA.
Pearson VUE through increased investment in our digital The leader in computer-based testing and certi cation.
