Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Additional disclosures 107 Additional disclosures Pages 58-110 of this document comprise the directors report for Between 31 December 2016 and 14 March 2017, being the latest the year ended 31 December 2016. practicable date before the publication of this report, the company received further noti cations under DTR 5, with the most recent Set out below is other statutory and regulatory information that positions being as follows: Pearson is required to disclose in its directors report.
Schroders plc disclosed a holding of 11.17% Going concern BlackRock, Inc. disclosed a holding of 7.03%, including securities The directors have made an assessment of the Groups ability lending 2.36% and CFD 0.13% to continue as a going concern and consider it appropriate to Lindsell Train Limited disclosed a holding of 5.035%.
adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
Annual General Meeting Viability statement The notice convening the AGM, to be held at 12 noon on As set out on p55 the board has also reviewed the prospects Friday, 5 May 2017 at IET London, 2 Savoy Place, London of Pearson over the three-year period to December 2019 taking WC2R 0BL, is contained in a circular to shareholders to be account of the companys strategic plans, a severe but plausible dated 29 March 2017. downside case and further stress testing based on the principal risks set out on p47-55.
Registered auditors Based on the results of these procedures, and considering the In accordance with section 489 of the Act, a resolution proposing companys strong balance sheet, the directors have a reasonable the reappointment of  LLP PwC as expectation that Pearson will be able to continue in operation and auditors to the company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending of remuneration to be agreed by the audit committee.
Further details of the Groups liquidity are shown in Financial review see p30-35.
Amendment to Articles of Association Share capital Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the company the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of Details of share issues are given in note 27 to the consolidated the Act by way of a special resolution.
The company has a single class of shares which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p each.
The Rights attaching to shares ordinary shares are in registered form.
As at 31 December 2016, The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are fide ned in the 822,126,713 ordinary shares were in issue.
At the AGM held on Articles.
A shareholder whose name appears on the companys 29 April 2016, the company was authorised, subject to certain register of members can choose whether his her shares are conditions, to acquire up to 82,162,378 ordinary shares by market evidenced by share certi cates i. e. in certi cated form or held purchase.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the electronically i. e. uncerti cated form in CREST the electronic AGM on 5 May 2017. settlement system in the UK.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may attend Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR is any general meeting of the company and, on a show of hands, published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the every shareholder or his her representative who is present at companys website.
a general meeting has one vote on each resolution, and on a poll, As at 31 December 2016, the company had been noti ed under every shareholder whether an individual or a corporation present DTR 5 of the following holders of signi cant voting rights in its shares.
in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 25p of nominal share capital held.
A resolution put to the vote at a general meeting Number Percentage of voting as at date of is decided on a show of hands unless before, or on the declaration rights noti cation of the result of, a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded.
A poll BlackRock, Inc. 45,041,824 5.48% can be demanded by the chairman of the meeting, or by at least three shareholders or their representatives present in person Schroders plc 42,151,560 5.12% and having the right to vote, or by any shareholders or their Silchester International Investors LLP 41,437,136 5.04% representatives present in person having at least 10% of the total Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 41,236,375 5.02% voting rights of all shareholders, or by any shareholders or their representatives present in person holding ordinary shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least 10% of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
At this years AGM voting will again be conducted on a poll, consistent with best practice.
108 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Additional disclosures Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing an ordinary Pearson operates an employee bene t trust to hold shares, resolution but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the pending employees becoming entitled to them under the companys amount recommended by the board.
The board can pay interim employee share plans.
There were 7,718,966 shares held as at dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates 31 December 2016.
The trust has an independent trustee which and for the periods they decide.
In all cases the distributable pro ts has full discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
A dividend of the company must be su cient to justify the payment of the waiver operates on the shares held in the trust.
Pearson also operates two nominee shareholding arrangements The board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the which hold shares on behalf of employees.
There were 2,950,764 shareholders, o er any shareholder the right to elect to receive shares held in the Sharestore account and 403,153 shares held in new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead the Global Nominee account as at 31 December 2016.
The bene cial of their cash dividend.
owners of shares held in Sharestore are invited to submit voting instructions online at www.
co. uk and Global Nominee Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it participants are invited to submit voting instructions by e-mail to became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong nominee@equiniti.
If no instructions are given by the bene cial to the company, unless the directors decide otherwise.
owner by the date speci ed, the trustees holding these shares will not exercise the voting rights.
If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among Transfer of shares the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company and he she can value assets and determine how the division shall be The board may refuse to register a transfer of a certi cated share carried out as between the shareholders or di erent classes of which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same sanction, dealings in shares in the company from taking place on an open transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon and proper basis.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer such trusts for the bene t of the shareholders.
of a certi cated share unless: i the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered o ce of the company Voting at general meetings or any other place decided by the board, and is accompanied by the certi cate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence Any form of proxy sent by the shareholders to the company in as the board may reasonably require to show the right of the relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the company transferor to make the transfer: ii it is in respect of only one class via its registrars, whether in written or electronic form, not less of shares: and iii it is in favour of not more than four transferees.
than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the Transfers of uncerti cated shares must be carried out using appointment proposes to vote.
CREST and the board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncerti cated share in accordance with the regulations governing The board may decide that a shareholder is not entitled to attend or the operation of CREST.
vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he she or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Act which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he she or any interested person failed to supply the company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The board may also decide, where the relevant shareholding comprises at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued shares of that class, that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Additional disclosures 109 Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the board has Variation of rights resolved that all directors should o er themselves for re-election If at any time the capital of the company is divided into di erent annually, in accordance with the Code.
classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be The company may by ordinary resolution remove any director varied or revoked either: before the expiration of his her term of o ce.
In addition, the i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal board may terminate an agreement or arrangement with any value of the issued shares of the relevant class: or director for the provision of his her services to the company.
ii with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate Powers of the directors general meeting of the holders of the shares of the relevant class.
Subject to the companys Articles, the Act and any directions given Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the by special resolution, the business of the company will be managed holders of any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be by the board who may exercise all the powers of the company, issued with such preferred, deferred, or other special rights, or such including powers relating to the issue and or buying back of shares restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital by the company subject to any statutory restrictions or restrictions or otherwise as the company may from time to time by ordinary imposed by shareholders in general meeting.
Signi cant agreements Appointment and replacement of directors The following signi cant agreements contain provisions entitling The Articles contain the following provisions in relation to directors: the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the Directors shall be no less than two in number.
Directors may be event of a change of control of the company: appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or by the board.
Under the $1,750,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement dated A director appointed by the board shall hold o ce only until the August 2014 which matures in August 2021 between, among next AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment, but shall others, the company, Barclays Bank plc Agent and the banks not be taken into account in determining the directors or the and financial institutions named therein as lenders the Facility, number of directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
any such bank may, upon a change of control of the company, The board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to require its outstanding advances, together with accrued interest hold executive o ce with the company for such period subject to and any other amounts payable in respect of such Facility, and its the provisions of the Act and upon such terms as the board may commitments, to be cancelled, each within 60 days of noti cation decide and may revoke or terminate any appointment so made.
For these purposes, a change of control The Articles provide that, at every AGM of the company, at least occurs if the company becomes a subsidiary of any other company one-third of the directors shall retire by rotation or, if their number or one or more persons acting either individually or in concert, is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third.
The first obtains control as fide ned in section 1124 of the Corporation directors to retire by rotation shall be those who wish to retire and Tax Act 2010 of the company.
not o er themselves for re-election.
Any further directors so to Shares acquired through the companys employee share plans retire shall be those of the other directors subject to retirement rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
by rotation who have been longest in o ce since they were last For legal and practical reasons, the rules of these plans set out the re-elected but, as between persons who became or were last consequences of a change of control of the company.
re-elected on the same day, those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
In addition, any director who would not otherwise be required to retire shall retire by rotation at the third AGM after they were last re-elected.
110 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Additional disclosures The audit committee is also available to advise the board on Other statutory information certain aspects of the report, to enable the directors to ful l Other information that is required by the Companies Act 2006 their responsibility in this regard.
The directors consider that the the Act to be included in the directors report, and which is annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced incorporated by reference, can be located as follows: and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, Summary disclosures index See more business model and strategy.
Dividend recommendation p34 The directors also con rm that, for each director in o ce at the Financial instruments and financial risk management p160-162 date of this report: Important events since year end p35 So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Future development of the business p6-27 of which the companys auditors are unaware Research and development activities p18-19 They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Employment of disabled persons p24 directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Employee involvement p23-24 information and to establish that the companys auditors are Greenhouse gas emissions p25 aware of that information.
With the exception of the dividend waiver described on p108, Directors in o ce there is no information to be disclosed in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
The following directors were in o ce during the year and up until signing of the financial statements: No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure incurred by the company or its subsidiaries during the year.
E P L Corley H Manwani V Cox T Score Fair, balanced and understandable reporting J J Fallon S Taurel As required by the Code, we have established arrangements to S J Lewis L Wallen ensure that all information we report to investors and regulators is fair, balanced and understandable.
A process and timetable for L K Lorimer C Williams the production and approval of this years report was agreed by the The directors report has been approved by the board on 14 March board at its meeting in December 2016.
The full board then had 2017 and signed on its behalf by opportunity to review and comment on the report as it progressed.
Representatives from financial reporting, corporate a airs, company secretarial, legal and internal audit and compliance are involved in the preparation and review of the annual report to ensure a cohesive and balanced approach and, as with all of our financial reporting, our veri cation committee conducts Stephen Jones a thorough veri cation of narrative and financial statements.
