78 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Reputation & responsibility committee report Reputation & responsibility committee role Committee chairman Linda Lorimer The committee works to advance Pearsons reputation and to Members Vivienne Cox, Lind da L a Lo or ri im me er r, maximise the companys positive impact on society and the 2 2 Harish Manwani and Lincoln n Wa Wal ll le en n communities in which we work.
We are committed to promoting Pearsons 2020 sustainability plan, and the committee works in alignment with the companys responsible business leadership council.
Read more about our 2020 sustainability plan on p20-27.
Changes to the committee Our role is to ensure sustainability, As a result of work conducted by the nomination committee and the learner impact, and stakeholder views chairman of the board to examine the composition and remit of the remain central to Pearsons mission.
boards committees, Lincoln Wallen has joined the committee with e ect from 1 January 2017, with Josh Lewis stepping down.
Committee responsibilities include oversight of: I am also privileged to take over the chairmanship of the committee from Vivienne Cox, whom I am pleased will remain a member of the Pearsons reputation among major Reputation stakeholders, including governments, committee.
Vivienne initiated this committee in 2012, which is now investors, employees, customers, learners and an important part of our governance framework.
Areas of focus during 2016 Oversight of Pearsons approach to Risk reputational risk, including ensuring that clear One of our prime responsibilities is to ensure strategies are in place roles have been assigned for management.
to manage and improve Pearsons reputation.
The US is our largest Oversight of 2020 sustainability plan and market, so it is important for the committee to consider regularly Sustainability performance against sustainability goals our US reputational management strategy.
To that end, we held and commitments.
a focused meeting in early 2016, led by the SVP corporate a airs for North America.
We examined various aspects of our US strategy, Management of the Pearson brand to ensure Brand & including public policy initiatives, engagement with teachers and that its value and reputation are maintained and culture enhanced.
Pearsons approach to monitoring educators, community and stakeholder programmes, as well as and supporting the values and desired media and brand work.
We received regular updates on our US behaviours that form our corporate culture.
and global reputational work throughout the year, and in 2017 we intend to hold a similar focused session looking at our reputational Ethical business standards, including Pearsons Ethics approach to issues relevant to its reputation management programmes in North America as well as in other as a responsible corporate citizen.
Strategies, policies and plans related to Pearson will be reporting publicly, starting in 2018, on the e cacy Strategy reputation and responsibility issues and the of our products and services to demonstrate their measurable people, processes and policies that are in impact.
Throughout 2016, the committee monitored the progress place to manage them.
of our external reporting plans: we looked at how we are aligning our e cacy goals with our wider business strategy, and considered Terms of reference examples of product e cacy reports.
We were joined for our The committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out e cacy sessions by PwC, which is providing external assurance its authority and duties.
These are reviewed annually and can be for the e cacy reporting process.
found on the company website www.
com governance Attendance Attendance by directors at reputation & responsibility committee meetings throughout 2016: Meetings attended Vivienne Cox 4 4 1 Josh Lewis 4 4 Linda Lorimer 4 4 Harish Manwani 4 4 Note 1: Josh Lewis stepped down from the committee on 31 December 2016 Note 2: Lincoln Wallen joined the committee on 1 January 2017.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Engagement 79 Our recent sustainability report, published in July 2016, identi ed Committee aims for 2017 Pearsons nine most material sustainability issues, and we have Over the next year we will continue to explore Pearsons nine most introduced a programme of deep dives to consider each of these material sustainability issues, including employability and 21st in turn.
Through these sessions the committee will consider the Century skills, a ordability and economic empowerment.
We will public goals and targets the company is setting to address these hold a deep dive into our reputational and risk management plans issues, and examine their associated reputational impacts.
In 2016, for our growth and core markets, evaluate and re ne our 2018 we considered the work under way to improve our product e cacy reporting plans and consider performance against our accessibility standards, which directly supports our ambition to e cacy growth and impact goals.
In addition, we will continue reach more learners, and looked at the progress made in to monitor the Pearson culture and employee engagement, safeguarding our learners, which aligns with our aim of being particularly in light of the changes and rationalisations throughout a trusted partner.
the business in 2016, and we will review the progress made by Read more about our material sustainability issues on p21-22.
Pearsons ongoing social impact initiatives and partnerships.
Evaluation During the year, the committee conducted its first e ectiveness Linda Lorimer evaluation.
The process involved distribution of a questionnaire to Chairman of reputation & responsibility committee committee members and senior management who regularly attend meetings, to evaluate the committees performance in line with its terms of reference, and to ensure that the meetings and papers were su cient to facilitate e ective input and challenge to the business.
The review found that the committee performs e ectively across its remit, with su cient time allotted to the key areas.
The committee has identi ed some particular areas of focus for 2017, including culture and values, and examining key policy issues on the ground in important geographies outside the US.
Reputation & responsibility committee meeting focus during 2016 Area of responsibility Activity Updates on reputational hot topics at each meeting Reputation US reputational strategy deep dive Stakeholder engagement in relation to AGM Overview of UK apprenticeships Overview of reputational risk approach in growth and US markets, through in-country personnel and central corporate Risk a airs team Regular consideration of reputational risk dashboards Safeguarding deep dive Impact of US presidential election preliminary view 2020 sustainability plan and sustainability reporting Sustainability E cacy and research spotlight on 2018 external e cacy reporting E cacy growth and impact goals Sustainability initiatives including the launch of the Alphabet of Illiteracy campaign and Tomorrows Markets Incubator for employee intrapreneurs Demonstration of LearnED, Pearsons online digital newsroom Brand & culture Modern Slavery Act implications and statement Ethics Consideration of ethical issues in the wider context of reputational risk identi cation Social innovation and impact venturing strategy Strategy Pearson A ordable Learning Fund review Product accessibility deep dive Environmental strategy update 80 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Stakeholder engagement shareholders both before and after the AGM and respond Engaging with shareholders to shareholder queries and requests as necessary.
The chairman Pearson has an extensive programme of communication with ensures that the board is kept informed of investors and advisers all of its shareholders large and small, institutional and private.
views on strategy and corporate governance.
At each board meeting, the directors consider commentary from advisers on Shareholder outreach In 2016, we continued with our shareholder major shareholders positions and Pearsons share price.
In addition, outreach programme, seeing approximately 600 institutional the nomination & governance and remuneration committees and private investors at more than 300 di erent institutions in consider shareholder views on corporate governance and Australia, Canada, Dubai, Greater China, Continental Europe, remuneration matters, respectively, as required.
Japan, Singapore, the UK and the US.
Consultations During the year, we also consulted with our major Trading updates There are five trading updates each year and the shareholders and with shareholder representative bodies on chief executive and chief financial o cer present our preliminary our directors remuneration policy.
They also attend regular meetings throughout the year with investors in the UK and around the world, Read about Remuneration on p82-106 tailored to investor requirements, to discuss the performance of Private investors Private investors represent over 80% of the the company, the companys strategy, our change programme, shareholders on our register and we make a concerted e ort to structural and cyclical changes in our markets, and risks engage with them regularly.
Shareholders who cannot attend the and opportunities for the future.
We also held an investor AGM are invited to e-mail questions to the chairman in advance and analyst day in June 2016.
You can read more about this below.
com Chairman and non-executive directors The chairman meets We encourage our private shareholders to become more informed regularly with shareholders to understand any issues and concerns investors and have provided a wealth of information on our website they may have.
This is in accordance with both the Code and about managing Pearson shareholdings.
We also encourage all consistent with the duties of investors under the UK Stewardship shareholders, who have not already done so, to register their e-mail Code.
The non-executive directors meet informally with Visit pearson.
com Investor and analyst day Investor relations information Company announcements and shareholder presentations, webcasts and conference calls Past announcements and presentations Historical financial performance Share price data Calendar of events Information about our businesses and products Pearson hosted an investor and analyst information day in June 2016 at its head o ce in London.
Presentations from the chief executive, chief financial o cer, president of North America and other company leaders focused on our US higher education courseware and higher education online services businesses.
The event provided analysts and investors with more information on the market and our strategy, the new products and services were bringing to market, our sales and marketing capabilities, our ability to implement and our journey along the digital transition.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Engagement 81 addresses through our website and with our registrar.
This Engaging with all stakeholders enables them to receive e-mail alerts when trading updates and We post all company announcements on our website, other important announcements are added to our website.
com, as soon as they are released, and key See Shareholder information on p196 or visit our website shareholder presentations are made accessible via webcast or www.
Our website contains a dedicated investor relations section with an extensive archive of past announcements and Annual General Meeting presentations, historical financial performance, share price data Our AGM, on 5 May 2017, is an opportunity for all shareholders and a calendar of events.
It also includes information about all of to meet the board and to hear presentations about Pearsons our businesses, links to their websites and details of our businesses and results.
Learn more about our approach to Sustainability on p20-27 Share dealing service Due to its continued popularity we again provided shareholders with smaller holdings the opportunity to use our registrars low-cost share dealing service, giving them the chance to add to or reduce their stake in Pearson at signi cantly reduced dealing rates, or to donate shares to charity with ease.
This service proved popular with shareholders, and consequently we intend to o er it again at a future date.
We believe it is important that our employees have a shared interest in the direction and achievements of Pearson and are pleased to say that a large number of our employees are shareholders in the company.
Employee engagement Discovery Days The board views employee engagement as a key element of its oversight of the companys culture, and an In 2016, we launched a series of Discovery Days.
These employee-only days provide an opportunity to showcase opportunity to become directly involved in leadership our products while giving sta the chance to learn more and talent development activities.
about our brand and strategy from senior leaders, engage Board talent breakfasts with Pearsons product experts and participate in a variety of career and personal development activities.
The board attended two talent breakfasts during the year, engaging with employees at the overseas meetings in Senior leaders receptions Bloomington and Hoboken.
Since their introduction, these On three occasions during the year, the board joined a reception sessions have proved consistently popular with the nonfor locally based leaders from product and customer-facing areas executive directors and have evolved to include a broad range of the business as well as corporate functions.
These informal of participants, new and long-serving sta, at various levels of occasions provided an opportunity for the board to understand seniority within the company and across all areas of the business.
the motivations of colleagues and to discuss some At the Hoboken breakfast, employees participated of the day-to-day challenges faced by the business.
in facilitated discussions with directors and members of the executive, with conversations focused on employee learning and It is clear that while challenges and change are a career development to aid the board in their understanding of constant, the passion to solve the challenges that talent and retention matters.
Following the event, the feedback face us and our customers by doing good, meaningful from participants was overwhelmingly positive with many of work drives us all.
them indicating that they had felt inspired and that the Employee at board talent breakfast, Hoboken, October 2016 experience had been both insightful and valuable.
