OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES INTRODUCTION EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EMPLOYEE This Directors report is prepared in accordance with the INVOLVEMENT provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and regulations made The Group has a culture of continuous improvement through thereunder.
It comprises pages 58 to 76 and 99 to 101 as well as investment in people at all levels within the Group.
The Group is the following matters which the Board considers are of strategic committed to pursuing equality and diversity in all its employment importance and, as permitted by legislation, has chosen to include activities including recruitment, training, career development and in the strategic report rather than the Directors report: promotion and ensuring there is no bias or discrimination in the treatment of people.
In particular, applications for employment risk management systems page 51 of the strategic report are welcomed from persons with disabilities, and special likely future developments of the Company page 17 of the arrangements and adjustments as necessary are made to ensure strategic report that applicants are treated fairly when attending for interview or for pre-employment aptitude tests.
Wherever possible the important post-balance sheet events note 45 of the notes to opportunity is taken to retrain people who become disabled the financial statements during their employment in order to maintain their employment all matters relating to sustainability, which include details of the within the Group.
Information regarding the Groups workplace Groups carbon emissions page 45 of the strategic report policies is provided on page 48. and information relating to employee involvement page 50 of the strategic report, as well as the disclosure below.
The Board has a diversity policy and encourages gender diversity in particular.
Further details of the Boards diversity policy are set In addition, the Directors report includes the following out in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 74, and disclosures and any other disclosures which are incorporated information regarding the diversity of the workforce is provided by reference: on page 50. financial risk management note 3 of the notes to the Employees are consulted regularly about changes which financial statements may affect them either through their trade union-appointed financial instruments notes 2 o and 18 of the notes to the representatives or by means of the elected staff council which financial statements.
operates in South West Water for staff employees.
These forums, together with regular meetings with particular BOARD OF DIRECTORS groups of employees, are used to ensure that employees are kept The Directors in office as at the date of this report all of up to date with the business performance of their employer and whom served during the year are named on pages 60 and 61. the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of In addition, Ken Harvey, the previous Chairman, and Gerard the Group.
The Group also cascades information monthly to Connell, the previous Senior Independent Director, served during all employees to provide them with important and up to date the year until their retirement from the Board on 31 July 2015. information about key events and to obtain feedback from them.
Further information about employment matters relating to the FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDEND Group is set out on pages 48 to 50 of the strategic report.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 23.12p per ordinary share to be paid on 2 September 2016 to shareholders on the The Group encourages share ownership among its employees register on 8 July 2016, making a total dividend for the year of by operating an HM Revenue & Customs approved Sharesave 33.58p, the cost of which will be 138.5 million, resulting in a scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
Following shareholder approval transfer to reserves of 13.6 million.
The strategic report on at the 2014 AGM, these were amended to provide for the pages 18 to 25 analyses the Groups financial results in more detail increased savings limits approved by government.
At 31 March and sets out other financial information.
2016 around 44% of the Groups employees were participating in these plans.
DIRECTORS INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions HUMAN RIGHTS AND ANTI-SLAVERY contained in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, The Group is fully supportive of the principles set out in the and the Company has maintained throughout the year Directors UN Declaration of Human Rights, and the Group Ethics Policy and officers liability insurance for the benefit of the Company, outlines the high standards of employment practice with which the Directors and its officers.
The Company has entered into everyone in Pennon Group is expected to comply.
The Group qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit also supports the International Labour Organizations core of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the conventions for the protection and safety of workforces wherever requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and which were in they may be throughout the Group.
force throughout the year and remain in force.
The Groups commitment to ensuring the human rights of its employees are not infringed extends to those of its suppliers.
Supplier codes of conduct are in place to ensure that people are treated fairly and with respect and dignity.
co. uk 2016 99 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED In addition, following appropriate due diligence we have put in in them to provide the Company with information requested place policies and procedures to assess, monitor and reduce the by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 risk of modern slavery and human trafficking occurring in our or where their holder is precluded from exercising voting businesses and supply chains.
Risk assessments of any high risk rights by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules or supply partners have been completed by Viridor, South West the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
There are no Water and Bournemouth Water to ensure compliance with the persons with special rights regarding control of the Company.
Modern Slavery Act across the Group and we are in the process No shares issued under the employee share schemes have of drafting our anti-slavery and human trafficking web-based rights with regard to control of the Company that are not statement for the financial year 2016 17.
This will be available at exercisable directly by the employees: www.
c Details of significant direct or indirect holdings of securities of the Company are set out in the shareholder analysis on page RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 174.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Research and development within the Group involving water and shareholders which may result in restrictions on the transfer of waste treatment processes amounted to 0.1 million during the securities or on voting rights: year 2014 15 0.1 million.
d The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement OVERSEAS BRANCHES of Directors are contained in the Articles and accord with The Company has no overseas branches.
usual English company law provisions.
The powers of Directors are determined by UK legislation and the Articles in force from PENNON GROUP DONATIONS time to time.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by the No political donations were made or political expenditure Companys shareholders by passing a special resolution: incurred and no contributions were made to a non-EU political party 2014 15 nil.
e The Directors have the power to make purchases of the Companys own shares in issue as set out above.
The PURCHASE OF OWN ORDINARY SHARES Directors also have the authority to allot shares up to an The Company has authority from shareholders to purchase up aggregate nominal value of: i 55,765,009 such amount to to 10% of its own ordinary shares as renewed at the Annual be reduced by any shares allotted or rights granted under ii General Meeting in 2015, which was valid as at 31 March 2016 below in excess of 55,765,009 : and ii 111,530,018 by way and remains currently valid.
No purchases were made during the of a rights issue such amount to be reduced by any shares year.
As at 1 April 2015, 389,515 shares were held in treasury, allotted or rights granted from i above, which was approved with a nominal value of 158,533 and representing 0.1% of issued by shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM.
379,159 treasury shares representing 0.09% of In addition, shareholders approved a resolution giving the issued share capital as at 1 April 2015 were reissued during the Directors a limited authority to allot shares for cash other than year under the Companys employee share schemes for proceeds pro rata to existing shareholders.
These resolutions remain of 2.5 million.
valid until the conclusion of this years AGM.
Similar resolutions will be proposed at this years AGM.
The Directors have no DISCLOSURES REQUIRED BY PUBLICLY present intention to issue ordinary shares other than pursuant TRADED COMPANIES to the Companys employee share schemes and the scrip The following disclosures are made pursuant to Part 6 of Schedule dividend alternative: 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups f There are a number of agreements which take effect, alter or Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and Rule 7.2.
R of the terminate upon a change of control of the Company following UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
a takeover bid, such as bank loan agreements, eurobond As at 31 March 2016: documentation, hybrid capital securities documentation, private placement debt and employees share plans.
This may a Details of the Companys issued share capital, which consists of result in certain funding agreements being altered or repaid ordinary shares of nominal value 40.7 pence each, are set out early.
The impact on employees share plans is not considered in note 33 to the financial statements on page 160.
All of the significant: and Companys issued shares are fully paid up, rank equally in all respects and are listed on the Official List and traded on the g There are no agreements between the Company and its London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of to the Companys shares, in addition to those conferred on office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in GOING CONCERN the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary at the Having considered the Groups funding position and financial Companys registered office: projections the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resource to continue in operational b There are no restrictions on the transfer of issued shares of existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they the Company or on the exercise of voting rights attached continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the to them, except where the Company has exercised its right financial statements.
to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder or any person interested 100 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS of the Companys website www.
RESPONSIBILITIES Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements other jurisdictions.
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR have prepared the Group and Company financial statements i So far as each of the Directors in office at the date of the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards signing of the report is aware, there is no relevant audit IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and ii each of the Directors has taken all the steps each Director Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial ought to have taken individually as a Director in order to make statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of the profit or loss of the Group for the year.
In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: The Directors report consisting of pages 58 to 76 and 99 to 101 was approved by the Board on 24 May 2016. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently By Order of the Board make judgements and accounting estimates which are Helen Barrett-Hague reasonable and prudent Group Company Secretary state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European 24 May 2016 Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company: and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 60 and 61, confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: i The financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and of the Company.
ii The strategic report pages 4 to 55 and the Directors report pages 99 to 101 include a fair review of the development and performance of the business during the year and the position of the Company and the Group at the year end, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
iii Following receipt of advice from the Audit Committee, that the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
