PIGIT pp17 35 07 06 2016 13:37 Page 17 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS Bill Alexander CBE, Chairman of the Board Richard Laing Chairman of the Audit Committee and of the Management Engagement Richard Laing was appointed to the Board on Committee 20 November 2012.
He was previously Chief Bill Alexander was appointed to the Board on Executive of CDC Group plc, formerly the 28 March 2006 and as Chairman on 19 July 2007.
Commonwealth Development Corporation, from He was previously non-executive Chairman of 2004 to 2011, having joined the organisation in Wigborough Ltd, Chairman of Xansa plc and Chief 2000 as Finance Director.
Prior to CDC, he spent Executive of RWE Thames Water plc, and also held 15 years at fide La Rue, latterly as the Group Finance non-executive appointments at RMC plc, Director.
He previously worked in international GB Airways Ltd and Laporte plc.
Bill is a Chartered agribusiness, at  and Engineer and a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Marks & Spencer.
He has had a number of Engineering.
non-executive positions across a range of sectors.
Vivian Bazalgette His current appointments include: Chairman of Vivian Bazalgette was appointed to the Board 3i Infrastructure plc and Miro Forestry Ltd, which on 21 May 2007.
He is Chairman and a operates in West Africa: non-executive Director of non-executive Director of Fidelity European Values JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc plc and a non-executive Director of Brunner and the Overseas Development Institute: and a Investment Trust plc.
He is also an adviser to BAE Trustee of Plan UK, the international childrens Systems Pension Fund.
He previously held the charity.
He obtained an MA from Cambridge position of Chief Investment Officer of M&G University in Engineering and is a Fellow of the between 1996 and 2000 and, following the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and takeover of M&G by Prudential, was Chief Wales FCA.
Investment Officer of Prudential M&G from 2000 to 2002.
He holds an MA in English from Cambridge Bob Yerbury University.
Bob Yerbury was appointed to the Board on 4 December 2008.
His investment career spans Victoria Cochrane over 40 years, having led the North American team Victoria Cochrane was appointed to the Board on at Invesco Perpetual for 14 years, becoming Chief 28 October 2015.
She is a former Member of the Investment Officer in 1997 and Chief Executive Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young, where she Officer in 2004.
He handed over his CEO and CIO was responsible for risk worldwide.
She stood down responsibilities in September 2008 and June 2010 from her executive career in 2013, having been a respectively, continuing as a Senior Managing Partner in the firm for 20 years.
Prior to the global Director of Invesco Ltd until his retirement on role, she spent two years as a Member of the UK 27 March 2013.
He holds an MA in Mathematics Executive, responsible for risk, and was Managing from Cambridge University and qualified as an Partner for Risk and General Counsel before that.
Victoria is a qualified solicitor and spent more than Actuary at Equity & Law Life Assurance Society.
She is also a non-executive He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries FIA.
Director of HM Courts & Tribunals Service.
Alan Giles Alan Giles was appointed to the Board on 6 November 2015.
Alan is currently Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the remuneration committee of Rentokil Initial Plc and Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the audit and risk committee of the Competition and Markets Authority.
He is also Chairman of the Advisory Board at the Oxford Institute of Retail Management and an Associate Fellow at Said All Directors are non-executive.
Business School, University of Oxford as well as Honorary visiting professor at Cass Business School.
All Directors are considered independent except for He was formerly Chairman of Fat Face Group Bob Yerbury, as he was employed by Invesco Limited, Chief Executive of HMV Group Plc, Perpetual until 27 March 2013.
Managing Director of Waterstones, and an Executive Member of the Audit Committee.
He previously held Member of the Management Engagement non-executive Directorships at The Office of Fair Trading, Somerfield Plc and Wilson Bowden Plc.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17
