PIGIT pp01 16 07 06 2016 13:34 Page 07 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2016 PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT Market Review The year to 31 March 2016 saw the FTSE All-Share Index reach an all-time high in April 2015, only to hit its lowest level since 2012 some 10 months later.
Stock market turbulence was particularly extreme towards the end of the year, with intra-day market activity characterised by some sharp index moves and a low volume of shares traded.
Stock market sentiment over this 12 month period was largely driven by concerns over a slowing Chinese economy and the global economic outlook, the actions of central banks and movements in commodity prices.
The start of the period saw the equity market rise strongly, driven by the introduction of quantitative easing in the Eurozone and further stimulus from Japan.
However, market sentiment swung sharply negative on growing concerns over the impact of the strengthening US dollar on emerging market debt and the deflationary impact of a possible devaluation of the Chinese Yuan.
The first increase in US interest rates for seven years saw a year-end rally by equities, but the start of 2016 saw the FTSE All-Share Index fall back sharply to a multi-year low.
Commodity prices hit 10 year lows, and oil and mining companies cut profit guidance and, in some cases, dividends.
Volatility moderated as oil and metals prices showed some recovery and the European Central Bank cut interest rates in the Eurozone to zero and stepped up the pace of quantitative easing.
Nevertheless, worries persisted over the profitability of banks in a zero interest rate world.
Towards the period end, Janet Yellen, Chairman of the US Federal Reserve, provided a boost to equities by stating that the US central bank should proceed cautiously with interest rate rises, causing a welcome weakening in the US dollar.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Companys net asset value NAV, including reinvested dividends, delivered a flat return for the year, compared with 3.9% total return by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Against a volatile stock market backdrop, the Company outperformed its benchmark index.
The portfolio benefited from its zero weighting in the banking sector, but its underweight position in the oil & gas sector, notably the absence of a holding in BG Group, detracted from performance.
The zero weighting in the mining sector, where share prices demonstrated exceptional swings, was a positive over the period as a whole, but a negative over the final quarter.
The portfolio has significant investments in the pharmaceutical sector, in both large multinationals and smaller companies.
This sector as a whole underperformed on the back of a sell-off in the US driven by political opposition to higher drug prices and a reassessment of the merits of some acquisition driven groups such as Valeant Pharmaceuticals which is not held in the portfolio.
This setback in sentiment towards the sector is likely to be only temporary and in a low growth world where many industries have little pricing power, these pharmaceutical companies offer the scope for longer term growth in earnings, cash flow and dividends.
A key positive contribution to Company performance during the period came from the holdings in the tobacco sector.
Reynolds American which is 40% owned by British American Tobacco concluded the purchase of US tobacco company Lorillard in June 2015 and the company is now seeing cost and revenue synergies emerging from the process of integration.
As part of the deal, Imperial acquired some US brands from Reynolds as well as Lorillards US based salesforce a purchase which Imperial anticipates will be positively incremental to earnings.
In spite of a decline in sales, dividend growth and profit margins remain healthy across all the tobacco majors as a result of product innovation, tobacco quality improvements and cost rationalisation.
Also contributing strongly to performance were certain investments in the financials sector.
Amlin, a Lloyds insurance market investment vehicle, agreed to a takeover from Japanese company Mitsui, resulting in a significant uplift to its share price.
The share prices of Beazley and Hiscox, also in the non-life insurance sector, both rose.
Meanwhile, the portfolios long term holding in Provident Financial gained entry to the FTSE 100 index during the period, as the company delivered a sixth consecutive year of double-digit percentage dividend increases.
In March, London Stock Exchange Group announced a merger of equals with Deutsche Boerse and saw its shares rise to a record high as New York Stock Exchange owner ICE said it may make a counter offer for the company.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 PIGIT pp01 16 07 06 2016 13:34 Page 08 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT continued Within the fixed line telecoms sector, BT announced its strongest revenue growth in over seven years and continued its expansion into mobile telephony, with its acquisition of EE gaining approval from the Competition & Markets Authority.
Shareholders received further good news as it was confirmed that the company would not have to demerge or sell the Openreach fixed line infrastructure, as had been feared.
KCOM saw its shares rise on the sale of its national infrastructure outside of Hull and East Yorkshire to CityFibre for 90 million.
TalkTalk Telecom, however, announced that it had been the victim of a cyber-attack.
The shares were marked down in the weeks following the news, but stabilised towards the end of the period as it was confirmed that the impact of the attack had been less than originally suspected.
The holdings in the support services sector also provided a mixed impact on performance.
Capitas results led to a lowering of forecasts for organic growth and a higher interest charge, while G4S has faced headwinds in its emerging market businesses and from provisions for its onerous unprofitable contracts in the UK and from balance sheet concerns.
The negative share price reactions appear to have been unduly harsh, with the companies well positioned to deliver growth from their bid pipelines in a challenging macro-economic environment.
Meanwhile, Rentokil enjoyed a solid performance throughout the year, as the groups focus on its core pest control business and on cash flow led to higher margins and a lower interest charge.
GAME Digital saw its shares fall sharply after an update on pre-Christmas trading, which confirmed that UK sales had fallen off sharply at the most critical time of year for the company.
Sales in old format content have declined much faster than expected and, while sales of new generation content have remained strong, these were not enough to offset the fall.
The companys sales in the Spanish market have remained strong.
Rolls-Royce published a negative trading update in November, forecasting that 2015 profits would be at the lower end of expectations and that demand would weaken in 2016.
With visibility of future earnings growth showing no signs of improvement, the remainder of the holding in the company was sold, having been reduced earlier in the year.
Also weighing on portfolio performance were the holdings in the travel & leisure sector, where sentiment has been overshadowed by terrorist events.
Thomas Cook confirmed a challenging trading backdrop for 2016, although it has moved much of its summer capacity to the Western Mediterranean.
EasyJet reported a reduction in revenue per seat with the Paris bombing and the French air traffic control strikes having a short term impact.
In terms of portfolio activity, the Companys holding in Amlin was disposed of on acceptance of the bid from Mitsui.
As mentioned above, the holding in Rolls-Royce was sold, while the holdings in GlaxoSmithKline, Ladbrokes and Workspace were also disposed of.
New investments were made in BCA Marketplace, Diurnal, easyJet, infirst Healthcare, Marwyn Value Investors, Mayair, Motif Bio, Oxford Sciences Innovation, Scifluor Life Sciences and VPC Specialty Lending.
Outlook The near term outlook for the UK stock market is likely to remain clouded by a muted macro-economic backdrop in the global economy and increased pressure on profitability in the corporate sector.
The multiyear monetary policy of setting interest rates at close to zero has not stimulated capital investment.
Rather, companies have contained costs, particularly wages, and have used low financing costs to buy back their own stock.
Whilst good for profit margins and shareholder returns in the short term, the result has been a depletion of the capital stock and an implied level of economic growth in the developed world which is below historic averages.
Another side effect has been to widen income inequality in many developed market economies, prompting incumbent governments, increasingly wary of more populist movements, to redress the balance measures have included increasing minimum wages and tackling corporate tax arbitrage.
Combined with some natural wage pressure from tighter labour markets in the US, this is beginning to threaten corporate profit margins.
The collapse in energy prices and the relentless drive of digital technology have entrenched low inflation expectations such that, combined with the factors outlined above, companies operating in the global economy face an ongoing lack of pricing power.
This in turn has restrained the level of turnover growth in many industries, while any rebound in energy prices or pick up in employment costs may not easily be passed on.
08 PIGIT pp01 16 07 06 2016 13:34 Page 09 STRATEGY The overall implications for the UK stock market, which is highly global in its make-up, are that earnings growth in many sectors may disappoint.
Given that valuations are not obviously cheap, overall returns from equities may be expected to be subdued for the time being.
The volatility witnessed since the start of 2016, partly caused by nervousness over financial stability in China, is also likely to remain a feature of the investment landscape for the remainder of the year.
The Companys portfolio has changed relatively little in recent months, as the current investments continue to demonstrate the ability to grow earnings and dividends in this challenging environment.
In the very short term, the outcome of the referendum on EU membership is playing on investors minds, with a sharp fall in the currency expected should the outcome be an EU exit.
The performance of the UK equity market under this scenario is less certain, laden as it is with large companies that derive substantial earnings from overseas and who would in theory be beneficiaries of a weaker sterling.
Mark Barnett Portfolio Manager 6 June 2016 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09
