PIGIT pp17 35 07 06 2016 13:37 Page 19 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2016 Introduction The Directors present their report for the year ended 31 March 2016. Business and Status The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on 2 February 1996 as a public limited company, registered number 3156676.
It is an investment company as defined by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
HM Revenue & Customs have approved the Companys status as an investment trust and, in the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
Life of the Company The Companys Articles of Association require that with effect from 2006 and every five years thereafter, the Company will propose an ordinary resolution to approve the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
Accordingly, resolution 11 is proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Should this ordinary resolution fail, then the Directors shall, within four months of the AGM, convene a General Meeting at which the following resolutions shall be proposed: a a special resolution for the reconstruction of the Company and incorporating proposals for shareholders to elect either: i to continue their investment in a closed-ended company: or ii to receive a cash alternative: and b if the special resolution referred to in a above shall not be passed, a special resolution requiring the Company to be wound up voluntarily.
By way of background, since launch in 1996 to 31 March 2016, the Companys net asset value ex-income has increased by 311.6% compared to the increase in the FTSE All-Share Index of 84.6% source Thomson Reuters Datastream.
Dividends, over the same period, have grown by 309.3%.
The Directors believe, therefore, that the Company has continued to achieve its objectives of providing shareholders with growth in capital and dividends over the medium term and is well placed to continue to do so in the future.
The Board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of this resolution.
Further details can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 5 and 6 and in Directors Report on page 21.
Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 23 is included in this Directors Report by reference.
Directors Board Composition The Board comprises six non-executive Directors, all of whom, with the exception of Victoria Cochrane and Alan Giles who were appointed on 28 October and 6 November 2015 respectively, served throughout the year.
Their biographies, which are set out on page 17, demonstrate their breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors.
Directors Remuneration and Interests in Shares The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 34 provides information on the remuneration and interests of Directors.
No Director was a party to, or had interests in, any contract or arrangement with the Company during the year or at the year end.
Conflicts of Interest A Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or has the potential to conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Articles of Association of the Company give the Directors authority to authorise potential conflicts of interest and there are safeguards in place which will apply when Directors decide whether to do so.
First, only Directors who PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 PIGIT pp17 35 07 06 2016 13:37 Page 20 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT continued have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors are obliged to declare any potential conflicts of interest to the Company and these are recorded in the Companys register of potential conflicts.
This is reviewed regularly by the Board.
Directors Indemnities and Insurance The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance which provides appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
In addition, Deeds of Indemnity have been executed on behalf of the Company for each of the Directors under the Companys Articles of Association.
Subject to the provisions of UK legislation, these deeds provide that the Directors may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company in respect of liabilities they may sustain or incur in connection with their appointment.
Share Capital Capital Structure As at 31 March 2016, the Companys share capital consisted of 240,432,350 ordinary shares of 10p each.
During the year 3,558,099 shares were issued at an average price of 407.8p.
Subsequent to the year end no further shares have been issued.
The Companys Articles of Association allow an issue of B shares to take place should conditions permit.
There are no B shares in issue.
Restrictions There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, no special rights with regard to control attached to said securities, no agreements between holders regarding their transfer known to the Company, no restrictions on the distribution of dividends and the repayment of capital, and no agreements to which the Company is a party that might affect its control following a successful takeover bid.
There are restrictions on the transfer of B shares by shareholders located in the US, which make it more difficult for a US person to resell B shares in many instances.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company every ordinary shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each ordinary share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
Repurchase Powers The Boards current powers to repurchase shares and proposals for their renewal are shown in the section titled Special Business at the Annual General Meeting on page 21.
4 The above rule requires listed companies to report certain information in a single identifiable section of their annual financial reports.
For this year only one item applies disclosure around the issue of shares and this is covered by note 13 Share Capital.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
As previously explained, an ordinary resolution is proposed at this years AGM to release the Directors from their obligation to convene a meeting in 2016 at which a special resolution for the reconstruction of the Company would be proposed.
After making enquiries, the Directors have no reason to believe that such a resolution will not receive shareholder approval.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken as 12 months after the signing of the balance sheet for the same reasons as set out in the Viability Statement on page 14.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet funding commitments: the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities including the 60 million senior secured notes, repayable in May 2029 and ongoing expenses from its assets: revenue forecasts: and future dividend payments.
Auditor As a result of an audit tender process, Deloitte LLP resigned on 30 September 2015 and Ernst & Young LLP were appointed as auditor to the Company.
A resolution for the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 29 to 31 details, among other things, the Committees review of the auditors effectiveness, the audit tender process and the Directors confirmation concerning relevant audit information as required by section 418 of the Companies Act.
Individual Savings Account ISA The ordinary shares of the Company are qualifying investments under applicable ISA regulations.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions As an externally managed investment company, the Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Special Business at the Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company is on pages 57 to 60.
In addition to the ordinary business, five resolutions are proposed as special business, two as ordinary resolutions and three as special resolutions.
Continuation of the Company Resolution 11 is being proposed as an Ordinary resolution and seeks shareholder authority to release the Directors from their obligation, pursuant to Article 155.1 of the Articles of Association of the Company, to convene a General Meeting of the Company at which a special resolution for the reconstruction of the Company be proposed to approve the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
Such a reconstruction would offer shareholders to elect either to continue their investment in a closed-ended company or receive a cash alternative.
Should that resolution fail, a special resolution that the Company be voluntarily wound up would then be required.
Share Issuance The Directors are seeking the authority to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,404,323 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at6 June 2016 in new ordinary shares.
This will allow Directors to issue shares within the prescribed limits should any favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of shareholders.
This authority will expire at the AGM in 2017 or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 PIGIT pp17 35 07 06 2016 13:37 Page 22 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT continued The Directors are also seeking the usual authority to issue new ordinary shares pursuant to a rights issue or otherwise than in accordance with a rights issue of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,404,323 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at6 June 2016 of new ordinary shares disapplying pre-emption rights.
This authority will not be exercised at a price below NAV so that the interests of existing shareholders are not diluted and will expire at the AGM in 2017 or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
Share Buy Backs and Treasury Shares The Directors are seeking to renew the authority to buy back up to 36,040,809 shares 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at6 June 2016, subject to the restrictions referred to in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM.
The Directors are proposing that shares repurchased by the Company be either cancelled or, alternatively, held as treasury shares with a view to their resale if appropriate or cancellation.
Any resale of treasury shares will only take place on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
Notice Period for General Meetings The EU Shareholder Rights Directive increased the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it may be 14 days notice.
A shareholders resolution is required to ensure that the Companys general meetings other than Annual General Meetings may be held on 14 days notice.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 15 will propose that the period of notice for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall not be less than 14 days notice.
Only in exceptional circumstance will the Company use this power and an explanation will be provided.
The Directors have carefully considered all resolutions proposed in the Notice of AGM set out on pages 57 to 60 and, in their opinion, consider them to be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions.
By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary Perpetual Park Perpetual Park Drive Henley-on-Thames Oxfordshire RG9 1HH 6 June 2016 22
