10 BUSINESS MODEL How we create value WHAT WE DO I N PU T S We build a wide range of new homes across the UK.
These are the things we We combine quality and efficiency to provide asustainable need to be abletooperate balance between affordable prices andagood operating asa business.
Land A good supply of land is critical to our maintaining and increasing housing completions because of the inherent delays in obtaining implementable planning consent.
People Our people are essential to implementing our strategy.
We currently employ c. 4,500 staff and use many subcontractors andsuppliers to meet our production targets.
Obtaining Buying Geographic planning land coverage We have 29 regional offices across the permission UK tomaintain geographical coverage, maximise sales potential and minimise riskinregional markets.
We control land which has Our development sites are potential for development pulled through from our Materials but requires further strategic land portfolio, or We have Group supply contracts for our promotion or investment purchased on the open major construction materials to ensure best prices and continuity of supply.
in order for this potential to market.
Our dedicated landbank gives continuity land teams maintain and of supply, enables us to Off-site manufacturing Our Space4 business manufactures replenish our strategic land be selective in our land advanced insulated closed panels and timber portfolio and our planning acquisitions and helps us frames for a large number of ournew homes helping us to build tothe best sustainability teams promote land through to maintain a strong sales standards of energy efficiency and quality.
We recently announced the construction of our own concrete brick manufacturing facility.
This will enable us to produce c. two thirds of our current requirements and exercise greater control over build costs.
See page 12 See page 14 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 11 OU T C O M E S These are the results, both financial andnon-financial, ofwhat we do.
15,171 New homes Sustainable communities In 2016 we provided 65m of community infrastructure, schoolsandopen space.
Financial strength Design Sales & Balance sheet net assets of 2.7bn.
& build customer care Waste We focus on building We continue to invest in recycling family housing nationally skills and systems to deliver Increased to 93% of all construction waste.
good quality new homes Space4s modern method and provide excellent levels Employment of construction delivers of service to our customers.
In 2016 we employed an average of 4,526 people.
energy efficient homes and By maintaining a national supports our production site network with good 774.8m rates by easing resourcing availability and choice Profit before tax pressures.
We maintain of house types we can tight control over our maximise our sales potential.
338m construction costs and work Capital returned to shareholders in progress, so that we can react quickly to changes in housing demand.
See page 16 See page 18 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 12 BUSINESS MODEL Obtaining planning permission 16,600 Strategic land investment and acres of its conversion into high quality developments with detailed strategic land planning consents is prioritised to maximise shareholder returns over the long term.
Persimmon Homes, Greenacres, Bishops Cleeve.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 13 Plan Replenish Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 14 BUSINESS MODEL Select Purchase Persimmon Homes, Chase Wood View, Ross-on-Wye.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 15 Buying land 52,800 We ensure our land replacement activity is of the highest standard plots with implementable supported by achieving the optimal planning consent scale for each of our 29 regional housebuilding businesses.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 16 BUSINESS MODEL Design & build 380 We remain focused on delivering homes that provide good average affordability, supporting greater access to the housing market for site numbers customers who can buy their own home.
Around 50% of our private market sales were delivered at prices of less than200,000.
Persimmon Homes, The Maltings, Shaftesbury.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 17 Quality Affordable Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 18 BUSINESS MODEL North South Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 19 Sales & customer care 15,171 We aim to secure and maintain a sustainable market share in each Homes of our regional markets.
To support sold the delivery of high quality growth we opened two new businesses in 2016, in Launceston and Perth.
We opened an additional business in Mansfield in January 2017.
In total we have invested in five new businesses in just over two years.
Charles Church, Avon Fields, Durrington.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016
