30 VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group up to 31 December 2021 The Directors have assessed the longer The use of a longer time horizon reflects term prospects of the Group in accordance the business model of the Group, new with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate land investments generally taking at Governance Code 2014. least five years to build, sell and for the development infrastructure to be adopted The Directors have assessed the viability by local authorities.
of the Group over a five-year period, taking into account the Groups current position In making this statement, the Directors and the potential impact of the principal have carried out a robust assessment of risks facing the Group.
Based on this the principal risks facing the Group and assessment, the Directors confirm that how the Group manages those risks, they have reasonable expectation that the including those risks that would threaten Group will be able to continue in operation its strategy, business model, future and meet its liabilities as they fall due over operational and financial performance, the period to the end of the Capital Return solvency and liquidity.
On an annual basis the Directors review A key feature of the Groups strategy financial forecasts used for this Viability launched in early 2012 and documented Statement.
This review includes both in the Strategic Report is the Groups five-year business plans constructed from commitment to maintain capital discipline the bottom up and ten year projections over the long term through the housing built from the top down.
On launch, this commitment was incorporate assumptions about the timing reinforced with the announcement of the of legal completions of new homes sold, Groups Capital Return Plan.
This Capital average selling prices achieved, profitability, Return Plan initially committed to return working capital requirements and cash 1.9bn of surplus capital over the following flows, and are designed to test the Groups ten financial years.
On 23 February ability to fulfil its strategic objectives.
2016 the Directors strengthened that The forecasts are subjected to sensitivity commitment with a c. 45% increase in the analysis, involving the flexing of key value of surplus capital to be returned, an assumptions reflecting severe but additional c. 860m, or 2.80 per share.
A range of scenarios As explained in the Chairmans Statement, are modelled to reflect changing the Directors are further strengthening that circumstances with respect to the commitment to the Capital Return Plan principal risks facing the Group together with an additional payment of 25 pence per with the likely effectiveness of mitigating share, or c. 77m to be paid on 31 March actions that would be executed by the 2017, increasing the total amount to be Directors.
These scenarios include returned to shareholders over the Capital consideration of the impact of reduced Return Plan period to 9.25 per share.
sales rates together with lower average The Group has now completed five selling prices resulting from an assumed years of this Capital Return Plan.
deterioration in consumer confidence, Therefore the Directors have determined reduced affordability and a contraction that the remaining five years of this Capital inmortgage lending.
Return Plan ending 31 December 2021 is an appropriate period over which to provide this Viability Statement.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016
