Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 31 THE UK HOUSING MARKET AND BRAND PERFORMANCE 2016 saw good levels of consumer confidence an immediate and significant uncertainty in The UK housing market the markets.
However, the vast majority of 15,171 In 2016 the new build housing market the Groups customers remained focused experienced continued recovery in industry New homes completed on exchanging contracts and completing output, supported by good levels of their new home purchases.
As a result we customer confidence and strong support were able to increase the number of new from a disciplined mortgage market.
homes sold in the first half of the year by 383 homes to 7,238 legal completions, a The market in the first half of the year 6% increase year on year.
In addition we was supported by the continuation of were able to carry forward a similar value low interest rates, healthy employment offorward sales into the second half as at levels and some improvement in real the same point last year at 1.36bn.
disposable household incomes which provided positive conditions for the market.
Mortgage approvals reduced during the We experienced the traditional seasonality summer weeks in line with normal seasonal of demand with a confident spring sales activity levels whilst markets regained their market.
There was a substantial increase composure as the performance of the UK in overall market activity in February March economy remained resilient.
Our sales as investors pulled forward purchase through the summer weeks were strong, decisions in anticipation of the tax changes supported by the sales release of 35 new implemented from early April.
However, outlets for which we had advanced build whilst this did move some new build in response to early indications of strong demand forward to the first quarter of levels of customer interest.
As always, we the year, trading continued to outperform ensured we had an appropriate number the prior year during the run up to the EU of plots released for sale on existing sites referendum on 23 June 2016.
This was to ensure customers had a good choice achieved despite strong comparatives in of house types available whilst remaining the prior year when confidence recovered mindful of fulfilling their expectations for after the General Election in May 2015. acceptable construction delivery dates.
In addition, the cut in Bank Rate to 0.25% Despite some understandable caution by the Bank of England on 4 August 2016 being exercised by consumers and together with the introduction of a package corporates alike during the period ahead of measures to support growth inthe of the EU referendum, the result created Persimmon Homes, Pointers Way, Redditch.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 32 The UK housing market and brand performance continued economy, including the Term Funding principle of residential development has Scheme, provided further support to been achieved on securing an outline 3.14bn the market.
Measures contained Revenue for 2016 8% within the Neighbourhood Planning Bill and As we moved into the autumn we the Governments recent Housing White experienced the usual seasonal increase Paper should lead to some progress being in demand.
We will continue to work with all robust support to customers with stakeholders to identify and secure further compelling mortgage offers.
Whilst overall opportunities to improve the efficiency of mortgage approvals were slightly weaker the planning system at the local level which than for 2015 through the autumn our will allow an earlier start of construction average weekly private sales rate for activity on site.
the second half of the year was c. 15% stronger year on year.
We believe that the Achieving an increase in the number of greater availability of good quality newly separate locations where land is allocated built homes, together with access to the for residential development by local Government sponsored Help to Buy planning authorities is an important and shared equity scheme for first time buyers, necessary step towards achieving the has led to the new build housing market required increase in active outlet numbers increasing its market share of overall across the industry.
In turn this will allow housing transactions relative to the second the industry to increase the numbers of hand market.
We believe the Groups focus new homes built and sold to meet this on house types that appeal to both first local demand from these increased site time buyers and first time movers within locations.
We hope that this platform is the mix of homes offered for sale on our secured by local planning authorities on typical developments provides strong identifying the appropriate land release support for our site activity and greater within their five year plans as required by confidence for our investment in build.
the National Planning Policy Framework.
The recent confirmation of the duration of We have worked hard to increase the existing Help to Buy scheme to 2021 in our rate of new home construction the Housing White Paper together with the despite the availability of skilled labour commitment for early consideration of the remaining challenging during the future of the scheme provides important period.
The Board remains committed visibility for the industry.
Affordability of to increasing its investment in training newly built homes remains very attractive both trade apprentices in the necessary when compared to the cost of renting an site skills and graduate trainees across equivalent house in a similar location.
all functions in the business to support The industrys two main challenges higher sustainable levels of output.
to delivering further expansion of new We are pleased with the progress of build housing volumes remain opening our Combat to Construction initiative new sales outlets as swiftly as possible which provides re-training opportunities in increasing numbers together with for service personnel on leaving the resourcing sites with the appropriate level armed forces.
Our complementary of skilled labour to support increased Upskill to Construction initiative is also build activity.
supporting mature trainees to gain the required construction skills across the In 2016 we were successful in opening country.
We look forward to utilising the 255 new sales outlets, a similar number Governments new Apprenticeship Levy to the prior year.
However, as we have from its introduction in April this year to seen over recent years, our active outlet provide stronger support to our skills network has remained at similar levels training initiatives with the objective of at c. 380 sites.
Securing implementable delivering increasing numbers of newly detailed planning consents for new trained employees to support the desired land parcels remains a challenging and expansion in output.
time consuming process, even after the Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 33 The Group has continued its drive to Persimmon improve productivity and secure efficiency 205,597 The Persimmon brand delivers traditional improvements to mitigate some of the family housing to the private owner Persimmon Homes average pressures resulting from the desire to occupier market in locations where increase build rates on site.
Greater visibility selling price increased customers wish to live and work.
of anticipated build completion dates by 3.0% Total revenues for Persimmon increased and prompt delivery of new homes to by 12% over last year to 2,242m our customers, combined with active 2015: 2,005m.
management of site resourcing and construction programmes, is helping to Reflecting Persimmons market positioning improve the progress of our development on sites across all regions of the UK, the activities.
Greater utilisation of our core brand continues to offer an extensive Group house types as new sites open choice of new homes at affordable is also helping to secure increased prices.
Persimmons average selling price production, particularly when supported of 205,597 for 2016, increased 3.0% by our Space4 modern method of over the prior year 2015: 199,661. construction processes.
During the current We remain focused on delivering homes year we plan to deploy new management that provide good affordability, supporting tools to assist site work flow to help greater access to the housing market for achieve further site efficiencies and customers who have the opportunity to supportproductivity gains.
For the Group as a whole, just under 50% of our total private The availability of the Governments Help market sales were delivered at prices of to Buy scheme remains an important less than 200,000. facility supporting greater access and increased participation of first time buyers In line with the Groups strategy we have in regional new build housing markets.
improved our build rates and successfully Mortgage lenders continue to support increased legal completion volumes by this 20% shared equity loan scheme with 9%, or by 863 new homes, to 10,906 very competitive interest rates, with Help for the year 2015: 10,043.
This was the to Buy mortgage products remaining the main driver of the growth in revenues for most attractive opportunity for customers Persimmon.
Our focus on the first time to buy a new home.
During 2016 we sold buyer and first mover segments of the 6,970 new homes to customers who have market, with attractively designed Group taken advantage of the scheme, 5,852 in house types that customers have found England, and 1,118 in Wales and Scotland, compelling to buy whilst taking advantage where we have seen good take up of the of the Government sponsored Help to Buy equivalent shared equity products.
scheme, has supported this expansion in output.
We welcome the introduction of the Governments Starter Homes initiative as Persimmon generated 43% of legal outlined in the recent Housing White Paper.
completion volumes and 51% of We will be focusing on identifying early revenues from our southern regional opportunities to contribute to this extension markets with an average selling price for of affordable housing tenures to local the year of 243,858 2015: 237,786. communities where appropriate.
This southern regional market average selling price was 38% higher than that During 2016 our two private sale brands, of our northern regional markets of Persimmon and Charles Church, 176,890 2015: 170,388.
The highest delivered strong performances in their average selling price was again achieved regional markets.
Good volumes of sales were delivered from higher value sites at Harborne and Leamington, south of Birmingham and Coventry respectively, Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 34 The UK housing market and brand performance continued and at The Boulevards at East Tilbury.
within the National Planning Policy The North East market delivered the Framework.
Through 2016 we remained lowest average selling price for the year keen to invest in new land offering at 163,777 2015: 159,173 with sites compelling returns, whilst adopting a such as Portland Park, Ashington and cautious and controlled approach given TheHawthorns, Hartlepool, achieving we remain wary of the risks and increased higher volumes of sales at lower price uncertainties associated with the EU points to first time buyers.
The Group is in a strong position to remain selective in its land For the first half Persimmons legal replacement activities given the strength completion volumes increased by 13% ofits existing asset platform.
585 homes over last year and were up 5% 278 homes in the second half, Persimmon owned and controlled 66,382 resulting in growth of 9% 863 homes for plots in its forward consented landbank at the year as a whole.
Growth in the second the end of 2016 having acquired 14,321 half appears more muted but is largely plots of new land during the period.
down to particularly strong comparatives Of these total plots, 36,855 plots have an which were buoyed by strong sales post implementable planning consent.
All these the May General Election in 2015.
In fact, sites are under construction.
This landbank second half sales for Persimmon in 2016 represents c. 3.4 years of forward supply were 620 units, or 12%, stronger than for at 2016 output levels.
We remain keen to the first half.
Second half sales benefited sell and develop all these sites as promptly from additional sites being released for as market conditions allow, asset efficiency sale through the summer following the EU and higher levels of return on capital referendum for which we had advanced employed being key deliverables forall our build in response to indications of strong operating companies.
Persimmon sales rates reflected The Group had another successful year in a confident market throughout the securing planning consents for residential second half.
development from its strategic land Across our regional markets the highest portfolio.
We delivered 8,403 plots into our volumes were secured in our Shires and owned and controlled landbank within the Scottish markets with 1,539 and 1,492 Persimmon business over 36 sites, which legal completions respectively.
In addition, represents 77% of the plots consumed by our North East, Midlands and Western legal completions in the year.
We secured markets also produced very strong sales notable consents for 300 plots at Rainham, with each delivering over 1,250 legal in South East which includes a Westbury completions.
The four new businesses Partnership housing allocation of 75 plots, we opened in 2015 and 2016 all made a and for 450 new homes at Lichfield in West good start to trading and have made solid Midlands, which we intend to triple brand contributions to Persimmons growth.
with 80 plots allocated for Charles Church We will pursue this controlled growth to and 139 homes for Westbury Partnerships.
achieve a sustainable market share for Our joint developments with St Modwen each of our regional businesses in line with also delivered good growth from the the Groups strategy.
eight active sites under construction, Competition in the land market has selling 172new homes during the year remained disciplined for the improved 2015: 331legal completions.
land supply resulting from the consistent application of the planning regulations Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 35 Charles Church experienced particularly Charles Church strong demand on sites at The Coppice, 321,209 Charles Church delivers executive housing Weston-Super-Mare, at Castle Mead in in premium locations across the UK.
Charles Church average Trowbridge and at The Croft, Burgess Hill, We ensure that its market positioning is north of Brighton.
selling price increased complementary to that of Persimmon 13.2% Total legal completion volumes for Charles by differentiating the house types and Church of 2,047 new homes reduced specification offered by the two brands by 335 units compared with last year in the same locations.
Utilisation of the largely due to the reduced number of distinctive Group house types for each active sales outlets.
The reduction in legal brand as we have opened new sites completions was higher in the first half of has resulted in Charles Church selling the year by 224 new homes due to the a reduced number of smaller homes.
slightly later timing of new site openings.
This brand positioning has continued to Legal completions in the second half of reduce the overall number of active outlets the year for Charles Church were 101 offering Charles Church product across new homes higher than for the first half the UK to 76 active sites at the end of reflecting the stronger spring sales season, 2016 2015: 85.
We remain keen to invest sales reservations taken in the second in these higher value premium locations quarter of the year largely being delivered where our market research points to in the second half.
strong demand for the Charles Church product which will support higher returns Larger sites may allow us to provide on invested capital due to the stronger a differentiated offer to deliver both sales rates.
Persimmon and Charles Church branded new homes in a location assisted by the Total revenue for 2016 of 657m was 3% Group core house types for each brand.
lower than the prior year 2015: 676m.
By using this dual branding opportunity we The Charles Church average selling are able to optimise our sales rates from price of 321,209 increased by 13.2% the site and achieve a swifter asset turn 2015: 283,690 supported by 55% by attracting customers from across the of its sales being completed in more widest range of the home buying public.
southern markets which experienced This allows our site operations to run more good pricing conditions through the year.
Charles Church, Sycamore Gardens, Stamford.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 36 The UK housing market and brand performance continued efficiently with consequential benefits The Group invests in high quality being captured across the business, management teams who live in the 106,889 from continuity of site resourcing and communities which we support by way Westbury Partnerships build programme management, to health of new build housing delivery.
We believe average selling price and safety compliance and standards this strong local knowledge is essential of customer care.
We have recently to designing and developing sustainable increased by 4.0% established dual branding with two sales communities in locations where families offices at Cheltenham where we plan to wish to live and work.
The Group will sell 250 Persimmon homes and 61 Charles continue to seek to develop strong Church homes, and similarly at Frome relationships with housing associations to in Wiltshire on a scheme for 450 new support as many lower income families as homes where 101 Charles Church homes possible to access the housing market in are available.
line with the aims of the National Planning Policy Framework.
By partnering with Charles Church acquired 1,861 new plots ourhousing association colleagues we will in 2016 and held 11,805 plots in its forward continue to focus on supporting the social consented landbank at 31 December sustainability of the communities we serve 2016.
Of these total plots 6,720 have through new housing provision.
an implementable detailed residential development consent which provides As part of the Groups planning processes c. 3.3 years of forward supply at 2016 our Partnerships business will typically sales volumes.
In line with our long term work with our housing association partners operational strategy for the Charles Church to identify the mix of house types and business it will retain a shorter landbank tenures required by a local community than that held for Persimmon.
This allows and the timing of delivery at an early stage.
Charles Church to deliver a strong return This is usually incorporated within the on capital whilst accommodating the details of the planning consent granted by slower sales rate typically associated the local planning authority for the delivery with the larger and more highly specified of new housing in that location.
The Group Charles Church homes.
is keen to deliver the newly built homes to our housing association partners as Within the Charles Church business 617 soon as possible in coordination with their plots were converted from the strategic funding position.
The market for affordable landbank on 5 sites, representing 30% housing continues to be important for us.
This success In 2016 the Group again delivered c. 15% includes a consent at Downton, south of of total legal completions to our housing Salisbury for a development of 99 Charles association partners.
At 31 December Church homes and at Morpeth in the 2016 we had c. 3,700 affordable housing North East for 50 plots.
These sites will units forward sold in our order book support the delivery of superior returns for providing a strong platform for future the business as we take legal completions salesinto this market place.
from them over future periods.
Government measures with respect to funding, rental levels and tenure types are Westbury Partnerships starting to work through the market and Westbury Partnerships is our partnership will provide opportunities for expansion of housing business working with housing delivery to lower income families housing associations across the UK.
from housing associations and others Westbury Partnerships delivered 2,218 who commit to construction activity in new homes in 2016, an increase of conjunction with land made available by 3% over last year 2015: 2,147 homes.
We are working The average selling price for these with local authorities and third party homes increased 4.0% to 106,889 funding providers to support the delivery 2015: 102,810. ofincreased housing numbers through these local authority approved schemes.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 37 Space4 has delivered over The Starter Homes initiative as recently site at PleasleyHill, Mansfield, sourced included in the Governments Housing through the DPP, will deliver 151 new White Paper is an extension to affordable houses, including 31 affordable homes, 40,000 home tenures.
This initiative targets the on completion.
We will seek to continue delivery of new homes to first time buyers to participate in the development of newly new homes to the market under the age of 40 on a discounted open released public land on appropriate since 2001 market basis and may prove particularly terms on submitting the Groups tender attractive given the support provided to the document for the next DPP3 framework purchaser by way of the discount offered.
We believe this initiative has the potential to support the delivery of more new housing Off-site manufacturing and we look forward to reviewing the detail of the scheme as it is finalised.
Space4 The Groups Space4 system is a modern Westbury Partnerships is actively involved method of construction using off-site in managing our relationships associated manufacturing techniques to produce with the Help to Buy equity loan scheme in timber frames, highly insulated wall England and similar schemes in Scotland panels and roof cassettes as a fabric and Wales.
These schemes are managed first solution to the construction of new on behalf of the Government by the Homes homes.
The Space4 construction process & Communities Agency HCA in England delivers high levels of thermal efficiency and the Housing Agencies of Scotland and positions the Group at the forefront of and Wales.
The Group has sold over the industry with its ability to accommodate 20,600 new homes to customers who changes to building regulations that target have secured Help to Buy mortgages since the reduction in carbon emissions and these schemes started in 2013.
The bulk of measures that mitigate global warming in these sales have been to first time buyers, the future.
Our Space4 business is based reflecting the greater access this scheme in Castle Bromwich near Birmingham provides for customers taking their first and is entirely focused on supporting step into the housing market.
Westbury Partnerships leads the Groups The Space4 system has delivered over participation in the Governments 40,000 new homes to the market since Affordable Housing Programmes AHP launch in 2001. which is focused on delivering low cost homes across the regions.
We continue As we have opened new sales outlets to review the opportunity for Group sites across the UK we have continued to to participate in the AHP 2015-2018, increase the coverage of our Group which commenced in April 2015, where house types providing the opportunity appropriate.
In 2016 we completed the for the most effective use of the Space4 delivery of affordable homes at East product.
During 2016 we realigned Space4 Trowbridge, Bath under this scheme.
production to concentrate on delivering our Group core house types which now form The Government continues to seek to over three quarters of all Space4 orders.
use public land through the Delivery Whilst this refocusing of the Space4 Partner Panel DPP mechanism to production planning and work flow has support the delivery of increased housing meant overall output for 2016 was reduced numbers.
Our Partnerships business a little on the prior year at c. 5,500 units, has secured the Groups participation these kits have been manufactured at in successive DPP frameworks and our Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 38 The UK housing market and brand performance continued Brickworks plant with the greater levels of efficiency.
In 2017 we will Brickworks capacity to manufacture be seeking to take forward the advantages The Group has used concrete bricks for a of this greater efficiency as we look to number of years to secure the availability expand production further, focused on our of high quality product, particularly through c. 80m core Group house types.
This increased periods of industry growth.
In 2016, after production volume through the factory will completing our detailed due diligence, bricks per year further improve overhead recoveries and the Group started construction of its own reduce unit costs.
factory for the manufacture of concrete bricks as a further development of its The usage of the Space4 construction off-site manufacturing capability.
This new process across the Groups sites is facility will secure availability of this key helping to improve productivity, easing material component for our build process, resourcing pressures and increasing helping to support the most effective our build capacity by simplifying site delivery of new homes to the market whilst processes and reducing the traditional exercising greater control over our build skills content within these processes.
The greater assurance of supply Space4 has made a valuable contribution will assist our build programming and to supporting the delivery of the Groups site efficiencies as an aid to capturing industry leading asset turn of c. 5.1x, an productivity improvements.
The factory important ingredient in delivering higher will be entirely focused on supplying the levels of returns on the capital invested in Groups housebuilding operations.
The factory is sited at Harworth near The Space4 factory has the capacity Doncaster with good access to established to increase production to support the motorway networks to support efficient construction of around 8,000 new homes logistics for delivery to Group companies.
We are continuing to investigate The manufacturing plant has been sourced the further development of the Space4 to deliver a consistent high quality product build processes driven by the design of with a high degree of automation and the Group house types, to secure further with strong environmental credentials.
The plant is robust in construction having high durability and low maintenance requirements.
Subsequent to the planned commissioning in Q1 2017 the plant will have the capacity to manufacture c. 80m bricks each year.
This output will satisfy approximately two thirds of the Groups current requirements and deliver a pay-back period of approximately three years on the initial investment of c. 10m.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016
