48 Corporate responsibility continued Community Champions the heart of the communities we serve.
Our Communities donations of This initiative is now well into its third We believe that by delivering much year and we have been overwhelmed needed new housing whilst also creating with the response.
In 2016 we passed and improving the local environment in over 1m the 1m mark for donations made and which our communities live and work we have reached 1.1m of donations by the since launch in 2015 help increase the sustainability of those end of the year.
Charities apply to the communities into the future.
We seek to Persimmon Charitable Foundation via our actively engage the local community in the website www.
com development process, from consultation charity for funding support up to a value and feedback through the planning of 1,000 to match fundraising they journey to continued communication of the have achieved themselves.
Each of our developments progress as it proceeds.
operating businesses have the opportunity We aim to sell the majority of the new of supporting two applicants every homes we build into the local community month.
Since we started the campaign, to satisfy their housing needs.
During 2016 we have supported over 1,200 different we implemented a consistent approach organisations in the communities we serve across the Group to strengthen effective right across the UK.
and targeted community consultation In addition, the company together with which is tailored to the local residents its employees have raised and donated context.
We have continued to support improved sustainability by bringing derelict and poor Current trading outlook quality land back into use on behalf of local communities.
The Group used brownfield Customer activity in the new build housing or previously used land to deliver c. 45% of market through the early weeks of the the new homes we legally completed in the new year has been encouraging.
We are year, often decontaminating polluted land offering new homes for sale on around 4% and regenerating old industrial sites.
more sales outlets than for the same period last year and site visitor numbers are c. 7% The Groups developments are designed stronger over the first eight weeks of 2016. to promote social inclusion, incorporating Consumer confidence remains resilient, housing for families with a broad span employment levels are strong and interest of household incomes.
The volume of visitors delivered 237m of social housing for to our Persimmon and Charles Church lower income families 2015: 221m and homefinder websites is in line with the invested in 65m of infrastructure on our prior year.
developments 2015: 47m to provide the schools, new roads, open space and We have experienced the usual seasonal community facilities to support the social pick up in sales reservations week by and environmental development of the week.
Whilst we are facing challenging new communities we create.
Of the 65m comparatives in the first quarter of 2017, spent on infrastructure, 17m related to reflecting the additional activity stimulated educational amenity provision delivering by the tax changes introduced by the an additional 420 school places for our Government from early April 2016, we local communities.
anticipate a more normal seasonal pattern this year.
Our Community Champions initiative run by the Persimmon Charitable Foundation provides funding for the numerous small charities and voluntary organisations at Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 49 The strength of the 2016 autumn sales Our spring sales will be supported by season together with our early spring the 90 new sales outlets we plan to 1.89bn sales have supported a 9% year on year open in the first half of 2017, of which we Forward sales at increase in current forward sales including have already opened 51 new outlets so legal completions taken in 2017 to date far.
Gross margins in our forward order 24 February 2017 up 9% to 1.89bn 2016: 1.74bn.
Our private book indicate that, for 2017, margins are sales reservation volumes in our forward set for some modest improvement over sales are 6% ahead of last year allowing 2016 as we open our new sites and we for our weekly private sales rate per site continue to work hard to secure further for the first eight weeks of the year being operational gains.
4% behind the prior year at this point.
We intend to continue to invest in new land The Government has recently confirmed during 2017 to support the further growth its support for first time buyers through the of our regional businesses towards optimal Help to Buy scheme in the Housing White sustainable scale.
We will remain focused Paper and the revamped Starter Homes on ensuring our land replacement activity initiative should assist greater numbers secures attractive returns and payment of first time buyers to gain access to the terms whilst we retain our flexibility to react market later this year.
With our attractively to changing conditions.
We are excited designed core house types offered at by the prospects of converting more of affordable price points and our emphasis our strategic land as planning authorities on site layouts which provide a full range identify their preferred locations to satisfy of products to all customers, particularly housing needs as incorporated in their five for first time buyers and first time movers year plans.
We believe our strong balance we are confident that the Group is well sheet and excellent free cash generation positioned in its regional markets for the will support this land replacement activity year ahead.
We will focus on increasing whilst also providing confidence in the production to meet this demand.
delivery of the Capital Return Plan to We believe that UK market fundamentals our shareholders.
remain strong supported by long term The Group has performed particularly well unfulfilled demand for housing, despite in 2016 due to the hard work of the entire the uncertainties associated with the UKs Persimmon team.
We remain confident vote to leave the EU and the challenges that this team has the focus, expertise, presented by headwinds in the wider drive and vision to continue to deliver global economy.
The Bank of Englands for our customers and shareholders.
vigilance in ensuring disciplined lending We believe the UK new build housing practices continues.
This oversight, market will provide great opportunities for together with providing guidance and those companies with the correct strategic direction to lenders via the Financial aims, operational capabilities and balance Policy Committee which complements sheet strength to navigate future changes appropriate monetary policy settings and in trading conditions as they unfold.
Government fiscal policy measures, will We thank all our loyal employees and help support the sustainability of the UK supply chain partners for their dedication housing market.
In turn this will create the and continued contribution tothe opportunity for the industry to continue Groups success.
to invest in skills, land and new home construction to deliver the continued expansion in output that will provide Jeff Fairburn Mike Killoran Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director access to housing for local communities 24 February 2017 across the UK.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016
