KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual ReFrank Rushbrook port together with the Accounts of the Company and the Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2009.
Group for the year to 30 April 2016.
Shares held: 13,343 Fees during year: 19,000 BOARD OF DIRECTORS A partner in Rushbrook & Co LLP, he has worked in the Hamish Buchan fund management industry since 1998.
Following eleven Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2001 and years at F&C Investment Management Ltd, latterly as Asbecame Chairman in 2009. sociate Director Continental European Smaller Equities, he co-founded Nettle Capital Management LLP and has Shares held: 1,108 Fees during year: 38,000 considerable experience of European mid and small cap He has worked in the investment trust sector since 1969 markets.
and headed the award-winning Wood Mackenzie later, Other Trust Directorships: None.
NatWest Securities trust research team for many years.
He is a past Chairman of the Association of Investment ComACTIVITIES panies.
A review of the Companys activities during the year can be Other Trust Directorships: Templeton Emerging Markets found in the Strategic Report on pages 46 and in the and The Scottish Investment Trust.
Chairmans Statement and Investment Advisers Report.
Robin Angus RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 1984 and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Rebecame Executive Director in 2002. port and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those InternaShares held: 4,265 Fees during year: nil tional Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted Annual Salary: 200,000 by the European Union.
He has worked in the investment trust sector since 1977.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the He trained as an investment trust manager at Baillie, GifGroup financial statements unless they are satisfied that ford & Co and worked with Hamish Buchan for 17 years they give a true and fair of the state of affairs of the Group as an investment trust analyst.
and of the profit of the Group for that period.
In preparOther Trust Directorships: None.
ing the Group financial statements the Directors are required to: Gordon Neilly present fairly the financial position, financial perJoined the Board as a non-executive Director in 1997. formance and cash flows of the Group: Shares held: 1,915 Fees during year: 19,000 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Recently resigned as Co-Chief Executive Officer of Cantor consistently: Fitzgerald Europe.
He was previously Chief Executive of Inmake judgments and estimates that are reasonable and telli Corporate Finance and Finance and Business Develprudent: opment Director of Ivory & Sime.
Company Secretary of the Company for ten years, he joined the Board as a non-exstate that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject ecutive Director in 1997 and has considerable experience to any material departures disclosed and explained in and knowledge of investment trusts.
the financial statements: and Other Trust Directorships: INVESCO Perpetual Enhanced prepare the financial statements on the going concern Income.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Stuart Paul The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate acJoined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2009. counting records that are sufficient to show and explain Shares held: 4,462 Fees during year: 19,000 the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Managing Partner of Stewart Investors which invests in enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements Asia Pacific, Global Emerging and other markets worldcomply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the wide on behalf of its clients.
He is a Chartered AccountIAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguardant and is a Director of Archangel Investors Ltd and ing the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable Didasko Education Company Ltd. steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Other Trust Directorships: None.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and perPage 21 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED formance, business model and strategy.
In reaching this RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENTS UNDER THE DISCLOSURE conclusion the Directors have assumed that the reader of AND TRANSPARENCY RULES the Annual Report and Accounts has a reasonable level of Each of the Directors listed on page 21 confirms that to knowledge of the investment industry.
the best of his knowledge: Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are the financial statements, prepared in accordance with also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, DirecIFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true tors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corand fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position porate Governance Statement that comply with that law and profit or loss of the Group and the undertakings and those regulations.
included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and inthe Directors Report includes a fair review of the fidetegrity of the corporate and financial information included velopment and performance of the business and the poon the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing sition of the Group and the undertakings included in the the preparation and dissemination of financial statements consolidation taken as a whole together with a descripmay differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
tion of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
GOING CONCERN CAPITAL STRUCTURE The Directors believe, in the light of the controls and reAt 30 April 2016 there were 1,744,842 Ordinary shares of view processes reported in the Report of the Audit Com- 12.50 each in issue.
mittee on page 28 and bearing in mind the nature of the During the year the Company purchased 53,739 Ordinary Groups business and assets, which are considered to be shares to be held in Treasury for a total consideration of readily realisable if required, that the Group has adequate 18,445,000, issued 287 Ordinary shares for proceeds of resources to continue operating for at least twelve months 102,000 and reissued 55,338 Ordinary shares from Treasfrom the date of approval of the financial statements.
For ury for proceeds of 20,359,000. this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The revenue profits of the Company including accumulated revenue reserves and realised capital profits are availVIABILITY STATEMENT able for distribution by way of dividends to the holders of The Board considered its obligation to assess the viability the Ordinary shares excluding any Ordinary shares held in of the Company over a period longer than the twelve Treasury, which have no entitlement to dividends.
months from the date of approval of the financial statements required by the going concern basis of accounting.
Voting rights and deadlines for exercising voting rights can The Board concluded that a period of five years was apbe found in the Notes for the Annual General Meeting propriate for this review.
AGM which can be found on pages 35 and 36.
The Board considers the Company, with no fixed life, to RESULTS AND DIVIDEND be a long term investment vehicle but, for the purposes of The results for the year are set out in the Group Income this viability statement, has decided that a period of five Statement on page 11.
The Company paid four quarterly years is an appropriate period over which to report.
The dividends of 1.40 per share to shareholders in the year Board considers that this period reflects a balance between ended 30 April 2016. looking out over a long term horizon and the inherent uncertainties of looking out further than five years.
SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS When deciding on this period the Directors considered the At 30 April 2016 the following holdings representing dinature of the Companys portfolio of liquid investments rectly or indirectly 3 per cent.
or more of the voting rights comprising listed global equities, US TIPS, UK Indexattaching to the issued share capital of the Company had Linked Gilts, UK T-Bills, Gold Bullion and cash and cash been disclosed to the Company: equivalents.
The Directors also considered the Companys Substantial Holders Shares Held Percentage ability to fulfil the stated dividend policy and the operaPersonal Assets Trust ISA 262,831 15.1 tion of its discount and premium control policy.
Personal Assets Trust The Directors have also carried out an exhaustive assessInvestment Plan 158,646 9.1 ment of the principal risks as noted in the Strategic Report There have been no changes notified in respect of the above on page 6 and discussed in note 13 to the financial stateholdings, and no new holdings notified, since the end of ments that are facing the Company over the period of the the year.
review, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a Information on the Companys financial instruments can reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to be found in the Notes to the Accounts on pages 1520. continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of their assessment.
Page 22 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT thority for a further period until the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2017.
The price paid for shares on exInformation on the principal risks to shareholders and manercise of the authority will not be less than the nominal agement of these risks can be found in the Strategic Report value of 12.50 per share or more than the higher of a on pages 46 and in note 13 to the Accounts on pages 1820.
above the average of the middle market quotaDIRECTORS INDEMNITY tions of those shares for the five business days before the shares are purchased and b the higher of the last indeThe Companys Articles of Association entitle any Direcpendent trade and the highest current independent bid on tor or Officer of the Company to be indemnified out of the the London Stock Exchange.
The authority, which may be assets of the Company against any loss or liability incurred used to buy back shares either for cancellation or to be held by him in the execution of his duties in relation to the in Treasury, will be used to purchase shares only if, in the Companys affairs to the extent permitted by law.
opinion of the Directors, a purchase would be in the best inCARBON EMISSIONS terests of the shareholders as a whole and would result in an increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining The Companys carbon emissions result predominantly shareholders.
There are no outstanding options or warrants from its consumption of gas and electricity at its single ofto subscribe for equity shares in the capital of the Company.
Using Defra DECCs GHG conversion factors for company reporting produced in 2014, emissions for the Treasury Shares year to 30 April 2016 were 16.6 tonnes of CO2e 2015: 16.7 Under UK company law investment trusts are able to actonnes of CO2e.
This equates to 0.10 tonnes of CO2e quire their own shares to hold in Treasury for reissue.
The 2015: 0.10 tonnes of CO2e per square metre.
Directors consider that this facility gives the Company more flexibility in managing its share capital.
At 2 June AUDITORS 2016 the Company had reissued all of its Ordinary shares Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to held in Treasury.
continue in office as Auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be proposed at the AGM.
Resolutions 10 and 11 would provide the Directors with the authority they need to manage Treasury shares.
Treasury STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS shares will be reissued only at a premium to the net asset value of the shares at the time of sale.
As far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditors are unaware, and each Notice Period for General Meetings Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken The Companys Articles of Association enable the Company as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant to call General Meetings other than an Annual General audit information and to establish that the Auditors are Meeting on 14 clear days notice.
In order for this to be efaware of that information.
fective, the shareholders must also approve annually the calling of meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 RESOLUTIONS TO BE PROPOSED AT THE AGM days notice.
Resolution 12 will be proposed at the Annual Resolutions 1 to 8 are self explanatory.
General Meeting to seek such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General MeetAuthority to Allot Shares ing, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proDuring the year the Company continued its policy of issuposed.
The Company meets the requirements for electronic ing shares at a small premium to net asset value in response voting under the Companies Act 2006, offering facilities for to demand.
Resolution 9 is to authorise the Directors to all shareholders to vote by electronic means.
The Directors issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of believe it is in the best interests of the shareholders for the 2,186,800, being 10 per cent.
of the total issued shares at shorter notice period to be available to the Company, al- 2 June 2016.
Resolution 10 is to enable the Directors to though it is intended that this flexibility will be used only for issue such new shares and to reissue shares from Treasury early renewals of the Boards authority to issue new shares see Treasury Shares below up to an aggregate nominal or reissue shares from Treasury and only where merited in amount of 2,186,800, being 10 per cent.
of the total isthe interests of shareholders as a whole.
sued shares at 2 June 2016, for cash without first offering such shares to existing shareholders pro rata to their existRECOMMENDATION ing shareholdings.
The Directors issue new shares or reisThe Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed sue shares from Treasury only when they believe it is at the AGM are in the best interests of the shareholders as advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so and a whole and recommends that they vote in favour of such for the purpose of operating the Companys premium conresolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their trol policy.
In no circumstances would such issue of new own beneficial holdings.
shares or reissue of shares from Treasury result in a dilution of net asset value per share.
By Order of the Board Authority to Buy Back Shares Steven K Davidson During the year, the Company acquired 53,739 of its own Secretary shares to be held in Treasury.
The Companys current au- 10 St Colme Street thority to make market purchases of up to 14.99 per cent.
Edinburgh EH3 6AA of the issued Ordinary shares expires at the end of the An- 2 June 2016 nual General Meeting.
Resolution 11 is to renew the auPage 23
