KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 INVESTMENT ADVISERS REPORT Last year I began by noting that over the twelve months to 30 April 2015 our net asset value per share NAV had risen by 4.8%.
This year conditions in the UK equity market were less favourable, UK equities as measured by the FTSE All-Share Index falling by 9.0% compared to last years gain of 3.9%.
Despite this, our NAV rose by 5.0% an almost identical amount to last year.
Making gains where we prudently can and then holding on to them when markets fall is central to our investment approach.
Over the last five years our NAV is up by 16.6% even allowing for the ill effects of our disappointing 2013-14.
The late Yogi Berra said that, Its tough to make predictions, especially about the future.
This cycle, since 2009, has been notable for the over-optimism of policy makers, economists and strategists.
Falling inflation from the mid-1980s allowed for lower interest rates, encouraging consumers to save less, spend more and take on ever more debt.
This peaked in the mid-2000s, coinciding with the top of the US housing market.
Consumers then grew nervous and stopped borrowing, leaving governments and companies to take up the slack.
Accordingly, growth in GDP and corporate earnings has slowed to a snails pace.
Extravagant baby boomers who were 20-35 years old in 1985 now face retirement not a time of life to be spending.
This may explain why, despite record low interest rates, borrowing has been losing its appeal to individuals.
Companies are happier to take on debt but are not prepared to invest when demand has been so feeble, preferring instead to buy back stock to massage upwards their earnings and sometimes, indirectly, their directors remuneration.
Seven years into a cyclical bull market, equities are living on borrowed time and the link between profit and performance is all but broken.
In the past two years UK company earnings have fallen while 16 FTSE 100 constituents have cut or passed their dividends in some cases twice.
In the United States S&P 500 earnings have fallen for six straight quarters, while the gap between Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP profits and flattering adjusted earnings has been wider only during the recessions of 2001 and 2008.
Falling earnings and latterly dividends, with only very modest declines in the stock market from all-time highs, have pumped up valuations even higher.
Because investors have felt compelled to pay more for less not in the expectation of better growth in future but owing to the lack of other options and the stark need for yield.
Portfolio turnover is a tax on investment returns and we resist the temptation to tinker over the past year the turnover of the equity part of the portfolio was only 3%.
We reduced our holdings of Altria, Becton Dickinson and Sage on the grounds of ever rising valuations and added to American Express and Berkshire Hathaway.
During the sharp sell-off in August we acquired a new holding in Procter & Gamble, which has a 59-year unbroken dividend track record, at a yield of 3.8%.
The worlds central bankers, todays reluctant captains of economic policy, are finding it hard to extricate themselves from their unorthodox polices.
On the contrary, attempts at normalisation of interest rates have encountered the law of diminishing returns.
Recent decisions by the Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank aimed at debasing their currencies have been own goals while the US Federal Reserves decision to increase interest rates for the first time in nine years is looking like a clamber up the interest rate hill while the prevailing path slopes downwards.
Our holding in gold bullion remains an essential insurance against central bankers losing control of their monetary policies.
Investors today find themselves in an unenviable position.
They can lock in very low returns by investing in high risk bonds and equities, or they can wait for better opportunities and the prospect of improved future rewards while accepting even lower returns in the short term.
Our approach has always been to assess the likelihood and the possible extent of the downside rather than make the tempting mistake of extrapolating the upside.
Dividend growth, once the engine of share price growth, cannot today be relied upon equities offer not just capital risk but income risk as well.
We sense that a reappraisal of stock valuations has begun.
Once it has taken place, we look forward to being more fully invested.
To quote Yogi Berra again, The future aint what it used to be.
