Strategy in action Grow like-for-like sales Sharing our knowledge and passion for pets, to help you make the most of your lives together.
Were here to help friendly, accessible experts helping customers to feed their pets better diets.
Graham Johnson is a Nutrition Consultant in our Salford store Graham joined Pets at Home two right to advise a customer years ago to go for a top tier Advanced Nutrition diet, if they are starting Having completed the initial from Economy dry food.
Instead, Steps training, I was keen to I will advise on a food that develop my expertise further, so I positions in the middle.
Ultimately, decided to enrol on the Nutrition its about what is best for the pet, course.
It takes around six months to meet their allergy or dietary to complete and it gave me a huge requirements, and not favouring understanding of how important a particular brand.
an appropriate diet is for both dogs' and cats' health and I think that having such important wellbeing.
In fact, I enjoyed the conversations with customers course so much that Ive gone about their pets allows me to on to become a trainer myself!
develop a relationship and bond thats really special.
Its incredibly I find a lot of customers are quite satisfying to see the positive surprised by the level of knowledge transformation in their pet after our colleagues have.
Our in-store having suggested some nutrition vet partner even refers his changes.
My regulars will often customers to me when they want plan their store visits to make to have a discussion around diet, sure Im around!
as the Nutrition course gives us a depth of knowledge that is really quite unique.
Strategic link: I want to see our customers giving Sales of Advanced Nutrition were their pets the best diet they can, a key support to like-for-like growth but always within a budget thats during the year.
It wont always be Pets at Home Group Plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance A responsible pet retailer More specialist Most loved What we did in 2016 Future plans Product innovation Refreshed 40% of our total product range Continue to refresh our product mix, with new private label and own brand launches, as well as Over half of new products were own brand exclusive and innovative products that reflect the or private labels latest trends, in order to improve customer loyalty Launched new brands in Advanced Nutrition and visit frequency.
VIP club VIP reached 4.5m members, adding 1.3m Grow loyalty and our share of VIPs pet spend during the year by promoting vet practice and grooming salon services and targeted product offers.
13.5m registered pets on the database Swipe rate of the VIP card at our tills accounted for 64% of store revenues Increased our share of VIP customers pet spend Marketing Launched first Wainwrights advertising Focus on new customer acquisition and brand campaign engagement through our understanding of the love and emotional bond that owners have TV sponsorship of For The Love Of Dogs, with their pets.
one of ITVs highest rated programmes Omni-channel Expanded the online product range to 12,000, Develop the link between our online and store around 4,000 more than in-store based offerings to give customers a seamless shopping experience.
Leveraged our store base: c50% of online revenues now derived from a collect in-store delivery method Services Retrofitted 16 vet practices and 30 grooming Refurbish and retrofit the existing estate salons back into our existing estate to accommodate further vet practices and grooming salons.
Engagement Colleague retention rate remained strong Maintain our industry leading colleague retention at 79% and engagement rates, in order to deliver customers outstanding service and advice.
Customer feedback net promoter score improved to 88% Pricing Invested in competitive pricing across Deliver value for money pricing, which is reflective accessories of product range, exclusivity, convenience, service, price and quality.
Widened our entry price range points in some product categories Relevant KPIs Key risks associated Brand and reputation 2.2% Competition Group like-for-like growth Our people Business systems and information security 1.5% Supply chain sourcing Merchandise like-for-like growth Store and services expansion 10.4% Regulatory and compliance Extreme weather Services like-for-like growth KPIs on page 26 Risk management on page 38 All 2016 financials refer to the 52 week proforma period to 24 March 2016.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 Strategy in action Grow space and optimise footprint We are bringing an amazing pet experience to more pet owners across the UK.
Creating a cohesive team through the store, vet practice and grooming salon builds colleague engagement and outstanding customer service.
Adam Wolstenholme is the store manager at Prestwich, which opened in January 2016 Ive been working at Pets at Home stop, no matter how long you for more than 14 years and have been here.
Its a continual Prestwich is my fourth store as process, and the more knowledge a manager.
Having been with the and expertise we have, the more business for such a long period, our customers can benefit, which I know how important a happy, in turn keeps my team engaged talented team is to building and drives our business forward.
Im really pleased that we will have I helped to handpick the new store the full services offer at Prestwich.
team and made sure we achieved Its my job to ensure that all three a good balance of experienced elements of the store, vet and colleagues alongside new talent.
grooming offer knit together, Between my assistant managers which means keeping all the and myself, we have more than teams engaged as a solid unit.
To develop the team bond, and Strategic link: knowledge, we spent a month Recruiting and training talented training together at the nearby colleague teams is crucial in Salford store.
One of my favourite supporting our space rollout aspects about Pets is that the strategy.
learning and training just doesnt Pets at Home Group Plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance A responsible pet retailer More specialist Most loved What we did in 2016 Future plans Optimised store rollout Target UK portfolio is 500 Pets at Home Opened 20 new Pets at Home superstores net superstores.
We will continue to open new stores Total portfolio of 419 superstores in optimal locations that are not currently served Trial formats: Opened six Barkers stores by Pets at Home.
and one Whiskers n Paws Trialling new formats: Barkers, our dog focused, premium High Street store, and Whiskers n Paws, a smaller convenience store targeted at the core Pets at Home customer.
Vet practice and grooming salon rollout Target UK portfolio of 700 vet practices, comprised Opened 50 new vet practices, 39 in-store of 450 in-stores and 250 standalones.
and 11 standalone Total vet practice portfolio of 388 practices Target UK portfolio of 350 grooming salons.
59% of stores have a vet practice We aim to open every new store with both a vet Opened 60 new grooming salons and grooming salon and retrofit services back Total portfolio of 240 grooming salons into the existing estate.
56% of stores have a grooming salon Adjacent veterinary market growth Expand further in the specialist referrals space Acquired two specialist referral centres and in areas complimentary to our first opinion practices.
Since the financial year end we have acquired two further veterinary specialist referral centres.
Relevant KPIs 20 new Pets at Home superstores net 50 new vet practices 60 new grooming salons KPIs on page 26 Key risks associated Brand and reputation Competition Our people Store and services expansion Liquidity and credit risk Risk management on page 38 All 2016 financials refer to the 52 week proforma period to 24 March 2016.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23 Strategy in action Grow margins We are the pet experts, with the widest product range, vets and groomers, all under one roof.
What we did in 2016 Future plans Services Services gross margin expanded by 35 bps Continue to rollout new vet practices and to reach 33.0% grooming salons, which generate a higher operating margin than the Group.
As these S ervices revenues grew to 10.5% of Group pet services mature, margin leverage translates revenue, compared with 8.6% in the prior year into support for Group profitability.
F ee income from Joint Venture vet practices up 22.3% to 34.5m Product mix and own brands 42% of store revenues are own brand private Generate the right balance between high margin label, compared with 43% last year and lower margin products by maintaining the participation of own brands and private labels, Advanced Nutrition revenues grew by 12.3% with a focus on Advanced Nutrition food.
Our to 163.2m flagship brand, Wainwrights Advanced Nutrition, Wainwrights revenues grew by 17.4% provides an opportunity to enhance both to 47.0m revenues and margins.
Sourcing and terms R efreshed 1,500 own brand or private label Build closer relationships with suppliers and products during the year improve contractual terms, improve product quality and access innovative new products.
Terms and working capital efficiencies Continue to leverage our dedicated sourcing progressing in-line with our expectations office in Hong Kong, Pets at Home Asia, to develop relationships with existing and new suppliers overseas.
Improve buying terms by driving economies through increased quantities, providing financial support for TV and marketing campaigns and negotiating on working capital terms.
Relevant KPIs Key risks associated Brand and reputation 54.5% Competition Group gross margin, 31bps Supply chain sourcing 57.0% Treasury and financial risk Store and services expansion Merchandise gross margin, 79bps Regulatory and compliance 33.0% Risk management on page 38 Services gross margin, 35bps 16.0% pre-exceptional EBITDA margin, -38bps KPIs on page 26 All 2016 financials refer to the 52 week proforma period to 24 March 2016.
Pets at Home Group Plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance A responsible pet retailer More specialist Most loved The success of our veterinary model is based on the talent of our entrepreneurial Joint Venture partners.
Huw Morgan Jones has been a Joint Venture Partner for eight years and is a partner in three Vets4Pets practices I joined the group in 2008, investing as the sole Joint Venture partner at the in-store practice in Milton Keynes.
Previously, I had been practising as an employed vet for 12 years and was looking for the route to running my own practice and being able to share in the profits.
The JV partnership gave me a much simpler route to financing the practice and comes with the business support that I needed.
The practice at Milton Keynes has performed very well and we have added extra consulting rooms, theatre and ward space over the years, including a first floor extension which was finished at Christmas.
On my journey, I also invested in two other nearby practices, where I can bring my orthopaedic expertise to the surgery.
One of the biggest benefits in being part of a larger group is the learnings I can gain from the other vet partners.
The JV network provides us with opportunities to share, as we all have an interest in the success of the brand.
Being part of Vets4Pets also allows me to benefit from the nationwide advertising and the increasing brand recognition amongst the public.
Looking forward, I still see further opportunities.
Ill be considering a move to extended hours, or even 24 7 at the Milton Keynes practice in the future, which will bring even more convenience to my clients and their pets.
Strategic link: By working in partnership with our Joint Venture veterinarians we can develop successful practices that grow ahead of the market.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25
