The year in review D elivering a seamless p et shopping experience A snapshot of our progress New openings Specialist referral Delivered our rollout targets veterinary care market for both stores and services 20 We made our entry into the specialist new Pets at Home superstores net.
Made our entry into the specialist referral market through the acquisition Total portfolio 419 of two centres, Northwest Surgeons referral veterinary care market and Anderson Moores.
Grew our VIP loyalty club to more than 4.5m members, 50 new veterinary practices.
with more than 13.5m pets Total portfolio 388 Significantly expanded our online product range and leveraged our UK wide store 60 network, with 50% of online new grooming salons.
Total portfolio 240 orders now collected in-store Exciting trial retail formats Opened six new Barkers stores, our High Street based specialist dog shop and grooming spa.
Opened one Whiskers n Paws, our High Street based convenience store, focused on core Pets at Home dog and cat customers, with a Groom Room salon.
Pets at Home Group Plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Responsibility at the heart of our business Product and innovation Grew our online range to 12,000 products, over 4,000 greater than the range in-store.
Expanded our private label Wainwrights into frozen dog food.
UK exclusive launch of Wellness Advanced Nutrition, the number one independent, family owned brand of natural pet food Industry leading colleague in the US market.
retention and engagement 79% Passionate and expert colleagues are colleague retention central to our success, creating more reasons for customers to come into store and engage with us.
Maintaining industry leading retention and engagement rates 7th 12,000 is vital to retaining our specialist edge.
place in Great Place products available in stores and online Our colleague training has been endorsed to Work survey by City & Guilds, providing a stamp of approval that demonstrates the value of colleague expertise.
VIP loyalty card lifelines We award lifelines for every purchase 1.8m our loyalty card members make.
raised by our VIP Lifelines convert into donations for club members our VIP members chosen animal charities.
This year we have raised over 1.8m for animal charities throughout the UK, and since inception have raised 4.2m.
Read more on page 34 Read more on page 44 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 3
