Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Report Tony DeNunzio Chairman of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Introduction Who is on the Nomination & Corporate As Chairman of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Governance Committee?
Committee the Committee, I am pleased to present the report of the Committee for the year ended 31 March 2016.
of meetings Tony DeNunzio Chairman 4 4 The Committee is a key committee of the Board whose role Dennis Millard 4 4 is to keep the composition and structure of the Board and its Tessa Green 4 4 committees under review and has responsibility for nominating Amy Stirling 4 4 candidates for appointment as Directors to the Board having Paul Coby 4 4 regards to its structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of its members.
Brian Carroll 3 4 We are also tasked with ensuring that succession plans are in place for the Directors, the Executive Management Team and What we did in 2016 the Groups Operating Board taking into consideration the current Reviewed succession plans for executive appointments.
Board structure, the leadership requirements of the Group and Considered and recommended to the Board a number of the wider commercial and market environment within which the appointments including the appointment of Ian Kellett as Group Group operates.
Chief Executive Officer following the resignation of Nick Wood.
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities in FY16 Reviewed the Board Evaluation and Effectiveness survey.
Succession planning Considered Directors' conflicts of interest.
We reviewed the succession plans for both executive appointments to the Board and the Executive Management Team, taking into account the strategic objectives of the Group.
The process included What we will do in 2017 consideration of the anticipated demands of the business and Continue to assess the Board composition and how it may the skills required to successfully deliver against these.
assistance of the Committee, the Board also discussed succession planning for the Groups Operating Board.
The Board recognises Continue the recruitment of a replacement Chief Financial that effective succession planning is fundamental to the success Officer and recommend an appointment to the Board.
of the Company and that ensuring the continued development of Implement further reviews and assessment of talented colleagues helps to mitigate the risks associated with succession planning.
unforeseen events, such as key individuals leaving the business.
Considerable progress has been made on succession planning in this area, however, the Board recognises that more work is required and further reviews will take place this year.
As a result of the review, at the start of the financial year, the Company created a divisional operating structure based around Retail and Services and to support the changes, the Committee considered and recommended to the Board the appointment of Ian Kellett as Chief Executive Officer Group CEO of the Retail Division and Sally Hopson as Chief Executive Officer of the Services Division.
The Board approved the appointments with effect from 4 June 2015.
Pets at Home Group Plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Keeping the composition and structure of the Board and its Committees under review to ensure it has an appropriate balance ofskills, experience and independence.
Following the resignation of Nick Wood in March this year, the The Board and individual committees considered the output from Committee further reviewed and recommended to the Board the review in April 2016 and concluded that the performance of the appointment of Ian Kellett as Group Chief Executive Officer the Board, its committees and individual Directors was effective.
As a consequence of Ians appointment as Group Any areas for improvement have been agreed by the Board and CEO, Peter Pritchard was recommended to the Board for promotion are detailed on page 81 of the Governance Report.
to the role of Chief Executive Officer of the Retail Division following his successful tenure as Chief Operating Officer in that division.
Diversity The appointments were in line with the succession plan that the We take into account a variety of factors before recommending any Committee had been considering for some time and were new appointment to the Board, including relevant skills to perform approved by the Board from 4April 2016.
Sally Hopson remains the role, experience, knowledge, ethnicity and gender.
The most important priority of the Committee, however, is ensuring that the Chief Executive Officer of the Services Division and Louise Stonier best candidate is selected to join the Board.
Further details on as Group Legal Director and Company Secretary.
Board diversity can be found on page 76 of the Governance Report.
The search for a Chief Financial Officer continues following the Conflicts of interest mutual agreement that the original candidate would not be joining The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to consider, the Company and we have engaged external recruitment consultants.
and where necessary authorise, any actual or potential conflicts of In the interim, we have considered and recommended to the Board interest arising in respect of the Directors.
We considered potential that Mark Adams be appointed as interim Chief Financial Officer conflicts of interest as they arose during the course of the year.
Mark has significant public company experience as a Chief Financial Officer at Easyjet Plc, Helphire plc and Alpha We also support the Board in its annual consideration of the Airports Group Plc and more recently has fulfilled the CFO role at Conflicts of Interest Register, which is carried out prior to the Cognita.
He was appointed on 18 April 2016 and will attend Board publication of the Annual Report, and considers the independence meetings as an observer.
of the Non-Executive Directors, in the context of the criteria set out in the Code.
Board evaluation and effectiveness The Company is still undergoing the transition from a private I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions on the work company to a public limited company, and the Board therefore of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.
decided to repeat the external evaluation exercise and engaged Lintstock Limited Lintstock.
Lintstock performed an independent evaluation of Board and Board committee performance and identified areas where the performance and procedures of the Board might be further improved.
Lintstock is a specialist corporate governance consultancy and has no commercial dealings or other connection with the Group.
Tony DeNunzio The assessment included the completion of a short form online Chairman questionnaire that considered topics covered in the 2015 evaluation.
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee 25 May 2016 A report on the performance of the Board and each of the principal committees was compiled by Lintstock and presented to the Board and each relevant committee as a basis for discussing and agreeing appropriate actions for the forthcoming year.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors also meet in the absence of the Executive Directors.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87
