Mission and strategy Delivery of our strategy across the PawPrint supports growth in like-for-like, space and margins Our mission and strategy Levers of growth To be the best pet shop in the world To expand upon our leading position in the UK pet care market The PawPrint is the articulation Grow like-for-like sales of our strategy We have multiple levers through which we can grow like-for-like sales, creating diversified, sustained and resilient top line growth.
Product innovation VIP club Marketing Pets Before Omni-channel profit Services Engagement A truly World class Pricing amazing place shopping to work To be the The best best pet shop Friendly vets and experts in the world groomers Grow space and optimise footprint Rollout of new stores, vets and groomers across the UK will enable us to grow market share.
At the heart Always new of every Optimised store rollout and exciting community Services rollout of vet practices and grooming salons Adjacent veterinary market growth Grow margins Focus on the areas that will enable long term gross margin and operating margin improvements.
Services Product mix and own brands Sourcing and terms Pets at Home Group Plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance CSR strategy Putting responsibility Product innovation Services at the heart of our business Continually refreshed product range, Vet practices and grooming salons make us own brands and private labels, bringing a one stop shop for pet owners, increasing something new and innovative to customers.
customer visit frequency and loyalty.
Our Pets People VIP club Engagement Be a great place to work Grow our loyalty club, which delivers targeted Maintain leading levels of customer offers to customers and increases our share engagement with our highly trained colleagues, Heart of the Community of their spend.
which is essential to our success.
At the heart of every local community Marketing Pricing Customer brand engagement through Deliver value for money, reflecting product Sourcing with Integrity a focus on the emotional relationships range, exclusivity, convenience, quality, Ensuring we maintain our number one we have with our pets.
value, putting Pets Before Profit Omni-channel Enable a seamless shopping experience, Our Pets Environment where products can be delivered to home Read more on page 20 Efficiently using and respecting or picked up in store.
Create an online all resources community for pet owners to engage with us.
Optimised store rollout Adjacent veterinary market growth Open Pets at Home stores in optimal locations Into areas complimentary to our first to access unmet market spend and consider opionion practices.
smaller formats targeted at market subsegments.
Services rollout of vet practices and grooming salons Opening services within all new stores, as well as retrofitting services into the existing estate, Read more on page 22 driving customer loyalty and visit frequency.
Read more on page 44 Services Sourcing and terms Growth and maturity of our higher margin Build closer and improved relationships vets and groomers.
with suppliers to leverage our market reach.
Product mix and own brands Create an optimal balance of higher margin Advanced Nutrition, own brand and private Read more on page 24 label products.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19
