02 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Leading the industry What sets us apart As market-leading pioneers with a holistic approach to both internal and external business strategy, Playtech presents a strong case for investment.
1 2 3 A unique At the Committed offering forefront to regulation of innovation Omni-channel offers Our investment into We work closely with users a unique and R&D is enhancing the regulators to ensure seamless journey digitalisation of gaming they understand the through technology and and extending our lead impact of technical compliance tools.
changes and specific local requirements.
See more on page 12 See more on page 31 See more on page 46 4 5 6 Successful A track record High leadership of growth shareholder returns A strong, experienced We have a strong We are committed and successful track record of growth to returning value leadership team, across our business to shareholders, as together with a through a combination evidenced by the management structured of organic growth strong compound to implement strategy and the acquisition growth in our regular and deliver results.
of complementary dividends and the businesses, technology special dividend paid.
See more on page 56 See more on page 36 See more on page 39 Strategic report Governance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | 03 Year in review Renewals with William Hill, Enhancing Playtech Sports launches Betfred, Rank and Paddy omni-channel to drive first virtual retail product Power Betfair digitalisation of retail with Coral July July One of the strengths of Playtech is our commitment to our customers, 2016 saw the Playtech acquired Best Gaming Playtech goes live with our first out of the signing of significant new customers with ten Technology BGT for 138m.
BGTs box retail virtual sports product across 100 new customer go-lives.
The trend of securing offering combines best-in-class UK Coral shops with the potential to deploy longer term agreements with key customers technology with a digital terminal that it across 1,000 outlets in the next 12 months.
continued with nine of our top ten customers revolutionises the traditional overon long-term contracts following the renewals the-counter experience.
This creates with William Hill, Betfred and Rank all renewing an incredibly powerful omni-channel Weve been working in the first two months of 2017 alone.
solution when coupled with our round the clock on a retail Playtech ONE infrastructure.
solution and firmly believe weve launched the best Strengthening Playtechs 138m product on the market.
Acquired BGT for 138m position as the leading content provider Elliott Norris For 90% of issued share capital.
May Head of Virtual at Playtech Sports See more on page 20 Playtech acquired Quickspin, a fast-growing Swedish games studio that develops and supplies high-quality video slots to operators, both in online real money gambling as well as in the social Playtech partners with Playtech places itself at gaming market.
Warner Bros. Consumer the forefront of the retail See more on page 17 Products and DC bingo market with Entertainment acquisition of ECM October October bet365 first to launch Playtech partners with Warner Bros. Playtech acquired bingo software and Playtech native app Consumer Products on behalf of DC hardware solutions provider ECM Systems September Entertainment, to launch the first two ECM.
ECM supplies software and support of six slot games based on DCs services to the UK retail bingo market, bet365 became the first operator to go live with 1960s Batman Classic TV Series.
including major operators Gala Leisure, Playtechs new native mobile casino application, Mecca Bingo and the leading independent offering instant gameplay and improved speed bingo operators.
ECM will empower and performance across all iOS and Android Playtech to provide omni-channel solutions devices.
bet365 players can download and play to the bingo operators by connecting Expanding Playtechs games in seconds, with loading speeds up to their retail and online operations as three times faster than HTML5 equivalents, Financials division well as providing a platform to supply giving them instant access to the most immersive Playtech content.
November mobile gameplay experience there is.
Playtech acquired a 70% interest in Consolidated Financial Holdings A S CFH, a technology company with Important new licensees Playtech claims top prize products including a leading Straight signed Through Processing STP brokerage at the Global Gaming which provides retail brokers with PokerStars Awards 2016 multi asset execution, prime brokerage services, liquidity and complementary Fortuna September risk management tools.
The acquisition Sun Bets enhances Playtechs position as it Playtech was awarded the Best Digital Industry continues to build a B2B offering Supplier at the Global Gaming Awards for our within its Financials division.
unrivalled gaming portfolio, breadth of new business and pioneering Playtech ONE omnichannel solution which has ensured recordSee more of our news at breaking results.
