10 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Gaming division Overview of our Gaming division continued Responding to our market The market trends Total online gambling The online Drivers of market market bn gambling market growth The online gambling market offers a In line with the growth of e-commerce constantly growing and dynamic market across all consumer and leisure related place.
H2 Gambling Capital estimated that sectors globally, the online gaming market in 2016 Gross Gambling Revenues GGR continues to benefit from the transition of defined as amounts staked less prizes land-based revenue to online revenue.
for casino, poker, bingo, sports betting, Improved broadband penetration and skill based gaming and lotteries, grew capacity, faster mobile data transfer rates, by approximately 11% to 42bn from improved smartphone penetration, a 38bn in 2015.
H2 Gambling Capital growing number of market participants, predicts this is in addition to a compound along with increased marketing expenditure annual growth rate of 10% from 2016 by operators through a wide range of to 2020. marketing channels are all driving factors for growth in the industry.
In addition, the growing trend of greater acceptance of Geographical development online gambling as a mainstream leisure Global online gambling The UK remains the most mature and largest pastime is contributing to increasing market 2016 by region online market by player location, data from regulatory regimes appearing globally.
H2 Gambling Capital shows that in 2016 the UK accounted for 14% of the overall Regulation interactive market.
China and Japan are the next largest markets with 10% and 11% Regulation remains a key opportunity for respectively.
Europe remains the leading growth in geographical markets.
Moving 42bn and largest segment, comprising 47% of from a predominantly.
com regime to a the overall market.
Europe alone is forecast regulated regime presents numerous to grow at a compound annual growth challenges to operators and suppliers rate of 13% from 2015 to 2018. but also creates opportunities, potentially opening up new product verticals and Europe: 47% increased marketing activity for operators.
Asia Middle East: 28% North America: 12% A combination of factors determine whether Oceania: 6% the opportunity will be attractive in the long Latin America Caribbean: 5% term: including tax rate, product availability Africa: 2% and technical requirements.
Playtech is uniquely placed given its strength, geographic diversity and technical acumen to manage these challenges and continue to Forecast compound be the leading supplier in regulated markets.
annual growth rate Europe continues to lead the regulatory of mobile interactive movement, with the Czech Republic, Poland gambling between and Portugal recently regulated.
Holland, Switzerland and Sweden are expected to 2016 and 2020 regulate in the near future.
In Latin America, Brazil is a big opportunity, whilst Peru and Uruguay are reviewing historic positions.
Finally, Asia and the Indian sub-continent remain interesting and lucrative markets.
2010 24.2 2011 25.3 27.8 2012 2013 30.8 2014 34.3 37.9 2015 2016 42.0 2017 45.3 49.2 2018 2019 52.2 2020 55.9 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 How we respond Technology Mobile Leading the competition The Playtech operating system is agnostic, The number of mobile devices in use allowing upgrades and new features to Maintaining and extending continues to grow every day.
In the be rolled out to every operator from a our leadership gambling sector increasing numbers single platform.
This enables all operators of players are choosing mobile sports The single most realistic alternative to the benefit of a more advanced offering.
betting and gaming for the convenience partnering with Playtech is for operators to Playtechs R&D costs vary from year to it brings.
Playtech is at the forefront of utilise their own proprietary platform together year, but are typically around 17% of overall mobile development with 33% of revenues with proprietary and third-party software.
This development generated from mobile devices in 2016.
Playtech believes this is an increasingly cost is shared across the licensee base, This represents an increase from 22% in unsustainable and costly business model.
and the revenue share model offered by 2015 and 16% in 2014.
It is forecast that Whilst currently accounting for around 30% Playtech is cost effective when compared mobile interactive gambling will enjoy of the total online gambling market and to self-development, and allows licensees a compound annual growth rate of the trend has been for this to decrease.
to remain at the cutting edge of the market.
Playtech enjoys significant scale advantages Operators also benefit from product by being able to leverage operating and development through two-way feedback development costs of more than 140 Convergence of online with Playtech.
licensees, including the top ten European and land-based and UK online gambling operators.
Experience In line with other consumer and leisure Playtechs strategy is to offer all product As Playtechs scale has increased over lead sectors a significant industry trend in verticals across all distribution channels on the 18 years since its incorporation, its gambling is the growing convergence of an integrated platform that offers a single knowledge, expertise and offering in all land-based and online market segments.
Playtech is also the markets have enabled operators to grow This is principally a result of many of the only supplier that can offer sophisticated their businesses and to diversify into new new entrants in regulated online markets marketing and operational services to markets more quickly.
being existing land-based gaming, betting drive player acquisition and retention via a and lottery operators.
These operators modular range of flexible approaches from Liquidity already have a substantial local presence, a full turnkey solution to equity joint ventures Playtech offers greater liquidity in the bingo well-recognised brands, existing player or structured agreements.
This enables and poker markets, and can provide highly databases and are familiar with the local operators to offer their players a true omniprogressive jackpots for casino players.
Historically channel approach across land-based digital separate in their philosophy and systems, mobile channels, providing the ultimate Services there has been a fundamental shift in both player experience.
Other barriers to entry are Playtechs segments towards common techniques for expertise in the services environment player attraction and retention, such as VIP marketing, hosting and affiliates and Barriers to entry levels and loyalty schemes.
Operators are increasingly longer-term supply contracts Scale becoming more aware of the importance and established relationships with licensees.
The rapid growth and increased scale of of player retention and of incentivising the Playtech has enabled the development of player on an individual basis regardless a superior platform, more relevant software of channel.
The retention of players and and more products than other suppliers.
the ability to cross-sell them on to other New B2B operators or licensees are not products provides an opportunity for able to undertake significant product operators, but also presents substantial development as they lack economies of technical challenges for them.
This is even more apparent in new focused much of its recent development channels coming to market such as mobile, efforts on ensuring that it is able to deliver or new products such as virtual racing.
functionality, player management and Games such as bingo or poker rely on content across the full range of distribution liquidity to satisfy player demand.
Networked channels, and to capitalise on this trend casino games can also provide significant of convergence.
