12 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Gaming division Overview of our Gaming division continued Our omni-channel philosophy Consumers today live and play in a world without restrictions and so do we.
A users experience should be the same no matter what the content, where it is accessed from, when it is played, or on whatever device they play on.
The industry term for this is omni-channel.
Only Playtech can deliver this play any game, on any platform and on any device using a single account and a single wallet, anywhere and at any time.
This is what we call Playtech ONE.
Playtech ONE Playtech ONE allows an operator and its customers, a seamless, anytime, anywhere experience across any product, any channel and any device using a single account and single wallet.
Our pioneering innovation has enabled licensees to bridge the retail-onlinemobile gap, giving their customers what they want, when they want it, in any location or time and on whatever hardware they choose to use.
Operator results speak for themselves.
We offer and enable them with all the tools and technology: they present their players with the ultimate gaming experience: and they generate improved results.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13 How omni-channel works Play any game On any platform On any device Using a single wallet anywhere and at any time.
Only Playtech ONE candeliver this.
5 pillars of omni-channel 1 2 3 4 5 Wallet Personalisation Content CRM User experience One way for ONE wallet, Tailored player All content, all Data driven in ONE view, experience channels, real-time seamless play ONE platform all devices Seamless, responsive Play any product, across Automated data-driven, Seamless wallet and Bespoke player and adaptive gameplay all channels, locations real-time, BI marketing balance management, experience, enabled across all channels and and devices.
payments, fraud, by segmentation devices.
responsible gaming and supported by realand compliance tools.
Playtech ONE Platform & Products Services intelligence Casino Marketing Playtech Open Playtech live Payment Platform POP casino advisory Playtech Web Sports Financial Platform services Virtual sports Information Hosting services Management Bingo System IMS Fraud prevention Playtech poker Business Retail Intelligence Technology BIT See page 14 See page 16 See page 22
