14 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Gaming division Platform and intelligence The data-driven journey Playtech Playtech Portal Information Management Open Platform POP System IMS Extensive games library Full front-end customisation Most powerful gaming intelligence platform Best-performing games Huge range of designs, tools and features Seamless games and Exclusive content platforms transition via Integrate user interface single account with any Playtech product Playtechs omni-channel Open Platform allows licensees access to more than 600 Full player lifecycle of the industrys most popular online and visibility and control Playtech Portal is an open framework mobile in-house and third-party games designed to integrate content and deliver at any time, across any channel and on an unparalleled experience for operators any device.
Playtechs award-winning Information and their players.
Management System IMS is the backbone The POP content library includes a of our omni-channel product and services It allows operators complete control and comprehensive selection of classic slot portfolio, powering Playtech ONE, and flexibility and all the tools they need to games, multi-line video and premium offering licensees all the tools they need configure their customer-facing front-end branded slots from our own cutting-edge to manage their operations in the most solutions across any channel and device, in-house studios, more than 100 mobile efficient and profitable way.
is fully optimised across all platforms titles and content from 20 of the industrys allowing a seamless offering and largest suppliers.
All new POP titles are IMS enables our licensees to access all experience and is fully integrated into launched simultaneously across mobile the elements of our unique omni-channel Playtechs industry-leading IMS player and desktop.
capabilities allowing players to seamlessly management system.
Portal supports transition across games and platforms via a multitude of languages and markets Key components include aggregation a single account and single wallet, while and comes complete with full CRM and through one integration: bonusing across providing operators with simple third-party personalisation, reporting and analytics all content including third parties: onintegration and full visibility and control and player communication tools.
going support: real-time content and of the entire player lifecycle.
competitor performance league tables: games development kit: multiple game IMS unifies all Playtech products across integration frameworks: seamless thirdall channels, including retail, presenting party wallet integration: single player operators with a single account overview account across all products: and data and allowing them to streamline and integration and warehousing and optimise marketing spend, maximise support for all gaming standards.
cross-sell and conversion potential, leverage player loyalty and value and increase revenues by automating key aspects of the player journey.
There is simply no industry equivalent to IMS gamings most powerful omni-channel enabler.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 Business Intelligence Technology BIT Strategy in action Data-driven marketing tools Strengthening our bingo offering Fully automated BI software Increases lifetime value and revenues BIT provides new and existing licensees with superior innovation for their next stage of growth.
Our unique data-driven, business Playtechs recent intelligence marketing technology, exclusive acquisition, ECM to Playtech, significantly enhances licensee Systems ECM supplies revenues by increasing player experience and lifetime value.
BIT revolves around a software and support series of game-changing features including: services to the UK retail bingo market, including The BI platform major operators Gala Complete operational overview Enables day-to-day and high-level Leisure, Mecca Bingo and decisions by comparing key metrics the leading independent against competitors.
Data-driven marketing tools ECM is highly regarded within the The power of personalisation bingo industry and its extensive range of products is instrumental to the daily Automates and personalises every operation of retail bingo in the UK and the major aspect of the player journey.
Its systems provide key facilities for Main Stage Bingo, Cash Bingo, Playtech Analytics wide area linked gaming operations and Real-time decision making front-of-house reporting.
A complete Real-time tracking and reporting customer support facility provides technical and repair services for all current and to maximise player value and legacy products.
com Playtech optimiser Omni-channel personalisation Real-time, easy-to-use personalisation and optimisation engine, powering all of our offering across all channels.
