22 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Gaming division Services Playtech Turnkey Services As part of our Playtech ONE offering, Playtechs Turnkey Services PTTS offer Comprehensive set operators and their customers are all-encompassing solutions across all presented with a seamless, anytime, platforms by supplying product design, of tools and skills anywhere experience, across any operational management, internal and product, any channel and any device external marketing tools, fully customisable Player acquisition using a single account and wallet.
applications and around the clock interactive player support.
and retention PTTS is designed to deliver material Levels playing field value and expertise to licensees across key elements of player acquisition and for new operators retention, together with the opportunity to realise substantial cost savings by outsourcing operational services.
Marketing services Playtech offers in-depth marketing services We offer unbeatable Search Engine Unbeatable industry based on decades of expertise from Optimisation skills with full-scope promotion gaming industry experts.
within the dominant search engines by our experience and expertise developers and SEO experts, in addition Our offering includes affiliate marketing to effective optimisation across all relevant services and access to 50,000 languages using the appropriate keywords.
Access to 50,000 affiliates affiliates with the tools to push our licensees products through the worlds Our turnkey solutions bring more than Optimisation driven leading e-gaming affiliate programme: a decade of expertise to assist those dedicated affiliate product managers: new operators preparing to enter highly branding during affiliate tradeshows: competitive online regulated markets, and multilingual services to suit all including access to some of the most online marketing requirements.
Our experienced team of media buyers build multi-language campaigns and offer daily campaign tracking, with a strong focus on optimisation so as to obtain maximum return on investment.
Payment advisory Our professional consultants provide With an extensive choice of more than Expert consultancy services advice on all payment issues related 50 existing payment methods, including to cashier, processing, payments, risk credit card processing gateways, acquirers, management and financial performance, e-wallets, EFT, bank draft payout options All payment queries creating and simplifying the implementation via local banks worldwide, wire transfer dealt with of processing and payment models.
and prepaid cards, a payment model can be customised to meet the specific requirements of each individual client.
Extensive choice of payment methods Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23 Customer support services Comprehensive customer support is Our email and telephone customer support 24 7 email and phone crucial to the success of a gaming brand, is accessible 24 7, met by our team of from sign-ups, through to deposit, play highly skilled professionals with industrysupport and withdrawal.
Unrivalled response times Service at the heart of Playtech philosophy Financial reporting services Our advanced financial reporting and Our world-class financial tools include Unmatched reporting analysis tools offer our customers a player payout approval decline, dispute comprehensive portfolio of financial withdrawal requests, wagering calculations, and analysis services coupled with the ability to procedure submittal, document review review and monitor a selection of and much more.
Broad range of services online activities, all in real time.
Real-time online monitoring Hosting services With years of industry experience, We are experts in and lead the industry Expansive industry our hosting services are world class.
in omni-channel gaming, software and We give you peace of mind and work services, so we understand operators experience to ensure your operation remains reliable specific business needs, therefore our and secure at all times, providing DDoS customers can rely on us to foresee Tried, tested, trusted prevention: DNS management: thirdevery possible threat and issue, prevent party services: geo-location services: unplanned system failure and ensure maintenance services and client and businesses are running safely and at Understand operators banner hosting amongst others.
specific requirements Fraud prevention As the gaming industry continues to grow, Our state-of-the-art tracking technology Next generation tracking so too do the number of fraudsters keen allows for the rapid detection of suspicious to take advantage of the huge revenues behaviour and the prevention of illegal technology earned by operators.
activity, while our top tier management tools monitor deposits and withdrawals, Rapid suspicious track player activity and deliver automated alerts.
activity detection Automated alerts 24 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Financials division Markets.
com The home for traders Markets.
com is a fast-growing provider of online financial trading platforms for B2C and B2B customers.
com offers Contracts for Difference CFDs for online traders on more than 2,000 underlying global financial instruments comprising equities, indices, commodities, exchange-traded funds ETFs and foreign exchange.
coms proprietary web and mobile trading platforms are available to use online or downloadable for Android and Apple devices, on Google Play and the App Store and are available in 15 languages.
Both the web and mobile platforms are inhouse developed, and specially designed to be intuitive, powerful and robust, catering for all levels of traders.
coms Trading Central area, B2C customers can access data charts and other tools, including MACD, RSI, SMA, Support and Resistance, pivot points and over 50 other studies.
B2B platform Playtechs Financials division offers a full turnkey solution to operators in the financials trading space by utilising the software and infrastructure behind Markets.
B2C operators utilising the Playtech Financials platform benefit from robust, reliable technology coupled with access to competitive spreads and exceptional, round-the-clock customer support.
Playtech has augmented its B2B offering with the acquisition of STP brokerage service provider CFH see pages 26 and 27 for further details.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25 ARSENAL F. C. OFFICIAL PARTNER ARSENAL F. C. ARSENAL F. C. OFFICIAL PARTNER OFFICIAL PARTNER
