86 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report The Directors are pleased to present to shareholders their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report: the Strategic Report, Corporate Responsibility Report and the Remuneration Report, all of which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The following also form part of this report: The reports on corporate governance set out on pages 56 to 85: Information relating to financial instruments, as provided in the Notes to the financial statements: and Related party transactions as set out in Note 28 to the financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts The Directors are aware of their responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities appears on page 94.
Principal activities and business review The Groups principal activities are the development and licensing of software and the provision of ancillary services for the online and land-based gambling industries and since its acquisition of Markets Limited in May 2015, an online trading platform to retail customers which enables them to trade CFDs Contracts for Difference on a variety of instruments which fall under the general categories of Foreign Exchange Commodities.
In November 2016, the Company acquired 70% of Consolidated Financial Holdings A S, which provides retail brokers with multi-asset execution, prime brokerage services, liquidity and complementary risk management tools.
Playtech plc is a public listed company, with a premium listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
It is incorporated and domiciled in the Isle of Man.
The information that fulfils the requirement for a management report as required by Rule 4.1.
5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules applicable to the Group can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 53 which also includes an analysis, the development, performance and position of the Groups business.
A statement of the key risks and uncertainties facing the business of the Group at the end of the year is found on pages 44 to 47 of this Annual Report and details of the policies and the use of financial instruments is set out in Note 2 to the financial statements.
Directors and Directors indemnity The Directors of the Company who held office during 2016 and to date are: Appointed Resigned Alan Jackson 28.03.2006 Mor Weizer 02.05.2007 Andrew Thomas 19.06.2012 Ron Hoffman 31.12.2012 10.01.2017 Andrew Smith 10.01.2017 Paul Hewitt 27.08.2015 John Jackson 01.01.2016 Claire Milne 08.07.2016 All of the current Directors will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Save as set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, no Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its operating companies at any time during the year.
As at the date of this report, an indemnity is in place under which the Company has agreed to indemnify Alan Jackson who held office during the year ended 31 December 2016, to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys articles of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in connection with the performance of his duties as a Director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
A copy of the indemnity is available for review at the Companys registered office.
The Company also purchased, and maintained throughout 2016, Directors and Officers Liability Insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 Corporate governance statement The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the Directors Report.
Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Governance Report on pages 54 to 85 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Disclaimer The purpose of these financial statements including this report is to provide information to the members of the Company.
The financial statements have been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors and employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The financial statements contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of these financial statements and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
Results and dividend The results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 are set out on pages 104 to 153.
On 22 February 2017, the Board recommended the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 21.7 cents per share which will be paid to shareholders on the register as at 5 May 2017.
The payment of the final dividend requires shareholder approval which will be sought at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held at the Sefton Hotel, Douglas, Isle of Man on 17 May 2017.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 2 June 2017 and together with the interim dividend of 11.0 cents per share paid on 25 October 2016 and a special dividend representing 46.0 cents per share paid on 6 December 2016 makes a total dividend expressed in of 78.7 cents per share for the year.
Shareholders who wish to receive their final dividend in Sterling rather than Euros will be required to return currency election forms to the Companys registrars by 12 May 2017.
Currency election forms are contained with the notice of Annual General Meeting that accompanies the Annual Report and further copies are available from the Companys website www.
Going concern, viability, responsibilities and disclosure The current activities of the Group and those factors likely to affect its future development, together with a description of its financial position, are described in the Strategic Report.
Principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the steps taken to mitigate these risks are described on pages 44 to 47.
Critical accounting estimates affecting the carrying values of assets and liabilities of the Group are discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements.
During 2016, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those factors that would threaten its future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This ongoing assessment forms part of the Groups three-year strategic plan.
After making appropriate enquiries and having regard to the Groups cash balances and normal business planning and control procedures, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
As part of this assessment, the Directors prepared a three-year forecast considering the going concern status for the period to December 2018 in accordance with the Companys Three Year Plan, which is considered to be an appropriate period over which the Group can predict its revenue, cost base and cash flows with a higher degree of certainty, as opposed to more arbitrary forms of forecasts based solely on percentage increases.
Notwithstanding, due to the significant cash reserves and projected profitability over the next 12 months, the Directors have no reason to believe that the Groups viability will be threatened over a period longer than that covered by the positive confirmation of long-term viability above.
Given the above, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
88 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report continued Significant shareholdings As of 31 January 2017 the Company had been advised of the following significant shareholders each holding more than 3% of the Companys issued share capital, based on 317,344,603 ordinary shares in issue: No.
of Shareholder % ordinary shares Brickington Trading Limited 21.93 69,582,169 Morgan Stanley 3.80 12,070,148 Fidelity Mgt & Research 3.63 11,505,382 DNB Asset Mgt 3.39 10,769,638 Legal & General Investment Mgt 3.11 9,880,740 The persons set out in the table above have notified the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Company has not been notified of any changes to the above shareholders between 31 January 2017 and the date of this report.
Capital structure As at 31 January 2017, the Company had 317,344,603 issued shares of no par value.
The Company has one class of ordinary share and each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company and to participate in any dividends declared in accordance with the articles of association.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
The authorities under the Companys articles of association granted at the last Annual General Meeting for the Directors to issue new shares for cash and purchase its own shares remain valid until the forthcoming Annual General Meeting when it is intended that resolutions will be put forward to shareholders to renew the authority for the Company to issue shares for cash and purchase its own shares.
Following an announcement on 6 December 2016, the Company carried out a share buyback programme and purchased and cancelled a total of 5,280,000 ordinary shares at a cost of 50 million, which was funded from the Companys existing cash resources.
Articles of association The Companys articles of association do not contain any specific restrictions on the size of a shareholders holding.
Voting rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any shares by or in accordance with the articles of association, on a show of hands every member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Restrictions on voting No member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, be entitled to vote at a general meeting or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him or to exercise any right as a member unless all calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid to the Company.
In addition, any member who having been served with a notice by the Company requiring such member to disclose to the Board in writing within such reasonable period as may be specified in such notice, details of any past or present beneficial interest of any third party in the shares or any other interest of any kind whatsoever which a third party may have in the shares and the identity of the third party having or having had any such interest, fails to do so may be disenfranchised by service of a notice by the Board.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 Transfer Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all or any of his or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share or on which the Company has a lien.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i delivered for registration to the registered agent, or at such other place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred except in the case of a transfer where a certificate has not been required to be issued by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and or such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution by him of the transferor, if the transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so, provided that where any such shares are admitted to AIM, the Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority or another recognised investment exchange.
Amendment of the Companys articles of association Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Appointment and removal of Directors Unless and until otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution, the number of Directors other than any alternate Directors shall not be less than two and there shall be no maximum number of Directors.
Powers of Directors Subject to the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006, the memorandum and articles of association of the Company and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Appointment of Directors Subject to the articles of association, the Company may by ordinary resolution appoint a person who is willing to act to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy, or as an addition to the existing Board, and may also determine the rotation in which any Directors are to retire.
Without prejudice to the power of the Company to appoint any person to be a Director pursuant to the articles of association, the Board shall have power at any time to appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total number of Directors shall not exceed any maximum number fixed in accordance with the articles of association.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company following such appointment and shall then be eligible for re-election but shall not be taken into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Retirement of Directors At each Annual General Meeting one-third of the Directors excluding any Director who has been appointed by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting or, if their number is not an integral multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third but not exceeding one-third shall retire from office but so that if there are fewer than three Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation under this Article one shall retire.
Removal of Directors The Company may by ordinary resolution passed at a meeting called for such purpose or by written resolution consented to by members holding at least 75% of the voting rights in relation thereto, remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office notwithstanding anything in the articles of association or in any agreement between the Company and such Director and, without prejudice to any claim for damages which he may have for breach of any contract of service between him and the Company, may subject to the articles by ordinary resolution, appoint another person who is willing to act as a Director in his place.
A Director may also be removed from office by the service on him of a notice to that effect signed by all the other Directors.
90 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report continued Significant agreements There are no agreements or arrangements to which the Company is a party that are affected by a change in control of the Company following a takeover bid, and which are considered individually significant in terms of their impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
The rules of certain of the Companys incentive plans include provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction.
Related party transactions Details of all related party transactions are set out in Note 28 to the financial statements.
Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an arms length basis and are disclosed in the financial statements.
Political and charitable donations During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group made charitable donations of 433,513 2015: 208,888, primarily to charities that fund research into and treatment of problem gambling but also to a variety of charities operating in countries in which the Companys subsidiaries are based.
The Group made no political donations during this period 2015: Nil.
Sustainability and employees Information with respect to the Groups impact on the environment and other matters concerning sustainability can be found on pages 48 to 53.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully and fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitude and ability of the applicant concerned.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed of matters affecting them as employees and on the performance of the Group and has run information days for employees in different locations across the Group during the year.
Some employees are stakeholders in the Company through participation in share option plans.
Information provided by the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information services and the Companys website, www.
Branches The Companys subsidiaries Playtech Retail Limited and PT Turnkey Services Limited have established branch offices in the Philippines.
It is intended that PT Turnkey Services Limited will establish a branch in Gibraltar as will another of the Companys subsidiaries, Playtech Software Limited.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 Regulatory disclosures The information in the following tables is provided in compliance with the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
The DTRs also require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the Directors Report.
Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Governance Report on pages 58 to 66 and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4C Listing Rule Information included Disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group.
4 4 Long-term incentive scheme only involving a Director.
4 6 Directors waivers of future emoluments.
4 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash.
4 8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash by major subsidiaries.
4 9 Listed company is a subsidiary of another.
4 11 Contracts of significance involving a controlling Brickington Trading Limited, the Companys largest shareholder.
shareholder, ceased to be a controlling shareholder on 2 December 2016.
The Notes to the financial statements set out details of transactions with the Companys former controlling shareholder.
92 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report continued Additional information provided pursuant to LR9.8.
6 Listing Rule Information included Disclosure 9.8.
6 1 Interests of Directors and their connected persons in See page 83. the shares of the Company at the year end and not more than one month prior to the date of the notice of AGM.
6 2 Interests in Playtech shares disclosed under DTR5 at the See page 88. year end and at not more than one month prior to the date of the notice of AGM.
6 4 a Amount of the authority to purchase own shares available 26,982,460 ordinary shares which authority will expire at the year end.
at the AGM and will be renewed.
6 4 b Off market purchases of own shares during the year.
6 4 c Off market purchases of own shares after the year end.
6 4 d Non pro-rata sales of treasury shares during the year.
6 5 Compliance with the main principles of the UK Corporate See the statement on page 59.
6 6 Details of non-compliance with the UK Corporate See the statement on page 59.
6 7 Re Directors proposed for re-election: the unexpired The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors serve term of their service contract and a statement about under letters of appointment described on page 76.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Additional information under Rule 4.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR Requirement How fulfilled 4.1.
3 Publication of Annual Financial Report This document is dated 22 February 2017 being a date less than four within four months of the end of the months after the year end.
5 Content of Annual Financial Report.
The audited financial statements are set out on page 97 to page 153.
The information that fulfils the requirement for a management report can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 53.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities can be found on page 94.
The audited financial statements set out on page 97 to page 53 comprise consolidated accounts prepared in accordance with IFRS and the accounts of the Company.
The financial statements have been audited by BDO LLP.
The Strategic Report on pages 6 to 53, includes an analysis, using financial key performance indicators, of the development, performance and position of the Companys business, a review of the Companys business and on pages 44 to 47 a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
11 1 Important events since the year end.
The Strategic Report on pages 6 to 53 gives details of the acquisition of Eyecon Limited and Eyecon Pty.
The Strategic Report on pages 6 to 53 gives an indication of the likely future development of the Company.
The Strategic Report on pages 6 to 53, gives an indication of ongoing research and development activities.
See the statement on page 40.
See Note 2 to the audited financial statements on pages 109 to 116.
See the statement of the Directors on page 94.
94 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report continued Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors have elected to prepare the Annual Report and the financial statements for the Company and the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The Directors are responsible under applicable law and regulation for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
International Accounting Standard 1 revised requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In addition, the Directors at the date of this report consider that the financial statements taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Website publication Financial statements are published on the Companys website.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
Directors responsibilities pursuant to DTR4 Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed within the Governance section on pages 56 to 57 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and The Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the Group and the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting in 2016 was held in May in Douglas, Isle of Man.
With the exception of Andrew Thomas and Paul Hewitt, who were delayed due to adverse weather conditions, all Directors were present and made themselves available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for the Directors to communicate personally performance and future strategy to non-institutional shareholders and for those shareholders to meet with and question the Board.
All Directors plan to be present at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
All results of proxy votes are read out, made available for review at the meeting, recorded inthe minutes of the meeting and communicated to the market and via the Group website.
The Annual General Meeting for 2017 will be held at the Sefton Hotel, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 2RW on Wednesday 17 May 2017 at 10.00 am.
The notice convening the Annual General Meeting for this year, and an explanation of the items of non-routine business, are set out in the circular that accompanies the Annual Report.
Auditors So far as each Director is aware, at the date of the approval of the financial statements there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any information needed by the Groups auditors for the purposes of their audit and to establish that the auditors areaware of that information.
A resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as the Companys auditors will be submitted to the shareholders at this years AGM.
Approved by the Board and signed on behalf of the Board Andrew Smith Chief Financial Officer 22 February 2017 96 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS w Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 Contents Independent auditors report 98 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 104 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 105 Consolidated balance sheet 106 Consolidated statement of cash flows 107 Notes to the financial statements 109 Company statement of changes in equity 154 Company balance sheet 155 Company statement of cash flows 156 Notes to the Company financial statements 157 Five-year financial summary 160 w
