56 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors Trusted leadership 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Board Committees: Skills, competences and experience: 1 He is Chairman of the Nominations Mor is a qualified accountant and brings Committee and a member of the considerable international sales and Alan Jackson Remuneration and Risk & management experience in a hi-tech Non-executive Chairman Compliance Committees.
environment and extensive knowledge of the online gambling industry.
Until Appointment to the Board: June 2013 he was a Non-executive 2 Alan was appointed to the Board in Director of Sportech PLC as the Companys 2006 on the Companys flotation on representative, and resigned when Mor Weizer the Alternative Investment Market and Playtech disposed of its shareholding.
Chief Executive Officer Board Committees: Career: He chairs the Management Committee Appointment to the Board: Alan has over 40 years experience in and attends the Remuneration, Risk & Mor was appointed as Playtechs the leisure industry.
From 1973 to 1991, Compliance and Nominations Committees Chief Executive Officer in May 2007. he occupied a number of positions at the invitation of the Chairs of those at Whitbread, both in the UK and Career: Committees.
internationally, principally as Managing Prior to being appointed CEO, Mor was Director of Beefeater Steak Houses and the Chief Executive Officer of one of the 3 also the Whitbread restaurant division Groups subsidiaries, Techplay Marketing where he was responsible for the creation Ltd. which required him to oversee the Andrew Smith and development of the Beefeater, Groups licensee relationship management, Travel Inn and TGI Friday brands and was product management for new licensees Chief Financial Officer responsible for Whitbreads international and the Groups marketing activities.
In 1991, he Before joining Playtech, Mor worked for Appointment to the Board: founded Inn Business Group plc, which Oracle for over four years, initially as a Andrew was appointed as Playtechs was acquired by Punch Taverns plc in 1999. development consultant and then as a Chief Financial Officer on 10 January 2017, He was Chairman of The Restaurant Group product manager, which involved creating having joined the Group in 2015. plc from 2001 until he retired from this sales and consulting channels on behalf Career: position in 2016.
He stepped down from of Oracle Israel and Oracle Europe, the Having qualified as a solicitor with Ashurst his role as Deputy Chairman and Senior Middle East and Africa.
Earlier in his career, in 2001, Andrew moved into investment Non-executive Director at Redrow plc he worked in a variety of roles, including banking, first with ABN AMRO and then in September 2014. as an auditor and financial consultant for with Deutsche Bank, specialising in both  and a system Skills, competences and experience: the Technology and Leisure sectors.
analyst for Tadiran Electronic Systems Having held several Board positions in both Andrew joined Playtech in 2015 as Limited, an Israeli company that designs an executive and non-executive capacity Head of Investor Relations.
in a variety of listed companies in the UK, he brings substantial experience of working in public and private companies, along with strategic and leadership experience.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Skills, competences and experience: Skills, competences and experience: 5 Andrew brings a wealth of financial, John brings a wealth of consumer industry capital markets and M&A experience experience combined with a strong Paul Hewitt to the Board and has been integral to accountancy and finance background.
Non-executive Director Playtechs operational and strategic Board Committees: progress since joining the business.
John is Chair of the Remuneration Appointment to the Board: Board Committees: Committee and sits on the Audit Paul was appointed to the Andrew sits on the Management Committee, Risk & Compliance Board in August 2015.
Committee and attends meetings of Committee and Nominations Committee.
Career: the Audit Committee and the Risk & Paul is a qualified accountant, and his Compliance Committee at the invitation 7 recent executive responsibilities included of the Chairs of those Committees.
being the Deputy Group Chief Executive Claire Milne and Chief Financial Officer of the Co- 4 Operative Group from 2003 to 2007: and Non-executive Director Finance and IT Director of the RAC plc Andrew Thomas from 1999 to 2003.
Since starting to build Appointment to the Board: Senior Non-executive Director a portfolio of non-executive roles in 2007, Claire was appointed to the Board Paul has helped many management teams in July 2016.
Appointment to the Board: adapt their business models to respond Career: Andrew was appointed to the Board in to, and anticipate, changes in their Claire has a masters degree from The June 2012, shortly before the Companys regulatory environments, including as Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, is a admission to the Main Market.
Non-executive Director and Chairman member of The Law Society of Scotland, of the Audit Committee of Tesco Bank Career: a Manx Advocate and a Writer to Her from 2012 to 2014.
Andrew has enjoyed a career as an Majestys Signet.
She is a member of accountant and businessman, much of Skills, competences and experience: the Institute of Directors, the Licensing which has been within the leisure industry.
Paul brings a wealth of experience across Executive Society and the Society for Andrew is currently Chairman of Randalls a variety of sectors, including in the financial Computers and the Law, a General Member Limited, a family-owned pub company in services industry.
of the International Masters of Gaming Law Jersey, where he lives.
Andrew previously and was Chair of the Isle of Man Gambling Board Committees: served as Chairman of The Greenalls Supervision Commission from 2007-2012.
Paul is Chair of the Risk & Compliance Group plc and as a Non-executive She is currently a Partner and Team Leader Committee and sits on the Audit Director of a number of private and public within the Intellectual Property and Science Committee, Remuneration Committee companies.
He is the founding partner & Technology teams for Appleby in the and Nominations Committee.
of the Cheshire-based accounting firm, Isle of Man.
Moors Andrew Thomas & Co. LLP.
Andrew Skills, competences and experience: is a member of the Institute of Chartered 6 Claire is a recognised industry expert Accountants in England & Wales and a in eGaming and technology law and member of the Institute of Taxation.
John Jackson regulation, with over 20 years experience Skills, competences and experience: Non-executive Director advising gaming and financial services Andrew combines many years detailed clients as an in-house and private experience of advising on taxation matters, Appointment to the Board: practice lawyer.
with financial expertise both as a Chartered John was appointed to the Board Board Committees: Accountant and sitting as a Non-executive in January 2016.
Claire sits on the Remuneration Committee, Director of a number of publicly listed Career: Risk & Compliance Committee, Audit companies.
John is a qualified accountant and his Committee and Nominations Committee.
Board Committees: previous roles include Group Chief Andrew chairs the Audit Committee, which Executive of Jamie Oliver Holdings Limited oversees the work of the internal auditors from 2007 to 2015 and Group Retail and and sits on the Remuneration, Nomination Leisure Director of Virgin Group Limited and Risk & Compliance Committees.
He is currently NonHe is also the Senior Independent executive Chairman of Rick Stein Group, Non-executive Director.
a senior independent director of Game Note: Digital plc: and a Non-executive Director Ron Hoffman served as an Executive Director and of Wilkinsons Hardware Stores Limited.
Chief Financial Officer throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
Ron moved from his position as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer in January 2017 to become full-time Chief Executive Officer of Playtechs Financials division.
