16 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Gaming division Products The complete product suite Casino Playtech Live Playtech BGT Sports Complete omni-channel Complete omni-channel Complete omni-channel experience experience experience Largest portfolio of bestAward-winning back-end Unique player segmentation performing content platform and personalisation tools Simultaneous mobilePowered by innovation Brandable mobile solution, desktop launches platform, user interface and features Playtechs live casino platform and products are designed to provide the most authentic, Playtech offers the industrys most omni-channel gaming experience extensive portfolio of omni-channel Playtech BGT Sports delivers next supported by a new user interface and casino content, delivering 600 of the generation sports betting solutions, experience and cutting-edge platform most innovative titles across all channels, delivering a true omni-channel offering, that uses the latest business intelligence platforms and devices.
with content available across any device, data-driven technology.
any channel and any location.
As part of our Playtech ONE omni-channel Our extensive live product offering, offering, our casino product allows players Working with more than 80 licensees in 24 manned by native-speaking dealers, to access content anywhere, at any time territories resulting in more than 30,000 includes all the casino classics such as and on any device through a single live products, we are the powerhouse Blackjack, Baccarat and Roulette in addition walletexperience.
for sports betting solutions across retail to innovative new variants including and Self Service Sports Betting Terminals Unlimited Blackjack, Prestige Roulette Driven by our powerful IMS platform and SSBTs, online and mobile.
Our vision is and Baccarat and Casino Holdem.
BIT, Playtech casino delivers industry to create a fully integrated, best-in-class leading in-house and premium branded sports betting technology offering by We use state-of-the-art cameras games including a large selection of drawing on Playtechs technology and broadcasting in premium HD quality, offer DC Entertainment titles such as Batman infrastructure.
Our sports betting platform the fastest streaming and highest up-time Classic TV Series, as well as Top Gun and is robust, secure and highly scalable, in the market, bespoke branding and The Flintstones to name just a few, while integrated with Playtechs award-winning individual training, establishing the trust our Open Platform offers hundreds more IMS and BIT, offering player segmentation and loyalty associated with a real casino titles which flawlessly integrate with our and personalisation, configurable to experience.
both large-scale and smaller managed operations.
We have dedicated tables with nativeOur commitment to providing new and speaking dealers for the UK, Italy, Spain existing licensees with access to our Our powerful omni-channel mobile platform and Romania, and others due to an leading content, powerful platform, and is also exclusively able to support any increasing demand in newly regulating fully automated marketing tools ensures channel, any product, on any device, at any markets.
Our core focus revolves around operators deliver the ultimate casino time, using one wallet and one account, unbeatable licensee service, ensuring experience to their players.
enabling licensees to track, customise and we outperform our competitors with our significantly enhance players experience, world-class omni-channel technology, Our unrivalled offering underlines our setting us apart as the only true omnifeatures, user experience and dedicated position as the industrys leading casino channel offering.
content, software and services provider.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Strategy in action Leading content providers Virtual sports Complete omni-channel Playtech acquired experience Quickspin, a fast-growing Swedish games studio State-of-the-art graphics that develops and and motion capture supplies high-quality technologies video slots to operators, both in online real money In-game branding, gambling as well as in the promotions and social gaming market.
bespoke events The acquisition provides Playtech with a proven virtual slot machine games portfolio, strengthening Playtechs Our diverse and growing virtual sports position as the leading content provider in the industry, as well as providing offering combines the very latest 3D game greater penetration in the Nordic region.
graphics and motion capture technology In addition to Quickspins existing with a highly sophisticated virtual racing customer base, Playtech plans to simulator across a wealth of sports, distribute Quickspins content through including horse racing, tennis, basketball its existing distribution channels across and football.
Our virtual products enable players to bet within the familiar sportsbook environment, with our graphics engine and servers allowing for integrated odds, data feeds and bespoke in-game branding, promotions and tailored races, matches, games and promotional events.
Quickspins portfolio currently consists With more than ten years experience in of over 20 high-quality games with developing and providing virtual racing the company providing games to over simulators, our virtual racing server 40 customers, including many international tier 1 operators.
Quickspin generated creates familiarity for the player, ensuring revenue and Adjusted EBITDA of 6.0m experienced racing fans can follow and 2.1m respectively in the financial the form of the runners, enhancing year ending 31 December 2015 and is the overall gameplay.
forecast to grow significantly over the coming years, with a number of new We work closely with well-known racing customers recently secured and with a strong pipeline of both new customers venues, professional sports players and and new games.
commentators to design ultra-realistic, high-quality environments, combining Read more at www.
com leading-edge graphics with CGI techniques, providing an experience comparable only to the real thing.
18 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Gaming division Products continued Bingo Poker Retail Complete omni-channel Complete omni-channel Complete omni-channel experience experience experience Most extensive Innovative game features Intuitive player management side-games portfolio and tracking tools Reliable back-end Bespoke bingo client management tools 600 games to choose from and room variants Playtechs omni-channel poker offering Playtech Retail offers a next generation remains unrivalled, and is available on the omni-channel network for land-based Playtech delivers the industrys most industry-leading iPoker network, the worlds venues, with seamless player access complete, omni-channel bingo portfolio, largest.
allowing players to enjoy the same seamless experience between all Our user-friendly service features multiple Operators implement their own platforms, on any channel and on game types with an extensive selection content but also benefit from 600 any device, through one wallet of table stakes and buy-ins allowing award-winning Playtech games, as and one account.
licensees to launch their own fully branded, well as exhilarating titles from over Our acquisition of ECM Systems fully customisable poker rooms, hosting 30 of the industrys best suppliers.
has strengthened our ability to further multiple languages and currencies.
increase our position as the leading Licensees can enjoy total control, omni-channel bingo provider for both Through our award-winning IMS platform, segment customers based on overall major and independent retail and online the client remains supported by premium value to the business and gain full visibility operators and includes the capability back-end management tools coupled with of player lifecycles.
Our unique single to deploy content across Electronic a powerful marketing system and services, wallet functionality allows players to Bingo Terminals EBTs.
allowing for targeted promotions, bonuses, effortlessly move between products next generation collusion prevention and channels without the need to We have the largest selection of omniand detection tools and dedicated withdraw or deposit funds.
channel bingo games, variants and side 24 7 online support.
games, with the bingo client and room With real-time reporting, business variants all tailor-made to an operators Playtechs iPoker network leads the intelligence, optimisation and player brand requirements, giving a truly way in network liquidity and a vast tracking capabilities, operators manage bespoke look and feel.
array of tournaments, making it the first and modify their activity based on success, choice for operators and players alike.
while our system also allows operators Our award-winning IMS platform supports to segment players based on the value each operation, with data analysis and they offer to their business.
player segmentation tools enabling the targeting of promotions for the most Playtechs extensive retail offering effective acquisition and retention caters for a large variety of venues, campaigns.
including casinos, betting shops, bingo halls, high street locations, restaurants, Our unique offering comes complete bars, hotels, resorts and cruise ships.
with the best performing omni-channel slot games with retail favourites mirrored both online and on mobile.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19 Post period end.
Strategy in action Acquisition of Eyecon Playtech acquired Eyecon, a specialist supplier of online gaming slots software to an international customer base.
Eyecon was founded in Brisbane, Australia in 1997 and is a specialist software supplier with a particular focus on bingo audiences with an established games portfolio of over 70 games, including the industry-leading soft gaming slot Fluffy Favourites.
Eyecon has also developed its own Remote Gaming Server RGS which enables it to distribute its content direct to operators and via distributors, such as 888 and Virtue Fusion, Playtechs bingo network.
Eyecon currently derives almost all its revenue from the UK market and in line with Playtechs acquisition strategy, almost all of Eyecons revenues are fully regulated.
The addition of Eyecons content portfolio strengthens Playtechs position as the leading content provider in this key market.
In addition, Eyecons proprietary RGS and distribution network will strengthen the penetration of Playtechs Virtue Fusion offering.
In order to assist in retaining the knowledgeable and specialist Eyecon team, its founder Scott Murray, has committed to remain with the business for at least three years.
com 20 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Gaming division Acquisition of BGT Driving the digitalisation of retail BGT is at the vanguard of retail gaming technology in the wagering industry and leads the way as an innovator and provider of sport betting services worldwide.
In July 2016, Playtech announced Ladbrokes, Paddy Power Betfair that it had acquired Best Gaming and William Hill.
27,000 Technology GmbH BGT for 138 BGTs business model is based on a Installed machines globally million.
The consideration was paid revenue share of the gross win margin from Playtechs existing cash resources.
At the end of FY2016, BGT provided more than 27,000 machines Headquartered in Vienna, BGT was with its betting software to licensed founded in 2005 and is the leading operators with this number forecast to provider of sports betting software and increase significantly over the coming solutions for gaming and sports betting years driven primarily by the roll-out operators.
Its customer base includes, of new SSBTs, compact terminals and amongst others, some of the most well tablets as bet entry devices as well as established bookmakers in the UK and by increased usage of existing SSBTs.
Spain, such as Betfred, Codere, Coral, For a 90% share of ownership.
Platform features BGTs technology Smart pricing: set and manage prices BGT's main product is its proprietary across various channels within a single software for self-service betting terminals risk system SSBTs.
Its offering combines class-leading technology with a digital terminal that Integrated services: accounting systems revolutionises the traditional over-theSAP, ProAlpha, bank services HalCash, counter experience, at times generating third-party protocols NXCS casino more than double the volumes of other protocol SSBT providers.
Other products include ePOS and till systems for betting operators Innovative survey and marketing tools and an omni-channel web mobile betting for content management, bonus and platform.
In addition to supplying many promotion schemes, and reporting on of the most profitable bookmakers in the big data as well as customer tracking UK, the acquisition will provide Playtech with greater penetration into the Spanish Incredibly powerful omni-channel and Italian markets with several significant solution when coupled with the potential new customers in the pipeline.
Playtech ONE infrastructure Benefits of the Pricing flexibility with dynamic risk transaction management SSBTs and ePOS systems that digitise retail Early cash out: customers can cash out betting businesses form one of the fastest their bets at any time on all channels growing areas for betting companies and one of the most important elements of a Maximum ARPU from multi-channel true omni-channel offering.
BGT's product customers portfolio will enhance the Playtech ONE omni-channel offering, which enables players to enjoy a seamless, anywhereanytime gaming experience across any product, channel and device, all using a single account and wallet.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 We believe that the future The opportunity of gaming is for retail in sports operators to digitise their When I founded BGT in Vienna, Austria, in mid-2005 offering, creating a simple I had the vision of a high-end provider for the sports betting industry with a focus on self-service systems.
and intuitive experience for Whilst other suppliers focused on online and digital, customers as well as creating I focused BGT on land-based technology.
an opportunity to extend Having worked through some challenging years beyond retail and into online, in the beginning, BGT has become the number one sports betting technology provider for landincluding web and mobile.
based products worldwide, founded on our goals of making sports betting fun, providing high-end This follows the same trends we see in other technology, being a reliable partner and offering commercial sectors around the world with the best in class services to our customers.
modernisation and digitalisation of betting shops not only improving the retail experience but BGT is at an inflexion point in its development as also adding a whole new channel as it integrates we penetrate into new markets whilst upgrading into an online offering.
our products at a phenomenal speed.
I believe that becoming part of the Playtech family will BGT is the leading provider of sports betting allow Playtech and BGT to take omni-channel software and solutions for gaming and sports to the next level.
betting operators in what is one of the fastest growing verticals of our industry.
BGT offers the market's most sophisticated retail sports solution Armin Sageder which is also both modularised and flexible, Chief Executive Officer allowing Playtech to quickly integrate with its own of Playtech BGT Sports platform.
As the only company that will offer FOBTs and SSBTs, all integrated with the world's leading online platform and products, Playtech will realise the potential of a true omni-channel offering for the benefit of both consumers and operators.
Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer
