08 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Gaming division Overview of our Gaming division Our business model Our business model and strategy help create a sustainable and responsible cycle of value creation for our shareholders.
Our assets What we do and how we do it Playtechs six strategic pillars enable us to maximise opportunities and create added value for our shareholders.
Support organic growth Our services Our market leading services offer all-encompassing solutions across all platforms for our clients.
See more on pages 22 to 23 We pioneer new ideas and technologies We offer seamless experiences Cross-sell products and services Our software We develop valuable partnerships We continually invest in innovative software, encouraging access to best-in-class products for all We help our partners of our customers.
differentiate themselves See more on pages 14 to 15 Attract new licensees Our people Our people make Playtech the success it is and will be in the future.
Our strategy Inclusion and freedom of ideas and identity are central to what we do.
Support organic Cross-sell products Attract new See more on pages 50 to 55 growth and services licensees The depth and breadth Playtechs industry leading The value of Playtechs of Playtechs offering IMS and BI management market leading offering is means that we are able systems allow licensees reflected in the continued to partner with our licensees to enhance their customer momentum of attracting to deliver some of the most journey, service and new licensees every year.
successful and innovative ultimately, their cross-sell Playtech has an impressive online businesses in the ability e. g. Ladbrokes Coral track record of adding Our financial strength world.
In 2016, Playtech Group and Paddy Power five to ten new licensees Playtech has a proven track achieved organic revenue Betfair.
In partnering with every year attracted by record of driving shareholder growth of 13%, ahead of the our licensees, we can our unique omni-channel returns through efficient use growth of the underlying support them in entering offering and the quality of of capital augmenting growth global market.
new product verticals and software and technology.
through investment in technology new geographical markets.
See more on pages 38 to 45 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 09 Increasing product, service and distribution capabilities Risk management Our risk management framework provides a structured and consistent process for identifying, assessing and responding to risks, throughout the business.
See more on pages 46 to 48 Regulation and responsible business Improve Responsible business practices are critical to protecting quality of our licences to operate, and to delivering long-term earnings commercial success.
See more on pages 50 to 55 Governance High standards of corporate governance contribute toPlaytechs continued success.
See more on pages 56 to 91 Acquisitions remain key Given the Groups ability Increasing product, Improve quality Acquisitions remain key service and distribution of earnings Playtech has an outstanding to generate cash and the strength of its capabilities A strategic focus for Playtech acquisition track record, Playtechs philosophy is to remains to continue to grow investing in new technology, balance sheet, the Board will continue to offer all product verticals its regulated revenue.
This exciting content, and new across all distribution has been increasing steadily products.
Companies have target acquisitions which enhance the Groups channels.
Playtech invests in the last few years and mostly been acquired on to expand its offering to in 2016 the proportion of an earn-out basis, enabling technology, content and services whilst also support its licensees with regulated revenues at Playtech to leverage its new technologies, avenues Group level stood at 42%.
existing business and growing regulated revenue.
to market and products e. g. In2016 Playtech launched licensee base to create Playtech Live, virtual racing Sun Bingo and created the strong synergies.
new Playtech BGT Sports is focused on making division which should result further, similar bolt-on in growth of regulated and larger acquisitions.
