3 Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their Directors Report including Corporate Governance Statement the Report on Corporate Governance together with the The corporate Governance statement on pages 59 to 67 Audited Financial Statements for the Company prepared form part of this Directors Report.
under International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS for the year ended Capital Structure 30 April 2016.
Issued The Companys share capital is divided into ordinary Introduction and Status shares of 25p each.
At the year end and at the date of this The Company is incorporated in England and Wales as a report there were 132,336,159 ordinary shares in issue public limited company and domiciled in the United 2015: 132,336,159 ordinary shares.
It is an investment company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and its ordinary shares are Changes during the year listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
There have been no ordinary shares issued in the year ended 30 April 2016 or purchased for cancellation or to The close company provisions do not apply.
The Company seeks to operate as an investment trust in Voting rights accordance with sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Ordinary shares carry voting rights which are exercised Taxes Act 2010 as amended by section 42 2 of the Finance on a show of hands at a meeting, or on a poll, where each Act 2011.
The Company has received confirmation from HM share has one vote.
Revenue & Customs that on the basis of the information supplied, the Company is an approved investment trust.
Details for the lodging of proxy votes are given when a The Directors, under advice, expect the affairs of the notice of meeting is given.
Company to continue to satisfy the conditions.
Transferability The Company has registered as a Foreign Financial Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated Institution with the US IRS and been allocated a Global form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated Intermediary Identification Number GIIN of J29SBFshares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or The Company is an investment trust and as such its any of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer ordinary shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions in any usual form or in any other form which the Board which apply to non-mainstream investment products.
The instrument of transfer must be Company conducts its affairs and intends to do so for the executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the case foreseeable future so that the exclusion continues to apply.
of a partly-paid share the transferee.
The attention of shareholders is drawn to the Chairmans The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without Statement, the Managers Report and the Strategic Report giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any which provide further commentary on the activities and share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may also outlook for the Company, including future developments decline to register a transfer of a certificated share and dividends.
unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Company to include certain by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence information in a single identifiable section of the Annual of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably Report or a cross reference table indicating where the require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and information is set out.
The Directors confirm there are no iii if joint transferees, are in favour of not more than disclosures to be made pursuant to this rule other than four such transferees.
the waiver of Directors fees by Brian Ashford-Russell in respect of the financial year ended 30 April 2016 and his intention to waive his fees for the financial year to 30 April 2017.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 56 The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the New ordinary shares will not be allotted and issued at Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% below Net Asset Value.
During the financial year to interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has 30 April 2016 no ordinary shares were issued.
been served with a restriction notice as defined in the The Board also obtained shareholder authority at the Articles after failure to provide the Company with AGM in 2015 to make market purchases of up to 19,837,190 information concerning interests in those shares required ordinary shares of the Company for cancellation in to be provided under the Companies Act 2006, unless the accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms resolution.
This authority expires at the AGM in 2016 and length sale as defined in the Articles.
renewal of the authority to make market purchases of The Company is not aware of arrangements to restrict ordinary shares will be sought at the AGM in 2016. the votes or transferability of its shares.
During the financial year to 30 April 2016 no ordinary Powers to issue ordinary shares and make shares were purchased.
market purchases of ordinary shares The level of the ordinary share price discount or premium The Board was granted by shareholders at the AGM in to the Net Asset Value together with internal guidelines 2015 the power to allot equity securities up to a nominal for the repurchase or issuance of new ordinary shares value of 3,308,403 and to issue those shares for cash are kept under regular review by the Board.
The Board without offering those shares to shareholders in considers that discount volatility is unattractive to accordance with their statutory pre-emption rights.
shareholders but as a specialist investment fund market These powers will expire at the AGM in 2016 and renewal sentiment can create sustained discount pressure.
With of the authorities will be sought at the AGM in 2016. this in mind the Board has a pragmatic approach to share buy backs.
Major interests in ordinary shares Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company at 30 April 2016 are set out below.
Number of Percentageof ordinary shares voting rights Rathbone Brothers plc 10,549,150 8.05% indirect Brewin Dolphin Limited 9,946,829 7.52% indirect Old Mutual plc 7,811,334 5.90% direct Investec Wealth and Investment Limited 6,712,073 5.07% indirect The above percentages are calculated by applying the shareholdings as notified to the issued ordinary share capital at 13 July 2016 of 132,336,159 ordinary shares.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 57 3 Directors Report Directors Report continued Life of the Company The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a vote on whether the Company should continue will be proposed as an ordinary resolution at every fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Such a resolution was proposed at the AGM on 9 September 2015 and passed with 99.9per cent.
of the votes cast in favour of continuing for a further five years.
The next continuation vote will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in 2020.
2016 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 September 2016 at 2.30pm at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM as it provides an opportunity for them to hear a presentation from the Investment Manager and meet the Directors and Investment team members.
The separate Notice of Meeting contains the usual resolutions to receive the financial statements, approve the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Implementation Report, re-elect retiring Directors, re-appoint the auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
As in previous years the Directors are also seeking powers to allot shares for cash and to buy back shares for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The full text of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution is contained in the separate Notice of Meeting.
 LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as the Companys independent auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as independent auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 58
