2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Chairmans Statement Michael Moule Results Directors It has been a frustrating year in world equity markets, Every three years we engage an outside consultant to with a protracted sideways movement punctured by assess the Board of Directors, the Chairman, and the severe setbacks of a similar magnitude and duration in work and effectiveness of the committees.
We hired both July 2015 and January 2016: a full explanation behind Lintstock to carry out this task, which involved a very the market movements can be found at the start of the detailed online questionnaire and personal interviews of Managers Report on page 8.
The global technology sector all Board members by Oliver Ziehn, the senior partner performed better than the broader indices for most of our of Lintstock.
We have received a positive report in most financial year but finished in line with the FTSE World areas but there is still room for improvement.
Index after a sharp decline in several of the leading Rupert Montagu and I both joined the Board in technology stocks in April.
Our investment team led by January2007 and Rupert has decided to retire at our Ben Rogoff had a challenging year, but I am pleased to forthcoming AGM in September.
With his venture capital report a 1% increase in Net Asset Value NAV versus a background he has in his words found some of the decline of 0.1% in our benchmark.
In local currency terms increased corporate governance tedious and unnecessary, most markets were down slightly over our financial year, but he has made a huge contribution to our investment but a 4.7% decline in Sterling versus the US Dollar debates and we will miss his sage advice.
He and his family provided us with a fortuitous tailwind.
The seemingly are moving to Northern California and on behalf of the pedestrian performance of the past year should be viewed whole Board we all wish them well for this next chapter in against the 30.7% increase in our NAV the year before, and their lives.
Peter Hames has accepted the Boards invitation our longer term performance versus the benchmark is to become the Senior Independent Director following positive over all periods in the last 6 years.
Regulation As a FTSE 250 company we are mindful of Board tenure, Staff at the regulators must enjoy acronyms as we now succession planning, and particularly diversity, in age, have a new one to add to AIFM, FATCA, MAD and MiFID experience, gender and background, and we will be 1and 2.
After long consultations since 2011 the latest looking to appoint an additional new Director.
As I have model to roll off the EU production line is MAR: Market reported to shareholders previously the Directors Abuse Regulation which came into effect on 3July2016.
consider that having Brian Ashford-Russell on the Board MAR replaces MAD Market Abuse Directive and is helpful given his long experience of technology introduces greater regulation regarding insider dealing, investing and market cycles despite his length of service the definition and disclosure of insider information, and and his connection with our Investment Manager.
Brian stricter rules and regulations of PDMRs Persons has always indicated to me his willingness to step down Discharging Managerial Responsibility.
Fortunately our from the Board at any time should his co-directors wish.
management company has kept us up to date with how to comply with this increased regulation.
MiFID 2 has been postponed for a year, and is now expected to be enacted in January 2018, although it is already having aneffect on the quality and quantity of research provided bystockbrokers.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 06
