1 About Your Company Objective Benchmark The investment objective is to maximise long-term The Company has a benchmark of the Dow Jones World capital growth through investing in a diversified portfolio Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted, with the of technology companies around the world.
removal of relevant withholding taxes against which NAV performance is measured for the purpose of assessing The investment policy is set out in full in the performance fees.
While the Investment Manager is benchmark aware in Rationale the construction of the portfolio it seeks to identify high growth companies which can result in a significant Over the last three decades the technology industry difference between the portfolio and the Benchmark and has been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly an analysis of the portfolio is set out on pages 34 to 40 growing segments of the global economy.
Technology and the full portfolio at the 30 April 2016 is set out on companies offer the potential for substantially faster pages 112 to 115. earnings growth than the broader market, reflecting the long-term secular uptrend in technology spending.
Dividends Technology may be defined as the application of scientific The Company has not historically paid a dividend as the knowledge for practical purposes and technology objective is capital growth.
Management While this offers a very broad and dynamic investing The Company is led by an experienced Board of Directors universe and covers many different companies, the with extensive knowledge of investment matters and the portfolio will be focused on technology companies regulatory framework in which such activity is which use technology or which develop and supply undertaken.
The Directors are all non-executive and have technological solutions as a core part of their business appointed various third party suppliers to provide a range models.
This includes areas as diverse as information, of services including investment management, depositary media, communications, environmental, healthcare, and administrative services to the Company.
financial and renewable energy, as well as the more obvious applications such as computing and The role of the Board is to provide oversight of the associated industries.
Companys activities and to ensure the appropriate financial resources and controls are in place to deliver Investment Approach the investment objective and manage the risks associated Stocks are selected for their potential shareholder with such activities.
Details of the Directors skills and returns, not on the basis of technology for its own sake.
relevant experience are given on pages 52 and 53.
The Investment Manager believes in rigorous fundamental analysis and focuses on: Polar Capital LLP has been the appointed Investment Manager and AIFM throughout the year.
Ben Rogoff, the management quality: appointed portfolio manager, has been responsible for the the identification of new growth markets: Companys portfolio since 1 May 2006 and is supported by a team of technology specialists.
Details of the investment the globalisation of major technology trends: team are given on pages 54 and 55. exploiting international valuation anomalies: and sector volatility.
Polar Capital LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 02 Fees Gearing The Company pays both a tiered basic management The Company uses gearing in the form of bank loans fee and a performance fee, details of which are set which are used on a tactical basis by the Investment out in the Strategic Report on page 50.
The overall level of net gearing is agreed between Polar Capital LLP as the Share Price and Net Asset Value Alternative Investment Fund Manager and the Board.
The Board approves and controls all bank facilities and any Information on the Company including Monthly net borrowings over 15% of the Companys net assets at Factsheets, Net Asset Values NAV and share price the time of draw down will only be made after approval of can be found on the Companys website at the Board.
co. uk The Investment Managers use of derivatives is controlled The Companys NAV, is released daily, on the next by the Board in accordance with the Companys working day, following the calculation date, to the investment policy and any leverage from the use of such London Stock Exchange.
derivatives will be subject to the restriction on gearing.
Share price information is also available from The London Stock Exchange Website www.
LN, Datastream PCT, Lipper 71000395 and Reuters PCT.
L. The SEDOL code for the ordinary shares is 0422002 and the ISIN is GB004220025.
Portfolio Details A full portfolio listing is given in the annual, half year and published quarterly on the Companys website.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 03
