DIGITAL DISRUPTION N NE EW P W PL LA AT TF FO OR RM MS A S AN ND D D DI IS SR RU UP PT TI IV five P E PR RI IC CI IN NG M G MO OD fide EL LS C S CH HA AN NGE GE U US SE ER B R BE EH HA AV VI IO OR W R WH HI IL LE U E UN ND fide ER RM MI IN NI IN NG T G TH HE V E VA ALU LUE O E OF I F IN NC CU UM MB BE EN NCY CY By the mid-1990s, the London closed and the exchange itself was spend 36x more than regular International Financial Futures sold two years later.
shoppers on Amazon, a dynamic that Exchange LIFFE had become helped the company capture c. 60% of Today digital is disrupting distribution Europes largest futures exchange incremental US ecommerce lastyear.
models well beyond finance, fuelled and dominated Bund trading by the Internet, mobility, and volumes.
However, the introduction alternative monetisation models of cheaper electronic trading by 17 17% % 3 38% 8% lower costs.
Amazons assault on rivals undermined the value of Estimated growth in digital as a retail captures this perfectly.
By the share of private sector revenues traditional retailers have responded end of 1997, LIFFEs Bund market between 2015 and 2020 by moving online, Amazon is share had fallen to just 10% and the extending its value proposition far exchange reported a 64m loss in beyond anything profit motivated the following year.
Rolling out its 2 2 t tri rillli lion on own electronic trading platform, incumbents can match.
In the US, LIFFE extolled the merits of its 44m Prime subscribers have access Number of annual searches hybrid approach but by 2000, the to unlimited same day shipping on handled by Google last of its open outcry pits were more than 1m items and are said to Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 14 Managers Report continued M&A also contributed positively to also been revised lower with just 0.5% performance with two of our holdings growth anticipated this year as Yen 3.2% Cvent and Ruckus Wireless acquired appreciation and weaker emerging market current global GDP during the year at healthy premiums.
Our demand offset the positive impact of lower forecasts for 2016 decision to retain some liquidity also added oil prices and easing measures designed value, in part due to pronounced Sterling to support private demand.
In terms of negatives, relative developing economies has also been underperformance was generated by our revised lower with current expectations of underweight position in Microsoft 10% 4.1% about 200 basis points below the M&A also contributed where cloud growth more than offset average of the past decade as the Chinese positively to performance sluggish PC trends.
The Trust was also economy continues to decelerate.
with two of our holdings negatively impacted by sharp share price Resource dependent countries remain Cvent and Ruckus declines at LinkedIn, Nimble Storage and challenged by lower oil commodities Wireless - acquired Twitter following earnings disappointments prices but mathematically will drag less on during the year at while broader compression of next overall growth this year with Russia and healthy premiums generation valuations saw holdings such Brazil forecast to contract by 1.8% 3.8% as Demandware, Netsuite and Splunk respectively, as compared to 3.7% 3.8% in generate negative returns despite 2015.
As one of the largest beneficiaries of delivering strong fundamental growth cheap energy, India is likely to remain Advanced economies are during the year.
a bright spot with growth pegged at expected to expand by 7.5% this year 2015: 7.3% driven by 1.9% this year led by Economic Outlook private consumption.
2.4% growth in the US After another year where economic growth Despite downward revisions to growth, fell shy of expectations and in the light of risks associated with a persistent subthe recent episode of pronounced asset trend recovery and the most unusual volatility, forecasts for 2016 have been Despite downward recent oil shock, our base case remains a subjected to further downward revision revisions to growth, positive one where global US recession is reflecting loss of momentum in advanced risks associated with a avoided as China commodity Dollareconomies and continued headwinds in persistent sub-trend related weakness is ameliorated by emerging markets.
Current global GDP recovery and the most consumer strength and further policy growth forecasts of 3.2% 2015: 3.1% unusual recent oil action as required.
Key to this call remains better reflect tighter monetary conditions shock, our base case our constructive assessment of the US in the US and Japan and the reversal of remains a positive one economy, which just a few months ago earlier hopes associated with an energy some believed was at risk of stumbling windfall.
Advanced economies are into a recession.
Our view at that time expected to expand by 1.9% this year led by and today is that while weaker data may 2.4% growth in the US 2015: 2.4% where have challenged the idea of the US housing and labour market strength economy as an oasis of growth in a listless should offset the impact to exports coming global economy, it largely reflected from the stronger Dollar and energyenergy-related weakness impacting US related weakness.
Europe is also expected industrial activity and pronounced US to grow in line with the prior year, current Dollar strength.
As such, the sharp decline estimates of 1.5% growth capturing in rail cargo volumes witnessed earlier in weaker external demand ameliorated by the year should be considered against a lower energy prices, some fiscal backdrop of strong auto sales, housing expansion and supportive financial market strength and improved bank lending.
Expectations for Japan have Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 15 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Managers Report continued Moreover, the US labour market remains However, given positive trade and current robust with unemployment at an eight account surpluses and with c. $3.2tr in 6.5% year low 4.5% having added an average foreign currency reserves we remain Estimated China of 221k jobs per month during 2015.
In steadfast in our view that Chinese GDP in 2016 other words, US data remains supportive policymakers should be able to prevent of a two-speed economy with weak worst case outcomes.
This muddlingexternal demand and oil-related through position feels a little less retrenchment offset by consumption controversial today following a period of that looks well supported by low interest US Dollar weakness that has seen the US data remains rates, declining y y energy prices and RMB stabilise, allowing reserves to rebuild supportive of a twolow household debt service.
modestly in both March and April.
We have speed economy with even seen the IMF recently increase its weak external demand We also remain relatively sanguine about GDP forecast from 6.3% to 6.5% due to and oil-related China based on our long-held view that strong service sector growth, bringing its retrenchment offset by policymakers have sufficient monetary forecast in line with the low-end of the consumption that looks and fiscal firepower to prevent a official growth target for 2016 of between well supported by low hard-landing.
Even the decision to reference interest rates, declining early in 2016 amid a slew of data that the Yuans performance against a trade year-over-year energy pointed to further economic deceleration weighted basket of currencies looks a little prices and low household Q415 annualised GDP growth of 6.8% less defensive given divergent monetary debt service costs the slowest pace of expansion in twentypolicy, sustained Dollar strength and QE in five years and a number of other both Europe and Japan.
However, we are indicators such as electricity consumption, mindful that the PBOC is likely preparing rail freight, and vehicle sales worse still.
the market to interpret a weaker Yuan Asserting that the Asserting that the economy was on track versus the Dollar as not being economy was on while easing aggressively, Chinese devaluation in order to support exports track while easing policymakers raised suspicions that that declined 1.8% y y in 2015.
In a world aggressively, Chinese conditions were worse than they were of sub-trend growth and heightened policymakers raised prepared to admit, while earlier policy sensitivity about the use of competitive suspicions that conditions missteps including the handling of the devaluation as a policy tool, the Yuan is were worse than they stock market had damaged their likely to remain an important determinant were prepared to admit credibility.
Against this backdrop, the of investor sentiment.
As such, China decision to abandon the US Dollar peg and remains a key battleground and given move to a trade-weighted currency basket the enormity of the economic rebalancing took on a very defensive hue resulting in task at hand we fully expect our view In a world of sub-trend capital flight at a pace that would have to be tested over the coming year.
growth and heightened exhausted Chinese reserves within three sensitivity about the years and fears that China was prepared We are also relatively constructive on oil, use of competitive to risk a currency war in order to deliver commodity and by extension, emerging devaluation as a policy requisite growth.
Given long-term markets although our interest in the first tool, the yuan is likely to structural concerns that are impossible two is limited to the risk they pose to the remain an important to dispel the unwinding of excessive, global economy and or risk appetite given determinant of investor credit-fuelled investment and that energy prices were the genesis of the sentiment overcapacity investors embraced the market turmoil and angst in early 2016. view that what ails Chinas economy While we had previously hoped that lower may not be easily remedied.
energy prices would prove additive to Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 16 The unusual alignment of interest between policymakers and investors equally keen to avoid a deflationary outcome has been a bulwark of the current bull market and... it appears alive and well global GDP, we like most investors while financial hedges are also likely had not anticipated the rout experienced to play less of a role in supporting loss- $380bn in February when oil fell as low as $26 making supply in the year ahead.
The value of oil projects barrel.
Mindful of Hookes Law which energy market also appears oddly delayed or cancelled states that stress is proportional to strain, vulnerable to any supply-shock with global in 2015 but only when strain is sufficiently small, spare capacity estimated at just c. 2% as by early 2016 the 80% oil price decline compared to c. 30% in the 1980s and 8% since mid-2014 tested the breaking points ten years ago.
With Donald Trump having of most energy exporters.
Although prices recently secured the Republican While we had previously have subsequently rebounded, we now Presidential nomination, prospects for a hoped that lower energy know that c. $30 oil is incompatible with more confrontational US foreign policy prices would prove financial market stability.
Beyond its have likely increased while a rolling back additive to global GDP, contribution to Dollar strength and of the Iran deal looks a genuine possibility we like most investors demand destruction among energy in the event of a Republican victory.
In had not anticipated exporters, sustained oil price weakness short, while we do not expect energy the rout experienced has been shown to impact the US economy markets to return to their original shape inFebruary energy production accounting for c. 3% absent an unexpected restoring force of GDP and 1.7% of employment, such as sustained Dollar weakness agricultural prices and capital spending neither do we expect a repeat performance more than $380bn worth of oil projects of the oil rout and high yield travails being The early 2016 rout were delayed or cancelled in 2015. transmitted into equity markets.
looked like it might prove Furthermore, the energy sector also the waterfall conclusion In addition, we continue to take comfort boasts a disproportionately large footprint to an eighteen-month from the fact that policymakers remain in capital markets, accounting for more period of sustained oil alive to the risk posed by deflation.
The than 7% of stock market capitalisation, price weakness unusual alignment of interest between 10% of investment grade credit and 16% of policymakers and investors equally keen outstanding high yield HY bonds while oil to avoid a deflationary outcome has been and gas funds account for more than 56% a bulwark of the current bull market and of the sovereign wealth market that holds with core inflation below target In addition, we continue c. $3tr of equity assets.
everywhere and evidenced by recent to take comfort from the From our dispassionate and admittedly events in Europe and Japan it appears fact that policymakers novice perspective, the early 2016 rout alive and well.
Even in the US, where policy remain alive to the risk looked like it might prove the waterfall tightening began in October 2014 with the posed by deflation conclusion to an eighteen-month period of end of QE and more recently in December sustained oil price weakness.
Since then, 2015 when the Federal Reserve actually oil has rallied sharply from lows, allowing raised rates for the first time in a decade, a number of other markets high yield, EM policymakers remain dovish insisting currencies to normalise.
As a result of that monetary policy remains data fracking horizontal drilling and hydraulic dependent at a time when unemployment fracturing used to extract oil from shale has fallen below what many consider to be rock and the end of Iranian sanctions the economys long-term natural rate.
This we expect oil prices to remain volatile.
unusual degree of latitude reflects core However, there is growing evidence of a inflation that remains well below target much-needed supply response including a and muted inflation expectations five US rig count that has declined c. 75% from year break-evens near post crisis lows, highs.
We are also seeing some fiscal which should allow the Fed to remain adjustments in oil producing countries comfortably behind the curve.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 17 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Managers Report continued While we acknowledge some evidence the decision to exit the EU, so-called of unintended consequences emanating Brexit remains a key political risk.
16.2x from the latest wave of policy efforts e. g. Although we have limited direct exposure forward PE negative interest rates perceived to be to the UK equities 3% the ramifications on S&P 500 hindering bank profits without sufficiently of a UK withdrawal are yet unknown: until steepening the yield curve we are hopeful a modus operandi is found, uncertainty that these will prove manageable.
Failure to reach an accommodation may increase the risk Beyond China, currencies and oil price of a so-called tail outcome, particularly While we acknowledge weakness, there are a number of against a backdrop of sub-trend global some evidence of additional risks worth considering.
Other risks include US unintended consequences previously discussed, the greatest risk presidential elections in November, emanating from the latest to equity markets remains the potential corporate tax reform and the challenge to wave of policy efforts loss of policymaker support that has nation states posed by Islamic extremism we are hopeful that these underpinned risk assets since 2009.
This in North Africa and the Middle East.
will prove manageable continues to look unlikely for now given that deflation remains a key policymaker Market Outlook focus in Europe and Japan while we expect Although risk assets have rallied sharply the Federal Reserve to remain from their February lows, we are hopeful The greatest risk to intentionally behind the curve.
A subthat equities will add to their gains during equity markets remains trend and increasingly uneven global the remainder of our financial year.
The the potential loss of recovery together with large output gaps combination of earnings growth and policymaker support that are likely to present investors with future weaker markets has resulted in equity has underpinned risk growth scares, particularly in emerging valuations compressing modestly with the assets since 2009 markets where fortunes remain closely forward PE on the S&P 500 trading on tied to commodity prices and China c. 17.3x, from 17.6x twelve months ago.
Although systemic risk has Despite this, absolute valuations remain continued to diminish, the implications of above long-term averages on most Absolute valuations remain a Fed tightening cycle are not yet fully traditional measures of value, which is above long-term averages known, particularly in relation to its likely to result in returns becoming more on most traditional impact on EM currencies and external dependent on underlying earnings and measures of value, which financing conditions.
Policy error is dividend growth.
This was certainly true is likely to result in returns another notable risk: while it is true that during the past year as muted returns becoming more dependent the Fed remains data dependent, further reflected weak global growth, Dollar on underlying earnings labour market improvement and greater strength and downward revisions in evidence of wage inflation could yet test cyclical groups particularly energy that the Feds resolve.
We are also mindful of constrained overall US corporate reflexivity, where financial volatility earnings.
Things should improve this year impacts confidence and demand in a as energy-related earnings have been negative feedback loop and the longerfide-risked although currency remains a key term impact of persistent sub-trend determinant of 2016 earnings as every 2% recoveries that reduce potential output increase in the trade weighted Dollar and increase the potential for secular equates to negative earnings revisions of stagnation.
Political risk remains the most c. 1%.
As previously, stocks continue to potent exogenous risk as it relates to both look compelling against both cash and fragmentation and acts of terrorism.
bonds with the Fed Model which compares Following the recent UK referendum and Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 18 Our constructive view is likely to be tested during the coming year given that valuations and the duration of the present bull market already exceed long-term averages earnings and bond yields suggesting that withdrawn deal on record when Allergan equities remain significantly undervalued, and Pfizer shelved their proposed merger $1.45tr while the S&P 500 dividend yield 2.3% has resulted in global M&A volumes Amount of cash and remains in excess of ten-year Treasury declining 14% y y in Q1.
However, we aquivalents held by yields 1.5%.
This picture is similar across expect activity to recover as companies S&P 500 companies much of the world with dividends in excess look to augment slowing growth, cut of long-term sovereign yields in most costs and take advantage of remarkably regions, with around $11.7tr of global cheap money.
We also expect the Chinese government bonds trading at yields below to remain active having spent more than The combination of zero.
This unusual backdrop has seen US $100bn on outbound M&A during Q116 balance sheet strength companies apparently recognise the accounting for almost one-sixth of all and near-record debt relative appeal of the two asset classes deal activity, almost eclipsing their issuance should continue having recently swapped equity for debt previous annual record of $109bn.
to support stock at a run rate of c. 3% of GDP.
repurchases worth Our constructive view is likely to be $569bn during 2015 Six years of profit growth have left the tested during the coming year given that S&P500 ex-financials with $1.45tr of valuations and the duration of the present cash and equivalents.
However, with bull market already exceed long-term much of this liquidity trapped overseas, averages.
Equity market setbacks are Although 2015 will be a US companies have continued to raise likely to continue to take the form of tough act to follow when domestic cash via bond sales.
Despite growth scares as experienced in early US deals alone were high yield problems issuance down 23% 2016 with China and oil likely focal points.
worth $1.84tr, M&A y y in 2015 debt markets have remained However, we are comforted by the fact activity should also open for investment grade companies.
that sub-par recoveries tend to persist continue to provide Just recently Dell managed to sell $20bn while slightly elevated equity valuations support for stocks of bonds to finance its proposed remain far more attractive than cash and and valuations acquisition of EMC.
The combination of sovereign debt where negative real balance sheet strength and near-record returns look all but certain.
We continue debt issuance should continue to support to see limited short-term risk to stock repurchases worth $569bn during corporate profit margins with recent Equity market setbacks 2015, equivalent to 3% of S&P500 weakness almost entirely explained by are likely to continue to aggregate shares outstanding.
In energy and to a lesser extent industrial take the form of growth contrast, the IPO market has remained sector malaise.
Rather than subscribe to scares as experienced in subdued after a difficult 2015 with just the mean reversion view, we believe early 2016 with China and $12.1bn raised globally during Q116, a higher margins reflect the shift from oil likely focal points 70% y y decline in total capital raised and manufacturing to services, globalisation by far the weakest quarter since 2009. which has changed the relationship Typically lean years for IPOs 100 between capital and labour and the companies coming public in the US are growth of margin-rich technology followed by an average return of 12% over companies such as Alphabet and the following twelve months.
That said, we are cognisant of 2015 will be a tough act to follow, M&A two potential cyclical margin headwinds activity should also continue to provide higher interest rates and wage inflation.
support for stocks and valuations.
The We are also mindful about the impact of combination of a challenging first-quarter potential corporate tax reform following and the introduction of stricter rules for the abolition of the so-called Double Irish tax structure in late 2014. tax inversions resulting in the largest Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 19 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Managers Report continued However, we do not anticipate a significant QE distortions.
The one thing we know we change to prevailing tax rates as the US is cannot rely on are economists, the majority 1.7% likely to resist international efforts to grab of whom failed to predict the three most forecast IT budget growth a tax base of its corporations.
Certainly recent recessions even after they had in constant currency the recent 130m deal between Alphabet begun!
We will also keep a watchful eye on terms for 2016 and HMRC fits the slapped wrist, modestly wage inflation, which represents one of the higher tax model that we anticipate going greatest risks to the alignment of interest forwards.
Obviously we will continue to between policymakers and investors that monitor tax related developments but for has underpinned equity markets post the Our base case does not now our base case does not anticipate financial crisis.
Furthermore, rising wages anticipate wholesale wholesale change to a global tax system could signal a peak in profit margins, which change to a global tax that has been in place since 1928. have typically preceded stock market peaks system that has been by twelve to eighteen months.
in place since 1928 Although we remain constructive, it is worth reiterating the potential catalysts Technology Outlook that might require us to significantly alter Given that our sector has become our view.
The first and one that came into Recession risk remains increasingly dependent on global GDP focus during early in 2016 relates to the growth, it should come as no surprise a key concern, although high-yield market because widening there are only two lead that technology spending forecasts spreads have empirically preceded equity have continued to be revised lower, indicators with any track bear markets.
Having bottomed at less than record at anticipating with worldwide IT spending now expected 400 basis points bps in mid-2014, highto increase just 1.7% 2015: 2.4% y y in recession, and one of them yield spreads ballooned to almost 900bps in the stock market has constant currency terms.
This represents February which was transmitted into the the lowest annual increase since 2010 and predicted nine of the equity market resulting in lower PEs and last five recessions!
is another year where budget growth will pronounced small cap long duration likely trail global GDP, suggesting that underperformance.
However, we opted to things are getting worse, not better for ignore this signal because the energy technology incumbents.
Gartner now sector c. 15% of the high yield market was estimate a 2015-2020 CAGR of just 2%, Given that our sector largely responsible for the wider spreads.
consistent with our long-held deflation has become increasingly As such, weakness was primarily a liquidity new cycle view.
With more than half of dependent on global issue, not a broad based credit problem technology revenues coming from GDP growth, it should Just as the oil price has recovered, so too overseas, Dollar stabilisation should come as no surprise that has the high yield market with spreads back result in a less formidable F x headwind technology spending at c. 600bps while high yield bond funds this year although consensus S&P forecasts have continued have experienced positive flows of $6.5bn technology revenues are still expected to to be revised lower year to date.
Naturally recession risk decline by 1.0%.
In terms of geographic remains a key concern, although there are and sector risk, China represents only only two lead indicators with any track 5.2% of IT spending whereas financial record at anticipating recession, and one of services another area of investor concern them the stock market has predicted nine accounts for almost a quarter of overall of the last five recessions!.
It is also worth noting that the indicator the yield curve has produced US represents c. 40% of IT spending far fewer false negatives but we wonder if making the sector particularly sensitive its signals can be trusted today given ZIRP to US recession risk.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 20 New IT priorities simply reflect what we already know that all incremental workloads are heading to the Cloud and the role of IT is in flux.
In line with the broader market, the as budgets continue to be reallocated away technology sector fide-rated modestly from traditional areas in favour of new 15.3x over the past year leaving it trading at investment priorities.
Looking at a number foreward PE of US a forward PE of 15.3x 2015: 17.5x of year-end surveys and Gartners technology sector representing a c. 14.0% premium to the schedule of IT priorities reveals that five year median PE of 13.4x.
As in prior analytics, security, mobility, infrastructure years, large cap technology companies and Cloud continue to dominate CIOs remain awash with net cash although spending intentions at the expense of market capitalisation weighted measures servers, PCs and printing.
As we have long On a relative basis, of value continue to be flattered by argued, these new priorities simply reflect the technology sector inexpensive large-caps.
On a relative what we already know that all continues to trade basis, the technology sector trades at incremental workloads units of compute around 1.0x the around 0.9x the market multiple ignoring and storage are heading to the Cloud and market multiple relative balance sheets.
In light of the the role of IT is in flux.
As such we concur broader sectors subpar growth profile, with the view that 2015 was the end of the we do not anticipate a material re-rating beginning for cloud computing and the over the coming year.
Conversely, relative beginning of the end for traditional IT.
While incumbents valuation downside risk should be appear to have become As a result, nearly all legacy technology contained given many growth-challenged better stewards of areas are beginning to slow and or incumbents are now focused on margins capital, accelerating contract.
Based on Gartner forecasts, the rather than revenue and improving Cloud adoption continues overall device market will contract for the shareholder returns which has allowed to make enterprise first time this year with constant-currency them to attract a new value audience.
computing look end-user spend falling 0.5% y y to $719bn.
Legacy companies have also attracted anachronistic After a better 2014 Windows XP support increased private equity interest, expiry, the $200bn PC market experienced epitomised by Dell Silver Lakes its worst year on record last year with sales audacious $67bn acquisition of EMC contracting by 10% and units falling below which we believe says more about the The overall device the 300m mark for the first time since 2008. attractiveness of deploying cheap debt market will contract for With global PC shipments falling 9.6% y y in than it did about the merits of an ageing the first time this year Q116, the outlook for the hard disk drive enterprise storage company.
with constant-currency HDD industry remains challenged with end-user spend While incumbents appear to have become units expected to decline by 7.1% annually falling 0.5% y y better stewards of capital, accelerating between 2015 and 2020 as solid state drive Cloud adoption continues to make SSD substitution adds to PC-related woes.
enterprise computing look anachronistic, The $60bn tablet market is already in full supporting our view that the new retreat with units forecast to fall by c. 5% in technology cycle has become increasingly 2016, having contracted by an estimated 8% disruptive with newer technologies and last year.
Having supported overall device delivery models replacing, rather than growth for years, smartphone 2015: merely augmenting existing ones.
As in $400bn units are expected to increase by previous years, we continue to believe that only 3.1% this year while ASPs will continue incumbent vendors will struggle to even to decline ex-Apple now that global keep up with lacklustre overall IT spending penetration has reached c. 79%.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 21
