DISINTERMEDIATION W WID IDE ESP SPR RE EA AD D D DI ISIN SINT TE ER RM ME ED DI IA AT TI IO ON N L LO OO OK KS S IN INE EV VI IT TA AB BL LE E A AS S T TH HE E I INT NTE ER RN NE ET T D fide EM MO OC CR RA AT TI IS SE ES S I IN NF FO OR RM MA AT TI IO ON N A AN ND D EM EMP PO OW WER ERS SU US SER ERS S Thomas Cook established his The disintermediation of offline now pass through Ant Financials eponymous travel agency in 1841, travel agents is likely to be repeated Alipay.
Worse lies ahead leveraging the rise of first trains and in myriad other industries as the blockchain is a rapidly emerging then air-travel to enable inclusive Internet democratises information, distributed ledger technology independent travel.
Just ten years empowering the consumer to cut which offers transparency, security ago high street travel agents still out the middle man.
In time blockchain accounted for more than half of all may obviate the need to pass Financial services look particularly holiday bookings in the UK: today through inefficient centralised ripe for disruption: today c. 60% of that share has fallen to just 19% as .
retail banking costs relate to online bookings dominate the branches while decades market.
Where once the consumer of accumulated technology debt journey began and ended on the mean banks struggle to provide a 32 320 0m m high street, a typical consumer now satisfactory user experience online visits 18 websites over 2.4 weeks Number of user-generated or meaningfully innovate.
reviews on TripAdvisor Monetisation models are already Armed with the same pricing and in flux as technology platforms inventory data as travel agents transform payments from a themselves, online consumers can $ $533 533b bn n stand-alone profit centre into an arrange bespoke journeys, aided by Size of the online travel enabler for commerce 5 8% of 320m user-generated reviews on market in 2015 Chinas online payment transactions TripAdvisor alone.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 22 The spectacular successes of Apple, Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook are testament to the fact that the combination of tech deflation, smartphone proliferation and the Internet has increased the reach of technology while making it possible to reinvent industries Elsewhere, a number of large traditional scare where more than a dozen publicly technology markets remain in multi-year traded SaaS and security companies were c. 15% secular decline including printing 2015: acquired for more than $30bn, we expect estimated amount of $47bn, UNIX servers 2015: $5.8bn and the recent trend to persist as a number of IT workload in public mainframes 2015: $4.5bn.
With many of incumbents who have declared interest in clouds today these key categories fully penetrated and M&A including Cisco, Hewlett Packard and at risk from technology substitution, IBM have yet to show their hands.
growth is unlikely to recover until a The return of widespread strategic M&A genuinely new device type such as virtual Having expected a return reflects the interplay of two factors reality VR becomes mainstream.
of strategic M&A after a diverging fundamentals and converging two year hiatus, even we That is not to say there is an absence of valuations.
In terms of fundamentals, we have been surprised by industry growth: the spectacular have long argued that the new technology the explosion in deal successes of Apple, Alphabet, Amazon cycle had likely entered a more pernicious activity during recent and Facebook to name a few high profile phase.
As we go on to discuss in greater weeks as buyers have examples are testament to the fact detail in the new cycle update section, we looked to take advantage that the combination of tech deflation, have long felt it was a foregone conclusion of the reset in next smartphone proliferation and the Internet that bespoke enterprise computing would generation valuations has increased the reach of technology give way to a vastly cheaper, mass while making it possible to reinvent produced Cloud alternative.
With c. 15% of industries such as advertising, commerce, IT workloads now in public clouds, we entertainment and travel.
Unfortunately expect Cloud adoption to accelerate in the The return of widespread as we have long argued these years ahead, Gartner predicting that strategic M&A reflects opportunities have little to do with Infrastructure as a Service IaaS growth the interplay of two enterprise incumbents and so they embark will be 15x greater than overall IT spending factors diverging on M&A activity in order to soften the in the coming years.
Against this backdrop, fundamentals and impact of the new cycle by extending their it is difficult to see anything other than converging valuations product offerings and relevance while tough times ahead for most enterprise obfuscating the condition of their core incumbents that have little to gain and business.
Having expected a return of much to lose from a disruptive new cycle.
strategic M&A after a two year hiatus, even Although the divergence of sector fortunes With c. 15% of IT we have been surprised by the explosion in has long been apparent, first quarter workloads now in public deal activity during recent weeks as earnings season provided us with the best clouds, we expect Cloud buyers have looked to take advantage of evidence yet with Amazons cloud progress adoption to accelerate in the reset in next generation valuations.
So $10bn annualised revenue run-rate, 64% the years ahead far in 2016 there have been ten M&A deals y y growth in stark contrast with earnings in the software sector alone all at sizeable and or guidance mishaps across unaffected premiums with private equity incumbents.
While many of the challenged firms unusually accounting for half of the legacy companies fell back on transactions.
In addition to the two deals macroeconomic uncertainty, the vast that occurred during the last financial majority of our holdings reported strong year, we have directly benefited from the results.
There was no evidence of acquisition of Demandware by Salesforce.
uncertainty at Splunk which delivered its com and the sale of Qlik Technology to largest beat versus expectations since its Thoma Bravo while benefiting from the 2012 IPO while Salesforce.
com reported wider recovery in next generation impressive results with billings growth valuations.
Highly reminiscent of the fertile accelerating to 29% y y. M&A backdrop following the 2011 growth Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 23 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Managers Report continued Unfortunately the bifurcation in technology benchmark selling incumbents and fortunes has been obfuscated by a growth cyclicals in favour of next $10bn convergence in sector valuations with a generation companies with exposure to annualised revenues at number of legacy companies recently our preferred themes.
While valuations Amazon Web Services trading at their highest price earnings have recently rebounded with the market ratios for years because of broader market and the return of strategic M&A, they PE expansion, improved capital return, remain below five year averages, and this private equity interest and or the feels insufficient given that after years of articulation of Cloud strategies.
During the travelling, our new technology cycle Unfortunately the recent market swoon, these challenged story appears to have arrived.
Going bifurcation in technology incumbents significantly outperformed as forwards, we are doubtful that many fortunes has been investors sought perceived safety and legacy technology stocks will continue to obfuscated by a dividend income.
In contrast, 2015 saw a be considered bond like, even against a convergence in sector continuation of the post Q114 trend of backdrop of record low yields, which is valuations with a number valuation compression that almost entirely why we will likely continue to pare and or of legacy companies offset fundamental progress at most next exit long-held underweight positions in recently trading at their generation companies.
This process the likes of Cisco, Oracle and Qualcomm.
highest price earnings appears to have concluded in Q116 as a The root cause of the incumbent challenge ratios for years handful of Q4 earnings disappointments deflation together with smartphone and severe risk aversion saw the average proliferation has created a remarkably growth stock fall more than 30% during fertile backdrop for innovation that January alone.
This time last year we millennials are embracing as second This time last year we acknowledged that the valuation nature.
Technology companies are acknowledged that the readjustment between the sectors re-inventing industries, creating new valuation readjustment winners and losers might continue, but markets, empowering customers and between the sectors not in our wildest dreams did we expect allowing them to increasingly route winners and losers SaaS stocks to shed three points from around institutions.
might continue, but not in their forward EV Sales valuations 7x our wildest dreams did 4x as much as they did during the Great New cycle update we expect SaaS stocks to Recession 5x 2x in less than twelve Last year was a pivotal one for the Cloud as shed three points from months.
The extent of this valuation their forward EV Sales adoption accelerated and permeated up the compression was mirrored elsewhere technology stack, wreaking havoc on valuations within our sector as Internet and security incumbents and exploding the myth of the stocks made post 2009 2011 lows so-called hybrid approach.
By the end of January, Cloud Amazon dropped its bombshell in Q115 and legacy software valuations had almost when it revealed its cloud infrastructure Despite experiencing our converged while a number of our favourite business Amazon Web Services AWS most challenging period names Proofpoint, Red Hat and generated operating margins of 17%, of relative performance Salesforce.
com had fallen to c. 5x EV exploding conventional wisdom that cloud this cycle we took maintenance revenues, a level where computing was a race to the bottom on advantage of the unusual financial M&A has typically taken place.
A seminal moment in Cloud history, market backdrop by Amazons unexpected disclosure, combined rotating further from Despite experiencing our most challenging with 70% growth at AWS during the year our benchmark period of relative performance this cycle saw more than $228bn added to the we took advantage of the unusual market combined market caps of Amazon and backdrop by rotating further from our Microsoft during the remainder of 2015 as Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 24 2015 was the year when Cloud went mainstream because of a growing number of traditional companies prepared to go all in and evangelise its merits investors began to more fully embrace our company for the next 140 years.
the biggest growth story of the decade, In addition, News Corp announced its $17bn maybe our generation.
And as if that wasnt plans to migrate 75% of its entire IT size of public enough, large traditional companies began infrastructure to AWS in order to increase cloud market to publicly anoint the Cloud with Jim Fowler, the pace of new product velocity while CIO of GE perfectly capturing the zeitgeist saving $100m over three years.
Financial when he declared at AWS re:Invent in giant Capital One also struck a blow for the October that the Cloud has gone from cloud when it stated it had begun to deploy probable to inevitable.
Today, the $17bn some of our most critical workloads on Jim Fowler, CIO of GE public cloud infrastructure market is Amazon because it enables us to operate perfectly capturing dominated by AWS which has used its six even more securely in the public cloud the zeitgeist when year head start to establish a sizeable lead than our own datacentres.
he declared at AWS in raw compute and storage Gartner re:Invent in October that While the decision to migrate to the estimate that AWS deploys over 10x more the Cloud has gone from Cloud ultimately rests with its superior compute than all the other  to inevitable economics due to scale, elasticity and as-a-service companies combined.
With relentless cost cutting that has seen AWS revenues expected to grow well past $10bn reduce prices 49 times and a usagethis year AWS is set to become the the based pricing model, we think accelerating fastest growing enterprise technology With revenues expected to adoption reflects the fact that many of the company in history taking only ten years grow well past $10bn this earlier concerns associated with the Cloud to reach this rare milestone which year AWS is set to become have been addressed.
At the top of the list compares favourably to the likes of the the fastest growing has been security, which we have long felt Microsoft 22 years, Oracle 23 and enterprise technology was misplaced but difficult to disprove Apple 19.
The remarkable ascent of AWS company in history taking much like 19th century concerns about reflects the size of the market opportunity, only ten years to reach this skyscrapers.
However, the fact that all the unprecedented scale of public clouds rare milestone of the high profile security breaches over and the disruption to existing franchises the last two years have occurred in with IT conversations now dominated by on-premise IT infrastructures has not names unrecognisable ten years ago.
Indeed, Tony Scott, the US We think accelerating 2015 was the year when Cloud went Federal Government CIO echoed Capital adoption reflects the fact mainstream because of a growing number One when he said that Cloud providers that many of the earlier of traditional companies prepared to go do a better job of security than any one concerns associated all in and evangelise its merits.
This trend company or organisation can probably do.
with the Cloud have was epitomised by GE which outlined its Microsofts decision to invest aggressively been addressed plan to move 60% of its workloads to the in Azure will have also helped ease Cloud by 2020 from 20% today which concerns about potential vendor lock-in would allow them to close 30 of its 34 while at the same time addressing the datacentres and migrate more than half issue of data sovereignty, with Microsoft of their 9,000 on-premise applications.
Cloud available in 20 regions while The fact that all of the Having concluded that running their own Amazon will soon have 84 datacentres high profile security datacentres would not help them sell across twelve regions.
In addition, breaches over the last another aircraft engine and in the light enterprises have become increasingly two years have occurred of the 52% cost savings achieved in their comfortable with the Cloud thanks to their in on-premise IT oil and gas division having migrated growing experience of  has applications to Amazon, GE gushed AWS service SaaS that accounts for c. 27% not gone unnoticed is our trusted partner whos going to run of software applications in use today.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 25 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Managers Report continued Having debunked many of the earlier off-shored or not.
A typical enterprise barriers to adoption, we expect cloud might employ one IT person for every $1tr penetration to accelerate over the coming 30 servers.
By comparison, Microsoft of IT spending shifting years with Cisco forecasting that by 2019 reportedly employs 15 people to manage as a result of cloud roughly half of all IT workloads will be in a 150k server datacentre, ten of whom are computing by 2020 public clouds.
Over the next five years, security guards and cleaners!
Cloud incumbents are therefore likely to suffer services are now sufficiently penetrated far greater disruption, which to date has in the enterprise that CIOs can seriously been limited to the absence of growth as plan for the move towards a serverless Having debunked many of every incremental IT Dollar has gravitated architecture.
IT infrastructure estates the earlier barriers to to the public cloud and some pricing could shrink by 25% in the coming years, adoption, we expect pressure.
However, the next wave of taking IT services companies down with cloud penetration to adoption will be driven by workload them.
As almost all incremental IT accelerate over the migration the uprooting of existing spending moves to the cloud, it is hardly coming years with Cisco enterprise compute which Gartner surprising that pricing is brutal across IT forecasting that by 2019 believe will see more than $1tr of IT services.
We believe that worse lies roughly half of all IT spending shift to new categories as a ahead.
Robotic Process Automation RPA workloads will be in result of cloud computing by 2020.
The is already taking over low value repetitive public clouds ongoing hollowing out of the $55bn work, generating massive cost savings for server market where white box clients.
This will prove highly disruptive to unbranded servers preferred by the likes an industry that has grown fat on a cost of Amazon account for 31% of units but plus pricing model.
Over time we expect the only 13% of revenues suggests that a cloud will also catch up Just as rats are said to leave a sinking large portion of the $1tr will probably be with the $800bn IT ship, the behaviour of incumbents speaks destroyed by cloud deflation in the services industry, volumes about what they really think process.
As AWS moves further up the which captures a about one of the most disruptive forces computing stack, segments that have been staggering 40% of of IT spending since the early days of the unaffected by disruption thus far are likely overall technology digital age.
We have seen EMC attempt to to be sucked into the Cloud maelstrom.
spending today escape the glare of public markets via a This is likely to include the database marriage with Dell, the breakup of HP market, where we think a recent and Symantec, ongoing weakness at IBM agreement announced by Salesforce.
com and challenged incumbents such as to increase its use of AWS is best The remarkable rise Informatica and TIBCO happily understood as part of a longer-term of AWS has also exploded surrendering to private equity.
We have plan to get off the Oracle stack.
the myth of so-called also witnessed a comprehensive hybrid cloud Over time we expect the cloud will also agreement between Red Hat and catch up with the $800bn IT services Microsoft previously unthinkable given industry, which captures a staggering that Steve Ballmer once described Linux 40% of overall technology spending today.
and open-source as a cancer because Renting engineers from a hyper-scale both companies understand that cloud infrastructure provider like AWS or Azure computing is going mainstream and are is an order of magnitude more efficient attempting to rebalance the ecosystem and more secure than managing an to check Amazon.
The remarkable rise underutilised, bespoke infrastructure of AWS has also exploded the myth of estate, irrespective of whether it is so-called hybrid cloud where onPolar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 26 It is increasingly obvious that public cloud computing has become a two-horse race with AWS way out in front and Microsoft a clear number two premise compute is augmented with favourable backdrop, 2015 highlighted public cloud as a statement of the once again that scale matters in the 3bn obvious, not a strategy articulated by Internet space: that cumulative CapEx global internet incumbents to slow public cloud adoption and R&D spend provides significant users in 2015 or help them sleep better at night.
As barriers to entry and competitive such, we continue to believe that the most advantage.
Alphabet and Amazon important investment conclusion is to epitomise this, with cumulative CapEx avoid legacy companies with much to lose spend of $40bn and $21bn respectively and little to gain from cloud migration.
between 2010-2015 First party data is We continue to believe In terms of actual cloud exposure, it is another key factor inherent to success that the most important increasingly obvious that public cloud and Alphabet and Facebook have created investment conclusion is computing has become a two-horse race a clear lead in this race with both to avoid legacy companies with AWS way out in front and Microsoft a boasting numerous applications that with much to lose and clear number two.
With pricing relatively exceed 1bn active users across multiple little to gain from stable and emboldened by the fact that devices.
Not only does the size of these cloud migration AWS has been solidly profitable for years networks provide both companies with we have increased our Amazon holding.
near unparalleled targeting capabilities We have also pared our underweight but they are helping both companies position in Microsoft, which looks set to evolve into natural monopolies.
This is Internet applications participate in cloud migration having entirely consistent with Metcalfes Law remain key beneficiaries invested heavily in its own cloud Azure which states that the value of a network of the Cloud delivery over recent years.
While Google remains is proportional to the square of the model with smartphone a wildcard, the public cloud looks off-limit number of its nodes and explains why growth driving the to everyone else including IBM who spent Google and Facebook captured 76% of number of global Internet $2bn on Softlayer, EMC who acquired incremental online advertising in the US users beyond 3bn 9% Virtustream for $1.2bn while HP has last year while in China, Tencent, Baidu y y last year already given up, closing down its and Alibaba accounted for 71% of mobile Helion public cloud inJanuary.
Internet applications remain key Worth an estimated $156bn in 2015 13.6% 2015 highlighted once beneficiaries of the Cloud delivery model y y the outlook for online advertising again that scale matters in with smartphone growth driving the remains positive with growth coming at the the Internet space: that number of global Internet users beyond expense of offline traditional media spend.
cumulative CapEx and R&D 3bn 9% y y last year, representing 42% China 39% y y was the fastest growing spend provides significant of the worlds population.
In addition, region for the third year running while the barriers to entry and mobile usage trends remain positive with US once again dominated share of spend competitive advantage non voice time spent on tablets and with 36% of the total.
In the US, online smartphones increasing to 174 minutes advertising growth actually accelerated day in the US in 2015 11% y y.
The from 16% to 20% y y as mobile 66% ubiquity of smartphones and other became a tailwind last year.
With online Internet-connected devices continues to Internet mobile accounting for 47% of change consumption patterns, a trend US media consumption but just 35% of magnified by the growing demographic advertising budgets, growth should remain importance of so-called millennials who well supported with mobile display and today account for 27% of the US mobile video ad formats likely to plug population.
While growth in users and this gap worth $22bn in the US alone.
usage has continued to provide a Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 27 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Managers Report continued The two clear beneficiaries of this trend incremental online sales driven by its 44m are Alphabet and Facebook as the US Prime customers.
We also continue to $15bn dominant players in nearly all regions hold an Alibaba position as we think the Estimated size of ex-China worldwide and likely to account improving monetisation rate thanks to online advertising for 41% and 17% of the US online increased spending on advertising within market in 2015 advertising market in 2016 respectively.
the platform should more than offset the Two additional advertising tailwinds exist negative revenue impact from slower this year the US Presidential election, gross merchandise value GMV growth.
which is expected to generate $11bn in Furthermore, we do not believe the market The two clear beneficiaries political ad spend and the Olympic Games, has properly valued its stakes in Ant of this trend are Alphabet the worlds most watched sporting event.
Financial, which owns Alipay, the Chinese and Facebook as the Social media companies continue to look equivalent of Paypal.
dominant players in particularly well positioned to benefit from nearly all regions Although smartphones are facilitating mobile advertising growth and the ex-China worldwide change at an unparalleled pace, the explosive growth in video traffic.
market itself continues to slow, our Facebook remains the undisputed social downbeat assessment a year ago borne leader boasting 1.6bn monthly active users out by moribund unit growth in 2015 and and an astonishing 1.1bn daily users while The growth of e-commerce pricing that continued to erode.
2016 is its 1bn WhatsApp users send 42bn continues unabated.
In the likely to prove another year of deceleration messages and share 1.6bn photos every US, the Census Bureau with smartphone units forecast to grow day.
Tencent also looks well positioned as disclosed that e-commerce just 3%, with growth skewed to the second its chat app WeChat enjoys an undisputed ended 2015 at 15.3% of core half of the year as consumers delay position in China with 650m MAUs.
With retail sales ex food, autos purchases ahead of the iPhone 7 launch monetisation at the earliest stage, there is and gas having added expected in September.
With penetration great potential for Tencent to significantly a further 1.5% market at c. 75% globally and nearer 90% in increase performance-based advertising.
share during the year developed markets the smartphone The growth of e-commerce continues market will increasingly depend on unabated.
In the US, the Census Bureau replacement demand that is expected to disclosed that e-commerce ended 2015 at account for 70% of units between 2016- With penetration at c. 75% 15.3% of core retail sales ex food, autos 2020 with the balance skewed towards globally and nearer 90% and gas having added a further 1.5% lower ASP emerging markets.
However, in developed markets the market share at the expense of traditional slowing industry growth does little to smartphone market will retail channels during the year.
As with convey how difficult the market has increasingly depend on advertising, mobile is driving overall become for handset OEMs because replacement demand growth as it continues to develop into an Samsung and Apple continue to account integral part of the shopping experience, for 100% of industry profits with c. 39% with m-commerce expected to account for combined unit share.
The reality is worse over 20% of total US online spending this still as Apple has tightened its grip on year rising to c. 45% by 2020.
Amazon industry profits due to its continued remains our flagship e-commerce position success in the premium segment of the as growth continues to significantly market.
This has allowed the company to outpace overall e-commerce with net increase ASPs to $717 in 2015 while sales of electronics and other general average Android selling prices fell to $216.
merchandise growing 31% y y in North With industry ex-Apple profits under America, capturing an incredible 60% of severe pressure, it is understandable why Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 28 Although smartphones are facilitating change at an unparalleled pace, the market itself continues to slow, our downbeat assessment a year ago borne out by moribund unit growth in 2015 and pricing that continued to erode loss-making OEMs such as LG have begun a larger screen device drove a sizeable to question Qualcomm royalties that are upgrade of the installed base.
Despite $717 based on revenues, rather than profits.
this, Apple stock remains inexpensive Average selling price We do not expect any significant alleviation and supported by its exceptionally strong of Apple iPhone in 2015 of this adverse IPR trend as unit growth balance sheet, which explains our large slows, ASPs decline and industry absolute but significantly underweight revenues profits increasingly gravitate position.
With the company seemingly at towards OEMs with scale and a significant a crossroads, the iPhone 7 is likely to amount of their own IP.
prove a fairly critical waypoint because We remain constructive if it is unable to reignite unit growth, on the company Apple After a year when Apple put even investors may begin to ask if smartphones although we have greater distance between itself and are going the way of the PC where high modestly reduced our its smartphone peers, we remain levels of penetration and a slowing pace position to reflect the constructive on the company although we of innovation saw replacement cycles more challenging have modestly reduced our position to extend from two to five years.
smartphone market reflect the more challenging smartphone market.
Although its best years of growth After a strong 2014, the sharp slowdown in are behind it, we still expect Apple to smartphone growth combined with weak continue to defy the s-curve inline with PC demand and moderating datacenter The iPhone 7 is likely our mass affluent luxury good company builds resulted in a semiconductor to prove a fairly critical thesis outlined last year.
At the heart of downturn last year.
Rather than delivering waypoint because if it the Apple story is the worlds best brand high single digit revenue growth, industry is unable to reignite selling premium products with high sales contracted modestly while earnings unit growth, investors residual values to affluent customers fell further due to negative operating may begin to ask if who use them a lot on average, 83 times leverage.
However, semiconductor stocks smartphones are going day.
During a more difficult 2015 where were supported by record M&A activity as the way of the PC the combination of the strong US Dollar, companies looked to diversify away from weaker trends in China and an slowing smartphone and PC markets, incremental 6s upgrade cycle weighed scale up or simply take advantage of cheap on growth, Apple still managed to sell debt.
In addition, there was a significant Semiconductor stocks 231m devices with ASPs more than 3x acceleration of outbound Chinese M&A were supported by record the industry average.
Unfortunately, the intended to jump start the domestic M&A activity as companies smartphone market responsible for semiconductor industry.
The State Council looked to diversify away between 7080% of profits is now decision to introduce Made in China from slowing smartphone essentially penetrated leaving growth targets for semiconductor self-sufficiency and PC markets, scale up reliant on share gains and or pricing, 40% of chip consumption by 2020, and or simply take advantage neither of which have been heading in the 70% by 2025 should ensure ongoing of cheap debt right direction following the introduction Chinese M&A interest while a number of of the entry-level iPhone SE and the leading edge manufacturers have agreed companys most recent quarter where to build local manufacturing facilities.
it reported its first drop in quarterly While an acquisitive new entrant should revenues since 2003 having sold 10m support asset prices, we expect the fewer iPhones than a year earlier.
industry to be negatively impacted over Obviously all that can change with the time in the same way that the LCD and iPhone 7 due in September although we DRAM sectors were in the late 2000s when expect incremental improvement rather new entrants were heavily subsidised by than something akin to the iPhone 6 when the Taiwanese and Korean governments.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 29
