3 Directors Report Directors # Michael Moule Brian Ashford-Russell Sarah Bates Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2007 Appointed to the Board in 1996.
Appointed to the Board in 2011. and was elected Chairman in S Sk ki il ll ls s a an nd d ex exp per eri ie enc nce e S Sk ki il ll ls s a an nd d ex exp per eri ie enc nce e August 2011.
He is also chairman Brian Ashford-Russell is a director Sarah Bates is a past Chairman of the of the Management Engagement and founder of Polar Capital.
He was Association of Investment Companies and NominationCommittees.
previously head of the technology and has been involved in the UK S Sk ki il ll ls s a an nd d ex exp per eri ie enc nce e team at Henderson Global Investors.
savings and investment industry in Michael Moule was a director of He managed the Company from different roles for over 30 Years.
investment trusts at Henderson launch until 30 April 2006.
O Ot th he er r A Ap pp po oi int ntm me ent nts s Global Investors, where he had O Ot th he er r A Ap pp po oi int ntm me ent nts s Sarah Bates is Non-executive been the investment manager for He is a Non-executive Director Chairman of St. Jamess Place plc, The Bankers Investment Trust plc of Polar Capital Holdings plc.
JP Morgan American Investment and Law Debenture Corporation plc Trust plc and Witan Pacific until his retirement in 2003.
Brian Ashford-Russell is connected Investment trust plc.
Sarah is also a to the investment manager and as O Ot th he er r A Ap pp po oi int ntm me ent nts s director of Worldwide Health Trust such is not considered independent.
He is a director of The European plc and a director of U and I Group plc Investment Trust plc, a member of until its AGM on 14 July 2016.
She is a the investment committee of the member of the USS Investment British Heart Foundation and a Committee and advisor to the East member of the investment Riding Pension Fund, as well as being committeeof The Open University.
a member of a number of other charitable and pension fund investment committees.
Member of Audit Committee Member of Management Engagement Committee Member of Nomination Committee # Member of Remuneration Committee The Board considers that the majority of the Directors are independent in character and there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect or could appear to affect their judgement.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 52 # # Charlotta Ginman Peter Hames Rupert Montagu Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2015 and Appointed to the Board in 2011 Appointed to the Board in 2007 and to the chair of the Audit Committee and will take the position of became Senior Independent Director following the AGM in September 2015 SeniorIndependent Director and and Chairman of the Remuneration and will join the Remuneration the chair of the Remuneration Committee from September 2013.
Committee from the conclusion of Committee on the retirement of Rupert Montagu will not be the AGM on 9 September 2016.
Rupert Montagu at the AGM.
seeking re-election at the AGM S Sk ki il ll ls s a an nd d ex exp per eri ie enc nce e S Sk ki il ll ls s a an nd d ex exp per eri ie enc nce e on 9September 2016 as he will Charlotta Ginman qualified as a Peter Hames spent 18 years of his have served 9 years.
Chartered Accountant at Ernst & investment career in Singapore, S Sk ki il ll ls s a an nd d ex exp per eri ie enc nce e Young before spending a career in where in 1992 he co-founded Rupert Montagu co-founded Montagu investment banking and commercial Aberdeen Asset Managements Asian Newhall Associates now Greenspring organisations, principally in operation and as Director of Asian Associates in 2000, a specialist technology related businesses.
She Equities he oversaw regional fund investor in technology and healthcare held senior roles with JP Morgan, management teams responsible for venture capital industries where he Deutsche Bank, UBS and the running a number of top-rated and was a partner until 2010.
O Ot th he er r A Ap pp po oi int ntm me ent nts s O Ot th he er r A Ap pp po oi int ntm me ent nts s O Ot th he er r A Ap pp po oi int ntm me ent nts s None.
Charlotta Ginman is a Non-executive He is a director of MMIP Investment Director and chairs the audit Management Limited, BACIT Limited committees of Pacific Assets Trust plc, and independent member of the Motif Bio plc and is a non-executive Operating Committee of Genesis director of Consort Medical plc.
Asset Managers LLP as well as serving on a number of Genesis fundboards.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 53
