2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Managers Report Ben Rogoff investors considered the likelihood of a US Market Review rate hike delivered in December and the 0.4% Equity markets consolidated earlier gains surprising decision by the Chinese to float increase in FTSE World during the fiscal year amid downward the Renminbi RMB in August.
Plunging oil revisions to global growth, pronounced Index, total return prices -27% during the period weighed on commodity price weakness and Chinese during the year energy exporters such as Russia who also economic deceleration.
However, the FTSE had to contend with a 20% depreciation in World index gained 0.4% in GBP terms as the Ruble against the Dollar.
After a Sterling weakness -5% -7% -15% against remarkably strong prior year, Chinese Developed markets the Dollar, Euro and Yen respectively stocks bore the brunt of hard landing continued to perform proved a key contributor to overall returns.
fears, increased margin requirements and relatively well, Developed markets continued to perform the RMB devaluation with the Hang Seng particularly the US relatively well, particularly the US 6.1% and Shanghai Composite indices down 19% 6.1% in Sterling terms in Sterling terms where robust economic and 33% respectively.
Taiwanese stocks where robust economic data and further labour market also fell sharply -12% due to sustained PC data and further labour improvement were in stark contrast to weakness and fears of intensifying Chinese market improvement downward revisions to economic growth competition while weakness in Korea -6% was in stark contrast elsewhere.
US corporate news flow also reflected miasma from the RMB float and todownward revisions remained supportive with share buybacks continuing travails at Samsung.
to economic growth and record M&A augmenting respectable elsewhere earnings progress ex.
The financial year began with equities However, the combination of Dollar strength shrugging off volatility elsewhere driven and dramatic oil price weakness began to by fears of a potential Greek default and show up in US data during the final third of concern about when the US Federal After a remarkably the financial year presaging a full-blown Reserve would begin to tighten interest strong prior year, growth scare in early 2016.
However, concern spread into equity Chinese stocks bore the once again stepped in to shore up markets when Greece missed an IMF brunt of hard landing confidence via additional measures while payment and announced a referendum on fears, increased margin rumours of a 1984-style Plaza Accord at the whether to accept bailout conditions.
requirements and the Shanghai G20 in February saw the Dollar Chinese equities fell sharply following an RMB devaluation reverse sharply into year-end.
Although increase in margin requirement that Europe -4.7% proved an economic bright resulted in the Shanghai Composite index spot, returns were hampered by fears of a falling more than 30% from its mid-June Greek default and or Euro exit, the highs.
Increasingly disorderly markets led emissions scandal at VW and financial The financial year began to the Chinese authorities buying equities, sector travails.
Japanese stocks 0.9% with equities shrugging suspending new listings and at one point were particularly weak in local currency off volatility elsewhere more than 50% of A-share stocks were terms due to the China slowdown and Yen driven by fears of a halted from trading.
Deterioration in strength that while reversing our losses potential Greek default Chinese economic data saw oil -21% unwound much of the QE-related progress and concern about when suffer its largest monthly decline since in weakening thecurrency.
the US Federal Reserve October 2008, an unexpected no vote in would begin to tighten the Greek referendum adding to investor Modest profit taking in most developed interest rates consternation.
Although equity markets markets was in stark contrast to sustained recovered once Greece submitted a bailout selling pressure in emerging ones due to request, the rally proved short lived as the combination of weak Chinese data, focus shifted back to China following weak plunging commodity prices and associated data and the unexpected decision by the adverse foreign exchange movements as Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 08 The second half of our financial year was dominated by many of the same macroeconomic issues that stymied earlier progress China, oil and the spectre of a US interest rate hike Peoples Bank of China PBoC to float the heightened political risk following a RMB.
While bulls spun this surprising number of acts of terrorism, offset by 1,000 development as another step towards policymaker intervention and Sterling point intra-day decline financial liberation, bears portrayed the weakness as the UKs referendum on EU in the Dow Jones move as defensive reflecting rapidly membership came into greater focus.
Industrial average deteriorating economic trends.
While the Robust US economic data in November during the flash crash truth was likely somewhere in-between, that saw unemployment fall below 5% bears won the day the Shanghai remained in stark contrast with continued Composite Index shedding more than weakness in China, mixed Eurozone data Financial market 12% during August.
and a return to technical recession in volatility, increased risk Japan following a contraction in aversion and weakening Financial market volatility, increased risk preliminary first-quarter GDP.
Suicide emerging market aversion and weakening emerging market attacks in Beirut and Paris, together with currencies resulted in currencies resulted in a flash crash during the downing of a Russian jet by Turkey in a flash crash during August which saw the Dow Jones Industrial Syria added to the gloom with oil falling August Index fall an incredible 1000 points intraday.
12% during the month and ten-year Although markets managed to rally from the US Treasury yields falling to just 2.2% lows, the S&P 500 still ended the month despite the increased likelihood of down 6.3% in local currency, its largest policy normalisation.
Our half-year ended on a monthly decline in more than three years.
positive note with equity Although concerns over Chinas economic Risk appetite deteriorated sharply in markets rebounding health remained in focus during September, December, although negative returns were sharply in October US economic data was reassuring while countered by Sterling weakness.
The month following a Chinese the Fed left interest rates unchanged was unusually eventful with three major interest rate cut and given the more uncertain global outlook.
central banks deciding on policy action.
The ECB President Mario Biotechnology stocks struggled after Hillary European Central Bank ECB was first and Draghi hinting at further Clinton tweeted a proposal to control drug disappointed the market, while the US intervention prices, wiping $40bn in market value from Federal Reserve delivered its first rate hike the sector.
The automotive sector also since 2006 carefully accompanied by a suffered after German car giant Volkswagen dovish statement supporting the notion of a admitted deliberately cheating emissions gradual tightening cycle.
The Bank of Japan Investors had to contend tests in the US.
Fortunately our half-year BoJ opted to maintain its pace of monetary with heightened political ended on a positive note with equity markets expansion with some small additional risk following a number of rebounding sharply in October following a measures, but, as in Europe, this proved acts of terrorism, offset by Chinese interest rate cut and ECB President insufficient to excite equity markets.
policymaker intervention Mario Draghi hinting at further intervention.
Instead, focus remained firmly focused on and Sterling weakness as An encouraging start to the third-quarter China where ongoing devaluation of the the UKs referendum on earnings season also played a part which, RMB versus the Dollar was interpreted as EU membership came into together with outsized M&A activity, helped evidence of further economic weakness greater focus US stocks register their best monthly and on oil prices that fell a dramatic 18% returns since October 2011. during the month following OPECs decision to keep output unchanged.
The second half of our financial year Pronounced oil price weakness was was dominated by many of the same transmitted into other markets including macroeconomic issues that stymied high yield HY debt where wider spreads earlier progress China, oil and the spilled into investment grade paper, spectre of a US interest rate hike.
In accentuated by a high profile HY credit addition, investors had to contend with fund suspending redemptions.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 09 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Managers Report continued Macroeconomic concerns developed into a Technology Review full blown growth scare in early 2016 with 2.4% The technology sector modestly under RMB weakness in January forcing the performed the broader market during IT budget growth in PBOC to intervene and outline its new the fiscal year, the Dow Jones World constant currency exchange rate policy in greater detail, Technology Index declining 0.1% terms during 2015 targeting a relatively stable RMB against a in Sterling terms.
Having out performed trade-weighted basket.
Unfortunately weak for much of the year the sector gave back Chinese data the services PMI falling to its all of its relative gain during April.
Much lowest level in a decade did little to Macroeconomic concerns of this outperformance was passive assuage fears that the new policy was just developed into a full reflecting the sectors disproportionate a thinly veiled competitive devaluation.
blown growth scare exposure to the US, the US Dollar and February saw further equity market in early 2016 relatively limited exposure to emerging weakness offset by US Dollar strength markets.
While macroeconomic Sterling weakness and the BoJ introduce uncertainty and US Dollar strength played negative interest rates NIRP on excess a role, weak earnings performances from reserves held by financial institutions which The final two months a number of incumbent companies, drove Japanese Government Bond yields of our financial year particularly during the Q116 reporting below zero.
US economic data also became saw a sharp rebound season, appeared to support our long-held more mixed with a weaker manufacturing in risk assets view that the new technology cycle has PMI offset by low unemployment, strong entered a more pernicious phase.
auto sales and housing market strength.
Although IT budgets increased 2.4% in Sterling fell sharply against a basket of constant currency during 2015, worldwide currencies after Boris Johnson joined the IT spending actually declined 5.8% in US Moribund overall growth, Brexitcampaign.
Moribund overall growth, combined with combined with accelerating Cloud adoption accelerating Cloud The final two months of our financial year took its toll on a number of traditional adoption took its toll saw a sharp rebound in risk assets, led by segments such as the PC market, which on a number of commodities and emerging markets, experienced its worst year on record in traditional segments precipitated by central bank intervention 2015 as sales declined by 10% year on year and Dollar weakness.
Policymakers y y. Smartphone-related stocks also reminded investors in March that they struggled with high global penetration, remained alive to the risks associated with resulting in sharp unit growth a waning global economy, the ECB deceleration.
Having previously shrugged reiterating its whatever it takes stance off market weakness, growth at Apple also while the Federal Reserve struck a began to falter during the second half of surprisingly dovish tone with its dot plot the financial year as iPhone sales fell short indicating two rate hikes for 2016, rather of expectations.
than four as previously articulated.
This, together with mixed US economic data and In contrast, Internet companies were better news elsewhere saw the Dollar fall among the biggest winners during the 3.7% on a trade-weighted basis with year although returns were monopolised weakness extending into April, the by a handful of mega-caps Facebook currency concluding the year at its lowest 57%, Google 35% and Amazon level against the Yen in eighteen months.
64% all of which delivered strong growth and improved profitability.
The Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 10 The oil price-induced growth scare and a handful of high-profile earnings disappointments saw next generation valuations plunge to levels rarely seen since 2009 remarkable performance of these transition to the Cloud.
A positive start companies, together with that of Netflix to the second-quarter earnings season $37bn not held was in stark contrast to peers allowed the sector to regain some lost value of announced such as LinkedIn -48% and Twitter ground during July, although returns were acquisition of Broadcom -61% and resulted in the FANG unevenly distributed.
Weaker demand Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, Google trends saw a number of semiconductor acronym.
However, other next generation companies deliver sub-par earnings and or companies fared less well as 2015 saw guidance while technology incumbents such the continuation of the post Q114 trend as Microsoft, SAP and Yahoo all traded The year began with of valuation compression that almost lower on lacklustre results.
While IBM a robust conclusion to entirely offset fundamental progress.
predictably recorded its 13th straight year first quarter earnings This adverse trend accelerated sharply over year decline in quarterly revenue, season and the largest in early 2016 as the oil price-induced Apple ended up as a rare loser with iPhone semiconductor growth scare and a handful of highsales disappointing.
In contrast, Internet merger ever profile earnings disappointments saw stocks were clear winners following a next generation valuations plunge to significant beat and raise quarter at levels rarely seen since 2009 before Amazon while Google delivered a solid rebounding sharply during the final quarter accompanied by encouraging Internet stocks were months of the year as more normal rhetoric from new CFO Ruth Porat about clear winners following service resumed in the broader market.
expense discipline, improved disclosure a significant beat and M&A also continued to play a supportive and potential capital return.
Early raise quarter at Amazon role during the year with a number of excitement was borne out in August when while Google delivered a records broken.
While transactions were the company unveiled a surprise corporate solid quarter accompanied mostly financial in nature, the hiatus in restructuring and a new name Alphabet by encouraging rhetoric markets and the collapse of next for its public holding company.
A number from new CFO Ruth Porat generation valuations saw the return of other next generation companies of strategic M&A towards year end.
including Arista Networks and Salesforce.
com also delivered strong second-quarter The year began with a robust conclusion to results during the month although stock the first quarter earnings season and the performance remained somewhat divorced largest semiconductor merger ever after from fundamentals resulting in further Avago announced it would acquire fellow compression of next generation valuations.
This was followed a few days later by news that Intel September proved a relatively eventful was buying Altera for $17bn and talk that month with both Palo Alto Networks and Microsoft had floated a proposed $55bn bid Red Hat reporting strong quarters while for Salesforce.
Unfortunately gains in Oracle once again blamed a revenue and May proved short-lived with broader licence shortfall on its Cloud transition.
market weakness, poor PC shipment data Semiconductor M&A returned to the fore and a very disappointing quarter from as Dialog Semiconductor bid $4.6bn for memory supplier Micron Technology Atmel while Chinese state-backed weighing on the technology sector during Tsinghua Holdings expressed an interest in June.
Off-quarter results from Oracle did acquiring a 15% stake in Western Digital.
little to lift the gloom with revenues falling September also saw Apple release its 5% year over year due to an accelerating long-awaited iPhone 6S phone upgrade.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 11 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Managers Report continued The third-quarter earnings season stock hit a 52-week low after lowering dictated proceedings during October with guidance, Cisco issued disappointing $67bn some of the strongest results found within guidance and after 76 years, Hewlett announced value the Internet subsector with both Amazon Packard formally separated into two of EMC acquisition and Google delivering almost faultless companies in order to compete more by Dell reports.
Beyond the Internet, earnings effectively.
The divergence between new were more mixed with a number of cycle winners and losers remained in enterprise incumbents including IBM focus during December with solid results continuing to feel the impact of Cloud from both Adobe and Red Hat at odds with Third-quarter earnings migration.
In addition, Dell and Silver Lake a mixed report from Oracle who scaled season dictated announced their intention to buy EMC for back growth expectations for its Cloud proceedings during $67bn, the largest technology deal ever offerings.
Smartphone-related stocks October with some of the while the semiconductor sector embarked were also weak as supply chain data strongest results found on another round of frenzied M&A activity suggested that both Apple and Samsung within the Internet during the month with Western Digital had significantly reduced component subsector acquiring SanDisk for $19bn and orders for first-quarter delivery.
semiconductor capital equipment The oil-induced growth scare and suppliers Lam Research and KLA-Tencor heightened risk aversion resulted in agreeing to merge.
In contrast with a The semiconductor pronounced weakness of long duration number of other legacy incumbents, sector embarked on stocks during early 2016.
A slightly both Apple and Microsoft reported another round of frenzied disappointing quarter from ServiceNow solid third-quarter results.
M&A activity during the saw other high growth names come under month with Western Facebook made an all-time high in sustained selling pressure.
In contrast, Digital acquiring SanDisk November following a strong earnings safe incumbents outperformed despite for $19bn and... Lam release advertising revenue growth fundamental progress that remained Research and KLAaccelerating to 57% y y in constant mixed with IBM missing revenue Tencor agreeing currency terms, which helped the sector expectations, Intel blaming weak server tomerge outperform during the month.
Positive sales on China while Apple reported a e-commerce trends were also in the lacklustre quarter and guidance.
Microsoft spotlight after the Thanksgiving and Cyber bucked the trend as its public cloud Monday holiday period saw online sales Azure business grew 140% y y in The oil-induced growth increase 21% y y while in China, Alibabas constant currency, a dynamic that also scare and heightened Singles Day gross merchandise volume helped Amazon although operating profits risk aversion resulted in GMV grew 60% y y, well ahead of disappointed due to increased investment.
Beyond the Internet, two Facebook posted yet another stellar long duration stocks other next generation poster-children quarter as its daily active users DAU during early 2016 reported strong quarters with SaaS leader surpassed 1bn for the first time.
com beating analysts investment style continued to face estimates billings maintained at 25% significant headwinds during February as growth and margins expanded above next generation companies significantly expectations, while data analytics underperformed.
Unfortunately, investor software vendor Splunk grew billings 46% focus remained firmly on next generation and raised its revenue outlook for 2016.
In mishaps following weak guidance at both contrast, November proved a difficult LinkedIn and Tableau each blaming month for legacy incumbents.
Qualcomm macroeconomic uncertainty while Twitter Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 12 Our total return performance came in ahead of our benchmark, our own net asset value per share rising 1.0% during the year versus a 0.1% decline in the Sterling adjusted benchmark reported a sequential decline in users.
ever quarterly profit $513m with AWS However, most of our next generation growing 64% y y.
Elsewhere, results $70bn holdings continued to deliver robust across our portfolio were pleasing in spite estimated Alphabet results with each of Criteo, CyberArk, of the macro slowdown that larger revenue for 2016 HubSpot and Zendesk reporting more than companies are experiencing.
The portfolio 40% revenue billings growth while our also benefited from two strategic M&A favourite names Palo Alto Networks, transactions during the month, with Salesforce.
com and Splunk all delivered Ruckus Wireless acquired by Brocade exceptional quarters with no evidence of while Cvent was snapped up by private Most of our next any macroeconomic weakness.
Alphabet equity for premiums of 45% and 68% generation holdings aka Google also reported strong respectively.
In addition, Oracle made continued to deliver numbers with 24% revenue growth, two small public market Software-as-arobust results with each remarkable for a company with estimated Service SaaS acquisitions making it of Criteo, CyberArk, revenues of c. $70bn this year.
clear that strategic M&A was very much HubSpot and Zendesk back on the agenda.
reporting more than 40% Our belief that demand was better than revenue billings growth implied by equity market volatility was Our Performance supported during March with each of Our total return performance came in Adobe, Accenture not held, Oracle not ahead of our benchmark, our own net asset held and Red Hat delivering better than value per share rising 1.0% during the year Apple released its new expected off-quarter reports.
Apple versus a 0.1% decline in the Sterling low-end iPhone SE released its new low-end iPhone SE adjusted benchmark.
In the US the most during the month, during the month, although this was significant positive contributor to although this was overshadowed in April by poor results and performance was Amazon 64% which overshadowed in April by weak guidance resulting in its largest delivered strong growth and improved poor results and weak weekly share price decline since 2013. profitability in both e-commerce and public guidance resulting in its Unfortunately Apple was in good company cloud computing.
The portfolio also largest weekly share as a plethora of incumbents including benefited from its off-benchmark exposure price decline since 2013 Ericsson, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Qualcomm to computer gaming companies including and SAP reported disappointing earnings.
Activision Blizzard 60%, Electronic Arts A few next generation companies also 12% and Ubisoft 65% that benefited made the list with soft quarters or from strong console sales and growing With Cloud adoption guidance from Alphabet, Netflix and digital delivery of content.
Outside of the gathering pace, we think Twitter.
As a result of what proved a US, we managed to add value in all major we are finally seeing a disappointing earnings season for marketregions with the exception of Japan where divergence of fortunes cap weighted indices, the technology performance modestly trailed the consistent with our view sector gave up almost all of its fiscal year benchmark.
Relative performance was also that the new cycle has outperformance during the final month of positively impacted by underweight entered a more the year.
However, with Cloud adoption positions in a number of large index pernicious phase gathering pace, we think we are finally constituents that delivered disappointing seeing a divergence of fortunes consistent returns during the year, including Apple, with our view that the new cycle has Ericsson, Hewlett Packard, IBM and entered a more pernicious phase.
The Trust also benefited from Fortunately two of our largest holdings its underweight PC exposure as waning bucked the weak earnings trend demand weighed on key suppliers such Facebook reported y y revenue growth of as Micron, Seagate and Western Digital.
58% while Amazon achieved its highest Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 13
