LABOUR AUTOMATION T TH HE I E IN NE EX XO OR RA AB BL LE R E RI IS SE O E OF T F TH HE C E CL LO OU UD I D IS L S LI IK KE EL LY T Y TO D O DO T O TO I O I.. T T.. S SE ER RV VI IC CE ES S W WH HA AT O T OF FF FI IC CE A E AU UT TO OM MA AT TI IO ON D N DI ID T D TO T O TH HE S E SE EC CR RE ET TA AR RI IA AL P L PO OO OL L The advent of the typewriter a enterprise computing is becoming penetration will challenge the 19th century technology invented simpler and less  cost plus IT services to mechanise the writing process the inexorable rise of the Cloud is revenue model: in order to grow IT and improve record keeping likely to do to IT services what services firms will need to helped bring women out of the office automation did to the decouple revenue from headcount kitchen and into the world of secretarial pool before.
McKinsey estimate that affairs from the late 1880s, Automation is having a profound the next $100bn of IT service illustrating the close relationship effect on IT infrastructure revenues in India will add less than between technological progress headcount as public clouds allow 1m jobs, compared to the 3m and social change.
However, by the companies to outsource and better required for the first $100bn.
1970s early word-processing manage resource utilisation systems began to make real hyper-scale companies such as inroads into the heart of Microsoft are able to manage up to 1 1: :1 18 8, 000 000, 000 000 secretarial work: dictation and 10,000 servers per full time Ratio of WhatsApp engineers typing ended the one boss, one employee.
Already software as a to users secretary ratio.
As with the service SaaS applications appear typewriter before, PC growth and to be weighing on IT services the proliferation of enterprise demand and or pricing due to $8 $86 66 6b bn n software has fuelled the growth shorter implementation cycles and of the IT services and BPO lower maintenance requirements Size of the combined global IT industries which combined are compared to traditional software.
service and BPO markets worth c. $866bn annually.
However Rising enterprise cloud Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 30 Managers Report continued As a result, and given our view on device This should be positive for endpoint exhaustion, we remain underweight the growth, security information and event 4bn semiconductor sector which we expect management SIEM spending as rapid Number of data to undershoot global GDP until a new detection and response solutions garner records breached application becomes mainstream.
In 60% of enterprise security budgets by 2020, since 2013 terms of preferred areas, we still favour up from less than 10% in 2014.
We also semiconductor capital equipment expect email security to remain a key suppliers such as Applied Materials due multiyear priority as cloud penetration of to rising capital intensity in the absence office productivity software increases from Given our view on device of Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography and c. 15% in 2015 to 60% by 2020.
Privileged exhaustion, we remain faster growth companies with unique account management PAM is another area underweight the technologies such as eMemory embedded we like because the abuse of privileged semiconductor sector memory IP, Himax Technologies VR AR credentials has been responsible for some which we expect to and Silicon Motion SSD controllers.
of the highest profile breaches in recent undershoot global GDP history.
Longer-term, securing the Internet until a new application Despite fewer major breaches in 2015, of Things IoT is also likely to prove an becomes mainstream cyber-security remains an important attractive area for investment as Internet theme within the portfolio and an connectivity exposes new markets such as evergreen beneficiary of smartphone televisions and cars to attack.
Despite the Cyber-security remains proliferation, Cloud migration and ever longer-term risk to some vendors posed an important theme greater reliance on the Internet as a by the Cloud, we continue to favour the within the portfolio and an delivery mechanism.
Increasingly security theme following its recent fideevergreen beneficiary of heterogenous computing has created new rating and anticipate renewed M&A activity smartphone proliferation, attack vectors that have seen 4bn data should valuations not rebound towards Cloud migration and ever records breached globally since 2013.
greater reliance on the such, security remains a key IT priority with Internet as a delivery a year-end Piper Jaffray survey revealing At a time when the value of content is mechanism that 82% of respondents expected to being challenged by usage-based pricing increase spending this year while in and the power of new platforms, February, President Obama announced a videogame companies appear to be rare We also expect email new cyber security National Action Plan beneficiaries of digital distribution made security to remain a key calling for a c. 35% increase in spending to possible by the Internet.
Despite wildly multiyear priority as cloud $19bn in FY17.
We expect the regulatory exaggerated rumours of its death at the penetration of office backdrop to remain favourable and hands of smartphone casual games, the productivity software substantial upside to existing budgets console is alive and well and midway increases from c. 15% in as and when new threats materialise.
through a new cycle that began in 2015 to 60% by 2020 However, after a year when companies November 2013 when Sony and Microsoft were furiously plugging holes revealed in launched the Playstation 4 PS4 and Xbox their systems, it appears that industry One.
Excluding the dramatic rise and fall of Despite wildly growth is moderating while emphasis the Nintendo Wii which engaged an exaggerated rumours of has shifted from block and protect entirely new and apparently transitory its death at the hands of i. e. keeping the hackers out to more family audience this cycle looks like it smartphone casual comprehensive solutions focused on could be the biggest yet with the installed games, the console is alive shoring up security at the user level, base estimated to have reached 55m by and well and midway walling off the most sensitive data and the end of 2015, 47% greater than the prior through a new cycle that quickly detecting and closing breaches.
cycle and well ahead of expectations.
began in November 2013 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 31 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Managers Report continued As a result of industry consolidation that US adults spend 59% of their time bankruptcies during the last cycle, there online but spend only 15% of their online 55m are only four remaining Western console Dollars using a mobile device.
As Number of next generation game players Activision held, Electronic payments are increasingly taken out of the consoles installed at the Arts held, Take-Two and Ubisoft held banking system, banks are being reduced end of 2015 that between them accounted for 58% of to dumb pipes while their current the market in 2014.
While greater revenue-take from payments looks at odds development costs $30100m for a triple with the fact that value is moving into the AAA title act as a useful barrier to entry, networks.
This should create opportunities Digital distribution allows the shift to digital distribution is proving for Visa held and Mastercard to increase publishers to sell high hugely beneficial by allowing users to their revenue take.
Both companies margin additional content download full games 2025% of the remain attractive long-term plays on the such as expansion packs, market bypassing the retailer and adding electronification of payments globally, weapon upgrades and c. $7 to a gross profit of $38 per physical including in China.
Longer term, we are virtual currency which unit sold.
However, the more exciting part also excited about the potential of should drive revenue of the story is that digital distribution distributed ledger technology that enables growth and margin allows publishers to sell high margin payment systems such as bitcoin to expansion beyond the additional content such as expansion operate in an entirely decentralised peak of the console cycle packs, weapon upgrades and virtual framework.
This is likely to attack currency which should drive revenue intermediaries with its promise of growth and margin expansion beyond the transparency, commission-less exchange peak of the console cycle.
Given the and substantially improved security.
There are a number of improved industry backdrop and limited However, successful innovation in other important themes number of remaining players, we would payments usually requires acceptance that we have exposure not be surprised to see further M&A, with from multiple stakeholders in the network to within the portfolio potential suitors in the media sector and distributed ledger has yet to have its including payments Vivendi, Time Warner, Disney and within Netscape moment.
Meanwhile banks where mobile is emerging the gaming industry itself.
Lastly, there and insurers look increasingly as the dominant payment are two additional drivers that represent anachronistic: Gartner estimates that platform upside to existing numbers eSports banks will spend more than $360bn gaming as a spectator sport estimated to on technology in 2016 largely to paper be worth $465m in 2017 and virtual reality over their creaking infrastructure.
VR with each of Facebook, HTC and Sony Longer-term, we are We are also excited about the role slated to release products this year.
also excited about the technology will play disrupting the potential of distributed There are a number of other important automotive market with advances in ledger technology that processing power, sensors, connectivity themes that we have exposure to within enables payment the portfolio including payments where and vehicle monitoring improving safety, systems such as bitcoin lowering costs and reducing congestion mobile is emerging as the dominant to operate in an entirely payment platform.
While current usage of time.
In its simplest form, the rise of decentralised framework so-called smart vehicles should see platforms like Apple Pay remains modest, merchant adoption is improving quickly semiconductor content per vehicle increase from $340 in 2014 to $400 by with more than 2m in the US of a total around 8m.
Over time, we expect the 2019 resulting in a $40bn opportunity.
Within this, ADAS advanced driver smartphone to replace the physical wallet although obstacles clearly remain given assistance systems will be among the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 32 At a time when the value of content is being challenged by usage-based pricing and the power of new platforms, videogame companies appear to be rare beneficiaries of digital distribution fastest growing categories as worldwide penetration rises from 11% in 2015 to 50% 100m in 2020 and 70% by 2025.
However, ADAS miles distance travelled is likely to prove just a waypoint on a by Tesla Customer with journey of automobile reinvention as the autopilot online likes of Alphabet, Apple and Tesla attempt to use software to transform what has been a mechanical industry for the past 100 years.
Autonomous vehicles are the ADAS is likely to prove just goal with a number of automakers and a waypoint on a journey of technology companies stating that they automobile reinvention as will be technically feasible by 2020.
To the likes of Alphabet, Apple date, Alphabets self-driving cars have and Tesla attempt to use already completed 1.5m miles while Tesla software to transform what customers are said to have driven 100m has been a mechanical miles with autopilot active.
Obviously industry for the past ethical, regulatory and legal challenges 100 years will need to be overcome, but CLSA predict 12% global autonomous vehicle penetration by 2025.
Concurrent with the move towards autonomous vehicles, we Concurrent with the move are also likely to see new automotive towards autonomous usage models evolve that address the fact vehicles, we are also likely that the average car is used just 4% of the to see new automotive time.
Uber is already transforming the way usage models evolve that that we travel by taxi in part by changing address the fact that the their utilisation rate and has longer-term average car is used just ambitions of disrupting the entire 4% of the time transportation system.
As the CEO of GM put it, were going to see more disruption in the next 510 years than weve seen in the last fifty an observation that perfectly captures our excitement about the new cycle and is likely to prove equally valid across most industries now that the Cloud has made landfall.
Ben Rogoff Fund Manager 4 July 2016 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 33
