Strategic Report The Strategic Report Section of this annual report Polar Capital LLP also provides or assists in comprises the Chairmans Statement, the Investment providing Company Secretarial services and general Managers Report including information on the portfolio administration including liaison with directly appointed and this Strategic Report.
It has been prepared to provide third party suppliers.
information to shareholders on the Companys strategies and potential for those strategies to succeed, including a Investment Objective, Policy and Strategy fair review of the strategy and performance of the Shareholders should be aware that the portfolio is Company during the year ended 30 April 2016, the position actively managed and is not designed to track any of the Company at the year end and a description of the particular benchmark, indices or market.
The principal risks and uncertainties.
The Strategic Report performance of the portfolio can vary from the Section contains certain forward looking statements, Benchmark performance, at times considerably.
made by the Directors in good faith based on the Objective information available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
Such statements should be treated with The Companys investment objective has been since caution due to inherent uncertainties, including both formation, and will continue to be, to maximise long-term economic and business risk factors underlying any capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of such forward-looking information.
technology companies around the world.
Policy Introduction and Business Model At the Annual General Meeting in 2012 the following The Companys business model follows that of an investment policy was approved.
The portfolio has been externally managed investment trust and the investment managed in accordance with the policy and restrictions objective is to provide shareholders with access to an in the year to 30 April 2016. actively managed portfolio of technology shares selected on a worldwide basis with the investment objective to A As ss se et A t Al ll lo oc cat ati io on n maximise long-term capital growth.
Technology may be defined as the application of scientific knowledge for practical purposes and technology Over the last three decades the technology industry companies are defined accordingly.
While this offers a very has been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly broad and dynamic investing universe and covers many growing segments of the global economy.
Technology different companies, the portfolio of the Company the companies offer the potential for substantially faster Portfolio is focused on technology companies which use earnings growth than the broad market, reflecting the technology or which develop and supply technological long-term secular uptrend in technology spending.
solutions as a core part of their business models.
This includes areas as diverse as information, media, Investments are selected for their potential shareholder communications, environmental, healthcare, finance and returns, not on the basis of technology for its own sake.
renewable energy, as well as the more obvious applications The Investment Manager believes in rigorous such as computing and associated industries.
fundamental analysis and focuses on: management quality: The Portfolio is constructed without specific reference to any individual market, index or benchmark and the the identification of new growth markets: Directors discuss asset allocation regularly.
The Board the globalisation of major technology trends: has agreed a set of parameters which provide a range exploiting international valuation anomalies and which guides the Investment Manager depending on sector volatility.
market conditions and future expectations.
The Board believes that this provides the necessary flexibility for the Further information on the operation of the business Investment Manager to pursue the investment objective, is set out in the Directors Report on pages 56 to 58. given the dynamic and rapid changes in the field of technology, while maintaining a spread of investments.
The Board has appointed Polar Capital LLP as its Investment Manager and AIFM.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 41 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Strategic Report continued ended investment funds.
However, the Company will not in R Ri isk sk D Di iv ver ersi sif fi ic ca at tio ion n any case invest more than 15% of its total assets in other The Company will at all times invest and manage its closed ended investment funds.
The Company must not assets in a manner that is consistent with spreading conduct any trading activity which is significant in the investment risk and invests in a Portfolio comprised context of its group as a whole.
primarily of international quoted equities which is diversified across both regions and sectors.
B Bo or rr ro ow wi in ng g, C, Ca as sh a h an nd D d fide er ri iv vat ati iv five es s The Company may borrow money to invest in the Portfolio The Company will satisfy the following investment over both the long and short-term.
Any commitment to restrictions: borrow funds is agreed by the Board and AIFM.
The Companys interest in any one company will not The Companys Articles of Association permit borrowings exceed 10%.
of the gross assets of the Company from up to the amount of its paid up share capital plus capital time to time, save where the Benchmark weighting of and revenue reserves but any net borrowings in excess of any investee company in the Companys portfolio 15% of the Companys net assets at the time of drawdown exceeds this level, in which case the Company will be will only be made with the approval of the Board.
permitted to increase its exposure to such investee company up to the Benchmark neutral weighting of The Investment Manager may also use from time to time that company or, if lower, 20% of the Companys derivative instruments as approved by the Board such as grossassets.
financial futures, options,  and The Company will have a maximum exposure to currency hedges.
These are used for the purpose of companies listed on emerging markets as defined by efficient portfolio management.
Any such use of the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 25% of its gross derivatives will be made in accordance with the assets from time to time.
Companys policies on spreading investment risk as set The Company may invest in unquoted companies from out in this investment policy and any leverage resulting time to time, subject to prior Board approval.
from the use of such derivatives will be subject to the Investments in unquoted companies in aggregate will restrictions on borrowings set out above.
not exceed 10% of the gross assets of the Company C Ch ha an ng ge es t s to i o in nv five es st tm me en nt p t po ol li ic cy y measured at the time of acquisition of the relevant Any material change to the investment policy will require investment and whenever the Company increases the the approval of the Shareholders by way of an ordinary relevant holding.
The Company will In addition to the restrictions set out above, the Company is promptly issue an announcement to inform Shareholders subject to Chapter 15 of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing and the public of any change of its investment policy.
Rules which apply to closed ended investment companies Investment Strategy Guidelines with a premium listing on the Official List of the London and Board limits Stock Exchange.
In order to comply with the current Listing Rules, the Company will not invest more than 10%.
of its The Board has within the Investment Policy established total assets at the time of acquisition in other listed closed guidelines for the Investment Manager in pursuing the ended investment funds, whether managed by the Investment Policy.
The Board use these guidelines to Investment Manager or not.
This restriction does not apply monitor the portfolios exposure to different geographical to investments in closed ended investment funds which markets, sub-sectors within technology and the spread of themselves have published investment policies to invest no investments across different market capitalisations.
more than 15% of their total assets in other listed closed Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 42 These guidelines are kept under review as cyclical During the year the Company had loan facilities with changes in markets and new technologies will bring ING Bank NV for a 14m one year loan drawn in certain sub-sectors or companies of a particular size US Dollar 6,600,000 and Japanese Yen 1,700,000,000 or market capitalisation into or out of favour.
and a Revolving Credit Facility RCF for 14m which could be drawn in US Dollars, Japaneses Yen or Euros.
M Mar ark ke et t p par aram ame et ter ers s The RCF was unused during the year and was cancelled Notwithstanding the ability to invest up to 100% when the loan was repaid on 2 October2015.
of the portfolio in any one market, with current and foreseeable investment conditions the Portfolio will The loan and RCF was replaced by two three-year be invested in accordance with the objective across facilities with ING Bank NV.
One for US Dollars 23,000,000 worldwide markets within the following geographical which was drawn down on 2 October 2015 at a fixed rate and market parameters: of 2.21%pa and one for Japanese Yen 2,800,000,000 at a fixed rate of 0.995%pa.
These loans fall due for repayment North America up to 85% of the Portfolio on 2 October 2018.
Europe up to 40% of the Portfolio Details of the loans are set out in Note 17 to the Japan and Asia up to 55% of the Portfolio financialstatements.
Rest of the world up to 10% of the Portfolio Future Developments The Board has set specific upper exposure limits for The Board remains positive on the longer-term outlook certain countries where they believe there may be an for technology and the Company will continue to pursue elevated risk.
The outlook for future C Ca ash sh performance is dependent to a significant degree on the From time to time the Company may hold cash or near worlds financial markets and their reactions to economic cash equivalents if the Investment Manager feels that events and other geo-political forces.
The Chairmans these will at a particular time or over a period enhance Statement and the Investment Managers Report the performance of the Portfolio.
The Board has agreed comment on the outlook.
that management of cash may be achieved through the purchase of appropriate government bonds, money market Performance funds or bank deposits depending on the Investment At 30 April 2016 the total net assets of the Company Managers view of the investment opportunities.
The Net Asset Value per share rose by 1.0% from 599.25p to G Ge ea ar ri in ng g 605.51p.
As at 30 April 2016 the portfolio comprised of 129 The Board monitors gearing the level of gearing available 2015: 129 investments.
The top investments each being to the Investment Manager and agrees, in conjunction over 1% of the portfolio at 30 April 2016 are described on with the AIFM, all bank facilities.
Deployment of such pages 37 to 40.
A full listing of all investments in the facilities in excess of 15% of the net asset value of portfolio is given on pages 112 to 115. the Company at the time of draw down requires Boardagreement.
The portfolio has been analysed on pages 35 and 36 to disclose details on the distribution of investments by market capitalisation and by the different sectors in the different principal geographies.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 43 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Strategic Report continued The changes in the share price, net asset value and The Company seeks to manage its portfolio in such a way benchmark over the financial year are shown on page 4. as to meet the tests set down in Section 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 as amended by Section A review and commentary are given in the Chairmans 49 2 of the Finance Act 2011 and continue to qualify Statement on pages 6 and 7 and the Investment as an investment trust.
This qualification permits the Managers Report on pages 8 to 33. accumulation of capital within the portfolio without any liability to UK Capital Gains Tax.
Further information is The ongoing charges ratio shown on page 46 has been provided in the Directors Report.
calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC and constitutes the management fee in Note 8 and the The Company has no employees or premises and the other administrative expenses note 9 as a percentage Board is comprised of Non-executive Directors.
The of average daily net assets over the year.
day to day operations and functions of the Company have been delegated to third parties.
Dividends The Companys revenue varies from year to year and the Service Providers Board considers the dividend position in each year in Polar Capital LLP has been appointed to act as the order to maintain the Companys status as an investment Investment Manager and AIFM as well as to provide company.
The revenue reserve remains in deficit and or procure company secretarial services and historically the Company has not paid dividends given its administrative services, including accounting, portfolio focus on capital growth.
The Directors do not recommend valuation and trade settlement which it has arranged to the payment of a dividend.
deliver through HSBC Securities Services.
Regulatory Arrangements The Company also contracts directly with a number of third parties for the provision of regularly The Company is designated an Alternative Investment requiredservices: Fund AIF under the Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive AIFMD and as required by the Cenkos Securities plc as corporate broker: Directive has contracted with Polar Capital LLP to act Equiniti Limited as the share registrars: as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM  LLP as independent auditors: and HSBC Bank Plc to act as the Depositary.
Camarco as PR advisors: Both the AIFM and the Depositary have responsibilities Accrue Fulton as website designers, internet hosting under AIFMD for ensuring that the assets of the Company services and designers and printers for shareholder are managed in accordance with investment policy and communications: and are held in safe custody.
The Board remains responsible Alliance Trust Savings for the provision of investor for setting the investment strategy and operational information and to facilitate investors through the guidelines as well as meeting the requirements of the Alliance Trust Savings arrangements to cast proxy FCA Listing Rules and the Companies Act.
votes and attend the Companys AGM.
Statements from the Depositary and the AIFM can be found on pages 112 to 115.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 44 Key Performance Indicators The Board appraises the performance of the Company and the Investment Manager as the key supplier of services to the Company against Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
The objectives comprise both specific financial and shareholder related measures.
KPI Control process Outcome The provision of The Board reviews at each meeting The Companys NAV has, over the year to investment returns to the performance of the portfolio 30 April 2016 outperformed the Benchmark.
ordinary shareholders in detail and hears the views of the The NAV per share rose by 1.0% while the measured by long-term InvestmentManager.
Benchmark fell 0.1% over the same period.
NAV growth and relative performance against The reasons are explained in the Chairmans theBenchmark.
Statement and the Investment Managers Report.
Over the longer-term, as shown by the historic performance data shown on page 5, growth in the NAV has exceeded the Benchmark.
Monitoring and reacting The Board receives regular information The discount premium of the ordinary share to issues created by the on the composition of the share register price to NAV per ordinary share diluted when discount or premium of including trading patterns and discount appropriate has been as follows: the ordinary share price premium levels of the Companys Financial year to 30 April 2016 to the NAV per ordinary ordinary shares.
share with the aim of Maximum premium over year: 5.0% The Board is aware of the vulnerability reduced discount volatility Maximum discount over year: 9.3% of a sector specialist Trust to a change for shareholders.
Average discount over year: 2.6% in investor sentiment to that sector.
While there is no formal discount policy The Company has not bought back nor issued the Board discusses the market factors any shares in the year to 30 April 2016 giving rise to any discount or premium, the long or short-term nature of those Over previous 5 financial years ended 30 April 2016 factors and the overall benefit to Maximum premium over period: 5.4% shareholders of any actions.
The Maximum discount over period: 9.8% market liquidity is also considered Average discount over period: 2.3% when authorising the issue or buy back of shares when appropriate market Over 5 years the Company has not bought back any conditions prevail.
shares and has issued 1,300,000 as the result of market demand and 3,924,948 from the conversion A daily NAV per share, diluted when of subscription shares.
appropriate, calculated in accordance with the AIC guidelines, is issued to the London Stock Exchange.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 45 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Strategic Report continued KPI Control process Outcome To qualify and continue to The Board receives regular financial This has been achieved for every year since meet the requirements information which discloses the current launch in 1996. for Sections 1158 and and projected financial position of the HMRC has approved investment trust status subject 1159 of the Corporation Company against each of the tests set to the Company continuing to meet the relevant Tax Act 2010 investment out in Sections 1158 and 1159. eligibility conditions and ongoing requirements.
The Directors believe that the tests have been met in the financial year ended 30 April 2016 and will continue to be met.
Efficient operation of the The Board considers annually the The Board has received and considered satisfactory Company with services provided by the Investment the internal controls report of the Investment appropriate investment Manager, both investment and Manager and other key suppliers including management resources administration and reviews on a contingency arrangements to facilitate the ongoing and services from third cycle the provision of services from operations of the Company in the event of party suppliers within third parties including the costs of withdrawal or failure of services.
a stable and risk their services.
The ongoing charges of the Company for the controlled environment.
The annual operating expenses are year ended 30 April 2016 was 1.10% of net asset reviewed and any non-recurring project 2015: 1.08%.
Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties The Board is responsible for the management of risks faced by the Company in delivering long-term returns to shareholders.
The identification, monitoring and appraisal of the risks, any mitigation factors and control systems iscrucial.
The Board maintains a Risk Map which seeks to record risks in four main risk categories: Business, Portfolio Management, Infrastructure and External.
The Risk Map is constructed by identifying and assessing various risks as to their likelihood and severity of impact, then considering, both internal and external controls and factors that could provide mitigation to arrive at a post mitigation risk impact.
The Risk Map therefore provides a structure for robustly reviewing the risks and controls aswell a method to report and monitor changes and developments.
Following the results of the UK referendum and the vote to leave the EU there will be months if not years of uncertainty as detailed political and legal issues are addressed.
World stock markets and currency exchanges rates may fluctuate widely during this period which may both be favourable as well as disadvantageous to the business of the Company and its financial performance.
As a consequence we have added this as a separate risk to the Risk Map and while many of the effects are monitored through the addressing of other risks the Board considers the uncertainty created is sufficiently extreme to create a new risk category.
The monitoring of the impact of Brexit will be through the established routine reporting systems already in use although with an increase focus on advance indicators of potential problems.
The investment objective is to invest the Companys funds in a portfolio of technology companies worldwide and as such the portfolio will be exposed to market and currency fluctuations with only limited ability to mitigate the consequences through the holding of cash in the portfolio and the use of foreign exchange rate contracts.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 46 Changes in overall assessment of the risks over the Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties Management of risks through Mitigation & Controls financial year Business Unchanged The appropriateness of the investment mandate The Board seeks to mitigate the impact of such risks through the and the execution of the investment strategy may regular reporting and monitoring of the investment performance be out of favour or poorly delivered which may against its peer group, other closed ended and open ended funds lead to poor performance against the Benchmark and Exchange Traded Funds ETFs.
and peer group leading to a depressed share A day a year is set aside to conduct an annual review of the price, unacceptably large and persistent discount investment strategy and investment markets which is used as a as investors seek alternative investments or framework to assess portfolio construction and performance lower risk strategies.
across the remainder of the year.
The Board when considering The ordinary shares of the Company are listed the investment strategy has regard to the degree of risk which on the London Stock Exchange and the share the Investment Manager incurs in order to generate price is determined by supply and demand.
shares may trade at a discount or at a premium to For months when the Board is not scheduled to meet they receive the Companys underlying NAV and this discount a monthly report containing financial information on the Company or premium may fluctuate.
including gearing and cash balances.
They also receive a monthly commentary from the Investment Manager in the factsheet.
A continuation vote is held every five years to provide shareholders with an opportunity to wind up the Company.
In consultation with its advisors, including the corporate stock broker the Board regularly considers the level of premium and discount of the share price to the NAV and the Board reviews ways to enhance shareholder value including share issuance and buy backs.
The Board is committed to a clear communication program to insure shareholders understand the investment strategy.
This is maintained through the use of monthly factsheets which have a market commentary from the Investment Manager as well portfolio data, an informative and relevant website as well as annual and half year reports.
External Elevated There is significant exposure to the economic The Board regularly discusses the general economic conditions cycles of the markets in which the underlying and developments.
Other Investment teams from the investment investments conduct their business operations Manager present their views to the Board on stock markets as well as the economic impact on investment andsectors.
markets where such investments are listed.
The Note 28 describes the impact of changes in foreign exchangerates.
fluctuations of exchange rates can also have a material impact on Shareholderreturns.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 47 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Strategic Report continued Changes in overall assessment of the risks over the Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties Management of risks through Mitigation & Controls financial year Portfolio Management Unchanged While the portfolio is diversified across a number The Board has set appropriate investment guidelines and of stock markets worldwide, the investment monitors the position of the portfolio against such guidelines mandate is focused on technology and thus the which includes guidelines on exposures to certain investment portfolio will be more sensitive to investor markets and sectors.
The Board discusses with the Investment sentiment and the commercial acceptance of Manager at each Board meeting developments in technology and technological developments than a general commercial applications and adoption.
At each Board meeting the composition and diversification of the Technology stocks also have greater relative price portfolio by regions, sectors and capitalisations are considered volatility and are subject to the risks of developing along with sales and purchases of investments.
Individual technologies, competitive pressures and other investments are discussed with the Investment Manager as factors including the acceptance of new well as the Investment Managers general views on the various technologies and rapidobsolescence.
investment markets and the technology sector in particular.
Many companies in the portfolio are relatively Analytical performance data and attribution analysis is presented smaller companies in the technology sector and by the Investment Manager.
are therefore subject to the risks attendant on The policies for managing the risks posed by exposure to market investing in smaller .
prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit and As the Companys assets comprise mainly listed liquidity are set out in Note 28 to the financial statements.
equities the portfolio is exposed to risks such as The active share and statistics on the variance between the market price, credit, liquidity, foreign currency composition of the Benchmark and the portfolio are presented and interest rates.
at each Board meeting and discussed.
The portfolio is actively managed.
The Investment Managers style focuses primarily on the investment opportunity of individual stocks and, accordingly, may not follow the makeup of the Benchmark.
This may result in returns which are not in line with theBenchmark.
The degree of risk which the Investment Manager incurs in order to generate the investment returns and the effect of gearing on the portfolio by borrowed funds can magnify the portfolio returns per share positively or negatively.
Gearing, either through bank debt or the use of The overall levels of gearing are agreed with the AIFM.
The derivatives may be utilised from time to time.
arrangement of bank facilities and drawing of funds under such Whilst the use of gearing is intended to enhance arrangements are controlled by the Board.
Derivatives are the NAV total return, it will have the opposite effect considered as being a form of gearing and their use is agreed by when the return on the Companys investment the Board.
The deployment of borrowed funds is based on the portfolio is negative.
Investment Managers assessment of risk and reward.
A very small element of the investment portfolio is Any investment in unquoted companies or funds is approved by invested into unlisted securities.
These the Board before the investment is made.
investments are made where they offer specialist At the year-end such investments amounted to less than 0.1% management or investment opportunities which ofNAV.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 48 Changes in overall assessment of the risks over the Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties Management of risks through Mitigation & Controls financial year Infrastructure Elevated There are risks from the failure of, or disruption At each Board meeting there is an administration report which to, operational and accounting systems and provides details on corporate matters including legislative and processes provided by the Investment Manager regulatory developments and changes, substantial changes in including: any subcontractors to which the shareholdings and the share register, and share price performance.
Investment Manager has delegated a task as well There is an annual review of internal control reports from as directly appointed suppliers.
suppliers which includes the disaster recovery procedures of The mis-valuation of investments or the loss of the Investment Manager.
assets from the custodian or sub custodians Regular reporting from the Depositary on the safe custody of the which affect the NAV per share or lead to a loss of Companys assets and the operation of control systems related to shareholder value.
the portfolio reconciliation are monitored.
There is taxation risk that the Company may fail to Specialist advice is sought on taxation issues as and when required.
continue as an investment trust and suffer Capital The Audit Committee has oversight of such work.
Gains tax, or recover as fully as possible, withholding taxes on overseas investments.
Information and guidance on legal and regulatory risks is managed by using the Investment Manager or professional The legal and regulatory risks include failure to advisers where necessary and the submission of reports to the comply with the FCAs Prospectus Rules, Listing Board for discussion and, if required, any remedial action or Rules and Transparency and Disclosure Rules: changes considered necessary.
not meeting the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other UK, European and overseas In addition, as an investment company, the Company is dependent legislation affecting UK companies and not on a framework of tax laws, regulation both UK and EU and complying with accounting standards.
risks arise from not keeping abreast of changes The Board monitors new developments and changes in the in legislation and regulations which have in recent regulatory environment and seeks to ensure that their impact on the years been substantial.
Company is understood and complied with although the Board has no control over such legislative changes and such changes may be intended to affect us, or we may suffer unintended consequences from changes designed to affect others.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 49 2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Strategic Report continued P Pe er rf fo or rm ma an nc ce f e fe ee e Management Company and Performance periods will coincide with the Companys Management of the Portfolio accounting periods.
As the Company is an investment vehicle for shareholders Annual performance fee equal to 15% of the amount by the Directors have sought to ensure that the business of which the increase in the adjusted Net Asset Value per the Company is managed by a leading specialist share exceeds the total return on the Dow Jones World investment management team and that the investment Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted with strategy remains attractive to shareholders.
relevant withholding taxes removed multiplied by the The Directors believe that a strong working relationship time weighted average of the number of shares in issue with the investment management team will achieve the during that period, subject to a high water mark.
optimum return for shareholders and to this end value The Net Asset Value per share Adjusted NAV per the inclusion on the Board of Brian Ashford-Russell.
share is adjusted for the purposes of the performance fee calculation by adding back any accruals for unpaid Investment team performance fees, any dividends paid or payable by The Investment Manager is Polar Capital LLP Polar reference to the performance period and the removal Capital, which is authorised and regulated by the of any benefit of share issuance or buy backs.
High water mark the performance fee will only be payable if, and to the extent that, the Adjusted NAV Under the terms of the investment management per share exceeds the highest of: agreement Polar Capital provides investment management, and provides and procures accounting, the NAV per share on the last day of the previous company secretarial and administrative services.
performance period: the Adjusted NAV per share on the last day of a Polar Capital provides a team of technology specialists performance period in respect of which a led by Ben Rogoff.
Each member focuses on specific areas performance fee was last paid: while Ben has overall responsibility for the portfolio.
Polar Capital also has other specialist and geographically Any performance fee accrual will be included in the focused investment teams which contribute to Net Asset Value calculated in accordance with the ideageneration.
The performance fee which can be paid by the Termination arrangements Company in any one performance period is capped The investment management agreement may be at 2% of net assets.
terminated by either party by giving 12 months notice, In the event of a termination of the investment but under certain circumstances the Company may be management agreement, the date the agreement is required to pay up to one years management charges if terminated will be deemed to be the end of the relevant immediate notice is given and compensation will be on a performance period and any performance fee payable sliding scale if less than 12 months notice is given.
shall be calculated as at that date.
Fee arrangements The management fee rate for the year ended 30 April 2016 Ma Man na ag ge em me en nt t f fe ee e has been 1% throughout as the Net Asset Value has not With effect from 1 May 2015 the base fee is 1% on the exceeded 800m.
Management fees of 7,921,000 2015: Net Asset Value per share multiplied by the arithmetic 7,033,000 have been paid for the year to 30 April 2016. mean of the number of shares up to 800m and above No performance fee has been earned for the year to 800m the base fee reduces to 0.85%.
The fee is payable 30April 2016. quarterly in arrears based on the Net Asset Value at the end of each quarter.
Any investments in funds managed Continued Appointment of Investment Manager by Polar Capital are wholly excluded from the base The Board, through the Management Engagement management fee calculation.
Committee, has reviewed the performance of the Investment Manager in managing the portfolio over the longer-term.
The Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 50 review also considered the quality of the other services The Company falls outside the scope of The Energy provided by the Investment Manager, including the strength of Savings Opportunity Scheme Regulations.
the investment team, the depth of the other services provided by the Investment Manager and their resources available Diversity, gender reporting and human to provide such services, which includes the organisation rightspolicy on the Companys behalf of third party suppliers, and the The Company has no employees and the Board is comprised quality of the shareholder communications.
of two female and four male .
The Board, on the recommendation of the Management If any new appointments are made to the Board, the Board will Engagement Committee, has concluded that on the basis continue to have regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender, when seeking to make any suchappointments.
of longer-term performance it is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole that the appointment of Polar The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights as Capital LLP as Investment Manager is continued on the it has no employees or operational control of its assets.
The Board has considered the application of Section 54 Corporate Responsibility of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The Company does not believe that it is within scope of the Modern Slavery Act Socially responsible investing and 2015 because it has no turnover and a limited supply chain exercise of voting powers typically of professional advisors.
Although its Investment The Board has instructed the Investment Manager to take Manager provides the majority of its services it does into account the published corporate governance of the contract directly with some suppliers.
The Investment companies in which it invests.
Manager has been in touch with all of its suppliers and on behalf of the Company those suppliers that contract The Company has also considered the Investment Managers directly with the Company to confirm that they are aware Stewardship Code and Proxy Voting Policy.
The Voting Policy of the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and is for the Investment Manager to vote at all general meetings that they are in compliance.
There have been no matters of companies in favour of resolutions proposed by the brought to the Boards attention from this exercise.
management where it believes that the proposals are in the interests of shareholders.
However, in exceptional cases, Greenhouse Gas Emissions where it believes that a resolution could be detrimental to The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors the interests of shareholders or the financial performance Reports Regulations 2013 require companies listed on of the Company, appropriate notification will be given and the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange to report abstentions or a vote against will be lodged.
on the greenhouse gas GHG emissions for which they are responsible.
The Company is an investment trust, with The Investment Manager has voted at 82 meetings neither employees nor premises, nor has it any financial or during the year under review in each case supporting operational control of the assets which it owns, Consequently, the recommendations of the management.
it has no GHG emissions to report from its operations nor The Investment Manager reports to the Board, when does it have responsibility for any other emissions.
requested, on the application of the Stewardship Code and Voting Policy.
The Investment Managers Stewardship Code and Voting Policy can be found on the Investment Approved by the Board on 13 July 2016 Managers website in the Corporate Governance section By order of the Board www.
Environment The Companys core activities are undertaken by its Neil Taylor Investment Manager which seeks to limit the use of Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited non-renewable resources and reduce waste Company Secretary wherepossible.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 51
