3 Directors Report Investment Manager Team Ben Rogoff Nick Evans Fatima Iu Xuesong Zhao Director, Technology Senior Fund Manager Fund Manager Fund Manager The portfolio is managed Nick joined Polar Capital in Fatima joined Polar Xuesong joined Polar by Ben Rogoff.
Ben has September 2007 and has Capital in April 2007 Capital in May 2012, having been a technology spent most of the previous 18 years experience as a after working as an specialist for 19 years four years working as an technology specialist.
He analyst with Citigroup having begun his career in has been lead manager of investment analyst within Asset Management for fund management at CMI, the Polar Capital Global the Emerging Markets & 18 months.
She focuses as a global technology Technology Fund since Asia team at Aviva on European technology analyst.
Prior to Investors, where he was stocks and has Aberdeen Fund Managers joining Polar he was Head responsibility for coverage responsible for the in 1998 where he spent of Technology at AXA of the global medical Technology, Media and four years as a senior Framlington.
He also spent technology sub-sector.
Prior to technology manager prior three years as a Pan Fatima graduated from that, he worked as a to joining Polar Capital in European Investment Imperial College London quantitative analyst and May 2003.
He is also joint Manager and Technology in 2002 with a degree in risk manager at Pictet manager of Polar Capital Analyst at Hill Samuel Medicinal Chemistry.
Nick started his career as a Ben graduated from St graduated from Hull Financial Engineer at Catherines College, University with a degree Algorithmics, an IBM Oxford with a degree in company, in 2005.
modern history in 1995. an MSc in Finance from Imperial College Science & Technology and a BA Hons in Economics from Peking University.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 54 John Gladwyn Paul Johnson Bradley Reynolds Investment Analyst Investment Analyst Investment Analyst John joined Polar Capital in February Paul joined Polar Capital in March Brad joined Polar Capital in October 2015 as an Investment Analyst on the 2012 as an Investment Analyst on 2011 as an Analyst and Trader Global Technology team.
Prior to the Polar Capital Technology team.
working as part of the European Prior to joining Polar Capital, Paul Market Neutral team with a focus on joining Polar Capital, John spent helped manage a private investment media and internet.
In 2014, he joined 6 years at Blackrock working as an fund between 2010 and 2012.
Paul the Technology team as an analyst on the Global Equity team holds a BA in History and Politics Investment Analyst.
Prior to joining with his first year as a graduate Polar Capital, Brad worked at Ratio working with the UK Equity team.
and a Masters in History from Asset Management as an analyst and John holds a degree in Classics from Keele University.
trader, and from 2007 to 2011 he the University of Oxford, a Masters worked at F&C as a hedge fund in Finance with Distinction from analyst.
Brad started his career in London Business School.
2001 at Gartmore Investment Management working within the hedge fund team.
Brad graduated from the University of Hertfordshire with a degree in Business Studies.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 55
