Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 OUR STRATEGY A combination of emerging factors such as climate change, increasing urbanisation, skills shortages on-site, and changes in legislation is leading the OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES construction sector to seek innovations and modern methods to tackle these challenges, whilst ensuring 1 2 safe on-site working methods, reduced time to LEVERAGING CONTINUED PRODUCT install and reduced total cost BRAND STRENGTH DEVELOPMENT IN A MARKET WITH of ownership.
Polypipes FOR SUSTAINABLE ROBUST LONG-TERM CONSTRUCTION AND position as a market leader FUNDAMENTALS SUBSTITUTION OF with strong heritage, broad LEGACY MATERIALS product and service portfolio, Industry-leading margins, strong advanced research and financial performance and key strategic With carbon reduction and water objectives all align to allow Polypipe development capability management very much on societys to capitalise on growth in the UK and radar, Polypipe is continuing its and growing international selected international construction long-term investment into Water markets.
A commitment from UK presence, makes it ideally Management and Carbon Efficient Government to continue to invest in solutions.
The company provides placed to help its customers infrastructure particularly in key rail systems that meet increasingly complex tackle many of these and highways projects combined legislative requirements, allowing them with increasing urgency to create new to be widely specified in a variety of challenges.
housing stock means that many of projects.
Polypipes key sectors are underpinned While Polypipe is well known and In many instances, being specified by a pressing and recognised need.
respected as a manufacturer of plastic means that Polypipes products not pipe products particularly for plumbing, Polypipes range of products, and the only need to outperform other plastic drainage and water management approvals for use that they hold, allows systems, but need to compete with solutions, the companys recent the company to operate successfully traditional materials used for pipe, acquisition of Nuaire greatly increases in the market, with many of its ranges such as concrete, clay and copper.
The its ability to offer broader engineered outperforming their nearest competitor many benefits of using plastic systems solutions to customers who also face the by some margin.
The company is ideally combined with Polypipes strong brand challenge of carbon efficiency associated placed to leverage brand position in the and technical expertise, offers huge with heating, ventilation and cooling.
The UK to generate further pull-through growth potential for the business.
innate product benefits of plastic offer the sales volumes for our stockists with company the opportunity to make gains the confidence from contractors and against manufacturers of legacy material specifiers.
solutions in many of the markets it already leads offering further growth where the brand is already well established.
As awareness continues to heighten around environmental factors, and increased legislation is applied in a variety of sectors, Polypipe is well placed to continue to grow in the UK, Europe and the Middle East.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT 3 4 5 CONTINUOUS SELECTIVE COMPLEMENTARY INVESTMENT IN DEVELOPMENT IN ACQUISITIONS PROCESSES AND FRANCE AND THE EFFICIENCY INITIATIVES Continuous innovation in products that MIDDLE EAST serve Polypipes established markets does not prevent the company from investing A key component of Polypipes success With Polypipes UK standard-based heavily in new acquisitions.
Purchasing has been its efficiency initiatives, with products, and the esteem that UK market leading companies like Nuaire the company committed to reducing manufacturing is held in within a number has seen Polypipe do far more than its environmental impact in producing of growing markets around the world, broaden its manufacturing base, with the its systems.
This, in turn, has led to the company seeks to expand in selected company also diversifying its offer and reductions in waste both material and further markets.
After investments giving the brand increased scope to sell financial.
into manufacturing facilities in the an increasingly broad range of systems to Middle East, and the appointment of While this improvement has manifested its customers resulting from the growing key personnel in Europe, Polypipe is itself in a number of ways, one of the convergence of requirements of separate well placed to serve customers in these key ways that Polypipe has been able to systems.
regions with high quality systems that streamline its processes is by increasingly Supplementing the Groups existing answer many of the challenges faced selling complete engineered systems to product portfolio, these acquisitions in these regions when managing water customers.
Rather than simply selling help to accelerate the Groups strategic movement and air quality.
pipe, Polypipe has made best use of its priorities, capability and product ranges manufacturing facilities and expertise to offerings particularly in the areas manufacture in-house a complete range of material substitution and Carbon of complementary fittings and ancillaries, Efficiency and Water Management enabling design of bespoke systems for solutions.
This approach ensures that customers get systems that meet their needs exactly, and means that no system is ever over engineered.
See our Key Performance Indicators on page 18 17 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5
