Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS RON MARSH Independent Non-Executive Chairman Committees: Nomination, Remuneration Ron Marsh was appointed to our Board of Directors on 28 March 2014 as the Senior Independent Director and as Independent Non-Executive Chairman since 27 May 2015.
Mr Marsh is currently a Non-Executive Director of R. Faerch Plast A S, the Senior Independent Director of Walstead Group Limited and was, from 1989 until 2013, Chief Executive of RPC Group.
Mr Marsh is also Chairman of the UK based Packaging Federation and the Alliance for European Polymers which was established under the auspices of EuPC European Plastic Converters in 2015.
Mr Marsh has a Bachelor of Arts in History from Oxford University.
DAVID HALL Chief Executive Officer Committees: Nomination David Hall is our Chief Executive, a position he has held since September 2005, previously being employed with the Group from January to December 2004, until leaving to work with private equity in connection with the original buyout.
Prior to that, he held Managing Director positions with plastic piping divisions of Marley plc before and after its acquisition by Etex and Glynwed plc following its acquisition by Etex now Aliaxis, one of the worlds largest manufacturer of plastic pipes and fittings.
Mr Hall has more than 20 years of experience in the building products industry and is currently President of the British Plastics Federation and a previous Vice Chairman of the Construction Products Association.
Mr Hall has a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering.
MARTIN PAYNE Chief Financial Officer Martin Payne is a member of our Board of Directors and our Chief Financial Officer, a position he has held since May 2016.
Before joining Polypipe Mr Payne served as Group Finance Director at Norcros plc, a leading supplier of branded showers, taps, bathroom accessories, tiles and adhesives.
His previous experience includes holding senior financial positions at JCB, the construction equipment manufacturer, and at IMI plc, the British-based engineering company.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and has a degree in Economics from Durham University.
COMMITTEES In addition to the Polypipe Group plc Board, there are three Committees: Audit Committee Paul Dean Chair, Moni Mannings and Mark Hammond Nomination Committee Ron Marsh Chair, Paul Dean, Moni Mannings, Mark Hammond and David Hall Remuneration Committee Moni Mannings Chair, Ron Marsh, Paul Dean and Mark Hammond 38 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP STRA OUR GOVERNANCE TEGIC REPORT PAUL DEAN Senior Independent Director Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Paul Dean was appointed to our Board of Directors on 28 March 2014 as an Independent Non-Executive Director and is Chair of the Audit Committee.
Mr Dean was appointed Senior Independent Director on 27 May 2015.
Mr Dean is also a NonExecutive Director and Audit Chair of Porvair plc, Focusrite plc and Wincanton plc.
He is the Senior Independent Director at Porvair plc.
Mr Dean was Group Finance Director of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc from 2009 to 2013.
Previously he had the same role at Foseco Group from 2001 to 2008, including when it floated in 2005.
Mr Dean has a Master of Arts in History from Oxford University.
MONI MANNINGS Non-Executive Director Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Moni Mannings was appointed to our Board of Directors on 28 March 2014 as a Non-Executive Director and is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Mrs Mannings was a senior partner of Olswang LLP until 31 March 2016 and had been a partner there since 2000.
Previously she was also a Board Member of the Solicitors Regulation Authority and Chair of its Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee.
Mrs Mannings currently holds the position of COO at Aistemos Limited and is also a Non-Executive member of the Boards of Investec Bank PLC and Cranfield University.
Mrs Mannings has a Bachelor of Law from the University of Southampton.
MARK HAMMOND Non-Executive Director Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Following listing, Mark Hammond was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of our Board of Directors.
Mr Hammond is Deputy Managing Partner of Caird Capital LLP which is the adviser to Cavendish Square Partners LP.
Mr Hammond joined HBOS plc in June 2003 and served as Head of Integrated Finance from 2006 until 2010.
Prior to joining HBOS plc, Mr Hammond held roles with Gresham Trust plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and  LLP where he qualified with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland in 1991.
Mr Hammond graduated with a Master of Arts in Economics and Accountancy from the University of Aberdeen in 1988.
Mr Hammond has previously been a Director of The Big Green Parcel Holding Company Limited and David Lloyd Leisure Group Limited.
Mr Hammond currently sits on the Board of Governors of Beechwood Park School, Markyate, Hertfordshire.
