Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION VIABILITY STATEMENT APPOINTMENTS AND The Directors present their Annual Report In accordance with Provision C2.2 of the REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS and Accounts for the period ended UK Code, the Directors have assessed The rules about the appointment and 31 December 2016.
In accordance with the prospect of the Group over a longer replacement of Directors are contained in the Companies Act 2006 as amended, period than twelve months required our Articles of Association the Articles.
and the Listing Rules and the Disclosure by the Going Concern provision.
The They provide that Directors may be Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Board conducted this review for a period appointed by ordinary resolution of reports within the Governance section of of three years as the Groups Strategic the members or by a resolution of the the Annual Report and Accounts should Review covers a three-year period.
Directors must retire and put be read in conjunction with one another, themselves forward for election at their During 2016, the Board carried out a and the Strategic Report.
As permitted first AGM following their appointment robust assessment of the principal risks by legislation, some of the matters and every third anniversary thereafter.
facing the Group, including those that normally included in the Directors However, the Directors wishing to would threaten its business model, future Report have instead been included in the continue to serve as members of the performance, solvency or liquidity.
In their Strategic Report pages 4 to 35 as the Board, will seek re-election annually in assessment of the viability of the Group, Board considers them to be of strategic accordance with the UK Code.
the Directors have considered each of the importance.
Groups principal risks and uncertainties Details of the Non-Executive Directors detailed on pages 30 to 33 of the Annual THE COMPANY letters of appointment are given on page Report and Accounts.
The Directors 42 under Appointment and Tenure.
The Polypipe Group plc is a public company believe that, whilst not specifically Executive Directors have service contracts limited by shares, incorporated in England noted, the potential impact of the EU under which twelve months notice is and Wales with registered number Referendum result is covered within required.
Since 16 April 2014, the these principal risks and uncertainties.
Company was and remains listed on the POWERS OF DIRECTORS The Directors believe that the Group premium segment of the London Stock The general powers of the Directors is well placed to manage its business Exchange.
Whilst the Group operates set out in Article 94 of the Companys risks successfully, having taken into predominately in the UK, it does have Articles provides that the business of the account the current economic outlook.
operations in France, Italy and the UAE.
Company shall be managed by the Board Accordingly, the Board believes that, STRATEGIC REPORT which may exercise all the powers of taking into account the Groups current the Company, subject to any limitations The Companies Act 2006 requires the position, and subject to the principal risks imposed by applicable legislation or Company to present a fair review of the faced by the business, the Group will the Articles.
The general powers of development and performance of the be able to continue in operation and to the Directors are also limited by any Groups business during the financial meet its liabilities as they fall due for the directions given by special resolution of year and the position of the business period up to 31 December 2019 being the shareholders of the Company which at the end of that year.
This review is the period considered under the Groups are applicable on the date that any power contained within the Strategic Report on current three-year strategic plan.
The principal activities of GOING CONCERN STATEMENT the Group are described in the Strategic COMPENSATION FOR LOSS After making enquiries, the Directors Report on pages 14 to 15.
OF OFFICE have a reasonable expectation that FINANCIAL RISK The Company does not have the Group has adequate resources to MANAGEMENT arrangements with any Director that continue its operational existence for the would provide compensation for loss of foreseeable future and for a period of at The Groups financial risk management office or employment resulting from a least twelve months from the date of this objectives and policies, including takeover, except that provisions of the report.
Accordingly, the Board continues information on financial risks that Companys share plans may cause options to adopt and consider appropriate the materially impact the Group and financial and awards granted under such plans to going concern basis in preparing the instruments used by the Group if any, vest on a takeover.
Further information is Annual Report and Accounts.
are disclosed in Note 29 to the Groups provided in the Directors Remuneration consolidated financial statements on DIRECTORS Report on pages 53 to 61. pages 105 to 108.
The current Directors biographies are set out on pages 38 to 39.
In addition, Mr Peter Shepherd was Chief Financial Officer until the 2016 AGM on 25 May 2016.
In accordance with the UK Code, each Director will retire annually and put themselves forward for re-election at each AGM of the Company.
com Stock Code: PLP STRA OUR GOVERNANCE TEGIC REPORT The authority to make market purchases Issue of shares DIRECTORS INDEMNITY will expire at the Companys AGM to be A special resolution was passed at the ARRANGEMENTS held on 24 May 2017 and the Directors AGM held on 25 May 2016 granting the Directors and officers of the Company will be seeking a new authority to make Directors the authority to issue shares on are entitled to be indemnified out of market purchases up to 14.99% of a nonpre-emptive basis up to 9,999.99 the assets of the Company in respect of the Companys issued ordinary share representing 9,999,990 ordinary shares any liability incurred in relation to the capital, which will only be exercised if the or approximately 5% of the ordinary Company or any associate company, market and financial conditions make it share capital.
No shares have been to the extent the law allows.
In this advantageous to do so.
The Company issued under this authority.
regard, the Company is required to intends to hold these shares in treasury disclose that under Article 212 of the This authority will expire at the to satisfy share option awards in the Companys Articles, the Directors have Companys AGM to be held on 24 May future.
Further details are set out in the the benefit of an indemnity, to the extent 2017 and the Directors will be seeking a explanatory notes on pages 6 to 8 of the permitted by the Companies Act 2006 new authority to issue shares on a nonNotice convening the AGM.
against liabilities incurred by them in the pre-emptive basis up to 9,914.28.
In execution of their duties and exercise of Particulars of treasury share purchases are addition to this, the Directors will seek their powers.
This indemnity has been in also disclosed in Note 23 to the Groups authority to issue nonpre-emptively place since the Companys application for consolidated financial statements.
for cash shares up to 9,914.28 listing on the London Stock Exchange on representing 9,914,285 ordinary shares Rights attaching to shares 28 March 2014 and remains in place.
The or approximately 5% of the ordinary The rights attaching to the ordinary Company has purchased and maintained share capital for use only in connection shares are summarised as: throughout the financial period Directors with an acquisition or specified capital and Officers liability insurance.
investments, in accordance with the Pre- { The ordinary shares rank equally for Emption Group Statement of Principles as voting purposes: SHARE CAPITAL updated in March 2015.
{ On a show of hands each shareholder As at 31 December 2016 the share has one vote and on a poll each capital of the Company was 199,999,862 Excluding any shares issued in connection shareholder has one vote per ordinary ordinary shares of 0.001 each of which with an acquisition or specified capital share held: 1,714,148 ordinary shares are held investment as described above, the in treasury.
Details of the Companys Directors do not intend to issue more { Each ordinary share ranks equally for share capital are disclosed in Note 23 than 7.5% of the issued share capital on any dividend declared: to the Groups consolidated financial a nonpre-emptive basis in any rolling { Each ordinary share ranks equally for statements.
any distributions made on a winding up of the Company: Authority of the Directors to Purchase of own shares by { Each ordinary share ranks equally allot shares the Company in the right to receive a relative The Company passed a resolution at the A special resolution was passed at the proportion of shares on the event of AGM held on 25 May 2016 authorising AGM held on 25 May 2016 granting the a capitalisation of reserves: the Directors to allot ordinary shares Directors the authority to make market up to an aggregate nominal amount of purchases up to 19,926,034 ordinary { The ordinary shares are freely 66,353.69 representing 66,353,690 shares with a total nominal value of transferable: and ordinary shares or approximately 33% 19,926.03, representing approximately { No ordinary shares carry any special of the ordinary share capital.
No shares 10% of the Companys issued ordinary rights with regard to control of have been issued under this authority.
the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights.
This authority will expire at the During the year the Company purchased Companys AGM to be held on 24 May 1,000,000 of its 0.001 ordinary shares AMENDMENT TO THE 2017 and the Directors will be seeking a for a total of 2.9m to satisfy awards COMPANYS ARTICLES new authority to allot shares, to ensure made under the Companys Sharesave The Company may alter its Articles by that the Directors continue to have the Plan and other share option schemes special resolution passed at a general flexibility to act in the best interests of which are due to mature in 2017.
The meeting of the Company.
shareholders, when opportunities arise, Company holds these shares in treasury.
There are no The purchased shares represent a POLITICAL DONATIONS current plans to issue new shares except percentage of 0.5% of the called up The Group made no political donations in connection with employee share share capital.
63 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND EMPLOYEES Information on the Groups greenhouse UNCERTAINTIES The Companys policies in relation to gas emissions is set out in the Corporate the employment of disabled persons The Board have carried out a robust Responsibility Statement on pages 34 and gender breakdown and employee assessment of our current key risks and to 35 and forms part of this report by involvement are included in the these are summarised in the Principal reference.
Corporate Responsibility Statement Risks and Uncertainties section of the Strategic Report on pages 30 to 33.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS WITHIN THE GROUP RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS The Strategic Report contains details An interim dividend totalling 3.1 pence As at 31 December 2016 and 24 March of likely future developments within per share was paid on 23 September 2017 the Company was aware of the the Group.
The Groups research and 2016, reflecting the continued strong following interests in voting rights development costs are disclosed in cash generation of the Group.
The Board representing 3% or more of the issued Note 6 to the Groups consolidated recommends a final dividend of 7.0 ordinary share capital of the Company.
financial statements on page 90. pence per share.
Shareholders will be This information was correct at the date asked to approve the final dividend at the of notification.
It should be noted that OVERSEAS OPERATIONS AGM on 24 May 2017, for payment on 2 these holdings may have changed since As explained in the Strategic Report, the June 2017 to shareholders whose names they were notified to the Company.
Group operates in the UK, France, Italy appear on the register on 28 April 2017.
However, notification of any change is and the UAE.
not required until the next applicable Total ordinary dividends paid and POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS proposed for the year amount to 10.1 threshold is crossed.
pence per share or a total return to There have been no material post balance shareholders of 20.0m in total.
{ The Directors have taken all AUDITOR ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING reasonable steps that they ought A resolution to re-appoint Ernst and The 2017 AGM will be held on 24 May to have taken as Directors in order Young LLP as the Companys external 2017 at the Holiday Inn, High Road, to make themselves aware of any auditor and to authorise the Directors Doncaster, DN4 9UX.
A full description relevant audit information and to to fix the auditors remuneration will be of the business to be conducted at the establish that the Companys auditor proposed at the 2017 AGM.
meeting will be set out in the separate is aware of that information.
DIRECTORS STATEMENT OF This confirmation is given and should By order of the Board.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION be interpreted in accordance with the TO AUDITORS provisions of s418 of the Companies Act Each of the Directors has confirmed that 2006.
Capita Company Secretarial as at the date of this report: Services Limited REQUIREMENTS OF THE { So far as each Director is aware, Company Secretary LISTING RULES there is no relevant audit information 30 March 2017 Apart from the details of any long-term of which the Companys auditor is incentive scheme as required by Listing unaware: and Rule 9.4.
R, which is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 61, disclosure of the information listed in Listing Rule 9.8.
