Group Chief Executives report Mike Wells Continued to Jackson.
The demographic shift affluent middle class.
As this group of Our capabilities occurring in the US is a significant people grows, so does their demand for We believe we have a great strategy, but long-term driver of demand for the types of goods and services.
As an example, any strategy is only as good as its products that we offer.
In 2016, through three-quarters of Chinas total population is implementation.
We are executing our this period of disruption, Jacksons separate forecast to be defined as middle income by strategy with discipline and continually account assets relating to its variable 2030.
The growing purchasing power of developing our capabilities.
annuity business, and the main driver of this section of the society is evident today.
Across our markets, we are constantly earnings, increased by 11 per cent to To illustrate, 60 million people left China for innovating to improve the way we do US$148.8 billion.
leisure travel purposes in 2011, but by last business.
During 2016, we added a year this had doubled to 120 million and by In the UK, where we are seeing a large number of new products and services to 2020 is expected to top 200 million.
amount of change in the marketplace along the successful range we offer around the Similarly last year Asian consumers bought with the introduction of new capital rules, world.
In Asia, to take just two examples, around half of all the cars sold in the world, we are also adapting well.
PruFund sales Prudential Singapore became the first up from an average of less than 20 per cent growth continues to outperform the insurer in its market to launch an online during the 1990s.
market, and our retail sales are now higher community portal, where customers can than before the Retail Distribution Review.
The regions consumer spending growth is share ideas and suggestions to help us During this period of change we remain remarkable, but what is closest to the hearts improve our products and services, and focused on delivering high-quality of people in Asia, as anywhere else, is Prudential Hong Kong gave customers products to meet our customers evolving providing a secure and more prosperous access to an innovative DNA-based health needs.
The FCAs thematic review of future for their loved ones.
This is creating a and nutrition programme, demonstrating non-advised annuity sales practices powerful and largely unmet demand for how we are building our capabilities to showed that, in a portion of annuity sales the products we provide.
Asia has low partner with customers to help improve that the UK business made since July 2008, insurance penetration, high out-of-pocket their long-term health and well-being.
We it was not adequately explained to healthcare spend and rapidly growing also expanded our reach in the region customers that they may have been eligible private wealth.
The working age population during 2016, by launching a new operation for an enhanced annuity.
We are continuing in the region is predicted to rise by 178 million in Laos.
to work to ensure we put things right.
Mutual fund penetration rates are In the US, Jackson launched its first currently just 12 per cent in Asia, compared Also in the UK, at M&G, we are focused on fee-based variable annuity, designed to meet with 75 per cent in Europe and 96 per cent in careful management of costs and the need for products compatible with the the US, and there is a significant mortality improving performance.
In 2016, assets Department of Labors fiduciary duty rule.
managed by M&G on behalf of external the UK retail market we introduced the clients increased by 8 per cent to We are a leading pan-regional franchise in Prudential Retirement Account, an online 137 billion, with internal assets taking the Asia, we hold top-three positions in nine of account-based plan that offers both total to 265 billion 2015: 246 billion.
our 12 life markets in the region, and we are accumulation and decumulation for 10. the number one Asian retail asset manager customers near retirement and has proved We have made good progress towards our We have the presence, scale, distribution and extremely popular.
M&G added a number of 2017 objectives, which we announced in product capabilities to tap into the growing new funds, including its Global Target Return December 2013.
Asia life and asset needs of our Asian customers.
Fund and Absolute Return Bond Fund, management pre-tax operating profit has 11 helping customers deal with market volatility.
grown at a compound annual rate of The US is the largest retirement savings 17 per cent over the period 2012 to 2016. market in the world, and over the next 20 Our distribution capability is another of our We are therefore on track to meet the years Americans will be retiring at a rate of key strengths.
In 2016, we made good 12 objective of growing this measure at a 10,000 per day.
At the same time, private progress in improving our distribution compound annual rate of at least defined-benefit pension plans are platform throughout our markets.
In Asia, 15 per cent over the period 2012 to 2017.
In disappearing and government plans are productivity within our network of agents 2016, Asia delivered underlying free underfunded, life expectancy at age 65 has improved, with average case sizes rising by 14 surplus generation of 859 million, increased significantly, and individual 30 per cent.
The total number of agents demonstrating that we are on course to investors struggle to capture returns and across all our Asian markets is more than meet the objective of 900 million to are exposed to volatile equity markets.
We also continued to leverage 1.1 billion for full-year 2017.
Collectively confluence of these trends is precipitating the strength of our relationships with our the Group has so far delivered underlying an expansion of the retirement market and bank partners, which has allowed us to free surplus generation from the beginning a flight to quality that is aligned with ensure the appropriate balance between of 2014 to 2016 of 9.2 billion, close to our Jacksons capabilities.
We have access to more objective for the period 2014 to the end of than 10,000 active bank branches through In the UK, an ageing population that does not 2017 of at least 10 billion.
a total of three regional, five strategic and a have enough saved for the future is driving variety of local partnerships.
In the US, our increasing demand for savings and Our strategy variable annuity wholesale distribution retirement income products, and this We have a clear, consistent strategy platform is now more than 60 per cent demand has been reinforced by the pensions 13 focused on three parts of the world where larger than that of our nearest competitor, freedom changes.
This is creating significant the needs of customers for the products we and our wholesaler productivity is opportunities for our UK businesses that 13 provide are not fully met.
both Prudential UK and M&G are addressing In Asia we aim to meet the savings, through their long-term savings solutions In the UK, the number of our adviser firms accumulation, health and protection needs and investment strategies.
has grown by 37 per cent since 2013, and of the fast-growing and increasingly 6 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 01Groupoverview Prudential Financial Planning, our UK advisory business, has grown to become a top-10 UK advisory business, from its inception in 2012.
In 2016 M&G, whose products are now registered in 23 jurisdictions around the world, established a new SICAV fund range in Luxembourg as a platform for future international distribution.
At the same time, we entered Zambia, our fourth market in Africa.
In less than three years, we have built our African business to the point where it has 1,750 agents, is active in 181 bank branches and has over 160,000 customers, with a further 1.5 million micro-insurance customers through partnerships with mobile phone operators and micro-finance institutions.
Our proven investment performance Prudentials Group Executive Committee track record is another vital part of our Mike Wells is advised and assisted by the Group Executive Committee, which comprises capability.
Across our asset management the heads of our four business units and a team of functional specialists.
The members of businesses we offer a range of funds that the Group Executive Committee and their roles are set out on page 405. give investors the opportunity to benefit from a long-term, diversified approach, Standing, left to right:Tim Rolfe, Julian Adams, Al-Noor Ramji, John Foley, Anne Richards, helping to deliver sustainable investment Jonathan Oliver, Raghu Hariharan, Alan Porter.
Seated, left to right: Barry Stowe, Penny performance regardless of short-term James, Mike Wells, Nic Nicandrou, Tony Wilkey.
M&G has a long-standing track record of superior investment performance, with asset management businesses, which will 15 85 per cent of retail assets under help to simplify reporting systems and management above median over the support future growth.
tenure of the fund manager.
Likewise, the Our outlook proportion of Eastsprings funds outperforming the median on a three-year Our growth prospects are based on clear 16 period basis was 65 per cent.
In the UK, long-term opportunities in the three over the last 10 years our highly regarded markets we are targeting.
There are historic PruFund investment option has delivered demographic shifts taking place in these growth of 75 per cent, compared with a economies, and we are focused on total return of 39 per cent for a benchmark ensuring that our capabilities develop in ABI mixed investment fund.
In the US, the line with the evolving needs and number of funds within Jacksons living preferences of our customers.
benefit variable annuity product that We have demonstrated our ability to delivered a three-year annualised return, manage through times of economic over the period 2014 to 2016, of over uncertainty and market volatility, 7 per cent was twice the number of funds conditions that appear likely to prevail for 5 within the top 12 peer products combined.
Our strategy is clear, the We are also using the Groups scale to demand from customers for our products is improve our risk management capabilities, strong and our execution is good and including investing in new technology.
We are well positioned to Mike Wells 2016 this included commencing continue to deliver value for both our implementation of Aladdin, a global risk customers and our shareholders.
GroupChiefExecutive and portfolio management platform for our Notes 1 Embedded value reporting provides investors with a accurate, complete, or timely.
Neither Morningstar nor its reduced the Group shareholder surplus from 12.9 billion measure of the future profit streams of the Group.
The EEV content providers are responsible for any damages or to 12.5 billion.
The formal Quantitative Reporting basis results have been prepared in accordance with EEV losses arising from any use of this information.
Past Templates Solvency II regulatory templates will include principles discussed in note 1 of EEV basis results.
A performance is no guarantee of future results.
Morningstar transitional measures without this recalculation.
reconciliation between IFRS and the EEV shareholder www.
10 Source: Asia asset management September 2016 Ranked funds is included in note C of the Additional EEV financial 6 IFRS operating profit is managements primary measure of according to participating regional players only.
profitability and provides an underlying operating result assets sourced from the region, excluding Japan, Australia 2 Following its reclassification to held for sale during 2016, based on longer-term investment returns and excludes and New Zealand as at June 2016. operating results exclude the contribution of the Korea life non-operating items.
Further information on its definition 11 Cerulli Associates Advisor Metrics 2016. business.
The 2015 comparative results have been and reconciliation to profit for the period is set out in note 12 Social Security Administration, Annual Performance Plan for similarly adjusted.
B1 of the IFRS financial statements.
FY 2012 and Revised Final Performance Plan for FY 2011.
3 The 2016 EEV basis results for UK insurance operations 7 Underlying free surplus generated comprises underlying 13 Market Metrics Variable Annuity Sales, Staffing and have been prepared on a basis that reflects the Solvency II free surplus generated from the Groups long-term Productivity Report: Q3 2016. regime, effective from 1 January 2016.
The 2015 business net of investment in new business and that 14 Excluding India.
comparative results for UK insurance reflect the Solvency I generated from asset management operations.
Further 15 Investment performance is to 31 December 2016 and basis.
information is set out in notes 9 of the EEV basis results.
reflects 33 retail funds, representing 85 per cent of M&G 4 Excluding UK bulk annuities as Prudential has withdrawn 8 Estimated before allowing for second interim ordinary retail funds under management, which have delivered top from this market.
or upper quartile performance over fund manager tenure 5 Jackson analysis based on Morningstar fund performance 9 The Group Solvency II surplus represents the shareholder which is an average of six years.
Quartile rankings are information as at 4Q YTD 2016, ranked by sales as of end capital position excluding the contribution to Own Funds based on returns which are net of fees.
2017 Morningstar Inc. All Rights Reserved.
and the Solvency Capital Requirement from ring-fenced 16 Blended score representing 50 per cent by number of The information contained herein: 1 is proprietary to with-profits funds and staff pension schemes in surplus.
funds and 50 per cent assets under management Morningstar and or its content providers: 2 may not be The estimated solvency position includes the impact of outperforming benchmark or in top two quartiles over copied or distributed: and 3 is not warranted to be recalculated transitionals at the valuation date, which has three-year period.
