Our business model Creating shared value Our trusted brands and strong distribution channels enable us to understand the growing needs of our customers for long-term savings and financial security, and to design innovative products that meet those needs.
By helping to build better lives and stronger communities and to fuel the growth cycle, we create long-term value for both our customers and our shareholders.
Understanding our markets Driving our business Asia Customers Low life insurance and mutual Customers are at the heart of our strategy.
We proactively listen fund penetration to both new and existing customers to understand and respond to their changing needs.
This allows us to propose financial solutions Significant health and protection gap customised for different groups, whether that is young and Growing working age population middle-aged people or those in retirement.
Increasing consumer affluence Products We offer solutions for customers as they face the biggest financial challenges of their lives.
We consistently develop our product Our businesses and their portfolio, designing it around our customers needs and providing performance page 18 them with peace of mind, whether that be in relation to saving for retirement or insuring against risks of illness, death or critical life events.
United States Retiring baby boomer generation Large and growing retirement Distribution asset pools Growing demand for guaranteed Distribution plays a key role in our ability to reach, attract and retain income customers in different parts of the world.
Building out and diversifying our distribution capabilities helps ensure that we fully capitalise on the opportunities available to us in each of our markets.
Our businesses and their Investment for growth performance page 24 We focus on strategic investment in long-term opportunities and capabilities to drive future growth and value for our stakeholders.
United Kingdom We invest to improve relationships with our customers and distributors, to create innovative products, to improve our operating platforms, Ageing population and to capture new opportunities and build new relationships.
Large and growing retirement asset pools Growing demand for savings Risk management and income We generate value by selectively taking exposures to risks that are adequately rewarded and that can be appropriately quantified and managed.
Balance sheet strength and proactive risk management enable us to make good our promises to our customers and create long-term value for our stakeholders.
Our businesses and their Group Chief Risk Officers report page 50 performance page 28 12 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report Driving our business Creating value for our stakeholders We create financial benefits for our investors and deliver economic and social benefits for our customers, our employees and the societies in which we operate.
Growth New business profit Customers Providing financial security and wealth creation.
3,088m 1 11% on 2015 CER 24% on 2015 AER IFRS operating profit Read more on pages 62 to 64 4,256m 1 2% on 2015 CER Investors 7% on 2015 AER Growing dividends and share 2 EEV value per share price performance enhance shareholder value.
1,510 p 22% on 2015 Read more on pages 16 to 72 Cash Free surplus generation Employees Providing an environment with equal opportunities, career 3,588m potential and rewards enables us to attract and retain high-quality 3 10% on 2015 CER individuals to deliver our strategy.
18% on 2015 AER Remittances Read more on pages 68 and 69 1,718m Societies 6% on 2015 Supporting societies where we operate, through investment in Capital business and infrastructure, tax revenues and community 3,4 Solvency II surplus support activities.
12.5bn Read more on pages 64 to 68 29% on 2015 Notes 1 Excluding UK bulk annuities as Prudential has withdrawn from this market.
2 Includes adjustment for opening EEV shareholders funds of negative 0.5 billion for the impact of The Group has a number of key Solvency II as at 1 January 2016. performance indicators internally 3 Estimated.
Before allowing for second interim ordinary dividend.
4 The Group Solvency II surplus represents the shareholder capital position excluding the contribution to to measure financial performance.
Own Funds and the Solvency Capital Requirement from ring-fenced with-profits funds and staff pension Read more on page 16 schemes in surplus.
The estimated solvency position includes the impact of recalculated transitionals at the valuation date, which has reduced the Group shareholder surplus from 12.9 billion to 12.5 billion.
The formal Quantitative Reporting Templates Solvency II regulatory templates will include transitional measures without this recalculation.
