03 Governance Board of Directors Paul Manduca Chairman Appointment: October 2010 Chairman: July 2012 Committees: Nomination and Governance Chair Age: 65 Relevant skills and experience From September 2005 until March 2011, Paul was a non-executive director of Wm Paul has held a number of senior leadership Morrison Supermarkets Plc, including as roles.
Notable appointments include Senior Independent Director, Audit serving as Chairman of the Association of Committee Chairman and Remuneration Investment Companies 1991 to 1993, Committee Chairman.
He was also a acting as founding CEO of Threadneedle non-executive director and Audit Asset Management Limited 1994 to 1999, Committee Chairman of KazMunaiGas directorships of Eagle Star and Allied Exploration & Production until the end of Dunbar, holding the offices of European September 2012.
CEO of Deutsche Asset Management 2002 to 2005, global CEO of Rothschild Other appointments Asset Management 1999 to 2002, Paul is a member of the Securities Institute Chairman of Bridgewell Group plc and a and Chairman of Henderson Diversified director of Henderson Smaller Companies Income Limited and of the Templeton Investment Trust plc.
Other previous Emerging Markets Investment Trust appointments include the chairmanship of TEMIT.
Paul is also Chairman of Aon UK Limited and JPM European Smaller TheCityUKs Advisory Council.
Michael Wells Group Chief Executive Appointment: January 2011 Group Chief Executive: June 2015 Age: 56 Relevant skills and experience Mike began his career at the brokerage house Dean Witter, going on to become a Mike joined Jackson in 1995 and became managing director at Smith Barney Chief Operating Officer and ViceShearson.
In 2011, he was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of Jackson, and joined the Board of Prudential.
During his leadership of Jackson, Mike was responsible for the establishment of the broker-dealer network National Planning Holdings and the development of Jacksons market-leading range of variable annuities.
He was also part of the Jackson teams that purchased and successfully integrated a savings institute, three broker-dealers and two life companies.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 77 Board of Directors Continued Executive Directors Nicolaos Nicandrou ACA Chief Financial Officer Appointment: October 2009 Age: 51 Relevant skills and experience Financial Control Director, Aviva Group Financial Management and Reporting Nic started his career at Director and CGNU Group Financial .
Prudential, he worked at Aviva, where he held a number of senior finance roles, Other appointments including Norwich Union Life Finance Nic is the Chairman of the European Director and Board Member, Aviva Group Insurance CFO Forum.
Penelope James ACA Group Chief Risk Officer Appointment: September 2015 Age: 47 Relevant skills and experience Prudential in 2011 as the Director of Group Finance, a position she held until her Penny qualified as a chartered accountant appointment to the Board in 2015.
During with Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte now part that time, she was leading on the of PwC and then joined Zurich Financial implementation of Solvency II.
Services, where she held a number of senior finance positions over 12 years.
Other appointments Before joining Prudential, Penny was Penny serves as a non-executive director Group Chief Financial Officer of Omega of Admiral Group plc and is a member of Insurance Holdings formerly listed on the Admirals Audit and Nomination London Stock Exchange.
John Foley Chief Executive of Prudential UK & Europe Appointment: January 2016 Age: 60 Relevant skills and experience Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Investment Director and, since 2015, John spent over 20 years at Hill Samuel & Chief Executive of Prudential UK & Europe.
Co, where he worked in every division of John first joined the Board of Prudential plc the bank, culminating in senior roles in risk, in 2011 and was reappointed in January capital markets and treasury of the 2016, having stepped down during his time combined TSB and Hill Samuel Bank.
He joined Prudential as Deputy Group Treasurer in 2000 and became Managing Director of Prudential Capital and Group Treasurer in 2001.
During his career at Prudential, John has held the offices of Chief Executive of Prudential Capital, 78 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance Anne Richards Chief Executive, M&G Appointment: June 2016 Age: 52 Relevant skills and experience Managers in 2003.
Anne was Chief Investment Officer and Head of the EMEA Anne became an analyst for Alliance region for Aberdeen Asset Management Capital in 1992 and then moved into PLC, positions she held until February portfolio management roles at JP Morgan 2016.
Investment Management and Mercury Asset Management.
She joined the Board Other appointments of Edinburgh Fund Managers plc as Chief Anne is Chair of the Court of Edinburgh Investment Officer and Joint Managing University and the CERN & Society Director in 2002 and continued in this role Foundation, and a member of the Financial following Aberdeen Asset Management Conduct Authority Practitioner Panel.
PLCs acquisition of Edinburgh Fund Barry Stowe Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the North American Business Unit Appointment: November 2006 Age: 59 Relevant skills and experience for AIG Life Companies.
He joined AIG in 1995 after having held senior positions at Barry joined Prudential in October 2006 Pan-American Life and Willis in the United and was the Chief Executive of Prudential States.
Corporation Asia until June 2015, leading Prudentials Asian business through a Other appointments period of major growth and development.
Barry is a member of the Board of Directors Before joining Prudential, Barry was of the International Insurance Society.
President, Accident & Health Worldwide Tony Wilkey Chief Executive, Prudential Corporation Asia Appointment: June 2015 Age: 57 Relevant skills and experience Tony joined Prudential in 2006 as Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asias network of life insurance operations in Asia across 12 markets, a position he held until his appointment to the Board.
Before joining Prudential, he served as Chief Operating Officer of American International Assurance AIA, based in Hong Kong, overseeing AIAs life companies in South-east Asia.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 79 Board of Directors Continued Non-executive Directors Credit Suisse, a Vice Chairman The Hon.
Philip Other appointments of Credit Suisse First Boston Remnant CBE FCA Philip is a Deputy Chairman of CSFB Europe and Head of the the Takeover Panel, a nonSenior Independent UK Investment Banking executive director of Severn Director Department.
He was twice Trent plc and the Senior Appointment: January 2013 seconded to the role of Director Independent Director of UK Committees: Audit, General of the Takeover Panel.
Nomination and Governance, Philip also served on the board Philip is also Chairman of City Remuneration of Northern Rock plc and as of London Investment Trust plc Age: 62 Chairman of the Shareholder and Chairman of M&G Group Relevant skills and Executive.
Limited, a subsidiary of experience Prudential plc.
Philip was a senior adviser at Sir Howard Davies Civil Service, consultancy, Other appointments asset management, regulatory Appointment: October 2010 Sir Howard is Chairman of the Committees: Audit, and academia.
Sir Howard Royal Bank of Scotland and a was previously Chairman of Nomination and Governance, Professor at Institut dtudes Risk Chair the Phoenix Group and an Politiques Sciences Po.
He is independent director of Age: 66 Chairman of the International Morgan Stanley Inc.
Advisory Board of the China Relevant skills and Securities Regulatory experience Commission and a member of Sir Howard has a wealth of the International Advisory experience in the financial Board of the China Banking services industry, across the Regulatory Commission.
Between 1996 and 2003, she Ann Godbehere FCPA Other appointments held a number of CFO and CEO Ann is a non-executive director FCGA posts in different businesses Appointment: August 2007 of British American Tobacco within Swiss Re, including Chief p. l. c. Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Committees: Audit Chair, Financial Officer of the Swiss Nomination and Governance, Limited, UBS Group AG and Re Group.
Risk directorships at Northern Rock, Age: 61 Atrium Underwriting Group Relevant skills and Limited and Atrium experience Underwriters Limited, as well Ann began her career in 1976 as Arden Holdings Limited.
David Law ACA worked as the Lead Audit Other appointments Partner for multi-national Appointment: September David is a Director and Chief 2015 insurance companies until his Executive of L&F Holdings retirement in 2015.
David has Committees: Audit Limited and its subsidiaries, Age: 56 also been responsible for the professional indemnity PwCs insurance and captive insurance group that Relevant skills and investment management serves the PwC network and experience assurance practice in London its member firms.
David was the Global Leader of and the firms Scottish PwCs insurance practice, a assurance division.
Partner in PwCs UK firm, and 80 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance responsible for Asia Governance government to facilitate the Kaikhushru Nargolwala and Risk during 1998 to 2007.
Kai financing of long-term FCA was Chief Executive Officer of cross-border projects of Appointment: January 2012 the Asia Pacific Region of Credit Singapore-based companies.
Committees: Remuneration, Suisse AG during 2008 to 2010.
He is also a non-executive Risk Kai previously served on the Director of Credit Suisse Group Age: 66 Board of Singapore AG and a non-executive Relevant skills and Telecommunications Limited, Director of PSA International experience Standard Chartered plc, Credit Pte Ltd. Additionally, Kai is the Kai spent 19 years at Bank of Suisses Executive Board, the Chairman of the Governing America and was based in Hong Board of Tate and Lyle plc and Board of the Duke-NUS Kong in roles as Group Executive Visa Internationals Asia Pacific Medical School.
He serves on Vice President and Head of the Advisory Board.
the Board of the Casino Asia Wholesale Banking Group Regulatory Authority of Other appointments during 1990 to 1995.
He is also Chairman Kai is the Chairman of Clifford years working for Standard of Prudential Corporation Asia Capital Pte.
Ltd. a company Chartered PLC in Singapore as Limited, a subsidiary of supported by the Singapore Group Executive Director Prudential plc.
the Board of Jardine Matheson Land Limited.
Notable Anthony Nightingale Holdings in 1994.
He was appointments include: Hong CMG SBS JP Managing Director of the Kong representative to the Appointment: June 2013 Jardine Matheson Group from APEC Business Advisory Committees: Nomination 2006 to 2012.
Council, Chairman of The Hong and Governance, Kong-APEC Trade Policy Study Remuneration Chair Other appointments Group, member of the Age: 69 Anthony is a non-executive Securities and Futures director of Jardine Matheson Relevant skills and Commission Committee on Holdings and a number of other experience Real Estate Investment Trusts, Jardine Matheson group Anthony spent his career in member of the UK-ASEAN companies.
Other directorships Asia, where he joined the Business Council Advisory include Schindler Holding Jardine Matheson Group in Panel, and non-official member Limited, Vitasoy International 1969, holding a number of of the Commission on Strategic Holdings Limited and Shui On senior positions before joining Development in Hong Kong.
Alice was also an Alice Schroeder Appointment: June 2013 the issuance of several independent board member of significant insurance the Cetera Financial Group.
Committees: Audit Age: 60 accounting standards.
From Other appointments 1993, she led teams of analysts Alice is a non-executive Relevant skills and specialising in propertydirector of Bank of America experience casualty insurance as a Merrill Lynch International.
She Alice began her career as a Managing Director at CIBS is also CEO and Chairman of qualified accountant at Ernst & Oppenheimer, PaineWebber WebTuner Corp. Young.
She joined the Financial now UBS and Morgan Accounting Standards Board as Lord Turner FRS Confederation of British Other appointments Industry, Vice-Chairman of Appointment: September Lord Turner has been a 2015 Merrill Lynch Europe, crossbench member of the Chairman of the Pensions Committees: Risk House of Lords since 2005.
Age: 61 Commission and as a nonOther appointments include executive director of Standard OakNorth Bank, Chairman of Relevant skills and Chartered Bank.
Lord Turner the Institute for New Economic experience was Chairman of the UKs Thinking, Chair of the Energy Lord Turner began his career Financial Services Authority Transition Commission, and with McKinsey & Co, advising FSA, a member of the Visiting Professor at both the companies across a range of international Financial Stability London School of Economics industries.
He has served as Board and a non-executive and the Cass Business School.
Director-General of the director of the Bank of England.
The Board appointed John Foley as Executive Director and Chief Executive of Prudential UK & Europe in January 2016 and Anne Richards as Executive Director and Chief Executive, M&G in June 2016.
Alistair Johnston retired as a Non-executive Director at the conclusion of the 2016 Annual General Meeting and Michael McLintock retired as an Executive Director and Chief Executive, M&G in June 2016.
All Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting except Ann Godbehere, who will have served for nine years since her election by shareholders in 2008.
Proposals for elections and re-elections are supported by the annual review of the performance of each Director, which concluded that all Directors continue to perform effectively.
