Our businesses and their performance Asia  ,   2016 performance highlights   strong.
Beingabletofinance , life  , at117.9billion, up13percent    mainlandChina, whereAPEsales  areup31percent arebreakingdown.
Understanding our markets Working age Out-of-pocket Insurance Private financial 3,4 2 1 5 population healthcare spend penetration wealth US$4tr a year 1m 42% US$64tr a month Asia 2.3bn 2015 UK 12% 7.5% $42tr 9% 2.5bn US 2030 UK 2.4% Asia 2014 2019 Population Health gap Penetration Wealth 18 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report   The opportunities for   growth in our sector are finances.
   well understood and , meet policiesintheregion.
 but delivering value   for customers and .
   shareholders over region,   the long term requires , thePhilippines, protection, , focus and discipline.
Eastspring Prudential Corporation , our  Asia has a number of   advantages, including    .
 in geography, distribution  , protection and products, together increases,  , eachmarket with a well respected brand.
Forexample, inVietnamand Tony Wilkey  Indonesia,  Chief Executive unproductivecash, andthelossof  Prudential Corporation Asia     .
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 19 Pauls story PruLifeUK, thePhilippines , Istrovetomake myownfantasticfood, .
Our businesses and their performance Continued Serving a diverse continent  rightmarkets,  .
Compounding growth, delivering diversified earnings  ,  managementproducts, .
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 21 Our businesses and their performance Continued InSingapore, bycontrast, wehavemore  .
varietyofprotection, savingsand  Customers investmentoptions,   bankpartners.
 Driving our business Customers InAsia,  ,  14.6m .
117.9bntotalfunds undermanagementwith  22 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report Yonas story Prudential Indonesia I realised how crucial it is to be insured when I was diagnosed with a cerebral abscess last year.
I needed to have surgery and spent one-and-a-half months in intensive care at the hospital, so Im thankful that I was covered by my Prudential hospitalisation rider.
Today, Im grateful to have my health back again and feel blessed that Ill soon be able to welcome into the world my own little bundle of joy.
Products Our life product suite has three main categories: participating, linked and protection.
At Investing for growth 31 December we had more than 500,000 Prudentials platform is well established Although the protection component agents, up 10 per cent on the previous and we continue to invest in growing the remains relatively consistent in the mix, year.
Excluding India, the productivity of business through expansion into new reflecting our focus on this core customer our active agents increased by 31 per cent.
markets such as Laos and opening up in need, the products within this category new cities in existing markets such as continue to evolve.
For example, in Hong Bancassurance is our other main China, Indonesia and the Philippines.
distribution channel, generating Kong we recently added a new feature that We are also investing in expanding our covers customers in the event of multiple 25 per cent of APE sales for Prudential agency network in the region and we are Corporation Asia in 2016.
enhancing our operating capabilities, Corporation Asia works with a number of For the savings component of our particularly leveraging new technologies.
partner banks, including international insurance policies, we have seen softer groups such as Standard Chartered Bank, At Eastspring we are investing in the brand, demand for unit-linked products, given the regionals such as UOB, domestic banks in the operating model and in talent recent volatility in capital markets, and such as Thailands Thanachart Bank and development, in order to ensure that we correspondingly increased demand for the retail banks of our partners CITIC in expand our regional capabilities to capture participating products and their smoothed China and ICICI in India.
the opportunities available from the growth returns.
The markets do have strong of the retail mutual funds markets in Asia.
demand for products with high levels of Eastspring Investments guaranteed return but, although these can Our regional asset management division, generate significant APE sales volumes, Eastspring Investments, is one of the we only participate in this sector in a very 7 regions largest asset managers, with a controlled way.
We maintain our balance presence in 10 major Asian markets as well sheet discipline and are unconcerned by as distribution offices in the US and any temporary erosion in market share.
It has 117.9 billion in assets under management, managing funds across a Distribution range of asset classes, including equities Prudential Corporation Asia is well and fixed income, distributed through bank positioned in terms of our scale and partners, brokers and online platforms.
Each market is unique and our overarching regional Eastspring has a stable and steadily growing core of funds under management from distribution strategy reflects our comprehensive approach to building Prudential Corporation Asias life businesses, including the majority of its pan-regional distribution capabilities, underpinned by effective platforms, unit-linked funds.
Its Asian focus and performance track record have also enabled comprehensive product solutions and the highest level of customer experience.
it to secure sizeable institutional mandates, both in Asia and more broadly.
The retail The scale, reach and quality of our life Tony Wilkey arm includes the attractive Japanese, insurance distribution are evidenced by our Chief Executive Korean and Taiwanese markets.
In Japan, productivity, persistency and customer Prudential Corporation Asia our Asia Oceania High Dividend Equity satisfaction across the region.
At the core Fund, with funds under management of of our distribution model is face-to-face 3.2 billion, is one of the largest in its sector.
interaction with customers, which delivers high-quality, needs-based advice.
Notes regulators and insurance association and informal 1 Insurance penetration source Swiss Re Sigma 2015. industry exchange market share data.
Ranking based on Supporting this approach is our continuous Insurance penetration calculated as premiums in per cent new business APE sales on weighted full-year premium investment in enhancing customer of GDP.
Asia penetration calculated on a weighted depending on availability of data.
The ranking for China is population basis.
among foreign players and India is among private life experiences, such as the PRUcustomer 2 World Health Organisation Global Health Observatory insurers.
friend customer servicing model in data repository 2013.
Out of pocket as a percentage 7 Source: Asia asset management September 2016 ranked of Total Health Expenditure Asia calculated as average according to participating regional players only.
Based on Indonesia and the PRU for you online out of pocket.
assets sourced from the region, excluding Japan, Australia community in Hong Kong.
3 United Nations, Department of Economic and Social and New Zealand as at June 2016.
Population Division 2015 World Population 8 Based on latest market data available.
Laos penetration is Prospects The 2015 Revision, DVD Edition 15. based on Swiss Re 2016 Sigma Report Insuring the Tied agency remains the most popular 4 Working age population 15-64 years.
distribution channel in the region.
For 5 Source: BCG Global Wealth 2015 Winning the growth game.
9 FUM reported based on the country where the funds are 6 Based on FY16 or the latest information available.
Prudential Corporation Asia, this produced includes formal eg Competitors results release, local 10 Excluding India.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 23 Our businesses and their performance United States    2016 performance highlights savingsmarket,  4  US$16trillion,    nextdecadealone.
Understanding our markets Significant retirement American retirement crisis opportunity Baby boomer Median net worth Life expectancy Low VA 1 2 3 population by age US$000 at 65 penetration m 4.5 165.9 19.3 Turned 65 in 2015 4.0 14.3 105.3 3.5 US$14tr 40m reach US$16tr retirement in 3.0 next decade 2.5 US$2tr VA assets 4 65 60 55 45-54 55-64 1960 2013 Retirement adviser assets Age Increased Retirement wave Under-saved longevity 24 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report , Americans Jackson continues its long-term disciplined approach to  our business, with a sharp focus on delivering products  and services that meet the needs of our stakeholders.
, aswellasthe  This discipline has historically enabled us to navigate .
market disruption, producing positive outcomes amid .
The looming retirement crisis for an , Jackson providesproducts, includingvariable, fixed saved generation of retirees, combined with significant , whichoffer regulatory change and political uncertainty, presents .
A an opportunity to redefine the retirement marketplace.
 , Jackson is well positioned to articulate the issues and  provide leadership in addressing them, with a focus on  creating value for consumers and shareholders.
However,  , Barry Stowe  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, North American Business Unit USretirementassets.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 25 Doris and Dougs story Jackson Inthenextfewyears, DorisandDoug, , , Washington.
Our businesses and their performance Continued Customers and products , .
 , Jacksons , as Distribution     launchofEliteAccess, ourfirstinvestment- 9 .
Bythefirst 9  inthe quarterof2013, salesofEliteAccess  NPH, an 8  rankedinthetop10 ofallvariableannuity 9 affiliateofJackson,   contractsalesintheUS, apositionitstill networkintheUS.
  Driving our business Customers 10,000 Manyretirees, orsoontoberetirees, , having   5 average priorgeneration.
 Investment for growth      prospects, clientsandadvisers require.
  26 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report representatives, financial institutions and Regardless of the outcome of the Rules, the tax and accounting professionals, through regulatory disruption has challenged the access to industry-leading mutual fund industry to review the ways in which asset management companies, insurance investment advice is provided to American carriers and thousands of brokerage investors.
Manufacturers will need to have products.
The strength of this network and the ability to provide product and system the market insight it offers, combined with adaptations in order to support the success Jacksons proven manufacturing of various distribution partners in their capabilities, provide a distinct advantage as delivery of invaluable retirement strategies we continue to navigate the ever-changing that investors need.
Investment for growth Regulatory landscape From disruption, opportunities can appear.
Since the financial crisis in 2008, the With the tens of trillions of dollars of industry has continued to manage through adviser-distributed assets across an ever-changing regulatory landscape.
In distribution platforms that have not April 2016, the US Department of Labor historically been a focus, such as the hybrid DoL released a final version of its registered investment adviser channel, Barry Stowe Fiduciary Duty Rule Rules, with initial there is significant opportunity to reach Chairman and application starting in April 2017 and full even more American retirees and serve Chief Executive Officer implementation required by January 2018. their needs with annuity products going North American Business Unit The Rules would, as currently written, forward.
The industry will need to remain subject many advisers who work with flexible and cost-effective in making qualified retirement plans and Individual changes to products, systems and processes.
Retirement Accounts to the fiduciary We continue to ensure that we understand requirements of the Employee Retirement and make the necessary adjustments to Income Security Act, including obligations support the needs and demands of to avoid conflicts of interest.
Those conflict American retirees into the future.
of interest rules are incompatible with Jackson and NPH have begun to implement many compensation structures that have changes necessary to meet the requirements historically been permissible.
Jackson will continue to with the change in the US administration evaluate its product offerings in order to and the release of various Executive Orders, meet the long-term needs of investors in the final form of the Rules remains unclear.
search of effective retirement strategies.
As a result of the DoL regulatory initiative Additionally, Jackson remains committed and the uncertainties regarding the to supporting its distribution partners application and implementation of the throughout this industry transition.
Rules, the annuity industry saw material Jacksons competitive strengths are even impacts on sales in 2016.
Sales in the more critical during periods of disruption.
variable annuity industry as of the third Our best-in-class distribution team, our 10 quarter of 2016 at US$79 billion were agility and success in launching well down 22 per cent compared with the same designed products, the continued success period last year.
Conversely, sales of fixed through many economic cycles of our risk 10 index US$47 billion and fixed annuity management and hedging programmes 10 US$45 billion products were higher as and our effective technology platforms and of the third quarter of 2016 at 22 per cent award-winning customer service will and 28 per cent respectively, compared provide Americans with the retirement with the same period last year.
In recent strategies they so desperately need, and years, some competitors have begun to will enable us to be positioned to capture offer fixed index annuities with benefits additional growth during times of transition that resemble those of variable annuities, and into the future.
leading to a shift in sales away from variable annuities to fixed index annuities.
However, this trend has an uncertain future due to the unexpected inclusion of fixed index annuities within the current rules on par with the treatment of variable annuities.
Notes Total annuity industry sales were down 1 US Census Bureau Population division 2014 estimate of of 864 VA contracts with reported sales to Morningstars 10 population.
quarterly sales survey as of 3Q YTD 2016. approximately 2 per cent as of the third 2 2013 Federal Reserve Boards triennial Survey of 7 Investment News April 2016. quarter of 2016.
8 2017 Morningstar Inc. All Rights Reserved.
The 3 US Department of Health and Human Services, Health, information contained herein: 1 is proprietary to United States 2015, May 2016.
Morningstar and or its content providers: 2 may not be 4 Cerulli Associates Advisor Metrics 2016. copied or distributed: and 3 is not warranted to be 5 Social Security Administration, Annual Performance Plan for accurate, complete, or timely.
Neither Morningstar nor its FY 2012 and Revised Final Performance Plan for FY 2011. content providers are responsible for any damages or 6 2017 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
The losses arising from any use of this information.
Past information contained herein: 1 is proprietary to performance is no guarantee of future results.
Morningstar Morningstar and or its content providers: 2 may not be www.
Elite Access for base states copied or distributed: and 3 is not warranted to be ranked #10 and #9 for Total VA Sales by Contract at 1Q accurate, complete, or timely.
Neither Morningstar nor its 2013 and 3Q 2016 respectively.
content providers are responsible for any damages or 9 Market Metrics Variable Annuity Sales, Staffing and losses arising from any use of this information.
Past Productivity Report: Q3 2016. performance is no guarantee of future results.
Morningstar 10 LIMRA Secure Retirement Institute, US Individual www.
Total Sales by Contract 3Q YTD Annuity Participants Report 3Q YTD 2016.
Jacksons Perspective II for base states ranks #1 and 11 Guarantees are backed by the claims-paying ability of Elite Access for base states ranks #9 for Total VA Sales out Jackson National Life Insurance Company.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 27 Our businesses and their performance United Kingdom and Europe Insurance and investments Serving the savings and retirement needs of the ageing population in the UK The fundamentals underpinning the UKs 2016 performance highlights retirement market are changing.
Risk and Retail new business sales and new responsibility for retirement provision business profit both up 33 per cent continue to transfer away from the state and corporates to individuals.
As Significant sales momentum customers adjust to the reforms introduced securing record business volumes by pensions freedom in 2015, the new Market-leading distribution flexible arrangements to control their own capability focused on intermediary pensions have been accompanied by advisers, an in-house direct advice significant complexity, which is adding to service Prudential Financial the burden of personal responsibility to Planning and a direct-to-customer secure an income in retirement.
Investment telephone franchise risk, longevity risk and inflation risk are the risks to be mitigated by todays Significant investment to develop retirement saver.
digital distribution capabilities Over 70 per cent of liquid assets in the UK Launch of the Prudential Retirement are owned and controlled by the over 50s Account an online account-based and this demographic is expected to grow pension saving and retirement plan by 2.1 million between 2016 and 2030.
Two Five Star ratings for excellent More people, with more savings, will live 2 service, achieved for the sixth longer.
This provides significant new consecutive year opportunities for Prudential as the demand for risk-managed investments to fund Biggest winner at the Investment retirement is predicted to rise accordingly.
Life & Pensions MoneyFacts Awards in 2016, with top awards for To meet these opportunities, our product the Best Investment Service, Best and distribution profile has evolved by Investment Bond Provider and Best increasing the range of product options to Online Service mirror the flexibilities of the pensions Understanding our markets Retirement market growth Pensions freedom era growing demand for risk-managed investments Flows into retail investment products bn, annual to fund retirement Structural growth 2016 to 2030 2016 2020 underpinned by: CAGR: 9% 1.3% pa risk transfer from CAGR 2016-20 growth in population aged 50 corporates and state 11 -5% 63 to individuals 70% 10% 13 43 of liquid assets held by those demographics growing 89 aged 50 number of retirees and 58 11% increased life expectancy 2 3rds means more saving Individual investments Workplace savings Risk products fall in defined benefits individual pensions, group pensions annuities, scheme membership bonds, SIPPs, protection drawdown 28 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report Helens story Prudential UK & Europe Thanks to my adviser, I can sleep easy at night knowing that I should be able to achieve my future plans because of the financial security my investments with Prudential should provide.
Our annual review meeting is really important because it lets me know if my investments are on track, takes account of any changes in my financial circumstances and gives me a chance to check if there is anything else I can do to get the best from my savings.
I chose the PruFund because I dont really like the fluctuations of shares, but getting better returns compared with a bank savings account is very important to me and the with-profits fund has given me that steady secure growth.
I know Prudential will help secure my financial future because I have known them all my life.
There has been a shift away The Prudential brand resonates strongly with from a reliance on capital-intensive annuity customers and advisers navigating through recent business to a focus on bond, ISA, pension retirement market reforms.
When combined with an and income drawdown products across a range of tax-efficient solutions.
enviable product and distribution capability, the emerging retirement savings marketplace presents an Customers and products The Prudential brand benefits from a opportunity that few others are capable of serving heritage that stretches back 168 years and better than Prudential.
a franchise that is based on long-term thinking, longevity experience, marketJohn Foley leading multi-asset investment capability Chief Executive Officer, Prudential UK & Europe and financial strength the core attributes that customers continue to seek in the pension freedoms era.
Customer expectations are higher than ever.
Increased life expectancy in retirement has put increased demands on long-term product performance, and technology is revolutionising the ways in www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 29 Our businesses and their performance Continued which company and customer interact.
In Extending availability of our investment Continually investing in customer this changing environment, our brand and retirement solutions by maintaining service improvement, acknowledged franchise is strong, resonating with strong relationships with financial adviser by two Five Star ratings received for the retirement savers.
intermediaries, accelerating the growth sixth consecutive year in the Life & of our Prudential Financial Planning Pensions and Investment categories of We continue to focus on meeting these advisory business and through investing the Financial Adviser Service Awards.
customers needs through: in our direct-to-consumer channels, Most notably in 2016, we responded to Extending our product range and including telephone and online services: changes in the market following the servicing capability to help customers Enhancing access to our market-leading introduction of pension freedoms by take full advantage of the flexibility PruFund proposition across a range of launching the Prudential Retirement introduced to the retirement saving investment and tax wrappers: and Account an online account-based plan marketplace through pension freedoms: Driving our business Customers 168 years of providing financial security Strong brand franchise with clear focus on providing retirement saving and Long track record of managing income solutions that meet customers needs in the pensions freedom era.
longevity 74 of 99 public sector authorities schemes Products 75% Product range enhanced, including extended access to our market-leading PruFund growth since 2006 range of PruFund investments.
5 ratings for excellent service Distribution 2,700 Multi-channel distribution model based on strong relationships with adviser firms dealing with intermediaries and customers.
11 per cent CAGR increase in advisers Prudential UK recommending Prudential since 2013.
Prudential Financial Planning is now advising over 50,000 customers.
c300 Prudential Financial Planning partners Investment for growth Significant investment in product, service and technology to maintain the 20% growth momentum created by recent structural changes in the retirement increase in 2016 sales generated market.
through Prudential Financial Planning 30 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report PruFund PruFund Growth PruFund Cautious PruFund 0%-30% 100% PruFund growth ABI sector comparator PruFund 10%-40% PruFund 20%-55% PruFund 40%-80% 80% 75% Range of six funds with risk-rating 60% 39% 40% Global diversification: over 25 asset classes 20% in one investment 0% Award-winning asset allocation -20% Smoothing of investment returns 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 1 A unique customer proposition PruFund investment performance that provides customers with the flexibility providing schemes for 74 of the 99 local At the heart of the intermediary model is to save for their retirement, provide an authorities in the UK, our focus is on the power of three, a combination of income in retirement and facilitate access additional voluntary contribution plans.
regional account manager, telephone to their fund as they save.
At its core is account manager and sales support, all Having identified a number of alternative PruFund, our unique customer proposition working together as a regional sales unit capital deployment opportunities within managed by the Prudential Portfolio team.
There are 65 regional sales units the Group and following the introduction of Management Group, our award-winning across the UK, giving 100 per cent Solvency II we did not write any bulk and market-leading multi-asset nationwide coverage, and each having annuity business in 2016.
We have now management team.
From a single fund account managers qualified to at least the withdrawn from this market.
Our appetite when launched in 2004, PruFund today same standards as the professional for individual annuity business has also comprises six risk-rated funds, offers global advisers they deal with.
This model gives diminished and we took steps to curtail investment diversification across 25 third-party financial advisers the support retail sales by establishing an annuity panel different asset classes and delivers they need, how and when they need it, arrangement with a number of firms to smoothing through the strength of the through dedicated points of contact either provide annuities to our retiring customers.
This approach This new service will be phased in over the delivered an 11 per cent compound The success of PruFund and its popularity course of 2017. increase since 2013 in advisory firms among financial advisers and customers is recommending Prudential products to their Distribution evidenced in investments worth clients.
Sales through our intermediary The foundations of every strong brand are 24.7 billion in funds under management at business have also doubled since 2013. the end of 2016. trust and confidence, common denominators in Prudentials multi-channel Prudential Financial Planning reinforces In corporate pensions, we continue to focus distribution capability.
The model is Prudentials industry reputation as an on securing new scheme members and centred on the core intermediary channel innovator and has been central to the supporting existing members to meet their and direct-to-consumer channels, continued sales growth achieved by the retirement goals.
In the public sector, including Prudential Financial Planning.
From its inception in where Prudential is the market leader, 2012, and against a background of industry-wide retrenchment, Prudential Financial Planning is now a top-10 UK Number of adviser firms dealing with Prudential advisory business, with close to 300 partners advising more than 50,000 clients.
CAGR: 11% Our direct-to-consumer customer 2,777 1 RDR PF telephony team is central to our ambitions 2,469 to grow our direct-to-customers business 2,185 2,134 2,021 and in 2016 we strengthened its capability 1,948 ahead of a range of forthcoming proposition and service developments.
The roll-out of our business in Poland continued in 2016, with sales increasing by 86 per cent in local currency terms.
Significant milestones during the year included increasing the number of financial 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 planning consultants to 721, entering the 1.
PF 2014 budget announcement of pensions freedom.
multi-agency market and securing three affinity distribution deals with Polish telecommunications companies.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 31 Our businesses and their performance Continued Investment for growth We have also focused on deepening our already-strong relationships with We are focused on maintaining the growth independent financial advisers.
An momentum created by the structural important part of our service offering is the changes to retirement provision in the UK ongoing hands-on support for intermediary and on delivering a growth strategy advisers from our regional sales units, underpinned by investment in product, technical helpline and business service and distribution capabilities to development and consultancy team.
Our meet the evolving needs of customers.
adviser webinars attracted more than In addition to enhancing access to our 10,000 attendees in 2016 while we also market-leading PruFund proposition, we hosted 58 adviser seminars across the UK, continue to innovate by bringing new and covering a range of topical and technical exciting products to the market, such as the subjects, to help these advisers deal with a Prudential Retirement Account, for our changing regulatory landscape.
customers who want to use the pensions We will also accelerate the growth of freedom provisions to their fullest.
Prudential Financial Planning, which Investment in technology is also enabling John Foley currently has close to 300 advisers customers to engage more flexibly with us Chief Executive Officer delivering face-to-face advice in digitally and online.
Easier access to Prudential UK & Europe customers homes and has introduced a product information for customers is telephone advice service to reflect the provided by the My Pru app, while our additional ways in which customers want to Retirement Ready Guide App was created receive financial advice.
to provide clear and easy-to-understand The evolving nature of how we interact information for those coming up to with customers is also driving our ambitions retirement.
Technology has also helped us to grow our direct-to-consumer business, improve online services for advisers and Notes where we have strengthened our capability enhance our tele-underwriting service for 1 ABI mixed investment 20 per cent to 60 per cent shares, ahead of a range of forthcoming total return: performance from 29 December 2006 to the Prudential Investment Plan, reducing 30 December 2016. developments, including launch of a the amount of time advisers spend on 2 Ratings in the Life and pensions and Investment categories direct-to-consumer ISA.
of the Financial Advisers Service Awards.
administration and freeing up time to spend with their clients.
Sandra and Colins story Prudential UK & Europe On both occasions when our Prudential Financial Planning Partner visited us, we found the meetings to be very informative, helpful and most importantly honest.
He carefully advised and helped us to select the products that best suited our individual needs.
We know for a fact that we would never have received the customer care and attention from most other organisations, as we are so remote here in the Western Isles, so it was truly a breath of fresh air to do business with Prudential.
32 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report United Kingdom and Europe Asset management Serving retail and institutional investors through a conviction-led and long-term approach The worlds population is ageing: by 2020, Funds, excluding money market funds, 2016 performance highlights there will be more people aged 65 and in the UK ended 2016 strongly, with net External funds under management above than children under five, according inflows double those of the next-largest up 8 per cent to 137 billion to the US Census Bureau.
The United European market during the last two Nations estimates that this trend will months of 2016.
Total net sales of 2016 IFRS operating profit of continue, with over 15 per cent of the Investment  UK 425 million global population being aged over 65 by mutual funds were 13 billion during 2016, Institutional external funds under 2050.
This demographic shift coincides down from 22 billion in the previous year.
management growth of 11 per cent with changes in retirement planning as In Europe, net sales were 213 billion, down governments and employers shift more from 498 billion in the previous year.
New SICAV platform to offer responsibility to individuals, resulting Luxembourg-domiciled funds Customers in growing demand for asset Implementation of new global risk Throughout our 85-year history, M&G management services.
and portfolio management platform has maintained its purpose: to help our The European asset management market underway customers prosper by putting their is already the second-largest in the world, long-term savings to work.
Our customers with net assets of 8.2 trillion, while the have always been at the heart of what UK M&Gs core market is the secondwe do.
largest national market, with 1.2 trillion, and is a global centre of excellence for Today we manage the savings of millions of people in the UK, Europe and the rest of investment management.
These include direct or As the appetite for long-term savings intermediated investors in our open-ended products grows, demand for alternative investment funds, members of pension investment strategies and solutions, such schemes or other long-term savings as direct lending and long-term investment schemes who invest through financial in infrastructure equity, is expected to grow.
institutions, and Jackson and Prudential M&G is well placed to benefit from this policyholders, including the Prudential UK trend, given its expertise across a diverse with-profits fund.
range of assets, a record of innovation and strong distribution relationships.
All our customers benefit from our conviction-led, long-term approach to 1 Market backdrop in 2016 asset management, applied across the Economic pessimism, political risk and full range of asset types: cash, equities, central bank quantitative easing saw many bonds, property and alternatives.
We are government bonds offering negative real constantly developing our capabilities yields in the first half of 2016.
There was to offer our customers strategies that a significant shift mid-year in investor meet their needs, whatever the sentiment, as assets flowed away from market conditions.
bonds and bond proxies back towards Products equities, particularly financial, energy and materials stocks.
This trend accelerated M&G has a range of 59 open-ended funds domiciled in the UK and is developing a following the US election, and the possibility of looser US fiscal policy similar range of funds domiciled in Luxembourg.
We aim to offer customers boosting economic growth in 2017: over 22 billion was withdrawn from attractive long-term investment returns from a broad choice of products across fixed income funds by European investors in November alone.
An exception was diverse geographies, asset classes and strategies.
Some of our products offer the inflation-linked bond sector, which attracted net flows of over 10 billion in solutions to very specific investor needs.
The M&G Episode Income Fund, for 2016 as investors sought protection from the inflationary impact of higher growth example, aims to deliver high and rising levels of income from a diverse range of expectations in 2017. different assets, which is important to www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 33 2016 was a year of political and economic turmoil which prompted many of our customers to reassess their investment portfolios.
As performance of our openended funds recovered in the second half of the year, we saw a much improved trend in flows in the fourth quarter, while appetite remained strong from institutional customers for our alternative investment strategies.
Overall, the diversity of our asset classes, strategies and client base has allowed us once more to deliver value for money for our customers and a sizeable cash contribution to the Group.
Anne Richards Chief Executive Officer, M&G 34 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk Patricks story M&G Ive enjoyed a long and very varied working life, adapting my skills to several industries including the Civil Service, banking and even managing funeral homes in my later career, all while working for 40 years as a minister with my local Congregational church.
My savings and investments have given me the security to manage lifes ups and downs, pressures and expenditures.
You never know what challenges life may bring you.
The job you have today may not be there tomorrow and, even in retirement, you dont always know how long youll have to support yourself and your family.
Saving for the future is part of my DNA, which is why investing with a company like M&G is important to me.
I know that looking after customers money is part of their DNA too.
02 Strategic report many investors at a time of historically low sovereign debt to private loans.
Among our commercial sectors of retail, office and interest rates and negative bond yields.
We best-known and most successful strategies industrial.
We have a growing franchise in also manage segregated mandates on are the M&G Optimal Income Fund, which UK Residential Property.
M&G Real behalf of pension schemes, wealth funds celebrated the 10th anniversary of its UK Estates core Asia property fund celebrated and other institutional investors, as well as launch in 2016, and the M&G Alpha its 10th anniversary in 2016 and is one of a number of alternative investment Opportunities Fund.
the largest and most diversified Asia strategies.
There are now Multi-asset: M&Gs range of multi-asset investments of more than US$1.7 billion in Equities: throughout our long history, we funds, designed for investors seeking to the Asia Property Fund.
have favoured a stock selection approach, spread risk across a mix of assets, has again building portfolios from the bottom up.
We proven popular with customers in 2016.
Alternative assets: M&G is a leading are known for our long-term investment The M&G Prudent Allocation Fund, investor in a diverse range of private and views, which give us credibility and launched in 2015 to cater specifically for illiquid assets such as commercial real influence when representing the views and European investors with a lower appetite estate debt, infrastructure debt and equity interests of our end investors to company for risk, was one of our bestselling funds in and direct lending, collectively known as management.
In December, we launched the M&G alternatives.
These are attractive options Global Target Return Fund, a new for institutional investors looking to match Fixed income: M&G is one of Europes multi-asset fund aimed at investors seeking long-term liabilities with long-term returns, largest fixed income investors, with one of reasonable returns with managed volatility.
either at fixed or floating rates.
They are the biggest, most experienced in-house also a key source of funding for public and credit research teams.
Our end investors Real estate: M&G invests in, and private infrastructure projects and benefit from our expertise in the full range manages, property around the globe.
Our businesses that might otherwise struggle of fixed income investments, ranging from 26 billion portfolio covers the three to access competitive financing.
Driving our business Customers 64.2 billion We believe our active approach to investment selecting investments on a retail funds under management conviction basis rather than following a market index produces superior returns for our customers over the longer term.
We offer our customers the 264.9 billion ability to invest in a diverse range of assets: not only equities and fixed income total funds under management but also unlisted investments such as property and private equity.
One of Europes largest fixed-income investors Products Range of 59 open-ended funds M&G operates a range of UK-domiciled retail funds, which are now distributed across diverse geographies, asset in 23 jurisdictions across Europe and Asia.
In the institutional market, M&G classes and investment strategies provides a range of strategies that help pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and other large institutional investors match liabilities and achieve growth 14 funds have assets under targets.
management of 1 billion Distribution 64.2 billion 58 billion retail funds under management M&G provides market insights to clients, intermediaries and others through a held in equity investments number of channels, including a programme of roadshows and events.
The 264.9 billion M&G Client Council offers customers who invest directly with M&G an 138 roadshows in 2016 from our total funds under management opportunity to help shape our products and services, in line with their needs.
retail fund managers reaching 42,000 One of Europes largest fixed income clients in 16 countries investors Investment for growth Implementation of new portfolio M&G is making significant investment in technology, operating model and portfolio management platforms to advance our operational efficiencies and management platform Aladdin data capabilities.
New SICAV platform in Luxembourg www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 35 Our businesses and their performance Continued Distribution Investment for growth 2 With offices in 16 countries, M&G is able M&G is investing in technology and to stay close to our customers and the operational infrastructure so we can intermediaries who distribute our products.
take full advantage of the opportunities Our open-ended retail funds are registered in the fast-evolving distribution and 3 for distribution in 23 jurisdictions in Europe regulatory landscape in which we operate.
and Asia, while our institutional investment In 2016, we began implementation of strategies are available to investors in Aladdin, a new global risk and portfolio many markets around the world, including management platform, which is being North America.
adopted across the Prudential Groups asset management businesses.
This will We are also investing in online distribution significantly advance our data capabilities in the UK, building on the insights we gain and operational efficiency.
from the Client Council, a group of 500 customers who invest directly with us and We also opened a new investment platform who help us develop our products, in Luxembourg, which gives us new services and investor communications.
capacity to distribute our funds to European customers based outside the UK.
Anne Richards Chief Executive Officer M&G Notes 1 Source: Broadridge FundFile as at 31 December 2016 in GBP and EUR.
Where referenced, the European asset management market refers to both cross border and domestic markets and net sales data is based on estimated net sales data, All UK data is sourced from the Investment Association as at 31 December 2016 and based on the UK onshore and offshore data.
2 Includes the UK head office and PPM South Africa.
Graham and Gemmas story M&G and Prudential UK Alder Hey in the Park Childrens Hospital in Liverpool, officially opened by HM The Queen in June 2016, was built using finance arranged by the M&G infrastructure debt team, working in partnership with Prudential as lead debt investor.
Consultant paediatric surgeon Graham Lamont says the new building is transforming both patient experience and the way his team works.
Building the new Alder Hey from scratch has allowed us to redesign the way our day-patients flow through the building.
Now we have no complaints about waiting times, and well be able to increase the number of patients were able to treat from about 7,000 day-cases a year to about 8,000.
Gemma, mother of one-year-old Harry, who has been treated for craniosynostosis at Alder Hey, agrees: Theres so much clever design and technology at the hospital to make patients feel comfortable, from barcode scanners that check you in for appointments, to special lighting in the childrens rooms it really is a hospital of the future!
