Committee reports The principal Committees of the Board are the Nomination and Governance, Audit, Risk, and Remuneration Committees.
These Committees form a key element of the Group governance framework, facilitating effective independent oversight of the Groups activities by the Non-executive Directors.
Each Committee Chairman provides an update to the Board of each Committee meeting, supported by a short written summary of the Committee business considered.
As part of our regular year-end related Nomination and Governance work at our February meeting, we Committee report reviewed the performance and independence of our Non-executive Dear Shareholder Directors, we confirmed that our Audit As Chairman of the Nomination and Committee has the required levels of Governance Committee, I am pleased to financial expertise, we reviewed and report on the Committees activities and confirmed conflicts of interest for all Board areas of focus during 2016. members and recommended all NonIn 2016, we met on four occasions.
Our executive Directors for re-election at the focus was on ensuring we have suitable forthcoming Annual General Meeting, succession plans in place for the Board and except Ann Godbehere.
Particular emphasis this The Committee expanded its remit in 2016, year was on succession planning for our following the appointment of independent Non-executive Directors given that Ann non-executive directors to the boards of Godbehere is in her ninth year of service our material subsidiaries.
During the year, and will not stand for re-election at our we approved the appointment of Paul Manduca next Annual General Meeting.
Ann has independent chairs to the boards of these Chairman of the Nomination and been an asset to the Board and we are most companies.
As part of our new governance Governance Committee grateful for her contribution, especially as duties, we reviewed the governance Chair of our Audit Committee.
framework for our material subsidiaries and Our work on succession planning is based terms of reference for their boards and Committee members on an assessment of skills needed to fulfil chairs.
Going forward, the Committee will Paul Manduca Chairman our strategy and a rolling programme of review the performance of the nonHoward Davies progressively refreshing the skills on our executive directors of the material Ann Godbehere Board.
During 2016 and to date, we subsidiaries, starting in early 2017.
Anthony Nightingale particularly focused on skills required to Philip Remnant As Chairman of the Committee, I have replace Anns expertise in the context of responsibility for ensuring the Committee Regular attendees the overall balance of skills on the Board operates effectively.
To ensure we do so Group Chief Executive and the main markets in which we operate, and provide constructive challenge to Group Human Resources Director now and in the medium term.
We also management, I encourage open debate Group General Counsel and reviewed the membership of the Boards and contributions from all Committee Company Secretary principal committees to ensure all members.
An annual review of our committees continue to be appropriately Number of meetings in 2016: four effectiveness was carried out as part of the composed, taking into account the time Board evaluation, described in more detail commitment required of each Nonon page 87.
The Committee was found to executive Director role.
92 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance How the Committee spent its time during 2016 The table below provides an overview of how the Committee spent its time in 2016.
1 Feb Sep Nov Re-election of Directors, Non-executive Directors performance and independence Succession planning Membership review of principal Board Committees Material subsidiary governance Committee terms of reference Note 1 Two meetings were held in February.
Key matters considered during the year Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Succession planning The Committee kept succession plans for executive and non-executive Board roles under continuous Appointments review.
This review takes account of the size, structure and composition of the Board and its Committees, including the overall knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board based on its review as necessary.
Non-executive Directors During 2016, the Committee considered information about potential candidates who might be appointed to the Board as Non-executive Directors to keep the Board composition progressively refreshed in the future, assisted by Russell Reynolds as search consultant.
Executive Directors John Foley and Anne Richards were appointed during 2016.
The work of the Committee in respect of those appointments, which was supported by Egon Zehnder as search consultant, is described in the Annual Report for 2015.
The Committee received details of the succession plans in place for Executive Directors and other senior management positions.
The development and renewal of these plans was led by the Group HR Director, who was supported by Egon Zehnder in identifying candidates who could be considered successors for key roles.
Russell Reynolds has no additional connection with Prudential.
In addition to acting as search consultant for certain executive hires, Egon Zehnder also provides support for senior development assessments.
Re-election of Directors As part of its ongoing work on Board succession planning, the Committee considered the terms of appointment for the Chairman, Committee Chairmen and Non-executive Directors taking into account time commitment and the general balance of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board, assessing length of service in their roles.
Having reviewed the performance of relevant Non-executive Directors in office at the time, the Committee recommended to the Board that those Non-executive Directors should stand for re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee considered the term of appointment of Ann Godbehere, who has been a Nonexecutive Director since 2007 and Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2010.
In line with corporate governance guidelines, Ms Godbehere does not intend to stand for re-election in 2017.
Philip Remnant completed his first term of three years following his initial appointment by shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Following performance evaluation by the Committee and re-election by shareholders in 2016, he was invited to serve a further term of three years, expiring at the conclusion of the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
Independence The Committee considered the independence of the Non-executive Directors against relevant requirements as outlined on page 89. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 93 Committee reports Continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Conflicts of interest The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to consider, and authorise where necessary, any actual or potential conflicts of interest in accordance with relevant legislation, the provisions in the Companys Articles and the procedures approved by the Board.
In February 2016, the Committee considered the external appointments of all Directors and reviewed existing conflict authorisations, reaffirming or updating any terms or conditions attached to authorisations where required.
No other conflict matters were brought to the Committee.
New external positions were reviewed during the year as they arose.
The Board considers that the procedure set out above for dealing with conflicts of interests has operated effectively.
Governance In February, the Committee expanded its remit to include oversight of the material subsidiary Group subsidiaries governance and independent directors.
During the year, the Committee approved the appointments of the material subsidiary chairs including Philip Remnant and Kai Nargolwala, reviewed the material subsidiary governance arrangements, approved the terms of reference for the material subsidiary boards and board chairs, and monitored the embedding of governance processes.
94 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance We continued to monitor second and third Audit Committee report line of defence functions to ensure their effectiveness.
During 2016, the Audit Dear Shareholder Committee commissioned an external As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am review to provide an independent pleased to report on the Committees assessment of compliance monitoring and activities and areas of focus over the course internal audit reviews.
Recommendations of 2016. from this work have been approved and The Committee met on 10 occasions integrated into the respective functional during the year.
The Committee works plans going forward.
The focus of the closely with the Risk Committee to ensure compliance plan is on strengthening the both Committees are updated on matters Compliance framework and further which impact on their responsibilities.
enhancing monitoring arrangements and Where a matter requires input from both mitigation of key risks.
The internal audit Committees, joint meetings are held with plan provides risk-based coverage of the Risk Committee.
In 2016, one joint financial, business change, regulatory and Ann Godbehere meeting with the Risk Committee took operational risk drivers and of customer place to discuss the Solvency II capital Chairman of the Audit Committee outcomes.
position as at 31 December 2015 and We also refined our governance processes associated governance processes.
during the year to enhance the information Committee members We maintained our focus during the year the Committee receives on the activities of Ann Godbehere Chairman on monitoring the integrity of financial our business unit audit committees and to Howard Davies reporting and ensuring suitable accounting ensure key issues are escalated Alistair Johnston until May 2016 policies were adopted and applied appropriately.
I maintain regular contact David Law consistently.
We reviewed managements with the audit committee chairs of our Philip Remnant annual process for setting assumptions material subsidiaries and report to the Alice Schroeder underpinning the Groups European Committee on the issues we discuss.
Embedded Value EEV results and IFRS Regular attendees As Chairman of the Committee, I have insurance liabilities and requested Chairman of the Board responsibility for ensuring the Committee additional analysis and information where Group Chief Executive operates effectively.
To ensure we do so we felt this was required.
Clarity of the Chief Financial Officer and provide constructive challenge to Groups external disclosures is an Group Chief Risk Officer management, I encourage open debate important consideration of the Committee Director of Group Finance and contributions from all Committee and we assessed whether the financial Group Regulatory and Government members.
An annual review of our report for 2016 was fair, balanced and Relations Director effectiveness was carried out as part of the understandable before making a Group General Counsel and Board evaluation, described in more detail recommendation to the Board.
Additional Company Secretary on page 87.
The Committee was found to consideration was given to the Groups Director of Group Compliance be functioning effectively.
disclosure of alternative performance Director of Group-wide Internal measures in light of new regulatory Audit This will be my last report as Audit guidance and the Committee reviewed and External Audit Partner Committee Chairman and Non-executive agreed the resulting refinements to the Director.
Having served nine years on the Number of meetings in 2016: 10 Groups disclosures.
We also reviewed the Board, I will not offer myself for re-election in addition, a joint meeting was Groups external Solvency II disclosures at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
It has held with the Risk Committee following the formal introduction of the been my pleasure to serve as chairman of Solvency II framework for European Prudentials Audit Committee and I am insurers at the start of 2016. confident that I leave the Committee functioning well with a clear mandate of its We approved all non-audit services, as well priorities for the future.
I would like to take as audit services, to ensure our auditor this opportunity to thank my fellow remains independent.
We continued with committee members for their diligence and our annual process of monitoring auditor to thank everyone on the Prudential team effectiveness through a Group-wide who have supported me and the questionnaire of senior finance personnel.
Committee over the years with such We meet privately with both the internal dedication and professionalism.
and external auditors to ensure they are able to operate effectively and to satisfy ourselves that management are responsive to their findings and recommendations.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 95 Committee reports Continued How the Committee spent its time during 2016 The table below provides an overview of how the Committee spent its time in 2016.
1 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jul Aug Nov Dec Financial reporting and external auditor Periodic financial reporting including: key accounting judgements and disclosures, Solvency II results and governance processes, and associated audit reports Developments in tax disclosures Audit planning, fees, effectiveness, independence and re-appointment Internal control framework effectiveness Internal control framework effectiveness Internal auditors Status updates and effectiveness Internal audit plan for 2017 Compliance Status updates Compliance plan for 2017 Financial crime and whistleblowing Update on whistleblowing issues raised Anti-money laundering report Security and resilience development plan Governance Internal framework effectiveness refresh Planning for ESG governance and reporting Business unit audit committee effectiveness and terms of reference Committee terms of reference Note 1 Two meetings were held in March.
96 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance Key matters considered during the year Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Financial reporting and tax One of the Committees key responsibilities is to monitor the integrity of the financial statements.
Overview The Committee assessed whether appropriate accounting policies had been adopted throughout the accounting period and whether management had made appropriate estimates and judgements over the recognition, measurement and presentation of the financial results.
There were no new or altered accounting standards in 2016 that had a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
The Committee also reviewed the accounting for the planned disposal of the Korea life business, together with the presentation in the financial statements.
The Committee considered compliance with accounting standards and obligations under applicable laws, regulations and governance codes.
Particular areas on which the Committee focused during the year included the fair, balanced and understandable requirement under the UK Corporate Governance Code, providing advice to the Board in respect of this requirement.
This included consideration of any resulting changes to disclosures following the decision by the UK to leave the European Union in June.
The Committee also focused on the guidance issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority on Alternative Performance Measures that was effective for the first time in 2016.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the refinements to the Groups disclosures as a result of that new guidance.
Key assumptions and The Committee reviewed the key assumptions and judgements made in valuing the Groups judgements investments, insurance liabilities and deferred acquisition costs under IFRS, together with reports on the operation of internal controls to derive these amounts.
It also reviewed the assumptions underpinning the Groups European Embedded Value EEV metrics.
The Committee considered information, including peer comparisons if relevant and available, on the following key assumptions: Persistency, mortality, morbidity and expense assumptions within the Asia life businesses: Economic and policyholder behaviour assumptions affecting the measurement of Jackson guaranteed liabilities and amortisation of deferred acquisition costs: and Mortality, expense and credit risk assumptions for the UK annuity business.
2016 saw the formal introduction of the Solvency II framework for European insurers.
The Committee reviewed the Groups external disclosures of its Solvency II position, together with the consistency of assumptions with those used for IFRS and EEV reporting where relevant.
In addition, given the adoption of Solvency II as the local regulatory requirement for the UK business, it reviewed the impact of the change in local capital regime on the EEV results for the UK insurance operations.
The Committee also received information on the nature of goodwill and intangible asset values and the carrying value of investments in the Groups balance sheet.
It considered what factors might give rise to an impairment of the Groups intangibles and whether those factors had arisen in the period.
The Committee was satisfied that there was no impairment of the Groups intangibles at 31 December 2016.
Following the UK referendum in June, where the majority voted in favour of leaving the European Union, and the resulting suspension of trading by some property funds, the Committee reviewed the Groups valuation basis for property investments and property funds at 30 June.
The Committee satisfied itself that these and other investments were valued appropriately.
Solvency II results and associated governance processes were considered in a separate meeting held jointly with the Risk Committee.
No significant issues arose in respect of these items.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 97 Committee reports Continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Other financial reporting The Committee considered various analyses from management regarding Group and subsidiary matters and tax reporting capital and liquidity prior to recommending to the Board that it could conclude that the financial statements should continue to be prepared on the going-concern basis and the disclosures on the Groups longer-term viability were both reasonable and appropriate.
The Committee reflected on how the viability statement could be enhanced to give more insight on the conclusions reached and updates were made accordingly.
As part of its assessment of the description of performance within the Annual Report, the Committee considered judgemental aspects of the Groups reporting across the Groups IFRS and EEV metrics.
This assessment included a review to ensure that the allocation of items between operating and non-operating profit was in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The Committee considered the impact of equity and interest rate movements on the IFRS results of the Groups US business and after discussion, the Committee was satisfied that the presentation and disclosure of such impacts was appropriate and consistent with prior periods.
The Audit Committee also considered judgemental matters regarding provisions for certain open tax items including tax matters in litigation.
The Committee received information on the Groups annual risk rating meeting with HM Revenue & Customs.
The Committee reviewed the Groups preparations for new country-by-country reporting disclosure requirements to tax authorities, and the Groups preparations for public disclosure of the Groups tax strategy.
The Committee was satisfied that managements approach was reasonable in these areas.
For all the above areas, the Committee received input from management and the external auditor prior to reaching its conclusions.
In addition to these reporting matters, the Committee also received and considered regular updates from management on the status and implications for the Group of financial reporting developments, including updates on discussions by the International Accounting Standards Board on the development of the IFRS 17 Insurance Standard known previously as IFRS 4 Phase II and the permitted deferral of IFRS 9 by insurers.
External audit, review of The Groups external auditor is KPMG LLP and oversight of the relationship with them is one of the effectiveness, non-audit Committees key responsibilities.
The Committee approved KPMGs terms of engagement for the services and auditor statutory audit, and approved fees for both audit and non-audit services in accordance with the reappointment Groups policy.
External audit effectiveness To assess the effectiveness of the auditor, the Committee reviewed the audit approach and strategy, and received an internal report on their performance.
The separate internal evaluation of the auditor was conducted using a questionnaire which was circulated to the Committee, the Chief Financial Officer and the Groups senior financial leadership for completion.
In total, 89 people provided input on the performance of the auditor.
The feedback provided was reviewed and compiled into a report for the Committee which covered areas such as the knowledge and expertise of the partners and team members, their understanding of the Group, the resourcing applied to the audit and continuity of the team, liaison with Group-wide Internal Audit and approach to resolution of issues, as well as factors such as their coordination across the Groups multiple jurisdictions and quality of their written and oral communication.
The degree of challenge and robustness of approach to the audit were key components of the evaluation.
The Committee Chairman invited other Group stakeholders to provide their views on the performance of the auditor, and KPMG was given the opportunity to respond to the findings in the report.
In addition to the usual auditor effectiveness process, early in 2016 the Committee also considered KPMGs response to a report issued by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review team following inspection of KPMGs 2014 audit.
The Committee discussed the actions undertaken by KPMG as part of their 2015 audit to address the matters raised.
It agreed that any identified areas for further improvement had been addressed or had appropriate action plans in place.
On completion of the activities outlined above, the Committee concluded that the audit had been effective and the challenge appropriately robust across all parts of the Group.
98 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Auditor independence The Committee has responsibility for monitoring auditor independence and objectivity and is and objectivity supported in doing so by the Groups Auditor Independence Policy the Policy.
The Policy is updated annually and approved by the Committee.
It sets out the circumstances in which the external auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit services and is based on four key principles which specify that the auditor should not: Audit its own firms work: Make management decisions for the Group: Have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group: or Be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
The Policy has two permissible service types: those that require specific approval by the Committee on an engagement basis and those that are pre-approved by the Committee with an annual monetary limit.
In accordance with the Policy, the Committee approved these permissible services, classified as either audit or non-audit services, and monitored the usage of the annual limits on a quarterly basis.
All non-audit services undertaken by KPMG were agreed prior to the commencement of work and were confirmed as permissible for the external auditor to undertake under the provisions of the SarbanesOxley Act.
In November 2016, the Committee considered and approved revisions to the Policy with effect from 1 January 2017, to reflect final rules and guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council, in connection with the implementation of broader European Union EU reforms to the audit market.
The most significant change was to reduce the annual monetary limits for services that are pre-approved by the Committee.
These revisions build on the previous years updates, where amendments to the Policy were made to ensure the schedule of prohibited non-audit services was in line with the EU reforms referenced above.
These changes were effective throughout 2016.
In keeping with professional ethical standards, KPMG also confirmed their independence to the Committee and set out the supporting evidence for their conclusion in a report that was considered by the Committee prior to publication of the financial results.
Fees paid to the auditor The fees paid to KPMG for the year ended 31 December 2016 amounted to 16.2 million 2015: 16.6 million of which 2.8 million 2015: 4.3 million was payable in respect of non-audit services.
Non-audit services accounted for 17 per cent of total fees payable 2015: 26 per cent.
A breakdown of the fees paid to KPMG can be found in Note B3.4 to the financial statements on page 193.
Of the 2.8 million of non-audit services, the principal types of non-audit engagements approved for 2016 were other assurance services of 2.7 million of which 1.5 million related to Solvency II reporting and disclosures and other non-audit services of 0.6 million.
Reappointment Based on the outcome of the effectiveness evaluation and all other considerations, the Committee recommended that KPMG be reappointed as the auditor.
A resolution to this effect will be proposed to shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Audit tender The external audit was last put out to competitive re-tender in 1999 when the present auditor, KPMG, was appointed.
Since 2005, the Committee has annually considered the need to re-tender the external audit service and it again considered this in May 2016, concluding that there was nothing in the performance of the auditor which required such a tender.
The Committee acknowledges the provisions contained in the UK Code in respect of audit tendering, along with European rules on mandatory audit rotation and audit tendering.
In conformance with these requirements, the Company will be required to change audit firm no later than for the 2023 financial year end.
The Committee also recognises that the industry is in a period of unprecedented change with the IASB expecting to issue a new insurance accounting standard in 2017, for implementation in 2021.
The Committee currently believes any change of auditor should be scheduled to limit operational disruption during such a period of change and, as a consequence, is not currently planning to re-tender the audit before the adoption of IFRS 17.
This remains subject to the Committees normal annual review.
The Company has complied throughout the 2016 financial year with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 issued by the Competition and Markets Authority.
In line with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Statements and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a new lead audit partner is appointed every five years.
A new lead audit partner was appointed in respect of the 2012 financial year who will be replaced following the completion of this 2016 reporting cycle.
The replacement lead audit partner has been identified.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 99 Committee reports Continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Third line oversight The Committee is responsible for approval of the internal audit programme and monitoring the internal audit effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Regular reporting The independent assurance provided by Group-wide Internal Audit GwIA formed a fundamental part of the Committees deliberations on the Groups overall control environment.
The Committee received regular updates on audits conducted and managements progress in addressing audit findings.
Each of the Groups business units has an internal audit team, the heads of which report to the Director of Group-wide Internal Audit.
The function also has a Quality Assurance Director, whose primary role is to monitor and evaluate adherence to industry practice guidelines and Group-wide adherence to GwIAs own standards and methodology.
Internal audit resources, plans, budgets and its work, including the functions annual review of the control environment and risk, and control culture of the organisation, are overseen by both the Committee and the relevant business unit audit committee.
The Director of GwIA reports functionally to the Chairman of the Committee and for management purposes to the Group Chief Executive, and also has direct access to the Chairman of the Board.
In addition to formal Committee meetings, the Committee meets with the Director of GwIA in private to discuss matters relating to, for example, the effectiveness of the internal audit function, significant audit findings and the risk and control culture of the organisation.
Annual plan and focus for 2017 The Committee approved the half year update of the 2016 plan.
It also considered and approved the Internal Audit Plan, resource and budget for 2017.
At the half year, the Committee considered recommendations to refresh the Internal Audit Plan in response to changes in the business unit operating environments and an update to the Groups top risks.
The 2017 Internal Audit Plan was formulated based on a bottom-up risk assessment of audit needs mapped against various metrics combined with top-down challenge by the GwIA Leadership Team and executive management at business unit and Group level.
The plan was then mapped against a series of risk and control parameters, including the top risks identified by the Risk Committee, to verify that it is appropriately balanced between financial, business change, regulatory and operational risk drivers and provides appropriate coverage of key risk areas and audit themes within a risk-based cycle of coverage.
Key areas of focus for 2017 include programme assurance, cyber security, outsourcing arrangements, customer outcomes and governance.
Internal audit effectiveness The Committee assesses the effectiveness through a combination of external effectiveness reviews, required every five years last conducted in 2012, and an annual internal effectiveness review, performed by the GwIA Quality Assurance Director.
In 2016, Deloitte assessed the overall GwIA annual planning approach and the quality of audit work and concluded that the function is a welldeveloped group function that applies a number of leading practices on a consistent basis across the Prudential Group, including advanced data analytics capabilities and well embedded approaches for conducting audits.
In addition, an internal effectiveness review was conducted in 2016, in accordance with the professional practice standards of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors CIIA.
This review concluded that GwIA continues to comply with the requirements of internal audit policies, procedures and practices, and standards in all material respects relating to audit planning and execution, and continued to be aligned with its mandated objectives and maintained general conformance with the CIIA guidance for Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Services Sector.
Having considered the findings of Deloittes review and the 2016 internal effectiveness review, the Committee concluded that GwIA had continued to operate in compliance with the requirements of GwIA policies, procedures and practice standards in all material respects and had remained aligned to mandated objectives during 2016.
100 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Business unit audit committee The Committee is supported by the work carried out by the material subsidiary and other business unit effectiveness audit committees and annually reviews the effectiveness of these committees in meeting their defined terms of reference.
These audit committees provide oversight of the respective business units.
During the year, membership of the committees for all material subsidiaries has been changed to comprise solely of independent non-executive directors.
The minutes of all business unit audit committees were provided to the Committee and their meetings were attended by the external auditor, as well as senior management from the business unit including the Business Unit Chief Executive, heads of Finance, Risk, Compliance and GwIA and from Group Head Office.
In addition, the Committee chairman meets in person or telephonically at least quarterly with the chairs of each of the material subsidiary audit committees.
The Committees assessment of these committees was supported by local teams from GwIA and considered whether each of the committees fulfilled the responsibilities documented in their terms of reference.
Attendance rates by audit committee members and evidence of the audit committees coverage of key business unit issues, as well as the appropriate escalation of concerns to the Committee, formed part of the criteria used for the evaluation.
Business unit model terms of The Committee approved the Groups standard terms of reference for the material subsidiary and reference other business unit audit committees, which were updated to reflect changes in the Committees own responsibilities to align them with best practice, as well as the change in membership for the material subsidiaries.
These were adopted by the business unit audit committees with minor variations to address local regulations or the particular requirements of the business.
Second line oversight Regular updates were provided to the Committee by the Group Regulatory and Government Affairs compliance, financial crime Director and the Group Compliance Director.
The reports kept the Committee apprised of key prevention, whistleblowing compliance activities, issues and controls, including progress against the 2016 Compliance Plan, the Regular reporting from outcome of compliance monitoring activities across the Group and the effectiveness of business units Compliance compliance departments.
Compliance Plan and focus The Committee considered and approved the 2017 Group Compliance Plan.
Areas of focus included for 2017 strengthening the compliance framework, enhancing compliance monitoring arrangements and mitigation of key risks, including conflicts of interest, the fair treatment of customers and anti-money laundering and sanctions.
Following the external review of the effectiveness of compliance monitoring, the Plan includes developing a more consistent approach to the planning, execution and reporting of compliance monitoring activity across the Group.
Financial crime prevention The Committee received the Money Laundering Prevention Officers report which assessed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls in relation to managing money laundering and sanctions risk.
The Committee noted the regulatory developments relating to initiatives by the Financial Action Task Force and the 4th EU Anti-Money Laundering Directive.
An external review of the Groups anti-bribery and corruption programme was undertaken this year and the Committee noted the recommendations being taken forward by management.
Whistleblowing The Committee noted the launch of an enhanced, Group-wide whistleblowing programme Speak Out, reflecting UK regulatory changes and the Groups geographic expansion.
The programme captures and comprehensively records matters raised through the Groups Confidential Reporting process.
Throughout the year, the Committee has continued to receive regular updates on such matters and the actions taken to address them.
The role of the whistleblowing champion, for the purpose of the Senior Insurance Managers Regime, will be carried out by the chair of the UK business unit risk committee.
At Group level, the Chair of the Audit Committee remains responsible for oversight of whistleblowing activities across the whole of the Group.
Internal control The Committee is responsible for reporting and making recommendations to the Board on the Internal control and risk effectiveness of Group-wide internal control and risk management systems.
management systems The Committee considered the outcome of the annual review of the systems of internal control and risk management.
The report considered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and reflected changes in the HK Code which became effective for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2016.
Having considered the review, the Committee made recommendations to the Board regarding the ongoing processes and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems in place.
The Boards statement regarding effectiveness of these systems can be found on page 91. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 101 Committee reports Continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Governance The Group Governance Manual sets out the policies and processes by which the Group operates Group Governance Framework within its framework of internal governance, taking into account relevant statutory and regulatory matters.
Used as a platform for mandating specific ways of working across the Group, each business unit attests annually to compliance with: Mandatory requirements set out in Group-wide policies: Matters requiring prior approval from those parties with delegated authority: and Matters which must be reported to the Group Functions.
The Committee reviewed the results of the Group Governance Manual annual content review to ensure its continued effectiveness and long-term value to the Group, and the results of the year end certification of compliance with Group Governance Manual requirements for the period ended 31 December 2016.
Committee effectiveness A review of the Committees activities was conducted against applicable regulation and codes of conduct.
The results of this assessment were provided to the Committee alongside the outcome of the part of the annual Board evaluation relating to the Committee.
102 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance the development of the Systemic Risk Risk Committee report Mitigation Plan, the Liquidity Risk Mitigation Plan and the Recovery Plan.
Dear Shareholder We also considered the methodology As Chairman of the Risk Committee, I am underpinning and validation of our pleased to report on the Committees Solvency II internal model, oversaw the activities and focus during 2016. delivery of the Groups major Model The Committee assists the Board in Change application to the PRA, and risks providing leadership, direction and arising from the Solvency II regime.
oversight of the Groups overall risk We provided oversight of the Groups appetite and limits, risk strategy and risk planning for, and response to, the results in culture.
We also oversee and advise the the Brexit referendum and US presidential Board on current and future risk exposures election that have driven increased of the Group, including those which have uncertainty in markets and the the potential to impact on the delivery of macroeconomic environment.
We the Groups business plan.
The Committee reviewed in depth the risk arising from our reviews and approves the Group Risk Howard Davies business, including examining the hedging Framework and monitors its programme in Jackson, and persistency Chairman of the Risk Committee appropriateness in identifying and and policyholder behaviour risks across the managing the risks faced by the Group.
Other areas of focus in 2016 The committee met on eight occasions Committee members included reviewing our cyber defence during the year.
We work closely with the resilience and defence strategy, and Howard Davies Chairman Audit Committee to ensure both Ann Godbehere reviewing the effectiveness of the risk Committees are updated on matters which management functions across the Group.
Kai Nargolwala impact on their responsibilities.
Where a Lord Turner We commissioned a number of deep dive matter requires input from both reviews to support these areas, and Regular attendees Committees, joint meetings are held with monitored the implementation of Chairman of the Board the Audit Committee.
In 2016, one joint recommendations arising.
Group Chief Executive meeting with the Audit Committee took We also refined our governance processes Group Chief Risk Officer place to discuss the Solvency II capital during the year to enhance the information Chief Financial Officer position as at 31 December 2015 and the Committee receives on the activities of Group Regulatory and Government associated governance processes.
our business unit risk committees and Relations Director During 2016, we reviewed the Groups risk ensure key issues are escalated Group General Counsel and policies and updated the Groups risk appropriately.
I maintain regular contact Company Secretary appetite limits to reflect changes in the with the risk committee chairs of our Director of Group-wide Internal Groups risk profile and the evolving material subsidiaries and report to the Audit regulatory and macroeconomic Committee on issues we discuss.
Number of meetings in 2016: environments.
We also reviewed the Looking forward into 2017, the Committee eight in addition, a joint meeting principal risks facing the Group and will remain focused on monitoring the was held with the Audit received regular updates on these through Groups principal risks and those posed Committee the course of the year.
We receive regular by regulatory developments and reports from the Chief Risk Officers of our macroeconomic conditions.
the 2017 plans for the Risk function, and Over 2016, we continued to focus on the will continue to adapt our plan of work to key risks arising from the products we offer respond to any changes in the business to our customers, the risks inherent in our environment or the Groups strategy.
investment portfolios, and the operational As Chairman of the Committee, I have risks that arise from operating our responsibility for ensuring the Committee businesses.
We regularly reviewed the operates effectively.
To ensure we do so strength of our capital and liquidity and provide constructive challenge to positions, and the significant ongoing management, I encourage open debate changes to the regulatory framework and and contributions from all Committee environment.
In addition, we closely members.
An annual review of our monitored risks arising from the effectiveness was carried out as part of the macroeconomic environment and Board evaluation, described in more detail regulatory developments such as the risks on page 87.
The Committee was found to relating to prolonged low interest rates and be functioning effectively.
the pace of regulatory developments across the globe.
During 2016, we oversaw the work required as a result of the Groups continuing designation as a Global Systemically Important Insurer, including www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 103 Committee reports Continued How the Committee spent its time during 2016 The table below provides an overview of how the Committee spent its time in 2016.
Feb Apr May Jul Sep Oct Nov Markets and Group risk updates Market conditions and impact Group risk update Risk management Group top risk identification Top risk discussions Business unit specific risk matters Risk assessment of business plan Risk function effectiveness Regulatory matters Regulatory matters Risk framework Solvency II internal model development Risk limit updates Risk policy framework refresh Year end E-cap results Governance and reporting Year end risk disclosures Policy compliance Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Compliance report Global Systemically Important Insurer: Liquidity Risk Management Plan, Systemic Risk Management Plan and Recovery Plan Solvency II reporting and governance processes IFRS Phase II Environmental Social Governance ESG reporting Committee terms of reference 104 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance Key matters considered during the year Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Risk appetite As part of the Groups business plan, risk appetite limits were reviewed and updated.
The primary driver of the changes was the increased macroeconomic uncertainty and market volatility, while regulatory and business change continued.
In order to be confident that the business continued to remain within risk appetite, risk limits were reviewed and several new measures introduced.
Risk management Annually, business units must assess and certify their compliance with the Group Risk Framework and risk policies as part of the annual Group Governance Manual certification.
The annual certification process for risk policies is facilitated by Group Risk and subject to oversight by the Risk Committee.
In 2016, the Group Risk Framework and risk policies were subject to their annual review, with changes being approved by the Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee approved a number of deep dives to be undertaken during 2016.
These focused on risks embedded within the existing portfolio of products in our US, Asia and UK businesses.
The Group Cyber Risk Strategy was overseen by the Risk Committee in mid 2016.
The Committee reviewed the Cyber Defence Plan, providing further detail around the implementation of the cyber strategy at the end of 2016.
The Cyber Strategy and Defence Plan articulate the strategic outcomes and key deliverables relating to our cyber resilience.
The Committee also agreed the characteristics of an effective risk function and conducted its first annual review of risk effectiveness in May.
Group top risks The Committee evaluated the Groups top risks, considering recommendations for promoting additional risks, expanding the scope of existing risks, and removing those risks no longer requiring particular focus from the Committee.
The Committee received regular reporting on the top risks and mitigating actions over the course of the year.
The Group Chief Risk Officers reports also provided the Committee with regulatory updates, particularly regarding Solvency II, the Groups Internal Model, development of the Groups global capital standards and the deliverables required as a result of the Groups designation as a Global Systemically Important Insurer.
Solvency II and Pillar 3 The Committee considered the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment report based on the outcomes of reporting the Groups business plan, the results of the Groups regular stress and scenario testing, and the current and projected risk and solvency positions prior to its approval by the Board.
The approval of the Solvency II Internal Model formalised the Groups Model change process, which records, evaluates and reports changes to management and the regulator.
The Major Model Change application was closely overseen by the Risk Committee throughout 2016 and approved before submission to the regulator.
Solvency II results and associated governance processes were considered in a separate meeting held jointly with the Audit Committee.
Global Systemically The Financial Stability Board announced on 3 November 2015 that the Group continues to be Important Insurer designated as a Global Systemically Important Insurer.
In 2016, the Group was required to update the 2015 Global Systemically Important Insurer deliverables these include the Systemic Risk Management Plan, Recovery Plan and Liquidity Risk Management Plan.
The Committee played a key part in considering and approving a number of these, including the Groups Liquidity Risk Management Plan, Systemic Risk Management Plan and Recovery Plan.
Reverse stress testing Stress and scenario testing is a key risk measurement and management tool for the Group.
The Reverse Stress Test exercise was carried out to confirm the Groups position as being significantly resilient to certain business failure scenarios.
The report related to the Groups year end 2016 position and was submitted to the PRA.
Compliance reporting The Committee received reporting on key compliance risks and mitigation activity, including customer risk, conflicts of interest, financial crime and the implementation of the Senior Insurance Managers Regime.
The Committee also reviewed and approved a number of regulatory compliance risk-related policies.
