Statutory and regulatory disclosures information which form part of the Groups Financial reporting Going concern internal governance framework.
As part of The Directors have a duty to report to In accordance with the requirements of the the framework, the Group has adopted an shareholders on the performance and guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Inside Information Policy which includes financial position of the Group and are Council in September 2014 Guidance on guidance and procedures for the responsible for preparing the financial Risk Management, Internal Control and identification and escalation of inside statements on pages 160 to 318 and the Related Financial and Business Reporting, information as well as appropriate controls supplementary information on pages 324 after making sufficient enquiries the on the disclosure of such information in line to 361.
It is the responsibility of the auditor Directors have a reasonable expectation with regulatory requirements.
to form independent opinions, based on its that the Company and the Group have audit of the financial statements and its adequate resources to continue their Compliance with corporate audit of the EEV basis supplementary operations for a period of at least 12 governance codes information, and to report its opinions to months from the date that the financial The Board confirms that the Company has the Companys shareholders and to the statements are approved.
In support of this complied with all principles and relevant Company.
Its opinions are given on pages expectation, the Companys business provisions of both the UK and HK 319 to 322 and page 362. activities, together with the factors likely to Corporate Governance Codes throughout affect its future development, successful Company law requires the Directors to the accounting year.
An explanation of how performance and position in the current prepare financial statements for each the principles and provisions have been economic climate, are set out in the financial year that give a true and fair view applied is set out in this report and in the Strategic report on pages 10 to 73.
The of the financial affairs of the Company and Directors remuneration report on pages risks facing the Groups capital and liquidity of the Group.
The criteria applied in the 109 to 157. positions and their sensitivities are referred preparation of the financial statements are to in the Strategic report on pages 50 to 61.
With respect to Code Provision B.
1.2 d of set out in the statement of Directors The Groups IFRS financial statements the HK Code, the responsibilities of the responsibilities on page 318 and page 361. include the details of the Groups Remuneration Committee do not include Company law also requires the Board to borrowings in Note C6 on page 255, the making recommendations to the Board on approve the Strategic report.
In addition, market risk and liquidity analysis associated the remuneration of the Non-executive the UK Code requires the Directors with the Groups assets and liabilities can Directors.
In line with the principles of the statement to state that they consider the be found in Note C3.4 a on pages 224 and UK Code, fees for the Non-executive Annual Report and financial statements, 225, policyholder liability maturity profile Directors are determined by the Board.
taken as a whole is fair, balanced and by business units in Notes C4.1 b, c and The UK Code can be viewed on the FRCs understandable and provides the d on pages 232, 234 and 236 respectively, website and the HK Code is available on information necessary for shareholders to cash flow details in the consolidated the website of the HK Stock Exchange.
assess the Companys position and statement of cash flows and provisions and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors therefore consider it appropriate The Directors are further required to to continue to adopt the going concern confirm that the Strategic report includes a basis of accounting in preparing the fair review of the development and financial statements for the year ended performance of the business, with a 31 December 2016. description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
Such confirmation is Powers of the Board included in the statement of Directors The Board may exercise all powers responsibilities on page 318 and page 361. conferred on it by the Companys Articles and the Companies Act 2006.
This The Strategic report provides, on pages 47 and 48, a description of the Groups capital includes the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge position, financing and liquidity.
The risks facing the Groups business and how these any of its assets subject to the limitations set out in the Companies Act 2006 and the are managed are discussed in the audited sections of the Group Chief Risk Officers Companys Articles and to give a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect report on pages 50 to 60. of a debt or other obligation of the The Directors who held office at the date of Company.
approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is Securities dealing and inside no relevant audit information of which the information Companys auditor is unaware: each Prudential has adopted securities dealing Director has taken all the steps that he or rules relating to transactions by Directors she ought to have taken as a Director to on terms no less exacting than required by make himself or herself aware of any Appendix 10 to the HK Listing Rules and by relevant audit information and to establish relevant UK regulations the UK Model that the Companys auditor is aware of that Code was replaced by the Market Abuse information.
This confirmation is given and Regulation with effect from 3 July 2016. should be interpreted in accordance with The Directors have complied with this the provisions of Section 418 of the code of conduct throughout the period.
Relevant controls are applied to the handling and dissemination of inside 106 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
