02 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Governance Board of directors Appointed PZ years Name and position to the Board of service Committee memberships Skills & experience alex Kanellis 2003 23 years Executive Committee Alex Kanellis joined PZ Cussons in 1993. chief executive He was appointed Managing Director of Nomination Committee Officer the Groups Thailand operations in 1998 Good4Business Committee and Managing Director of Indonesia in 2001.
He joined the Board in 2003 as Regional Director of Asia before becoming Chief Executive in June 2006.
Alex has a PhD in mechanical engineering.
2006 19 years Executive Committee Brandon Leigh joined PZ Cussons Brandon leigh chief financial in 1997 and held anumber of senior Good4Business Committee Officer finance roles within the Group before being appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer in 2006.
Previous to joining PZCussons, Brandon worked at Deloitte & Touche where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
chris davis 2006 23 years Executive Committee Chris Davis joined PZ Cussons in 1993. chief operating After holding various senior posts, he was Good4Business Committee appointed as Managing Director of the Officer Groups Australian operations.
In 2006 he joined the Board as Regional Director of Africa and in 2008 moved into the role of Group Commercial Director.
Chris was appointed to his present position in 2013.
Previous to PZ Cussons, Chris worked in senior sales & marketing roles in various consumer goods companies including BTRNylex Group.
Appointed PZ years Name and position to the Board of service Committee memberships Skills & experience Other appointments richard harvey 2010 6 years Chairman of the Richard Harvey joined the PZ Cussons Non-executive non-executive Nomination Committee Board in January 2010, before becoming Director of chairman Non-executive Chairman in July 2010.
Jardine Lloyd Good4Business Committee Richard was Group Chief Executive of Thompson Plc Norwich Union Plc and later of Aviva following the merger between Norwich Union and CGU.
A former Chair of the Association of British Insurers 2003-2005, after retiring from Aviva in 2007 he supported charitable initiatives and projects in Africa working with the Africa Progress Panel and the World Bank.
Richard is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
caroline silver 2014 2 years Nomination Committee Caroline Silver joined the PZ Cussons Partner and senior Boardas Non-executive Director in 2014, Managing Director Remuneration Committee independent becoming Senior Independent Director Moelis & Co Chair of Audit & Risk director in2016.
She has worked within the Trustee of the Committee investment banking sector for over Victoria & Albert 25years and is Partner and Managing Good4Business Committee Museum Director at Moelis & Co. She is a chartered accountant and has previously held senior corporate finance and M&A positions atMorgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch.
She has a wealth of international experience especially within African markets.
6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 2 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 03 Appointed PZ years Name and position to the Board of service Committee memberships Skills & experience Professor 2007 9 years Audit & Risk Committee Professor Arnold became a PZ Cussons Chairman of John arnold Non-executive Director in 2007, holding Feelgood Theatre Nomination Committee non-executive the role of Senior Independent Director Productions Remuneration Committee director from 2014 until earlier this year.
Previously, Professor Arnold spent 12 years as Good4Business Committee Director and Dean of Manchester Business School.
He is a chartered accountant and Emeritus Professor of Accounting and Financial Management at Manchester Business School.
ngozi edozien 2012 4 years Nomination Committee Ngozi has a background in financial Non-executive non-executive services investment banking and private Director of Remuneration Committee director equity, management consulting and Stanbic IBTC Audit & Risk Committee general management.
She held senior Holdings positions as an Associate at JP Morgan NY Standard Bank, Chair of Good4Business and Associate Principal at McKinsey & Co. Nigeria Committee UK, France where she advised businesses Non-executive predominantly in the consumer products Director of and healthcare sectors.
She has also held Guinness Diageo roles as Head Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria Actis West Africa, a leading private equity Non-executive investor in emerging markets based in the Director of UK and as VP Strategic Planning and Barloworld Plc Business Development for Pfizer Inc. in the South Africa New York headquarters and subsequently Regional Director East, West and Central Africa.
She is currently Managing Director of InVivo Partners, a principal investments and advisory firm in Nigeria.
helen owers 2012 4 years Nomination Committee Helen Owers joined the PZ Cussons Board Non-executive non-executive as Non-executive Director in 2012.
Director of Chair of Remuneration director Prior to this she held senior roles within Informa Plc Committee Thomson Reuters, including Chief Non-executive Audit & Risk Committee Development Officer with responsibility Director of for the companys expansion in rapidly Good4Business Committee Wragge Lawrence developing economies and the Graham & Co. LLP implementation of the companys digital Non-executive strategy, and President of Global Director of the Businesses for Thomson Reuters Legal, Eden Project responsible for building new businesses in emerging markets.
She also has extensive experience working as a consultant for Gemini Consulting, developing and implementing corporate and operational strategies for consumer products clients.
John nicolson 1 May 2016 3 months Nomination Committee John Nicolson joined the PZ Cussons Board Non-executive non-executive as Non-executive Director on 1 May 2016.
Chairman of Remuneration Committee director John has significant experience of global A G Barr Plc Audit & Risk Committee consumer goods businesses for both Non-executive developed and emerging markets, having Good4Business Committee Director of Stocks held senior positions in the FMCG sector, Spirits Group Plc including being Regional President and Non-executive Executive Committee member of Director of Heineken NV and Executive Board Director North American for international markets at Scottish Breweries Inc & Newcastle.
Member of the Advisory Board atEdinburgh University Business School 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
