Directors report Statutory information contained elsewhere in the Branches AnnualReport The company and its subsidiaries have established branches in a Information required to be part of this Directors report can be found number of different countries in which they operate: their results elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table below and are, however, not material to the Groups financial results.
is incorporated into this report by reference: Share capital Location in As at 31 March 2016, the company had allotted and fully paid up Information Annual Report share capital of 586,681,200 ordinary shares of 1p each with an Corporate Governance Statement page 50 aggregate nominal value of 5.9m including shares held by employee Directors details page 58 share trusts and one Special Share with a nominal value of 1.
Directors interests in shares page 91 Employees page 27 Details of the shares in issue during the financial year are shown Financial instruments: Information on the Groups page 129 in note 29 on page 136. financial risk management objectives and policies, and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk Share buyback activity and foreign currency risk Following the sale of the US Services business in 2014, shareholder Greenhouse gas emissions page 31 approval was given for the Directors to purchase ordinary shares up Likely future developments in the business of the pages 2 to 49 company or its subsidiaries to 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital.
The company resolved to use this authority to effect a 150 million return of capital to Results and dividends page 38 shareholders by way of an on-market share buyback, subject to prevailing equity market conditions, as this was considered to be Management report a flexible distribution method which was simple to execute, easily The Strategic report on pages 02 to 49 and the Directors report, understood by the market and provided shareholders with a choice as detailed on pages 96 to 99, including information which has as to whether to participate.
During the financial year under review, been incorporated into those sections by reference, comprise the the company completed this buyback.
The company announced at management report specified by rules 4.1.
8R of the half year in November 2015 that it intended to carry out a further the FCAs Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
return of capital to shareholders of up to 50 million over 12 months, consistent with the companys capital allocation policy, by way of an Research and development on-market buyback, subject to prevailing equity market conditions.
One of the Groups principal business streams is the provision of This buyback has begun and will continue during the year ending funded research and development R&D for customers.
The Group 31 March 2017, subject to market conditions.
also invests in the commercialisation of promising technologies across all areas of business.
As a result of the share buyback activity detailed above, during the year under review, 21,928,804 ordinary shares in the capital of the The majority of R&D-related expenditure is incurred in respect of company representing 3.74% of the issued ordinary share capital specific research contracts placed by customers.
R&D costs are as at 31 March 2016 were purchased at an average price of included within operating costs in the income statement and R&D 217 pence per share.
All of these shares have been cancelled.
income is reflected within revenue.
In the financial year, the Group In the financial year, the impact of the share buyback has been to increase recorded 300.8m 2015: 306.6m of total R&D-related expenditure, basic underlying earnings per share from 15.2p to 16.3p, for total of which 277.6m 2015: 285.8m was customer-funded work and shareholder return to remain unchanged and for net asset value to 23.2m 2015: 20.8m was internally funded all comparative figures reduce by 46.9 million.
In accordance with the Investment Associations exclude discontinued operations.
Additionally, 0.4m 2015: 0.4m guidelines, the effect of the share buyback has been neutralised in of late-stage development costs was capitalised and 1.2m 2015: incentive schemes, such that for calculation purposes the number of shares 0.6m of capitalised development costs was amortised in the year.
in issue is regarded as the same at the end of the three-year performance period as at the beginning.
Accordingly, no benefit has accrued under Political donations the incentive schemes as a consequence of the share buyback.
QinetiQ does not make political donations to parties as that term would be commonly recognised.
The legal definition of that term is, Rights of ordinary shareholders however, quite broad and may have the effect of covering a number The rights of ordinary shareholders are set out in the Articles of normal business activities that would not commonly be perceived of Association.
The Articles of Association can be found on the to be political donations, such as sponsorship of events.
com in the Corporate Governance section.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to These may include legitimate interactions in making MPs and others receive the companys Reports and Accounts, to attend and speak at in the political world aware of key industry issues and matters that general meetings of the company, to exercise voting rights in person affect QinetiQ, and that make an important contribution to their or by appointing a proxy, and to receive a dividend where declared understanding of QinetiQ, the markets in which it operates and the or paid out of profits available for that purpose.
96 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Rights of special shareholder Corporate sponsored nominee The Special Share is held by HM Government through the Secretary In circumstances where ordinary shares are held by the corporate of State for Defence the Special Shareholder and it may only be held sponsored nominee service, Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited will by and transferred to HM Government.
It confers certain rights which vote on all resolutions proposed at general meetings in accordance are set out in the Articles of Association to protect UK defence and with voting instructions received from shareholders using such security interests.
These include: corporate nominee service.
the promotion and reinforcement of the MOD compliance Major shareholdings principles which require QinetiQ to be an impartial, ethical and The company has been notified of the following interests of 3% or responsible contractor by avoiding conflicts of interest in its more in the issued ordinary share capital of the company being dealings with the MOD: voting rights over such share capital pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the the protection of defined strategic assets of the Group, such Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: as certain testing facilities, by providing the Special Shareholder At 31 March 2016 with an option to purchase those assets in certain circumstances: # % of issued share At 20 May 2016 the right to require certain persons with a material interest Name of shareholder capital % of issued share in QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares Schroders 9.984% 9.984% on the grounds of national security or conflict of interest: and Artisan Partners 5.01% 5.01% nationality of Directors provisions whereby at least the NonBlackRock, Inc. 5.01% 8.63% executive Chairman or Chief Executive Officer must be a Investec 4.95% 4.95% British citizen.
Norges Bank 3.93% 3.93% as notified by the shareholder.
The Special Share carries no financial and economic value and the # being a date not more than a month prior to the date of the notice of AGM.
Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at a general meeting of the company.
At any time the Special Shareholder may require QinetiQ Directors conflicts of interest to redeem the share at par and, if wound up, the Special Shareholder The company requires Directors to disclose proposed outside would be entitled to be repaid at its nominal value before other business interests before they are entered into.
Any variation of the rights attaching to the Special assessment of any conflict, or potential conflict, of interest and Share requires the written approval of the MOD.
Further details any impact on time commitment.
An annual review of all external can be found in note 29 on page 136. interests is carried out by the Board.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares Directors interests in contracts As detailed above, the Special Share confers rights under the At the date of this report, there is no contract or arrangement with Companys Articles of Association to require certain persons with an the company or any of its subsidiaries that is significant in relation interest in QinetiQs shares that exceed certain prescribed thresholds to the business of the Group as a whole in which a Director of the to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares on the grounds of company is materially interested.
national security or conflict of interest.
Indemnities Employee share schemes The Articles of Association of the company entitle the Directors of the The QinetiQ Group plc Employee Benefit Trust the Trust holds shares in company, to the extent permitted by law, to be indemnified out of connection with QinetiQs employee share schemes, excluding the Share the assets of the company in the event that they suffer any expenses Incentive Plan.
As at 31 March 2016, the Trust held 3,007,587 ordinary in connection with certain proceedings relating to the execution shares of 1p each the Trust Shares.
The Trustees of the Trust have agreed of their duties as Directors of the company.
to waive their entitlement to dividends payable on the Trust Shares.
The Trust holds further ordinary shares in respect of deferred shares held In addition, the company purchases Directors and officers liability on behalf of participants in the Companys Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
Where it is not possible for Directors and officers to be Dividends received by the Trust in respect of the deferred shares are indemnified by the company, such Directors and officers of the paid direct to the plan participants on receipt and are not retained company benefit from the Directors and officers liability insurance in the Trust.
cover in respect of legal actions brought against them.
This insurance protection is also provided to the company and its subsidiaries where Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited acts as Trustee in respect of all they have provided an indemnity.
ordinary shares held by employees under the QinetiQ Group plc Share Incentive Plan the Plan.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited will vote The Directors of QinetiQ Pension Scheme Trustee Limited, a Group on all resolutions proposed at general meetings in accordance with company and the Trustee of the QinetiQ Pension Scheme the voting instructions received from participants in the Plan.
Scheme, benefit from an indemnity contained in the rules of the Scheme.
The indemnity would be provided out of the Scheme assets.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 Directors report continued Change of control significant agreements Articles of Association The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling Changes to the Articles must be submitted to shareholders for the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, approval.
Save in respect of the rights attaching to the Special Share, alteration or other similar rights in the event of a change of control the company has not adopted any special rules relating to the of the company, or if the company ceases to be a UK company: appointment and replacement of Directors or the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association, other than as provided under UK corporate law.
The Combined Aerial Target Service contract is a 20-year contract awarded to QinetiQ by the MOD on 14 December 2006.
The terms Appointment and replacement of Directors of this contract require QinetiQ Limited to remain a UK company According to the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to which is incorporated under the laws of any part of the UK, or an election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following overseas company registered in the UK, and that at least 50% of their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no the Board of Directors are UK nationals.
The terms also contain more than three years.
In line with best practice reflected in the change of control conditions and restricted share transfer Code, however, the company requires each serving member of the conditions which require prior approval from HM Government if Board to be put forward for election or re-election on an annual basis there is a material change in the ownership of QinetiQ Limiteds at each annual general meeting.
share capital, unless the change relates to shares listed on a regulated market material is defined as being 10% or more of Powers of the Directors: allotment purchase of own shares the share capital.
In addition, there are restrictions on transfers At the Companys Annual General Meeting held in July 2015, the of shares to persons from countries appearing on the restricted shareholders passed resolutions which authorised the Directors to allot list as issued by HM Government.
relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,981,256 The Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA is a 25-year contract, 1,990,329 pursuant only to a rights issue, to disapply pre-emption which QinetiQ Limited signed on 28 February 2003, to provide rights up to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital and to purchase test, evaluation and training services to the MOD.
This contract ordinary shares up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
contains conditions under which the prior approval of HM Government is required if the contractor, QinetiQ Limited, ceases Resolutions in respect of the allotment of relevant securities, the to be a subsidiary of the QinetiQ Group, except where such change disapplication of pre-exemption rights and the purchase of own in control is permitted under the shareholders Agreement to shares will be laid before the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The company is party to a multi-currency revolving credit facility The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, with a US$100m tranche and a 166m tranche, provided by a 20 July 2016 at 11.00am, at the offices of Ashurst LLP, Broadwalk House, consortium of banks, that expires on 29 August 2019.
Under the 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA.
Details of the business to be terms of the facility, in the event of a change of control of the proposed and voted on at the meeting are contained in the Notice of company, any lender may give notice to cancel its commitment Annual General Meeting, which is sent to all shareholders and is also under the facility and require all outstanding amounts to be published on the companys website, www.
The Directors contracts contain no provisions for compensation Auditor for loss of office on a change of control of the company.
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
98 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report Statement of disclosure of information to the auditor andfinancial statements The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Directors report have confirmed that, so far as the Directors are the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys with applicable law and regulations.
auditor is unaware, and the Directors have taken all the steps they reasonably should have taken as Directors to make themselves aware Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that auditor is aware of that information.
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements Annual Report in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law The Directors in office as at the date of this report confirm that to the UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
best of their knowledge: Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and company, and the undertakings included in the consolidation parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: taken as a whole: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: and performance of the business, and the position of the company make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been whole, together with a description of the principal risks and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: uncertainties that they face.
for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent By order of the Board: company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Jon Messent it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company Secretary and Group General Counsel company will continue in business.
26 May 2016 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99
