Market overview Increasing security threats: budget pressures QinetiQ has a track record of delivering more for less and meeting new challenges through innovation.
We are well positioned to help customers meet the dual challenges of budget pressures and increasing global security threats.
UK Delivering more for less UK Ministry of Defence budget bn As part of the SDSR, the MOD has declared plans to Alignment with UK defence customers address important capability gaps such as maritime In the financial year to 31 March 2016, 67% 39.6 surveillance through the purchase of nine new 38.1 2015: 67% of QinetiQ Group revenue was 37.0 36.1 aircraft and combat air numbers by extending the 35.1 34.3 generated from the UK Ministry of Defence life of Typhoon aircraft that have been in service MOD in addition to 3% 2015: 3% from other for some time.
These plans will require immediate UK Government Departments.
We are the savings to be made elsewhere in the defence UKs leading provider of test and evaluation enterprise to fund them, with the UK Government T&E services across all military domains and looking to achieve a 30% reduction in MOD civilian the majority of equipment programmes.
We staff and in built estate to deliver 11bn of savings generate more than 300m per year from T&E, from defence and security budgets over the next underpinned by the Long Term Partnering four years.
Agreement LTPA, which has delivered an improved service and significant savings for the FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 The introduction of new capabilities, and in MOD over the last 13 years.
We estimate the UK particular extending the life of existing capabilities, T&E market is double this size and the addressable Source: UK Government Comprehensive provides QinetiQ with opportunities to deliver Spending Review 2015. market worldwide is much greater.
Leading the engineering, test and evaluation services.
The UK T&E enterprise by working in partnership with savings programmes could also provide further Government and prime contractors is one of the opportunities for outsourcing, along with increased rate acts as the starting point for agreeing the key pillars of QinetiQs strategy.
In addition, we MOD presence on our sites.
There is likely to profit rates of new and renewed contracts, and remain a market leader in research and advice be increasing competition, but QinetiQ is well suppliers can both under and over-perform the in specialist areas such as C4ISR, weapons and positioned due to its strong record in delivering contracted rate depending on, for example, risk, energetics, cyber security and procurement improved services combined with significant capital servicing and project execution.
savings ie more for less for customers.
updates and clarifications are expected to be published by the SSRO on other topics affecting Within the MOD, the main customers for our MOD spending on science and technology will QDCs, eg allowable costs.
services are the MODs procurement function continue to be protected at 1.2% of the defence fide&S Defence Equipment and Support, the budget with an increased emphasis on disruptive Our combination of capabilities is unique in Defence Science and Technology Laboratory technologies and innovation, and a move away the UK and, consequently, approximately 70% Dstl and the Front Line Commands Navy, from some more traditional research programmes.
of total EMEA Services revenue is derived Army, Air and Joint Forces, whose influence Space, cyber security and cryptography are from single source contracts, including the on future capabilities has increased in recent among the priorities, areas in which QinetiQ non-tasking element of the Long Term Partnering years.
Our businesses are aligned closely to these has recognised expertise.
As we have said before, we Commands and are well placed to help them anticipate that the majority of our single source with their growing procurement responsibilities.
The Single Source Regulations Office SSRO is now revenue will fall under the regulations within In particular, Joint Forces Command, with its fully established as the independent regulator for approximately three years.
own procurement arm and multi-billion pound single source defence contracts, driving greater budget, provides a focused channel for our transparency that will help demonstrate the value C 4ISR is command, control, communications, Cyber, Information & Training business.
computers, intelligence, surveillance and for money the Government derives from Qualifying reconnaissance.
The SSRO has confirmed The UK Governments Strategic Defence and the baseline profit rate for new single source Security Review SDSR was published on defence contracts is 8.95% for FY17 10.6% in FY16 23 November 2015.
Its publication has helped and that over the course of FY17 it will consult to clarify the UKs capability priorities, but it will again and develop the methodology for calculating take time before its impact on the associated the baseline profit rate in future years, potentially allocation of the UK defence budget is clear.
This baseline 08 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Breakdown of revenue by customer Breakdown of revenue by key domain Air & Space 25% UK Ministry of Defence MOD 67% Maritime, Land & Weapons 36% US Department of Defence DoD 6% Cyber Information & Training 14% Government agencies 10% International 6% Commercial defence 6% Global Products US 8% Commercial 11% Global Products EMEA 11% Global markets Supporting defence modernisation Emerging themes inAustralia Our Global Products division has a significant US QinetiQs third home market is Australia.
The inour markets footprint, providing a route to the worlds largest Australian Government is responding to the need defence market and, in the financial year to Increasing threats: budget pressures to modernise its defence equipment and now 31 March 2016, 6% 2015: 6% of QinetiQ Group Looking across our home and overseas markets plans to replace the majority of its platforms revenue was generated from the US Department we see a number of key themes.
Governments over the next 15 years, supported by an increase of Defense DoD.
are having to respond to increasing security in defence expenditure to 2% of GDP.
In line threats with reducing budgets.
They need with the recommendations of its First Principles US defence market: a greater focus on to deliver more with less.
So not only are Review, in which our Australian business played innovation government customers seeking greater value a role, the Government is also pursuing a defence In the US, the defence downturn is reaching the for money from their suppliers, they are also transformation programme similar to that which bottom of the cycle, with the President requesting looking for assistance in meeting their own has been underway in the UK since the beginning continued increases to the defence budget and efficiency challenges.
Companies like QinetiQ, of the decade.
the budget for overseas contingency operations.
with a track record of delivering improved A renewed commitment by US military customers productivity and innovation in products and Global investment in defence to unmanned systems products is reflected in services, are strongly positioned to help.
Many of our unique capabilities are attractive plans to award new competitive Programs of to customers beyond the UK, US and Australia, Record over the next two years to enhance and Innovation in equipment, processes and and we have made it a strategic priority sustain the US unmanned systems capability approach to develop new home markets through as a funded capability in the DoD budget.
Most governments recognise that being efficient partnerships, and grow sales by exporting our is not enough and they also need to innovate products and services.
For example, as the The President has requested an increased to respond to these fast evolving threats.
They Canadian Government pursues similar defence research and development R&D budget for are seeking new approaches to innovation in transformation programmes to the UK, it values defence which includes the Defense Innovation both equipment and processes so that they can the advice, test and evaluation that we can Initiative, also known as the Third Offset Strategy, rapidly integrate new technologies into existing provide in support of better procurement.
an ambitious effort to identify and invest in capabilities.
Investing and applying our core innovative ways to sustain and advance Americas competence for customer advantage in defence In Sweden, where QinetiQ operates the Flight military dominance for the 21st Century.
This and commercial markets is a strategic priority for Physiological Test Centre for the Swedish defence initiative is expected to put new resources QinetiQ.
Many customers are keen to capture department, the defence environment is similar, behind innovation and, in particular, research the innovation that comes from universities with budget pressures evident against a background and development in technology to support and and small and medium sized enterprises SMEs, of heightened security threats.
Such pressures, on optimise the interaction between humans and and are looking for assistance from organisations Sweden and other Northern European nations, can machines.
These initiatives align with a number of that can help them connect their supply drive greater cooperation on specific programme areas in which QinetiQ has distinctive strengths chains.
Similarly, governments are promoting opportunities and greater interdependency including sensor fusion, man-machine interfaces, multilateral approaches to developing new between allies in capability provision.
capabilities, encouraging suppliers to cooperate internationally.
Further afield, in Turkey and the Middle East, budgets remain more robust, offering increased QinetiQ already delivers an innovation export opportunities for defence products and integrator role, building networks of suppliers services, albeit these and other nations are to bring together Government, industry, determined to develop indigenous capability for SMEs and academia in collaborating teams both economic and sovereignty motives.
This can and thereby facilitating innovation at every provide seams of growth potential for QinetiQs stage of the procurement process.
Our Cyber most distinctive capabilities but accessing these Information & Training CIT business, for markets will require thoughtful partnering example, is the MODs leading supplier of C4ISR approaches and alignment with UK Government research, managing framework contracts for the export initiatives.
MOD that involve more than 100 UK SMEs.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 09
