Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our business model How we create customer value QinetiQ is a company of scientists and Our principal revenue streams are advice, Our business model is robust and sustainable engineers essential to sovereign capability.
services particularly test and evaluation because our knowledge base is constantly The technical expertise and domain and technology-based products.
refreshed as we learn from experience, know-how of our people are our principal understand emerging customer needs and sources of competitive advantage and are We work across the equipment lifecycle invest in our future.
This enables us to both well matched to the emerging themes in from initial concept through to final sustain existing capabilities and create new our markets.
By leveraging our distinctive disposal.
At the start of the lifecycle, our ones to ensure we respond to customer facilities and integrating our core focus is on research and experimentation.
needs and stay ahead of the competition.
capabilities, we play a critical role in We then test and evaluate next generation helping customers meet current and equipment to help customers to control As a business whose reputation and future challenges.
risks and determine the best options.
achievements are centred on our people, Once a new capability has been adopted, QinetiQ has relatively low capital and QinetiQs customer relationships and we train users and facilitate the rehearsal resource requirements.
Our future success know-how about customer domains of how equipment will be used most is primarily dependent on our ability have been developed over many years effectively in an operational environment.
to recruit, develop, engage and retain of working in partnership.
We also work exceptional employees, including collaboratively with prime contractors and By providing mission-critical solutions, subject matter experts and specialists a broad-based supply chain that includes we deliver operational and competitive of international standing.
small and medium-sized companies, advantage to our customers, ensuring as well as academic institutions.
they meet their goals faster, more cost effectively and with greater confidence.
Generation Next Current LIFECYCLE After Next Generation Generation Experimentation Test Training & Research & Evaluation & Rehearsal DELIVERING Advice CUSTOMER OUR ROLE ADVANTAGE Services Products Understanding Science & Engineering Capability OUR CORE Future Needs QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 03
