Our way of working A ligning the company with our strategy We are embedding a new way of working Responding to a changing market environment, we have reorganised the company, to deliver better value for money and a more efficient toalign the company with our strategy service for our customers.
andensure we are agile and responsive The leadership team has been strengthened with the appointment inmeeting customer needs.
of a new Managing Director International, a new CEO for OptaSense and Group Directors of Business Development and Human Resources, all from outside QinetiQ.
Air & Space Maritime, Land & Weapons Cyber, Information & Training International EMEA 616.4m What we do: fide-risks complex aerospace What we do: Delivers operational What we do: Helps government and What we do: Delivers our products Services FY16 Annual revenue programmes by testing systems and advantage to customers by providing commercial customers respond to and services in international markets.
equipment, evaluating the risks and independent research, evaluation and ever-evolving threats based on its expertise Combining world-leading expertise assuring safety.
in training, secure communication networks with unique facilities to provide and devices, intelligence gathering and technical assurance, test and Why bring together Maritime, Land & Why bring together Air & Space?
Why create an international business?
surveillance sensors, and cyber security.
evaluation and training services, 5,514 Weapons?
The business has a strong focus Technology developments are increasingly It incorporates businesses with a significant underpinned by long-term contracts.
on test and evaluation, and customers are blurring boundaries between air and space international footprint and those with FY16 total employees increasingly undertaking more complex international growth potential as well systems which allows us to increase multi-domain trials.
as our other international offices.
collaboration in our engineering capabilities.
The business includes QinetiQ Australia as well as Advisory Services.
Key Sites: Farnborough Key Sites: Farnborough, Boscombe Down, Key Sites: Farnborough, Malvern Key Sites: Australia, Sweden, and Boscombe Down, UK.
Shoeburyness, Fort Halstead, Hebrides, and Crewe, UK.
Aberporth, Pendine, West Freugh, Portsdown Technology Park and Haslar, UK.
Page 34 Operating review QinetiQ North America OptaSense Space Products EMEA Products Global 139.3m What we do: Develops and produces What we do: Provides innovative fibre What we do: Provides satellites, payload What we do: Provides research services Products FY16 Annual revenue innovative military protection products sensing solutions to deliver decision instruments, sub-systems and ground and bespoke technological solutions specialising in unmanned systems, ready data in multiple vertical markets.
developed from intellectual property Delivers innovative solutions survivability and maritime systems, spun out from EMEA Services.
tomeetcustomer requirements along with products in related andundertakes contract-funded commercial markets.
research and development, 693 developing intellectual property Approximate revenue: 60m.
FY16 total employees inpartnership with key customers and through internal funding with Key Sites: Waltham, Massachusetts: Key Sites: Farnborough, Winfrith, Key Sites: Farnborough, UK Key Sites: Farnborough, Malvern potential for new revenue streams.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania: and Virginia, USA.
Portishead, UK: Houston, USA: and Antwerp, Belgium.
Calgary, Canada and Dubai, UAE.
Page 35 Operating review 12 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 13 Global locations Australia Belgium Canada Sweden UAE USA Air & Space Maritime, Land & Weapons Cyber, Information & Training International 616.4m What we do: fide-risks complex aerospace What we do: Delivers operational What we do: Helps government and What we do: Delivers our products FY16 Annual revenue programmes by testing systems and advantage to customers by providing commercial customers respond to and services in international markets.
equipment, evaluating the risks and independent research, evaluation and ever-evolving threats based on its expertise assuring safety.
in training, secure communication networks and devices, intelligence gathering and Why bring together Maritime, Land & Why bring together Air & Space?
The business has a strong focus Technology developments are increasingly It incorporates businesses with a significant on test and evaluation, and customers are blurring boundaries between air and space international footprint and those with FY16 total employees increasingly undertaking more complex international growth potential as well systems which allows us to increase multi-domain trials.
QinetiQ North America OptaSense Space Products EMEA Products 139.3m What we do: Develops and produces What we do: Provides innovative fibre What we do: Provides satellites, payload What we do: Provides research services FY16 Annual revenue innovative military protection products sensing solutions to deliver decision instruments, sub-systems and ground and bespoke technological solutions specialising in unmanned systems, ready data in multiple vertical markets.
developed from intellectual property survivability and maritime systems, spun out from EMEA Services.
along with products in related commercial markets.
FY16 total employees Key Sites: Waltham, Massachusetts: Key Sites: Farnborough, Winfrith, Key Sites: Farnborough, UK Key Sites: Farnborough, Malvern Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania: and Virginia, USA.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13
