Strategy in action UK Opportunities todelivermore forless QinetiQ already has a strong working Director, QinetiQ.
This is how it works: the The UK MOD benefits relationship with Defence Equipment and customer identifies required outputs from Support fide&S, the UK Ministry of Defences their project delivery plans and selects the from our ability to MOD procurement function, through required outputs from a standardised list, contracts such as the 25-year Long Term for example, airworthiness certification for a innovate to deliver Partnering Agreement.
fide&S manages the fighter jet or Airbus A400M military transport more for less huge range of complex projects that are aircraft, rather than developing and agreeing required to buy and support all equipment a bespoke set of tasks for every new project.
and services for the front line.
In 2015, this This means our technical experts can really Our plan for change relationship entered a new phase with the focus on the outcomes the customer needs, setting up of the QinetiQ Strategic Enterprise: saving time and bringing QinetiQ innovation This innovative approach to contracting, an overarching framework that will improve into the process even earlier.
For fide&S project where QinetiQ is measured and paid on the timeliness and value for money for the teams, it eases the entire process and brings results and outputs, not inputs, was delivery of technical services to fide&S Air down costs, while giving an assurance of delivered by a pan-QinetiQ team that Environment project teams.
Two project consistent timely, high quality services over comprised business development, teams, FAST covering Typhoon, Tornado several years.
delivery, commercial and finance and the Battle of Britain Memorial Flight experts making use of the best skills and A400M, have placed tasks within the Streamlining processes, reducing costs available across the company.
QinetiQ Strategic Enterprise framework With multiple projects managed under this valued at 153m over five years.
single delivery approach, QinetiQ Strategic Enterprise delivers greater customer value Deliver more for less by streamlining administrative processes, Strategic Enterprise is a more effective optimising the use of resources, driving down way to deliver multiple technical services costs and better supporting longer-term to the customer, bringing individual platform planning.
All activity is managed by the projects under the same framework to centralised Strategic Enterprise Management enable major efficiencies and cost savings, Office SEMO, which is jointly staffed by says Gordon Barr, Group Corporate Campaign QinetiQ and fide&S.
Having a clear set of requirements along with pre-defined outputs and delivery processes will reduce cost and enable more focus on quality, says Ron Finlayson, QinetiQ Strategic Business Director, Defence.
The Strategic Enterprise delivery framework will also allow us to forecast future workloads with greater accuracy, helping the MOD to prioritise work and QinetiQ to plan our resources better so we can ensure the right skills are available when they are needed.
Air Marshal Sir Simon Bollom, Chief of Materiel, Air said, This new approach transforms the provision of QinetiQ-provided technical services for our aircraft.
The Strategic Enterprise will deliver considerable savings and improve long-term planning through further improving our joint working.
16 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information A remarkable QinetiQ exercise showcases maritime missile defences Our plan for change This ground-breaking trial for the At Sea Demonstration 2015 was made possible by capital expenditure in the LTPA contract that enabled major improvements at the Hebrides range including a new communications infrastructure.
Countering maritime threats Notable firsts Commander Mark Williams, Royal Navy said, The proliferation of short, medium and Highlights included four ballistic missile ASD15 had a real operational edge that long-range ballistic missiles and increasingly targets launched, 11 cruise missile targets wasnt fully expected.
We set a pathway advanced anti-ship cruise missiles is a flown, and nine surface-to-air missiles for greater cooperation in the future.
significant threat to navies worldwide.
fired and launched with exo-atmospheric A multinational coalition, the Maritime intercept.
The demonstration culminated Theatre Missile Defense MTMD forum aims in the first ever launch of a ballistic rocket to improve protection against these threats.
into space from the UK and its subsequent Comprising Australia, Canada, France, engagement by a US guided missile Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, Norway, destroyer.
We raised the bar with the Spain, the UK and the USA, the forums international community, showcasing activity includes major events such as QinetiQ capabilities, says Sarah Kenny, the At Sea Demonstration 2015 ASD15 Managing Director Maritime, Land & a ground-breaking opportunity to conduct Weapons.
Planning ASD15 meant overcoming numerous naval interoperability tests.
numerous challenges, from installing a new Trials Control System to rebuilding damage Raising the bar on St Kilda following a storm: Our people Comprising three weeks of allied at-sea rose to these challenges with determination operations and live weapons firing, planned and perseverance.
and coordinated by QinetiQ, ASD15 was hosted by the UK around Europes largest range: the QinetiQ-operated Hebrides range.
A critical aspect was delivering the most sophisticated information architecture ever established for a maritime task group, enabling new levels of interoperability between some of the worlds leading navies.
Information was shared almost simultaneously from ships in the Hebrides to stations in the UK, USA, Germany, Italy and Spain, across 14.7 million sq km of tactical data link network.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Strategy in action continued INTERNATIONAL Delivering value to customers for growth outside the UK Helping the French Government plan newwind farms withconfidence Our plan for change By integrating our expertise in multiple disciplines, including stealth technology, we are able to help customers solve complex problems in civil markets.
When it came to building wind farms as part of its renewable energy plans, France faced a dilemma.
New sites couldnt be approved until their impact on nearby weather radar systems had been explored yet no satisfactory method existed to predict those impacts until we brought our world-class expertise across multiple disciplines.
Breaking the deadlock Planning applications for wind farms were often rejected due to concerns by Frances national meteorological service Mtoany recommendations can be legally to generate predictive data, test results were France about their effects on radar, says recognised during planning applications.
compared with real-life measurements taken Dr Thierry Le Gall, Technology Exploitation QinetiQ successfully modelled interference by Mto-France from two existing wind Manager, Research Services.
As a result, the caused by an existing wind farm in a blind farms in Normandy.
Results confirmed that Government passed a law allowing private test.
Accurately predicting if wind turbines our method predicted the interference companies to conduct independent impact would interfere with weather radars, caused by the turbines to the high degree assessments.
Crucially, a contractor can we became the first company authorised of accuracy demanded by the Government.
only be validated once it has proven to help the French Government cut planning Dr Le Gall says, This is an example of using the accuracy of its predictions, so that red tape for new sites.
technologies we originally developed for military use in civilian and commercial Helping France deliver renewables applications.
This work is a big step forward The Radar Impact Assessment method in helping France to increase adoption of was developed through close collaboration renewable energy, while offering Mtobetween teams across QinetiQ, combining France an assurance this will not harm its expertise and experience of stealth ability to make forecasts.
Were already technology, air traffic management and talking about applying the same technology radar development.
Using a classified code for other countries.
18 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Aircraft structural integrity in Australia Our plan for change By reinforcing partnerships with Government and industry, and improving commercial and business development capabilities, QinetiQ Australia is focusing on longer-term, strategic support style contracts with the Australian Government.
To operate effectively, Australias military to delivering safe, cost-effective and capable Greg Barsby adds, We hold a unique status: aviation depends on impartial airworthiness outcomes to the current and future fleet.
QinetiQ is the ADFs only commercial advice and an assurance of the structural This contract is about maintaining the Authorised Engineering Organisation in ASI integrity of fixed and rotary wing aircraft.
for all military aircraft types.
Under the latest To ensure continued access to world-leading Defence Aviation Safety Regulations, well Aircraft Structural Integrity ASI capabilities, Value for money be able to deliver certified designs across all the Australia Defence Force ADF has The long-term performance-based contract ASI platforms.
We always strive to offer our extended its successful long-term will enable even greater collaborative customers more while delivering measurable partnership with QinetiQ Australia.
QinetiQ working between the ADF, QinetiQ and value for money.
already employs the largest concentration Defence Science and Technology DST of ASI engineers in Australia and delivered Group, keeping Australian military aviation more than 3,500 tasks focused on safer at the forefront of ASI management.
operations, enhanced capability and lower The flexible contractual arrangements are cost of ownership.
designed around the needs of the customer, with any Australian Defence agency able A unique capability to access QinetiQ expertise directly.
Weve been a single channel for ASI expertise for 15 years, and look forward to further strengthening what the Australian Department of Defence describes as a priority industry capability, says Greg Barsby, MD, QinetiQ Australia.
Its important this highly specialised capability doesnt get fragmented and no other provider comes close to matching our resources and know-how.
He says this work is critical QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19 Strategy in action continued INNOVATION Partnering with our customers to solve realworld challenges Enabling the UK military to retain itstactical edge in advanced materials technology Our plan for change An Advanced Services and Products team has been established in the Business Development function, to develop a pipeline of innovation ready for exploitation in the domain-focused businesses.
Protect above all A strategic national capability developed in line with customer demands, In March 2016, the UK Defence Science and The contract, part of the Materials and in particular being able to do more for less Technology Laboratory Dstl renewed a Structures Technology MAST Science and and honing world-leading experts in this contract with QinetiQ that supports the UK Technology Centre, is being delivered by field.
The team is now producing cuttingmilitary in maintaining its tactical advantage QinetiQs world-class team of experts.
The edge technology that recognises the in advanced materials technology.
The new team comprises a unique mix of physicists, ever-growing threat of more connected 10m five-year contract will see QinetiQ chemists, materials scientists and vision technology like never before.
experts develop and test materials to further scientists that has been delivering innovative protect land, air, maritime and subsea solutions to protect the UKs armed forces for Dstl Programme Manager John Pearson, vehicles from next-generation threats.
The MAST programme said: As technology advances at an Performed in line with the UK Ministry of has to be extremely agile, with our team unprecedented rate and becomes more Defences mandate to protect above all, almost exclusively and continuously accessible to hostile states and groups, it is QinetiQs capability is the only one of its innovating, says Dr David Moore, Director vital that the UK stays one step ahead.
Recognised investment will preserve a unique capability as a strategic national capability, the most of critical national importance, enabling the important factor is the people.
And this is British armed forces to maintain their a true growth story: born out of a fragile battle-winning edge.
capability some years ago, MAST has 20 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Next-generation hub motors aim to improve mobility for US military vehicles leading-edge capability into a standard wheel Our plan for change size: The goal is to achieve a high-power unit at an acceptable weight and cost, making it The development of new intellectual viable for in-service deployment.
QinetiQ property through both contract-funded was the only non-US partner selected in research and development and targeted an open tender: our novel approach builds internal funding will provide the potential on highly integrated motor and gearbox for new revenue streams.
technologies pioneered in previous research.
Striking a unique balance The US Defense Advanced Research Projects This new approach is specifically designed Agency DARPA has awarded QinetiQ a to deliver unparalleled performance and contract worth $2m with an option for a durability for a unit of this size and mass.
further $3m to develop a new electric hub The hub is the key to unlocking vehicle motor that aims to revolutionise the mobility system benefits, explains Steven Goldsack.
and performance of military vehicles.
This DARPA has given us a huge amount of R&D project, part of the Ground X-Vehicle freedom to innovate, drawing on our deep Technologies GXV-T program, reflects technical expertise in electromechanical DARPAs mission to develop breakthrough transmissions and the design of high-mobility technologies that could enable fundamental vehicles.
The QinetiQ team, he says, change radical improvements in is striking a remarkable balance between military capability.
mechanical and electrical engineering, creating designs that combine a highBreaking the mould performance motor with an integral We want to stretch the limits of multi-speed gearbox and friction brake.
performance and enable a fundamentally We are meeting the customer brief and more, new approach to vehicle design, that breaks through an entirely new approach an the cycle of vehicles becoming heavier and approach that could provide major benefits less mobile, due to the increasing armour for future armoured fighting vehicles.
and weaponry required to meet the demands The hub drive also offers huge potential for of modern warfare, says Steven Goldsack, significantly improved suspension travel and Programme manager.
Until now, no design better protecting vehicles and personnel team has succeeded in packing such a by removing conventional drive systems.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21
