Our vision and strategy Becoming the chosenpartner Vision Our vision is our aspiration for the company that has been tested with customers and has been communicated to employees across the company.
It sets out our future path and provides the catalyst Our vision is: for change.
To be the chosen partner Each word has specific meaning: around the world for A company our customers want to work with chosen partner.
mission-critical solutions, A company operating beyond the UK around the world.
innovating for our A company solving difficult problems mission-critical solutions.
A company delivering state-of-the-art technology, services, products and business solutions innovating.
A company focused outwardly for our customers advantage.
Strategy To realise our vision, we have developed a strategy designed to grow the company: UK We will lead and modernise the UK defence test and evaluation enterprise by working in partnership with Government and prime contractors.
We intend to modernise the approach to test and evaluation in the UK, focused on introducing a more agile capability.
By working in partnership with Government and other companies, we will help our customers save money.
As threats change, we need to ensure that our test and evaluation capabilities continue to enable next generation military equipment.
For example, in October 2016, we will host a world-first Royal Navy trial which will demonstrate how autonomous systems can operate together as part of a naval fleet.
International We will build an international company that delivers additional value to our customers by developing our home markets, creating new home markets and exporting.
By prioritising customer QinetiQ will become an international company, operating around the world.
We will maintain a focus on our home markets focus and competitiveness the US and Australia as well as the UK where we already have a today, we will deliver presence and market share, develop new home markets through partnerships, and grow sales by exporting our products and services.
For example, to win in an export market, rather than customer advantage compete independently, we have chosen to partner with BAE Systems, with the backing of the UK Government, for a competition in Chile to upgrade their Type 23 frigates.
now and in the future A Team UK approach.
to become the chosen Innovation We will invest in and apply our core competences partner for our for customer advantage in defence and commercial markets.
QinetiQ will continue to innovate, focusing on markets where customers have a clear need for our skills, investing in and applying our competences to meet their needs.
For example, as part of our new Internal Research and Development IRAD programme, we are funding projects to develop next generation approaches to test and evaluation services, robotics and OptaSense applications in the rail industry.
10 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 I N T E R N A T I O N A L K Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our strategic pillars UK INTERNATIONAL INNOVATION We will lead and modernise the UK defence We will build an international company that We will invest in and apply our core test and evaluation enterprise by working delivers additional value to our customers competences for customer advantage in partnership with Government and prime by developing our home markets, creating in defence and commercial markets.
new home markets and exporting.
Page 16 Page 18 Page 20 Our strategy To become the chosen partner, we have reorganised the company, establishing anew way of working, and launched a transformation programme to improve our customer focus and competitiveness.
Read more Page 12 about our way of working Read more about our Operational Business Investing Page 14 transformation excellence winning inourfuture programme QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 U I N N O V A T I O N
