Our transformation programme Plan for change We have launched a transformation programme to enhance customer focus,  and drive investment in sustainable growth.
Operational excellence Driving integrated business planning Dynamic resource management Streamlining processes Business winning Created an International business Focusing on campaigns Upskilling teams Investing in our future Increased Internal Research and Development Delivering savings to reinvest Focusing on organic and inorganic growth 14 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Pages 16 to 21 for examples of how we are implementing our plan for change Our future success will be built on operational Our scientists, engineers and operations We are positioning QinetiQ for the future excellence doing what we say we are going community will be transferred to the new through an integrated business planning to do, and underpinned by continued structure during the year, supported by process, the output of which will be a robust operational and financial discipline.
an effective sales and operational planning plan.
This is supported by a new approach to process, enabling us to resource as one performance management which will ensure To respond to a changing market environment, company.
By improving productivity there every employee across the company has we have reorganised the company, establishing is potential to deliver efficiencies that will clear objectives aligned to our strategy that new businesses responsible for our customer provide better value for money for customers support the effective delivery of our plan.
relationships, contract delivery and securing and headroom for careful investment.
We have also established a Leadership orders jointly with Business Development.
Community at QinetiQ for the first time, Enabling functions provide support, In addition to driving efficiency and bringing together the top 100 leaders every in particular the dynamic resourcing of productivity, we have established a technical month to ensure we are focused on our people and assets from across QinetiQ.
excellence function to improve project delivery.
Customer requirements are not only We have launched a new process for bidding Customers outside our UK, US and Australian changing, they are also getting more and winning strategically important corporate home markets are unlikely to know QinetiQ, demanding.
There is a need to improve our campaigns, making the best use of the skills so we are also improving the visibility of business winning skills in order to thrive in an that are available across the company.
our brand through targeted, cost effective increasingly challenging market, so we have marketing particularly in European countries instigated a programme to develop the skills As part of the reorganisation of the company, such as Belgium and Sweden where we of our sales teams, bringing in experienced we have created an International business already have a presence.
We also need to to deliver our products and services in improve our knowledge of home and international markets.
It incorporates international markets: for example in August businesses with a significant international we appointed a new CEO for OptaSense footprint and those with international who brings more than 20 years experience growth potential.
of working in the oil and gas sector.
We are driving savings through improved propose innovative solutions to meet their Current projects include OptaSense efficiencies and greater agility which will emerging needs.
For example, the 153m applications in the rail industry, nextensure we remain one step ahead of the contract renewal for aircraft engineering generation robotics and test and competition and also create headroom so services represents a new way of doing evaluation services.
that we can invest in our future.
This will business with the MOD under which we are allow us to invest carefully in research and QinetiQ has considerable breadth and measured and paid on results and outputs development, improve skills and processes, depth of technical expertise: we are working rather than inputs.
Last summer, we take and manage risk more effectively on to integrate these core competences and launched a new Internal Research and our customers behalf, and pursue campaigns connect them with customer needs to win Development IRAD programme for QinetiQ to grow the company.
The strength of our balance led by our Chief Technology Officer and sheet enables us to invest in our core guided by an Innovation Steering Board to The key enabler to the themes across competences such as test and evaluation, ensure that projects are customer-driven our markets is innovation, not just novel with capital expenditure likely to increase and properly controlled.
This programme technologies but also innovation in products, further as we continue to invest in the will develop future services and products services and business models.
By working Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA using investment funded through cost in partnership with our customers we can and other long-term contracts.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15
