Strategic report Business model Creating value for our customers How we create value Our aim is to be the UKs leading multi-channel gaming operator, creating value for our shareholders by having strong brands which meet customers needs and delivering operational excellence in venues and digital channels.
Pages 15 to 25 outline our five strategic pillars that will deliver our aim.
Inputs Our multi-channel offer Financial capital We have a strong balance sheet supported by strong cash generation.
Human Digital We employ 10,700 talented and dedicated individuals who have a desire to create the best experience for our three million customers.
Strong brands We own a number of well-known brands with a strong affinity amongst certain customer segments.
Social We are valued by the communities we operate in, providing fun and exciting experiences for our three million customers.
Ranks supplier relationships form part of our strategic plans and are a key component of delivering a quality product and service to our customers.
Retail How we run our business The Rank Group is a well-established gaming operator which operates across multiple channels.
Our business model shows how the different parts of the Group work together and create value.
Key performance indicators Risk management Our KPIs outlined on pages 16 to 25 are embedded within Our approach to risk is fundamental to how we operate.
our business and provide insight into our progress against our strategic roadmap.
More information More information Key performance indicators 16-25 Risk management 32 The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 8 Our key differentiators our multi-channel offer In the markets where we operate, Rank is one of the few gaming companies in a position to offer customers a genuine multi-channel gaming proposition.
We have a number of key assets, which includes a portfolio of more than 150 venues, our membership systems and rewards programmes and the high levels of engagement that our team members enjoy with our customers.
Our three million customers Outcomes Financial We aim to deliver sustainable shareholder returns through focused investments which Customer Customer address our customers needs whilst generating keeps wins suitable returns.
winnings Human We provide rewarding and fulfilling careers offering a high level of engagement with our customers.
Strong brands Customer Customer Through operating responsibly we maintain recycles loses winnings our brand strength and good reputation.
Customers Experiences that meet our customers expectations and needs by providing a market leading experience.
Customer Customer contributes entertained to group revenue Operating responsibly Corporate governance We understand that our success as a business is The board is committed to ensuring that our activities dependent upon societys view of our role in the are well managed and that rigorous and transparent communities we serve.
procedures allow this to happen.
More information More information Operating responsibly 37 Corporate governance 47 www.
