Strategy overview Making progress against our strategy Our aim is to be the UKs leading multi-channel gaming operator.
Our focus is on building brands with the ability to deliver on our ambition through the channels our customers prefer, whether it be at one of our 154 venues, or through our online and mobile solutions.
There are five components to our strategy.
Using compelling capability our venues in our brands technology multi-channel and marketing to drive offer efficiency and improve customer experience Continue reading to learn about our strategic progress through 2016 and our priorities for the year ahead www.
com 15 Strategic report Our strategy 1 Creating a compelling multi-channel offer In the markets where we operate, Rank is one of the few gaming companies in a position to provide customers with a genuine multi-channel gaming offer.
We have a number of key assets, including a portfolio of 154 venues, our membership-based model with approximately threemillion members, our loyalty and reward programmes and the high levels of engagement that our team members enjoy with customers.
Activity in 2015 16 Key performance indicators Single account and wallet Mecca cross-channel cross-over development: Please refer to the case study on page 17.
New Mecca services app launched: 10.4% My Mecca was launched in H1 2015 16.
The app provides customers 5.0 5.8 7.5 9.1 10.4 with functionality including a club finder tool and details of current promotions at each venue.
Development of a new cross-channel 12 13 14 15 16 online and retail bingo brand: During the year a new bingo brand and proposition were developed.
Several Grosvenor Casinos locations for new bingo venues have cross-channel cross-over been identified and are currently subject to planning permission.
The digital service will launch in H2 2016 17.
The new brand will offer a different 3.0% proposition from traditional retail 0.6 1.3 1.5 2.3 3.0 bingo and is likely to appeal to a different demographic.
Mecca digital membership trial: A digital membership scheme was Ed Wilson successfully trialled in Mecca Croydon 12 13 14 15 16 product director enabling customers to enter the venue View the video in full with their membership details provided Priorities for 2016 17 online at rank.
com by an app on their mobile device.
Key Launch of new bingo brand across benefits include an improved customer experience, lower costs via the removal both online and retail channels: The new online brand is scheduled to be of replacement membership cards, the ability to market to customers in a more launched in H2 2016 17 alongside its retail channel subject to planning.
cost-effective way via mobile, as well as developing a multi-channel offer.
Launch of single account and wallet: Please refer to page 17 for more details.
New poker offer launched: In Q3 2015 16, Grosvenor Casinos launched a new digital poker offer powered by Microgaming.
16 Multichannel gaming Single account and wallet development These days, customers expect to be able to have one account Thirdly, we want to make it easier for customers to enjoy and wallet whether they interact with a brand online, on our products.
We are planning to develop a system which mobile or in a retail environment.
will make the login across channels much simpler and more convenient.
It will also make it a more seamless and instant One of our five key strategic pillars is to create a compelling journey into the digital channel for our retail customers and multi-channel offer.
To enhance this offer we have been will help us to increase cross-channel conversion.
working on a single account and wallet for our brands and plan to start the roll-out during 2016 17.
Fourthly, by having a single account it will be much easier for customers to manage their relationship with our brands.
As part of this project we are looking at each step of By logging in online, they will be able to manage their the customer journey.
Firstly, we want to simplify and account across all the channels they use with us and will unify registration.
At the moment, customers have to be able to see promotions, deposit and withdraw money sign up for each individual channel.
Introducing a single or change their login details.
sign-up process means that customers will be able to sign up once, either in a club or online, and create a Finally, and a key priority for us, single accounts will single brand account.
enhance player protection and regulatory compliance.
Having a single view of all transactions will give the Secondly, we plan to create a single wallet for customers customer greater control of his or her spend across all to fund, play and withdraw at gaming touch points channels, for example through setting deposit limits.
This will be far more convenient for A single view of the customer will also make it easier for customers and means they can deposit or withdraw on Rank to be proactive in spotting trends in a customers to a single wallet.
game play and identify potential problem gamblers.
com 17 Strategic report Our strategy continued Our strategy continued 2 building digital capability Rank has built strong positions in venue-based gaming which we seek to replicate across our digital channels online and mobile.
In 2015 16, our digital operations generated 13% of Group revenue, whereas digital channels now represent around 39% of Great Britains gambling market excluding National Lottery.
This presents a significant growth opportunity.
We are in the process of enhancing our capability in this area such that we can meet the changing needs of our customers and capture a greater share of the digital market.
Activity in 2015 16 Priorities for 2016 17 Migration to new digital gaming Full launch of Grosvenor Casinos platform: Please refer to the case study digital sports book: During H1 on page 19.
2016 17, bonus functionality will go live along with an enhanced site.
Soft launch of Grosvenor Casinos new digital sports book: In June 2016, Continued improvements to digital an introductory product for sports book poker offer: The customer journey was soft-launched in time for the UEFA will be improved, specifically focusing Euro 2016 football championships.
on alleviating customer friction points registration, depositing and New content on meccabingo.
com withdrawing in addition to launching and grosvenorcasinos.
com: A key mobile and instant playproducts.
benefit of moving to the Bede Gaming digital platform is the ability to take Improvement to Grosvenor Casinos content from multiple providers and digital Live Casino offer: In July 2016, therefore have access to a wider range Grosvenor Casinos successful live of content.
During the year the Group casino product was refreshed following signed contracts with both Net the move of its suppliers studio from Entertainment and NYX, as well as Riga, Latvia to a larger facility in Malta.
a number of other game developers, Launch of new digital Mecca VIP site: which will result in over 100 new A new VIP microsite will be launched gaming titles for our digital brands.
alongside a new VIP programme and Launch of enracha.
es was increased VIP management capabilities.
Colin Cole-Johnson soft-launched on the new Bede Gaming Enracha.
es is director of digital platform in June 2016. scheduled to go live in H1 2016 17 and cross-channel offering customers digital bingo, services blackjack, roulette and slots.
View the video in full online at rank.
com Key performance indicators Digital customer visits Digital customer numbers 6,224K 404K 4,539 5,342 5,262 5,880 6,224 226 277 279 381 404 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 18 A platform for a modern world New digital platform One of the key strategic initiatives which has come to cashier improvements, including PayPal for mobile, and fruition this year has been the move to a new digital new content for casino, slots, poker and sports.
For our platform, provided by Bede Gaming.
Spanish business, Enracha, we have developed a. es platform conforming to the regulations in this market The previous digital platform had been around since 2004 a first for Bede Gaming and completed in time to support and was originally developed for sports betting.
As our our licensing deadlines.
online business in Mecca and Grosvenor Casinos grew, it became increasingly clear that our current platform was Key for 2016 17 will be maximising the benefits from our no longer fit for purpose.
It was slow and complex and new platform.
For example in the first half of the year we expensive to make changes or add new content.
It had are working with Net Entertainment and NYX to broaden very limited bonusing capability and the quality of analytics our slot game offering and will also be introducing free and customer relationship management CRM was not spin bonus functionality and reverse withdrawal features.
Another key focus area will be to work with our suppliers at the level we needed to compete or to support our vision of multi-channel gaming.
to develop content that is bespoke to Rank.
Before deciding upon Bede Gaming as our chosen partner, We will continue to refine the platform and are currently we carried out a rigorous assessment process.
Bede Gaming working on the introduction of Monetate our multioffered us rapid progress, modern technical architecture, variant testing solution along with further website and a platform that would differentiate us from development which will enable us to support additional ourcompetitors.
brands and introduce features such as personalisation and optimisation.
The development of our marketing campaign The new platform went live at the end of February 2016. engine will also enable us to support the automation of Despite some initial teething problems, customers are multiple operational activities including everything already seeing the benefits.
These include better bonusing, from bonusing to VIP alerts.
com 19 Strategic report Our strategy continued 3 Developing our venues Our casino and bingo venues remain a material part of Ranks business, providing entertainment for millions of customers each year and generating the majority of the Groups revenue and profits.
By continuing to invest in our venues in terms of product, environment and service and by creating new ones, we are constantly evolving and enhancing the experiences that we offer to customers, and in doing so growing our revenue.
Activity in 2015 16 Priorities for 2016 17 Key performance indicators Relaunch of Luton casino under a Mecca refurbishments: A further eight Venues customer visits 2005 Act licence: In September 2015, venues are scheduled for refurbishment Grosvenor Casinos relaunched its Luton in 2016 17 at a total cost of 2.1m.
casino following a 4.3m expansion Addition of second licences alongside and refurbishment.
The investment 21,729K existing casinos: Following the included extension and refurbishment recent planned closure of two casinos 22,551 21,591 22,691 22,112 21,729 works to accommodate the 2005 Act Glasgow Princes and Leeds Arena, casino licence, allowing up to 60 four non-trading casino licences are to additional slot machines.
be located alongside existing casinos Addition of second casino licences in Glasgow and Leeds.
alongside three existing casinos: 12 13 14 15 16 Refurbishments of Grosvenor Additional licences were located Casinos venues in Leeds and alongside existing casinos in Coventry, Venues capital investment Nottingham: A total investment of Blackpool and Portsmouth.
6.2m is planned for the refurbishment Refurbishment of Grosvenor Casinos of two Grosvenor Casinos venues in Park Tower casino in London: Leeds and Nottingham.
Both casinos 1.2m was spent in the year on the 37.3m were part of the estate acquired from refurbishment and modernisation of Gala Coral in 2013 and are the last 42.9 31.6 22.4 24.7 37.3 The Park Tower casino in London.
The casinos to receive investment post last investment at The Park Tower was acquisition.
Both refurbishments in 2011 and the refurbishment was are scheduled to be completed by critical in protecting its market position.
Grosvenor sparkles: A total of 15 12 13 14 15 16 Opening of new-concept bingo casinos received low-cost improvements venues: A number of locations have in the period at a total capital cost of been identified and are currently under Venues customers 4.4m under the sparkles programme.
It is envisaged that the Partial open door and full open first new club will be open in the course door trials in Grosvenor Casinos: of 2016 17.
During the year some of our UK casinos 2,818k Further roll out of FOD in Grosvenor removed their requirement to register Casinos: Subject to licence conditions, 2,520 2,522 2,918 2,973 2,818 all customers.
This is referred to as FOD will be rolled out across the either Partial Open Door POD, remainder of the Grosvenor Casinos involving the partial removal of estate by the end of September 2016. entry requirements, or Full Open Door FOD, involving full removal of 12 13 14 15 16 requirements.
Neither policy changes our commitments to responsible The KPIs above do not exclude the duplication of gambling or customer security.
POD customers who are customers of more than one brand.
was rolled across the entire casino 2012 13 and 2011 12 customer data excludes the acquired casinos from Gala Coral.
estate in the year with FOD trialled across our casino venues in Glasgow.
FOD contributed to an 8% increase in admissions and higher non-gaming spend in the Glasgow venues.
Mecca refurbishments: During the year seven Mecca venues were refurbished at a total cost of 2.3m.
20 Relaunch Luton casino In September 2015, the Luton casino was relaunched following 4.3m of investment to accommodate the awarded 2005 Act licence.
The refurbished casino includes the following: 60 slot machines, an increase of 40 with the ability to add a further 20 dependent on customer demand 30 gaming tables, an increase of 12 in line with the 2:1 ratio of slot machines to table games as per the 2005 Act licence terms 120-seat entertainment area VIP gold area containing three gaming tables and four electronic roulette positions Dining and lounge areas New and improved external smoking terrace Enhancements to the external appearance including new signage Valet parking service Following the relaunch, trading has seen an uplift in line with managements expectations.
Sue Fitzsimmons casino manager, Luton View the video in full online at rank.
com 21 Strategic report Our strategy continued 4 Investing in our brands and marketing The development of a group of well-defined, relevant and resonant brands is critical for the success of our ambition.
Rank possesses a number of well-known brands with strong levels of affinity amongst customers.
Continuing to invest in and develop these brands, alongside new ones, is an important part of increasing and sustaining revenues.
Activity in 2015 16 Priorities for 2016 17 Development of the Groups data Launch of new customer contact science and customer relationship centre in Sheffield: Rank is in the management CRM teams: During process of moving its contact centre in the year, the Group has significantly central London to Sheffield.
The current enhanced its data science and CRM call centre has an expensive cost base capabilities.
This has included building and is partially outsourced.
The new new teams and putting in place a new centres strategy aims to move it from data platform and tools.
It is expected its current cost centre model to one that these tools will improve customer that directly generates profit through insight, customer yields and marketing a more proactive relationship with our efficiency as well as customerexperience.
The new contact centre is due to open in September2016.
Appointment of new marketing director for Grosvenor Casinos: Investment into VIP teams across During the year a new marketing all brands: Investment will continue director, Jo Blundell, was appointed for through VIP team expansion for both Grosvenor Casinos.
Jo was previously UK brands.
Investment will continue UK marketing director of McDonalds to be made into customer verification and managing director of the teams which enable the Group to advertising agency TBWA.
operate responsibly and in line with customer due diligence and anti-money laundering requirements.
Key performance indicators Launch of new digital gaming Marketing spend brands: The Group will continue including customer incentives to look at ways to grow its customer base and revenues through the use of new digital gaming brands, allowing cross-sell from its existing databases.
Jo Blundell 83.8m Improve marketing through sales and marketing 52.8 61.8 63.3 75.5 83.8 the use of customer analytics director Grosvenor and segmentation: Through its Casinos new data science team, and through View the video in full segmentation tools, the Group aims online at rank.
com to better predict the interactions 12 13 14 15 16 of customers across allchannels.
net promoter score 45% 54% 76% 42% 49% 84% 41% 43% 86% 40% 57% 91% 56% 62% 90% 12 13 14 15 16 Grosvenor Casinos Mecca Enracha 22 The best loved casino experience Investing in brands and marketing Marketing strategy One of Ranks key five strategic pillars is to improve the launch of new multi-channel games, a new loyalty marketing effectiveness.
We have been working hard to programme and new products that enhance our offer, create integrated marketing plans with all activity focused such as sports betting.
on generating revenue and profit, and, ultimately growth.
We will also be looking for every opportunity to make it For Grosvenor Casinos specifically this has been developed easier for our customers to play with us.
This includes new into a brand strategy aimed at delivering the best loved customer journeys aimed at uniting leisure and gaming casino experience for existing and new customers.
This is a customers, maximising the use of second licences and tough measure and means that we need to truly understand optimising our mobile and desktop assets.
all our customers in order to excite and entertain them The sales and marketing strategy will deliver a strong consistently and at every touch point.
national programme supported by an optimised local We have the opportunity to unite our retail and digital framework that builds on success and creates greater businesses so that our customers can play anytime, affinity for the brand as a whole and at a community level.
anywhere in an environment that suits their needs.
Retail Put simply, the focus is on initiatives that will continually provides the solidity, reassurance and trustworthiness of excite and entertain our new and existing customers, both an established bricks and mortar brand: digital adds pace, in the UK and overseas.
We will do this through an integrated dynamism and innovation.
Together, they create a unique sales and marketing plan that shares best practice and and powerful reason to play with Grosvenor Casinos learning across retail and digital, products and player supported by tangible benefits for our customers, such as levels.
This is the Grosvenor Casinos Plan to Win.
com 23 Strategic report Our strategy continued Priorities for 2016 17 5 Using technology to drive efficiency Full integration of new casino and improve customer experience loyalty system with Neon: Neons roll-out was successfully completed The customer is at the heart of our focus on increasing the in July 2016.
Neons functionality for use of technology in our business and driving efficiency.
table management and single wallet is Improved customer experience and operating margins can scheduled to go live in 2016 17.
A new loyalty scheme will be fully integrated help create a competitive advantage.
We have identified into Neon in 2016 17, initially focusing a number of opportunities to harness technological on slots.
developments to offer our customers more engaging Additional Mecca Max roll-out: experiences and to achieve sustainable growth in Following the successful introduction of5,600 additional Mecca Max units operating margins.
atthe start of 2015 16, a further 5,250units are to be rolled out across theMecca estate, of which 2,500 Investment in new cash line systems Activity in 2015 16 will beincremental.
to accommodate the new 1 coin: At Roll-out of a new casino a total cost of 1.1m the existing Mecca Launch of new food and beverage management system, Neon: At cashline system is being upgraded in ordering facility on Mecca services the end of the financial year, a new preparation for the introduction of app and Mecca Max units: A thirdcasino management system, Neon, was the new 1 coin.
The investment party food ordering app was trialled in rolled out across the entire retail estate.
programme commenced in 2015 16 Southend and Croydon with favourable Neon provides the casinos with an and will be completed in 2016 17. impacts on queuing times and customer improved system to manage customer reactions.
A project is now in place to Introduction of server-based interactions, the cash desk and include food and beverage ordering games and Ticket in Ticket out loyaltyprogrammes.
functionality in the Mecca services TiTo functionality into Meccas slot app that was launched in 2015 16.
Launch of progressive jackpot across machines: Following the roll-out across Grosvenor Casinos: In January 2016, 79 clubs in June 2015, Mecca has seen Additional new slots and electronic the Ace King Suited progressive jackpot an improved slots performance, up 3% roulette machines in Grosvenor was launched across the entireestate in the year on a like-for-like basis.
The Casinos: Following the successful resulting in increased blackjackhandle.
TiTo functionality also allows for lower performance of recent investments cost promotional activity and improved an additional 5.0m will be spent in Get Set Roulette launched in a further player tracking.
2016 17 on new slots and electronic seven casinos: The roll-out of Get roulette machines.
Set Roulette continued in the period.
GetSet Roulette offers an enhanced Key performance indicators New loyalty scheme for digital bingo: customer experience for electronic Following the successful integration 1 Operating profit margins roulette with a more consistent rate of Grosvenor Casinos loyalty scheme of play and greater choice of wheels.
into Neon, a similar but bingo tailored loyalty system will be reviewed and Labour planning software to reduce considered for Mecca digital.
employment costs in Grosvenor 10.9% Casinos: Labour planning software that Further roll-out of Get Set Roulette: 10.8 11.2 10.2 11.4 10.9 had been introduced outside London 15 more casinos will receive Get Set in the prior year was further rolled out Roulette in H1 2016 17. across the London casinos in the year.
New customer analytics platform The software focuses on optimising for all channels: A new analytics working hours and is estimated to 12 13 14 15 16 platform will be launched in 2016 17 provide savings of 0.8m in a full year.
where live data will be available on New slots and electronic roulette Total customer visits all digitaldevices, enabling much machines in Grosvenor Casinos: improved in-venue analysis for A 10.0m investment in new club managers.
server-basedslots and electronic 27,953k roulette machines wascompleted, providing customers with a better 27,090 26,933 23,131 22,779 27,953 quality offer and improvedfeatures.
This investment contributed to a 9% growth in gaming machine revenues in the year.
2012 13 and 2011 12 data excludes the acquired casinos from Gala Coral and the disposed Blue Square Bet business.
24 A single Darren Moffett director of customer operations source View the video in full online at rank.
com of truth Customer operations investment During the year significant progress and investment Key priorities for 2016 17 include using RAP to further have been made across all areas of customer management.
analyse transactional and product data, including electronic Central to this has been the use of market-leading technology slots in both brands and electronic Max units in Mecca.
to improve the way we analyse customer data, providing us Its vital that we understand the behaviour of customers with crucial insight into the way our customers behave and as individuals so that we can understand how and when interact with us.
We have also created an in-house data they interact with our products as well as identify and science team to ensure we maximise this technology.
All the customer data we hold is now being brought During H1 we will also be introducing a new marketing together into a single source of truth in the Rank Analytics campaign management solution.
This will allow us to Platform RAP.
It also enables us to analyse data in real time analyse customer interaction data and more effectively and predict what customers may do in the future.
All of our review the success of our marketing campaigns.
retail systems have now been plugged in to the new RAP A key change in 2015 16 was the decision to relocate and we are in the process of integrating our digital systems, our contact centre from London to Sheffield.
Our new including Bede Gaming.
We have also segmented the customer solutions hub, opening September 2016, will customer database into smaller clusters.
This enables provide our customers with a single contact point for all us to gain a more granular understanding of customers channels 24hours a day.
We will enhance our customer needs and behaviours and use this data to improve our experience not just for incoming contacts but also being marketing effectiveness, influence future business able to use customer data for targeted outbound activity.
decisions and ensure we are acting responsibly.
For example, we aim to introduce live chat across all digital platforms as well as a customer service app by the end of 2016 17.
These changes will also move us away from the current cost centre model to that of generating profit for the brands.
