STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC 8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT REPORT 12 20 CHIEF EXECUTIVES EXECUTIVES REPORT 16 22 27 BOARD OF FINANCIAL SENIOR DIRECTORS REVIEW MANAGEMENT 28 GOLD MARKET OVERVIEW RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 7 With more than half a billion dollars in cash on hand, a cash generation capacity virtually unmatched in the industry, and a much reduced capital expenditure profile, Randgold is strongly placed to take advantage of value-accretive organic and corporate opportunities.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHRISTOPHER COLEMAN RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 8 The past year has seen change and uncertainty on One of the many measures of sustainability is a a global level, testing some of the key assumptions companys ability to support a dividend stream.
on which governments as well as corporations have At the annual general meeting on 2 May 2017, long based their plans and policies.
This sense of shareholders will be asked to approve a 52% uncertainty was reflected in markets, with the gold increase in the previous dividend to $1.00 per share.
price starting the year below $1 100 oz, rising to It is the eleventh year in succession that Randgold $1 370 oz in August and then falling back to will have paid a dividend, and the eleventh year in $1 150 oz at the year end.
This volatility continued succession that the dividend has been increased.
into 2017 with a rise in the price at the beginning of the year.
The company undertook a new round of strategic planning in February 2017.
This took into account In this dynamic environment, the company had to the volatile market in which Randgold operates as contend with some of its own operational challenges well as the need to continue delivering real value to in the first half of 2016.
The company is on record as saying a business driven by a long term strategy and that it plans to identify three new projects that pass occasional obstacles are there to be overcome, and its investment filters in the next five years, while also not to deflect from the course that has been set.
considering other opportunities in the sector.
With more than half a billion dollars in cash on hand at In the end, 2016 was a record-breaking year for the year end, a cash generation capacity virtually the company.
As forecast, a strong second half unmatched in the industry, and a much reduced performance powered the company to its sixth capital expenditure profile, Randgold is strongly consecutive annual production increase and placed to take advantage of value-accretive organic drove down total cash cost per ounce to deliver and corporate opportunities.
Sustainably profitable is therefore an appropriate theme for this years Randgold also continues to place a strong emphasis annual report.
on the entrenchment of its social licence, which it regards as an essential requirement for business Sustainability means caring about the future, and success in Africa.
Its extensive and carefully that has always been evident in everything Randgold considered social responsibility programmes are does.
It plans for the long term, not the next quarter.
detailed in the sustainability report, but I would It finds financially viable gold deposits and turns like to make a special mention of the Nos Vies them into mines that will still be profitable at low gold en Partage Foundation.
This was established as prices.
It replaces the gold it mines with reserves of an independent charitable foundation, under the the same quality.
It cares for the people it employs chairmanship of my predecessor Philippe Litard, and the communities that host its mines.
It believes to support quality of life improvement initiatives in that the value it creates should be shared equitably Africa, particularly those supporting women and with all its stakeholders.
It also wants to bequeath children.
In his latest fundraising motorcycle safari a permanent post-mining legacy to the regions through Africa last year, Mark Bristow and his team around its operations.
When Morila closes in a few raised a further $2.5 million for the foundation.
years time, for example, it plans to leave behind an agribusiness centre for the economic benefit of the mines former workers and its neighbours.
SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE AND GOLD PRICE Share price Gold price $ oz 140 1 600 1 500 120 1 400 100 1 300 1 200 80 1 100 60 1 000 900 40 800 20 700 600 0 Source: FactSet RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 9 Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 Share price $ NASDAQ: GOLD Share price LSE: RRS Gold price In order to ensure that the board is equipped to provide Randgolds management with the best possible guidance, we regularly review the board BOARD COMPOSITION composition to ensure that it has a wide perspective LENGTH OF TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS and an appropriate range of skills and expertise.
In this regard I am delighted to welcome Olivia Kirtley as an independent non-executive director.
She has had a distinguished career as a financial executive and is the immediate past chairman and president of the International Federation of Accountants and 29% a council member of the International Integrated Reporting Council.
43% Karl Voltaire and Norb Cole retired from the board in 2016.
Karl was succeeded by Jamil Kassum 28% as chairman of the audit committee and Norb was succeeded by Andy Quinn as senior independent 0-3 years director and chairman of the remuneration 3-6 years committee.
Both Karl and Norb served on the board 6-9 years for 10 years and I would like to thank them for the significant contribution they made to Randgold during that time.
I also thank my other colleagues on the board for their commitment to Randgolds continued success.
I would like to conclude with a word of appreciation for Mark and his team, who once again have demonstrated their ability to create real value and deliver it to all stakeholders.
Christopher Coleman Chairman GROUP CONSOLIDATED PRODUCTION Delivering value to all stakeholders Record gold production 1998 000oz Group Kibali Morila pr oduc tion construction exceeds construction 1 400 starts 1.2Moz starts 1 300 Kibali first Kibali Yalea UG gold acquisition 1 200 development starts Gounkoto 1 100 Gounkoto first gold Loulo discovered construction 1 000 starts Tongon Massawa 900 first gold discovered Morila produces 800 1997 1Moz gold Tongon Morila construction 700 and Yalea starts Loulo discovered Listed on first 600 NASDAQ gold Listed on LSE Morila 500 first gold 400 300 200 100 1995 0 Randgold 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Resources incorporated Morila 40% Loulo-Gounkoto 100% Tongon 100% Kibali 45% RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 10 With our big capital projects nearing completion and a cost profile trending down, Randgold is a truly profitable business capable of delivering value to all its stakeholders.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT MARK BRISTOW RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 12 Randgold Resources has a long history of delivering From two open pits, it has grown into the Yalea and on its promises and it did so again in 2016.
In a year Gara underground mines and the Gounkoto open impacted by the mill failure at Tongon, underground pit, soon to be converted into a super pit.
The flooding at Loulo, plant stability issues at Kibali and complex is now a true long life mega mine, which political uncertainty in the Democratic Republic of ranks as one of the largest of its kind in the world.
Congo, among other things, the management team A key driver of this years achievement was Loulos demonstrated its capacity for dealing effectively not successful transition from contractor mining to owner only with operational challenges but also with the mining, which has had a positive impact on cost and dynamics of our host countries.
It was a year of records and milestones.
We In Cte dIvoire, Tongon ended 2016 with the increased gold production to a new high, in line best quarter in its history to achieve its revised with our guidance.
We achieved, and exceeded, guidance for the year.
Improved grade, throughput our net cash target of $500 million, and remained and recovery, delivered record production and debt-free.
We drove down our total cash cost per significantly reduced costs which contributed to ounce of production, and our profit rose by 38%.
a substantial increase in its profit from mining.
We completed or advanced our capital projects.
The turnaround was supported by a substantial We reduced our lost time injury frequency rate to capital programme which involved the upgrade its lowest level ever.
We continued to replenish our and extension of the crushing and flotation circuits.
group total reserves and made significant progress Credit is also due to the Tongon teams fighting towards our goal of identifying three new potential spirit and strong focus on efficiencies.
Negotiations projects that fit our investment criteria in the next five with the Ivorian power utility have eased the outage years.
problems which plagued the mine but to be on the safe side Tongon has installed back-up generators A STELLAR PERFORMANCE with sufficient capacity to run the whole plant should All the operations contributed to these results the need arise.
but the star of the show was the Loulo-Gounkoto complex in Mali, which beat its annual production guidance by 37 000 ounces at the lowest total cash cost per ounce in its history.
ACTUAL AND FORECAST GROUP CONSOLIDATED PRODUCTION, GRADE, COSTS AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Production 000oz Total cash cost oz Capex $ million g t 1 600 5 1 400 4 1 200 1 000 3 800 2 600 400 1 200 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Grade Morila 40% Total cash cost oz Loulo-Gounkoto 100% Capital Tongon 100% Kibali 45% RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 13 The first half of the year was difficult for Kibali in the During the past year the groups injury rates were DRC, where the team initially struggled to balance driven down to a new record low, with a lost time different ore types from multiple sources.
There injury free frequency rate of 0.46 and a total injury was a significant improvement in throughput and frequency rate of 5.73 per million hours worked.
Our recovery in the second half, however, and the mine aim is to reduce these to zero and the fact that the ended the year just short of its revised guidance.
third quarter was completely free of lost time injuries In the fourth quarter the plant achieved a record across all our operations indicates that this goal is throughput of 2 million tonnes and throughput for the within our reach.
year was above nameplate capacity of 7.2 million tonnes.
We continued to gain ground in the fight against malaria, the main cause of absenteeism among our The issue of blending metallurgically different ore workers, with another substantial decrease in the types should ease this year once the underground infection rate.
Similarly, our HIV AIDS awareness production ramps up.
Work on the underground and prevention programme is making a measurable mine remains on track and it is scheduled to be fully impact on the incidence of this disease.
operational in the third quarter of this year, when the declines are integrated with the vertical shaft and It is worth noting that Randgold makes no distinction the ore hoisting system is commissioned, completing between its employees and its communities Kibalis development.
In the meantime, the mines when it comes to transmittable diseases and our second hydropower plant is up and running while programmes and primary healthcare clinics are construction is underway on the third, which is being open to all.
built by an all-Congolese team of contractors.
THE FUTURE TAKES SHAPE MORILA PREPARES ITS LEGACY The feasibility study on the Gounkoto super pit was Morila is the foundation on which Randgold was completed and the board has given the go-ahead built and in its time this great mine has produced for the development of this project.
The option of more than 6 million ounces of gold and paid more an underground operation with a smaller pit was than $2 billion to its stakeholders.
As it heads for also considered but in the end the super pit was closure in 2019, it continues to deliver value through clearly shown to be economically more viable with the retreatment of its tailings material which, as part a lower operational risk.
There is still an additional of the process, is being deposited back in the pit, opportunity for a smaller underground operation helping to clear the surface for rehabilitation.
below the super pit and this will be investigated during 2017.
Morila is also using this time to complete the development of the wide range of agricultural The super pit will exploit a 2.4 million ounce deposit projects it initiated over the years into a fullyand its capital cost is estimated at just over fledged agribusiness centre, known in French as $200 million, which includes waste stripping.
This is in line with Randgolds policy average gold price of $1 000 oz, the feasibility study that its operations should not only benefit their host indicates total net cash flow, after tax, of communities during their lifetimes but should also $741 million.
leave behind a post-mining legacy in the form of a sustainable source of local economic activity.
The Our other major development project is Massawa in pioneering work being done in this regard at Morila Senegal.
Following the completion of the updated will serve as a template for our other mines, each of technical and financial study, the board has which already has similar projects, as detailed in our approved the detailed infill drilling required to move sustainability report.
this to the bankable feasibility stage.
Research has continued to improve the economics of this project The concept being considered for Morila postand it could well prove to be the next Randgold mining is based on the Songhai model of integrated mine.
biological agriculture, which has been rolled out successfully in a number of African countries.
GROUP INJURY FREQUENCY RATE Morila and its project partners are engaged in Per million man hours worked developing an integrated strategic and business TIFR plan which will be used to seek the Malian LTIFR 2.0 12 governments official endorsement of the project as an agripole.
10 1.5 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE 8 Randgold regards its workers and its communities as an integral part of its businesses and their 1.0 6 wellbeing is one of our prime concerns.
4 0.5 2 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 14 It has been the inclusion of Sofia which has lifted As this report shows, Randgolds operations are Massawa over our hurdle rate.
Infill drilling there has in good shape and there is plenty in our pipeline.
already contributed almost half a million ounces of Perhaps even more important in the context of probable reserves to the project.
The Sofia ore is the gold mining industrys ability to capitalise on free-leaching and easier to process than Massawas the supercycle in the gold price or to prepare for its partly refractory ore. Sofia is also believed to have downturn is that Randgold has proven its ability to a considerable upside and as part of the feasibility operate successfully through the cycle.
study the many anomalies that surround it will be investigated.
PARTNERSHIPS AND PEOPLE Randgolds success has been built on the mutually THE HUNT CONTINUES beneficial partnerships it has developed with all who The exploration team has continued to expand and are involved with or affected by its businesses.
In enhance Randgolds portfolio at every level of the reporting on a record-breaking year, we must also resource triangle, and to extend our footprint in our acknowledge the indispensable contribution made target regions.
The brownfields teams, who are focused on finding The governments and people of our host countries additional resources for our existing operations, are foremost among these.
It is their support and added more than 600 000 ounces at Gara and cooperation that make it possible for us to build converted another 700 000 ounces from the inferred and operate mines in some of the remotest parts to the indicated category.
At Kibali, the Kombokolo of the world.
African states have their own share and Rhino satellite orebodies were banked and of stresses and while these sometimes test us, added to the mining schedule and evaluation work we believe our relationships are strong enough to continues on a number of targets along the KZ withstand them.
We have proved over the years that structure.
The 379 000 ounces at Gorumbwa is the we are there not to exploit these countries but to next big reserve to be brought into the mining plan.
unlock the value of their mineral resources so that all With Tongon now running smoothly, the focus has may benefit.
shifted to developing the near-mine satellite deposits to extend the life of the mine.
Our many business associates are also important to us, and in this regard I would like to single out On the greenfields front, Boundiali in Cte dIvoire is the local suppliers of services and goods to our a highly prospective target while Gbongogo already mines, particularly those who have responded has significant potential delineated.
Work also to our encouragement and mentoring by rising continues on the Fonondara and Kassere targets.
Our commitment to In the DRC, preliminary exploration on the Moku local employment has also rewarded us well: the joint venture, adjacent to Kibali, has identified five Loulo-Gounkoto complexs outstanding results, promising targets for follow-up work.
Also in the for example, were produced by an all-Malian DRC, we completed a 10 000km airborne VTEM management team.
electromagnetic survey over our groundholding on the Ngayu greenstone belt which will enable Across the group, our executives, managers, us to define and prioritise targets.
In Mali, work supervisors and workers rose to the challenges of is underway at the Bakolobi and Massakama joint the year and delivered a performance on which ventures, at the Bena permit to the north and south they can pride themselves.
I thank them for their of the Gara and Gounkoto deposits, as well as on dedication to Randgold and their tireless efforts on defined targets within the two mining leases.
I would also like to express my sincere appreciation to the board for their guidance and SUSTAINABLY PROFITABLE counsel.
As Christopher points out in his chairmans statement, sustainable profitability is the core of Randgolds long term strategy.
In November last year, we shared our 10-year plan with attendees at our investor days in London, New York and Toronto.
It shows how we intend to remain Mark Bristow profitable at a long term gold price of $1 000 oz, Chief executive while producing at an annual rate in excess of 1.2 million ounces and generating cash that will support continued investment in our future as well as the continued payment of dividends.
It is worth noting that with our big capital projects nearing completion and a cost profile trending down, Randgold is a truly profitable business capable of delivering value to all its stakeholders.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board committees Christopher L Chairman of the governance & nomination committee and member of the Coleman 48 remuneration committee NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN Skills and experience Nationality United Kingdom Christopher is the group head of banking at Rothschild & Co and has Appointment date 3 November 2008 more than 25 years experience in the financial services sector, including corporate and private client banking and project finance.
He has had a long standing involvement in the mining sector in Africa and globally.
He is a director of NM Rothschild & Sons, chairman of Rothschild Bank International in the Channel Islands and serves on a number of other boards and committees of the Rothschild & Co group, which he joined in 1989.
He is a BSc Econ graduate from the London School of Economics and was a non-executive director of the Merchant Bank of Central Africa from 2001 to 2008.
Christophers management and corporate governance experience brings strong leadership skills to the board.
Other listed company directorships Non-executive director of Papa Johns International, Inc NASDAQ Skills and experience Mark Bristow 58 Mark has been the chief executive since the incorporation of Randgold CHIEF EXECUTIVE in 1995, which was founded on his pioneering exploration work in Nationality South Africa West Africa.
He has subsequently led the companys growth through Appointment date 11 August 1995 the discovery and development of world class assets into a major international gold mining business.
Mark has played a pivotal part in promoting the emergence of a sustainable mining industry in Africa.
He has a proven track record of growing businesses in Africa and delivering considerable shareholder value.
A geologist with a PhD from Natal University, South Africa, Mark has held board positions at a number of global mining companies.
Other listed company directorships Non-executive chairman of Rockwell Diamonds Inc TSX Skills and experience Graham Graham joined Randgold as chief financial officer and finance director in Shuttleworth 48 July 2007 but has been associated with the company since its inception, initially as part of its management team involved in listing the company FINANCE DIRECTOR AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER on the London Stock Exchange in 1997, and subsequently as an adviser.
Nationality South Africa Graham brings significant financial and management experience to the board, combined with considerable knowledge of large scale Appointment date 3 July 2007 international businesses which was developed initially as a chartered accountant qualifying with Deloitte, and then as managing director and the New York based head of metals and mining for the Americas in the global investment banking division of HSBC where he advised numerous mining companies on listings, accessing the capital markets and mergers and acquisitions.
Graham is a graduate of the University of Cape Town, South Africa, with a bachelor of commerce degree and an honours degree from the University of South Africa.
Other listed company directorships None FACING PAGE: The Randgold Resources board photographed in February 2017 in Abidjan, Cte dIvoire, where the Q4 board meeting was held.
Left row from bottom: Christopher Coleman, Mark Bristow, Jamil Kassum, Andrew Quinn and Olivia Kirtley.
Right row from bottom: Jeanine Mabunda Lioko, Safiatou Ba-NDaw, Graham Shuttleworth and Kadri Dagdelen.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17 STRATEGIC REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED 1 Board committees Andrew J Quinn 63 Chairman of the remuneration committee and member of the audit SENIOR INDEPENDENT NONcommittee EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Nationality United Kingdom Skills and experience Appointment date 1 November 2011 Andrew retired at the end of 2011 from his position as head of mining investment banking for Europe and Africa at CIBC after 15 years in the role and more than 35 years experience of the mining industry.
With a BSc Hons in mineral exploitation mining engineering from Cardiff University, Andrew began his career in Anglo Americans gold division in 1975, holding various management and technical positions in South Africa, and worked briefly for Greenbushes Tin in Australia before joining The Mining Journal in 1982 as editor of its gold publications.
In 1984 he entered the financial services industry joining James Capel later HSBC Investment Banking and then moving to CIBC in 1996.
Andrew brings strong commercial experience to the board, combined with considerable knowledge of the resource sector and a strong track record of understanding the needs of businesses operating in Africa and other international markets.
Other listed company directorships None Board committees Safiatou F Member of the audit committee 2 Ba-NDaw 64 Skills and experience INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR A Harvard University MBA graduate, Safiatou spent 12 years with the Nationality Cte dIvoire World Bank as a senior financial specialist for the South Asia region, following which she was appointed Cte dIvoires Minister of Energy, Appointment date 1 March 2015 a position she held until 2000.
She was subsequently appointed a director of the United Nations Development Programme for South-South Cooperation formerly the Special Unit: Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries until 2004 when she was appointed deputy chief of staff to the Prime Minister of Cte dIvoire.
Safiatous deep understanding of the financial and political opportunities and challenges of operating in emerging countries, especially West Africa, provides a valuable contribution to the board.
Other listed company directorships None Board committee Kadri Dagdelen Member of the governance & nomination committee 3 62 Skills and experience INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR A current professor and previously the head of the department of mining Nationality Turkey engineering at the Colorado School of Mines, USA, Kadri began his professional career as a mining engineer at Homestake Mining Co now Appointment date 29 January 2010 Barrick Gold Corporation and was the technical services manager when he left for academia in 1992.
With a PhD in mining engineering and a ME in geostatistics, he has been involved in numerous research and consulting projects worldwide and provides an in depth knowledge of the international mining industry and operational expertise.
He also served on the board of directors of the Society of Mining, Exploration and Metallurgy in the USA for six years and has chaired other professional societies that support the mining industry.
Other listed company directorships None 1 A Quinn was appointed as senior independent director with effect from 31 October 2016.
2 S Ba-NDaw was appointed as a member of the audit committee on 2 May 2016.
3 K Dagdelen will retire from the board at the annual general meeting on 2 May 2017.
Facing page: 4 J Kassum was appointed as a member of the remuneration committee on 2 August 2016.
5 O Kirtley was appointed a non-executive director on 2 February 2017.
6 O Kirtley was appointed to the remuneration committee on 2 February 2017.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 18 Board committees Jemal-ud-din Chairman of the audit committee, member of the remuneration committee Kassum Jamil and of the governance & nomination committee 4 Kassum 68 Skills and experience INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE Jamil has a wealth of significant recent and relevant financial and DIRECTOR political experience having been a former World Bank vice president Nationality United States of America for the East Asia and Pacific region after 25 years with the International Appointment date 31 January 2014 Finance Corporation IFC, where as a vice president he was responsible for all of IFCs new investments.
He now provides strategic advice to international financial institutions and companies.
Jamil brings a strong strategic understanding to the board and has a detailed knowledge of risk assessment and management systems.
He grew up in Tanzania, was educated at Oxford University and holds an MBA from Harvard University.
Other listed company directorships None 5, 6 Board committees Olivia Kirtley 66 Member of the remuneration committee INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Skills and experience Nationality United States of America Olivia holds a BS in Accounting from Florida Southern College and a Appointment date 2 February 2017 Masters of Taxation from Georgia State University.
She is a frequent speaker at United States and international forums for boards and professional organisations on best practices and tools to enhance board effectiveness, risk oversight and government structures.
Olivia is currently a non-executive director of US Bancorp, Papa Johns International and ResCare, Inc where she serves on various board committees.
She is also the immediate past chairman and president of the International Federation of Accountants and a past council member of the International Integrated Reporting Council.
Her extensive financial experience and strong leadership in the area of governance brings additional insight and expertise to the board.
Other listed company directorships Non-executive director of US Bancorp NYSE Non-executive director of Papa Johns International, Inc NASDAQ Board committee Jeanine Mabunda Member of the audit committee Lioko 52 INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE Skills and experience DIRECTOR Jeanine has spent a number of years working in the Democratic Republic Nationality Democratic Republic of the of Congos finance industry including with Citi Group and as an adviser Congo to the Governor of Banque Centrale du Congo.
A former Minister of Appointment date 28 January 2013 Portfolio of the Government of the DRC, a position which she held for over five years, she is now a serving member of the DRC National Assembly, representing the Equateur Province, and brings a wealth of knowledge in managing the political and financial landscape in Central Africa.
Jeanine is also a special adviser to the DRC government to prevent violence against women and the recruitment of children for war.
She was educated in Brussels, Belgium, and holds a law degree from the Catholic University of Louvain, Belgium, and a postgraduate degree in commercial science from the ICHEC Brussels Management School.
Other listed company directorships None RETIREMENTS IN 2016 Norborne P Cole Jr As set out in the 2015 Annual Report and announced in November 2016, Norb Cole retired after 10 years as a non-executive director on 31 October 2016.
Karl Voltaire Karl chose not to seek re-election at the 2016 AGM following completion of 10 years as a non-executive director with the company, and retired on 3 May 2016.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 19 EXECUTIVES A mining economist engineer with Drissa Tahirou Ballo 1 22 years experience, Arama mainly in Mali.
Tahirou GM LOULOstarted his career as GOUNKOTO MORILA MINE a short planner with MINE COMPLEX MANAGER BHP Billiton at the Syama gold mine and served as mining superintendent from 1999 for Randgold, Drissa holds a Master of Science Degree at Syama.
He was Chiaka in Metallurgy and an MBA in Executive appointed to his Berthe Management.
He joined Randgold in 2000 as a current position in metallurgist and from 2007 was plant manager 2015.
GM OPERATIONS at both the Morila and Loulo mines, until his WEST AFRICA appointment as the Morila mine manager in March 2017.
With a Masters degree in geological Luiz Correia engineering from the Malian National School of Engineering, Chiaka has more than 20 years GM TONGON experience in the industry.
He is a member of MINE the Australian Institute of Mine and Metallurgy and the Geostatistical Association, and was appointed to his current position in 2015.
Sebastiaan is responsible for the Luiz is a metallurgist with 31 years experience management of the groups operations, Sebastiaan in the gold mining industry, and has a BSc Eng financial functions and the groups corporate Bock as well as a BCom degree.
He joined Randgold finance management.
Hes a chartered in 2005 and in 2006 was appointed operations accountant with 16 years experience and has GROUP GM manager at the Loulo mine.
He was appointed been with the group for eight years.
FINANCE general manager at the Tongon mine during its construction phase in 2010.
Hilaire holds a Bsc Hons in Environmental Paul Gillot Hilaire Diarra and Engineering Geology and an MSc in Resources Engineering.
He worked previously GROUP GROUP as an environmental officer and then the head METALLURGIST, COMMUNITY of department for environment and social at the Loulo mine.
Hilaire was appointed DEPUTY GM AND as the group community and environmental CAPITAL ENVIRONMENTAL officer in 2014 with the responsibility of PROJECTS OFFICER developing and maintaining the group social license, developing and directing the group environmental and social policies and Paul has 27 years operational and Riaan programmes including mine closure.
management experience in the mining industry Grobler and moved into the projects arena for the group with the commissioning of the Tongon mine.
GROUP GM He obtained his NHD in Extractive Metallurgy from the University of Johannesburg.
He COMMERCIAL is responsible for the groups metallurgical AND SUPPLY activities.
CHAIN Riaan holds an Honours degree in finance 2 Glenn Heard Joel Holliday and has 18 years experience in the gold mining industry.
He was initially appointed GROUP GROUP GM financial projects manager East Africa in EXPLORATION MINING early 2012 and was involved in the financial MANAGER management side of the construction of the Kibali mine before his promotion in January 2014 to group general manager commercial and supply chain.
A mining engineer, who holds BE Mining with Joel is a geologist with honours from the University of Wollongong, 20 years experience on Australia, Glenn has 21 years experience in exploration projects in mining operations, mining contracting and Europe, South America consulting.
He worked with Randgold as a and across Africa.
He consultant in 2015 to assist with the transition joined Randgold in to owner mining at Loulo, has increased his 2004 and until recently involvement with the group through 2016, and worked as exploration was appointed to his new position with effect manager for West Africa, from January 2017.
Glenn also holds a Western before being appointed With a BPL Hons and Australian First Class mine managers certificate group exploration Willem DCom, Willem has of competency.
This served as a director Jacobs followed several years of listed and private as exploration manager companies in the areas GM OPERATIONS for the Loulo district in of mining, engineering CENTRAL AND Mali, when the Gounkoto and manufacturing EAST AFRICA and Loulo 3 deposits in Southern, Central were discovered.
Joel and Eastern Africa for has a BSc Hons in the past 21 years.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 20 Cheikh joined Randgold in 2016.
He was Dr Manirou joined Cheikh educated at the cole Normale Suprieure Randgold in 2004 in Mali and at the University of Cape Towns as medical officer, Maiga Graduate School of Business.
Cheikh has becoming HSE 20 years experience in human resources and and community GROUP HUMAN was formally a director of human resources and development manager RESOURCES administration at Nordgold in Burkina Faso.
for the Loulo EXECUTIVE Gounkoto complex in 2009 and appointed to his current position in 2012.
He holds an MD from the Malian Victor Haladou National School Matfield Manirou of Medicine and Pharmacy, a Diploma GROUP GM GROUP HEALTH in Epidemiology CORPORATE AND SAFETY from the University FINANCE OFFICER of Lyons and an MSc in Public Health from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical A chartered accountant, Victor was appointed Medicine.
Dr Manirou Mahamadou corporate finance manager in 2001.
Prior to is an alumnus of the Sam Samak this he served as financial manager of both London Business the Syama and Morila mines.
School and an affiliate GROUP member of IOSH, REGIONAL IEMA and GACSO.
MANAGER WEST AFRICA Sam was a professor of company law at the Rod Quick Ngolo University of Mali, and was instrumental in Sanogo writing the Malian mining legislation.
He is GROUP GM the resident executive manager in Mali and EVALUATION GM MALI is responsible for government liaison in West Africa.
He is also the groups West African legal counsel.
John was responsible A geologist with an Ngolo has a Masters degree in economics for the successful John Steele MSc Geology and from the National School of Administration construction and 23 years experience of Bamako, Mali, as well as several business commissioning of TECHNICAL in the gold mining qualifications.
He joined BHP Billiton Mali in Randgolds Morila, AND CAPITAL industry, Rod joined 1995 and was appointed the management Loulo, Tongon and PROJECTS Randgold in 1996, accountant at the Syama mine in 2001.
In 2004 Gounkoto mines and EXECUTIVE and has been involved he joined Randgold as Mali financial controller led the development in the exploration, and was appointed to his current position in and commissioning evaluation and 2009. of the Kibali mine in production phases the DRC.
He also of all Randgolds continues to provide Tania fide projects since Morila.
operational and In 2009 he became Welzim engineering oversight responsible for all to the group.
John project development GROUP has a BSc Hons in and evaluation for the FINANCIAL Chemical Engineering group.
Lois has been Having served as group financial controller, Tania with Randgold was appointed to her current position in 2009. since its inception A chartered accountant with 18 years financial and assumed experience, 16 of these in the mining industry, management of she is responsible for technical financial reporting the cartography and procedures for the group.
She is responsible for the coordination of the groups communications and Charles has an MSc investor relations Lois Wark in environmental Charles programmes and biotechnology and Wells holds a diploma GROUP GM 19 years experience in land surveying: CORPORATE in environmental GM KIBALI MINE cadastral and management.
joined Randgold in 2012 with responsibility for the groups sustainability programme before Martin joined Randgold in 2011 and in 2012 Martin Welsh being appointed to was appointed the groups company secretary his current position and general counsel.
GENERAL solicitor in 1998 and previously worked in COUNSEL AND London with Dickson Minto WS and Linklaters, SECRETARY where he represented numerous international corporate and financial institutions, and in Jersey where he acted for Randgold while in private practice.
1 Drissa Arama replaced Adama Kone as the Morila mine manager on 1 March 2017, following his retirement.
2 Glenn Heard replaced Ted fide Villiers as the groups general manager of mining on 1 January 2017.
Ted has since been appointed the groups mining projects manager with a focus on the Kibali gold mine.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 21 Given Randgolds commitment to growing through discovery and development, the company will continue to commit significant expenditure to exploration.
FINANCIAL REVIEW GRAHAM SHUTTLEWORTH RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 22 Gold sales for the year ended 31 December 2016 After a number of operational issues experienced in of $1.55 billion, including the attributable share H1 2016, including issues related to plant stability of equity accounted joint ventures, were up 11% and dealing with the multiple ore sources, Kibali from the previous year principally as a result of the produced a credible second half performance 8% increase in the average gold price received as it addressed the critical issues identified, with of $1 244 oz 2015: $1 152 oz, as well as a 3% throughput for the year above nameplate capacity increase in the number of ounces of gold sold and recoveries improving in the fourth quarter.
Total cash costs for the year of Across the group, costs were positively impacted $794.4 million 2015: $822.7 million dropped by by lower oil and fuel prices, while the euro:dollar 3% on the prior year, driven by lower unit costs, exchange rate remained relatively consistent year especially at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex.
total cash cost per ounce dropped 6% to $639 oz for the year 2015: $679 oz, reflecting the PROFIT 3% increase in ounces sold year on year, as well as Profit for the year ended 31 December 2016 of the 3% decrease in total cash costs.
$294.2 million represents an increase of 38% compared to a profit of $212.8 million in the previous At the Loulo-Gounkoto complex, gold production year, reflecting increased revenue and lower cash increased by 12% to 707 116oz Loulo 419 801oz costs as described above, partially offset by a 16% and Gounkoto 287 315oz against 630 167oz in the increase in depreciation and the 126% increase in prior year.
Total cash cost per ounce for the year corporate tax expenses for the year.
at the complex was 17% lower at $563 oz 2015: $675 oz reflecting the increase in ounces produced Depreciation and amortisation for the year ended and lower operating unit costs.
Tonnes processed 31 December 2016 of $175.3 million, increased from during the year was higher than the previous year, the prior year cost of $150.9 million.
Depreciation following the completion of the plant upgrade at Loulo increased from $98.5 million in 2015 to projects and improved operating performance of $105.2 million in 2016, mainly driven by Yalea the plant, which also reflected in an increase in and Gara underground equipment being brought recoveries for the year.
At Morila, total cash costs into use during 2016 and the higher throughput for the year increased to $1 113 oz 2015: achieved.
Depreciation at Gounkoto increased from $674 oz, reflecting the lower grade ore mined $6.7 million in 2015 to $23.5 million in 2016, in line and lower production following the transition with the increased throughput as well as the full from feeding full grade ore to tailings storage depreciation of the stripping asset $15.5 million facility TSF retreatment.
Production at Tongon created in Q3 of 2016 as all ore was mined and fed increased by 7% to 260 556oz, with increased during Q4.
Depreciation at Tongon of $45.7 million grade, throughput and recoveries in the second in 2016 was in line with the depreciation charged in half of the year.
This followed the completion of 2015 $44.4 million.
the crushing circuit upgrade earlier in the year, and notwithstanding the mill downtime in the second Exploration and corporate expenditure of quarter, led to a drop in total cash costs to $771 oz $41.2 million for the year ended 31 December for the year 2015: $836 oz.
2016 decreased by 9% from the previous years $45.1 million, reflecting reductions in general and At Kibali, production dropped to 585 946oz corporate expenditure, partially offset by increased 2015: 642 720oz on the back of lower grade ore exploration activity during the year.
Since the processed and lower recoveries, while total cash company was first listed in 1997, it has discovered costs increased to $736 oz for the year 2015: $604 oz.
approximately 33 million reserve ounces which, when divided by the exploration and corporate costs expensed over this period, equates to less than $20 oz of gold.
OIL PRICE AND $ EURO EXCHANGE RATE $ bbl $ per euro 1.30 80 1.25 70 1.20 60 1.15 50 1.10 1.05 40 1.00 30 0.95 20 0.90 10 0.85 0 0.80 Jan 15 Mar 15 Jun 15 Sep 15 Dec 15 Mar 16 Jun 16 Sep 16 Dec 16 Brent crude oil $ per euro Source: FactSet RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 23 Other income of $6.0 million and $15.6 million for The net loss of $7.1 million includes $2.5 million of the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 rehabilitation costs fide-capping of the TSF, respectively, include management fees from Morila $2.1 million of costs relating to obsolete stock writeand Kibali 2016: $5.0 million compared to 2015: downs and the agribusiness feasibility projects, $6.1 million, as well as operational foreign exchange $3.8 million of depreciation charges and $0.6 million gains 2016: $1.0 million compared to 2015: of tax charges.
Profits decreased year on year $9.6 million.
Other expenses for the year of following the drop in production year on year, due to $6.0 million were in line with the prior years feeding predominantly lower grade TSF material.
$5.7 million and includes operational foreign exchange losses.
Income tax expense of $108.4 million increased by 126% year on year, reflecting higher accruals for Share of profits of equity accounted joint ventures of tax charges at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex, in line $17.3 million dropped by 78% year on year.
Kibalis with profits, as well as higher tax charges at Tongon, share of equity accounted joint venture profits following the end of Tongons tax exoneration decreased from $70.3 million in 2015 to period in December 2015.
The effective tax rate for $24.2 million in 2016.
Profit from mining for Kibali 2016 was 27%, compared to the effective tax rate for 2016 amounted to $131.0 million compared in 2015 of 18%.
The increase in the effective rate to a profit of $161.2 million in 2015, reflecting the year on year was due to increased taxes at Tongon, decreased production and increased costs, partially following the end of the tax exoneration period in offset by the higher average gold price received.
The share of profits from the Kibali joint venture is stated after depreciation of $102.7 million 2015: Basic earnings per share increased by 30% to $87.3 million, foreign exchange losses of $2.64 2015: $2.03, in line with the increase in profit $16.3 million 2015: foreign exchange gain of for the year as described above.
$0.2 million and a deferred tax credit of $10.3 million 2015: deferred tax charge of CASH FLOW $8.0 million.
Net cash generated from operating activities for the year of $521.2 million increased by 31% from The increase in depreciation at Kibali was driven by the previous year, in line with the strong operating an increase in throughput year on year, as well as performances at Loulo-Gounkoto and at Tongon.
additions to the underground mining infrastructure, Cash and cash equivalents increased to hydropower plants and other assets $84.9 million $516.3 million compared to $213.4 million at the attributable.
The increase in foreign exchange end of 2015, reflecting the net cash generated from losses is the result of a sharp depreciation in the operations, partially offset by increased additions to Congolese franc compared to the US dollar during property, plant and equipment, as well as increased the second half of the year and the conversion of dividends paid to shareholders.
TVA balances owed to Kibali which are denominated in Congolese franc.
The increase in the tax credit was a result of a decrease in the deferred tax liability during the year.
Morilas share of equity accounted joint venture profits decreased from a profit of $7.0 million in 2015 to a loss of $7.1 million in 2016.
Profit from mining for 2016 was $2.7 million.
WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION BUDGETS $ billion 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Grassroots Late stage Minesite Source: SNL Metals and Mining RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 24 ASSETS AND INVESTMENTS OUTSTANDING TVA AND TAX CLAIMS Property, plant and equipment cost increased by The total outstanding refundable TVA balances $189.4 million for the year ended 31 December in Mali amount to $94.4 million 31 December 2016, and was mainly attributable to capital 2015: $109.2 million and include 100% of the expenditure at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex of Loulo and Gounkoto TVA receivables and the $149.1 million.
Of this amount, $97.8 million was attributable portion of the Morila TVA receivable spent on the development of the Yalea and Gara of $12.6 million.
Morila, Loulo and Gounkoto have underground mines, including the refrigeration the legal right under the terms of their respective plants, and $26.0 million was spent on ongoing mining conventions to offset other taxes payable capital, notably the elution and power plant to the Malian State against these refundable TVA upgrades.
A stripping activity asset of $15.5 million balances.
Management continues to pursue the was created at Gounkoto in Q3 in respect of the MZ3 cash settlement of these TVA balances.
zone of the orebody, however all ore was mined and fed in Q4 2016 and thus the stripping asset was The groups share of the TVA balance at Kibali fully depreciated in Q4 2016.
Capital expenditure amounted to $59.0 million 31 December 2015: at Tongon of $10.5 million consisted of power plant $61.8 million.
The Morila and Kibali TVA balances upgrades and ongoing capital spent, while are included in the groups investment in joint $6.5 million was spent at the Massawa project ventures line.
A cost update of the rehabilitation provisions resulted in a $9.6 million increase in In June 2016, the International Center for Settlement rehabilitation assets at the mines for the year, as of Investment Disputes ICSID arbitration tribunal detailed further below.
issued its final and binding award, resulting in Loulo being awarded $29.2 million in principal The groups capital commitments including its share together with an award for costs and interest from of equity accounted joint ventures at 31 December the State of Mali, for monies found by the tribunal 2016 amounted to $16.7 million, with the majority to have been wrongfully taken by the government relating to the Loulo-Gounkoto complex $6.0 million through TVA credits.
This amount was subsequently and Kibali $9.7 million attributable.
received during the third quarter.
In addition, the arbitration ruled that TVA withholding tax on foreign The long term ore stockpiles balance of suppliers was due to the State of Mali, although $164.7 million relates to the portion of ore stockpiles amounts were also confirmed to be recoverable at Loulo, Gounkoto and Tongon which are expected as TVA receivables such that the TVA payable is to be processed after more than one year, in line matched by an equal TVA receivable.
The arbitration with the respective mine plans.
The 2% decrease however related to only a portion of the various tax from 31 December 2015 relates to a decrease in the claims which have been received from the State stockpile balance at Gounkoto in line with the mine of Mali in respect of its Mali operations.
totalling $27.3 million were made against a portion of these claims in the third quarter.
The outstanding Investments in equity accounted joint ventures claims in respect of its Mali operations totalled reflects the groups share of its equity accounted $122.7 million at the end of the year 2015: $280.0 investments, mainly Kibali as well as Morila and million.
Having taken professional advice, the the groups asset leasing joint ventures.
Other group considers material elements of the remaining investments in joint ventures reflect the groups loans claims to be without merit or foundation and is advanced to the groups asset leasing joint ventures.
strongly defending its position in relation to these The decrease year on year of $24.7 million in total claims and following the appropriate legal process.
investment in joint ventures mainly reflects dividends Accordingly, no provision has been made for the received from Kibali $30.0 million attributable, loan material claims and the likelihood of a material repayments made by RAL $11.9 million attributable, outflow of economic benefits in respect of such partially offset by the groups share of the profits claims is considered remote under IFRS.
Loulo, from equity accounted joint ventures $17.3 million.
Gounkoto and Morila have each legally binding establishment conventions which guarantee Current inventories and ore stockpiles of fiscal stability, govern the taxes applicable to the $119.0 million decreased by $12.0 million from the companies and allow for international arbitration balance at 31 December 2015, mainly as a result of in the event a dispute cannot be resolved in the an increased portion of the Loulo stockpile being country.
Management continues to engage with classified as long term and a decrease in the gold in the Malian authorities at the highest level to resolve process balance at Loulo.
During the third quarter, the group received payment demands for Trade and other receivables of $231.4 million at these disputed amounts, and while it was engaged 31 December 2016 increased by 17% from the with the authorities on these demands, its office balance at 31 December 2015.
This mainly reflects in Bamako was closed by the authorities but the advances to contractors and tax prepayment at subsequently reopened in October.
During October Loulo, partially offset by decreases in the TVA value 2016, the group paid tax advances to the State of added tax balances at Loulo.
The TVA balances at Mali in the amount of $25.0 million, to ensure that it Loulo and Gounkoto are expected to be recovered could continue to engage with the Malian authorities within one year and as such are considered short to resolve the tax disputes, noting that any amounts term in nature and therefore no long term portion which are legally not due will be refunded.
These exists at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: amounts are shown in trade and other receivables.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 25 Given Randgolds commitment to growing through CASH discovery and development, the company will The increase in cash of $302.9 million since continue to commit significant expenditure to 31 December 2015 largely reflects strong operational exploration.
In 2017, corporate and exploration cash flows $521.2 million, partially offset by the expenses of approximately $50 to $60 million groups continued investment in capital expenditure are anticipated.
Total group capital expenditure, in its subsidiaries $170.8 million, in particular at the including its attributable share of joint ventures, Loulo-Gounkoto complex, and cash dividends paid to is expected to be approximately $300 million.
At Kibali, capital of approximately $95 million 45% of project is expected, mostly relating LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS to the underground shaft developments and Deferred tax of $42.4 million increased by hydropower projects.
Ongoing development $6.9 million from the balance at 31 December 2015, of the underground mines at Loulo, as well as mainly due to changes in the Life of Mine units of other projects and exploration, is planned to production depreciation estimates at the Loulocost $90 million, while Gounkoto is forecasting Gounkoto complex and at Tongon during the year.
$55 million, mostly on the super pit development which includes deferred stripping.
Capital at Provision for rehabilitation increased to $55.5 million, Tongon, including completion of the plant and 17% higher than the balance held at 31 December power upgrades, is estimated at $20 million, 2015, following the completion of updated closure and approximately $1 million is expected at plans at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex and at Tongon.
Continued work on the Massawa feasibility study, mostly in respect of Trade and other payables of $127.4 million decreased drilling, is forecast to incur capital expenditure of by $11.9 million from the balance of $139.3 million as at approximately $30 million.
31 December 2015, mainly as a result of the decrease in supplier balances at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex DIVIDEND due to the timing of payments of invoices.
Randgolds board of directors has recommended an annual dividend for the period ended 31 December Current tax payable of $61.0 million increased by 2016 of $1.00 per share, up 52% on the previous $41.2 million from the balance at 31 December 2015 years $0.66.
The dividend will be paid in cash with due to increased profits at Loulo and Gounkoto, as well no scrip alternative being made available and the as at Tongon, following the end of Tongons tax holiday resolution for the dividend has been submitted to in December 2015. shareholders for approval at the companys annual general meeting scheduled for Tuesday 2 May 2017.
GUIDANCE Since Randgold paid its first dividend in respect of The past year saw another increase in production the 2006 financial year, the company has maintained across the group, up 3%, within the guidance range a progressive dividend policy, with dividends having given at the start of the year, while total cash cost per increased annually and by 900% over this period, ounce reduced by 6%, being 1% above the guidance notwithstanding the drop in the gold price since range.
Looking ahead, the group is forecasting 2011.
This increase in dividends validates the production for 2017 at between 1.25Moz and 1.30Moz.
business model and reflects the profitability and Production is expected to be relatively consistent financial strength of the group, including net cash through the year, slightly weighted to the second half.
and no debt of more than $500 million, exceeding Management is targeting a total cash cost per ounce the target it set at the start of the year.
for the group, after royalties, of between $580 oz and $630 oz for the year.
Now that we have reached our $500 million cash target, going forward Randgold intends to continue SUSTAINED DIVIDEND GROWTH to pay an annual dividend that will take into account Dividend per share in respect of the year under review but declared and paid in the following year its profitability, cash flows and the wider capital requirements of the group in the context of its $ Proposed financial position, including its expected cross-cycle 1.00 operating cash flows and its cross-cycle capital expenditure requirements.
The company will seek to 0.90 maintain a net cash position of approximately $500 million to provide financing flexibility should a new mine development or other growth opportunity 0.80 be identified.
To the extent that Randgold has surplus capital, the company intends to return such 0.70 excess to shareholders.
0.60 0.50 0.40 0.30 Graham Shuttleworth Financial director and chief financial officer 0.20 0.10 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 26 SENIOR MANAGEMENT Andrew Roy Bondo Simon Allibone Bottoms FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION CHIEF GROUP MANAGER DRC GENERATIVE MINERAL GEOLOGIST RESOURCE MANAGER Abbas Germain Amourlaye Coulibaly Crestin Daouda ENGINEERING EXPLORATION OPERATIONS MANAGER MANAGER WEST MANAGER LOULO AFRICA TONGON Daouda Ibrahima Shaun Dembele Diane Gillespie FINANCIAL HR MANAGER GROUP MANAGER PLANNING LOULOMANAGER GOUNKOTO Martin Nico Amadou Heunes Hoffman Konta GROUP SUPPLY OPERATIONS GROUP OPEN MANAGER FINANCE PIT MINING MANAGER ENGINEER Ashleigh Amadou David Mbaye Lawson Maiga COUNTRY MANAGER GROUP FINANCIAL SENEGAL BUSINESS MANAGER ASSURANCE MORILA MANAGER Paul Norton Cyrille McGehee Mukeba Mutombo GROUP FINANCIAL COUNTRY INFORMATION MANAGER MANAGER DRC TECHNOLOGY KIBALI MANAGER Bodiel Rachael Sale Fabrice NDiaye Tamane TREASURY MANAGER COUNTRY FINANCIAL MANAGER MANAGER CTE DIVOIRE TONGON Ted fide Villiers MINING PROJECTS MANAGER RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 27 Global bar and coin demand was down 2% year on year.
The higher gold price as well as the overall lack of momentum in the price, were the primary GOLD causes of this weakness.
In the key markets of China and the US, demand showed substantial increases.
However, demand in India was negatively MARKET impacted by regulatory changes introduced by the government.
Demand also fell in Europe, the Middle East and in East Asia.
OVERVIEW The jewellery sector experienced considerable negative pressures in 2016, and demand dropped to a seven year low.
The higher gold price profile, Gold had a robust performance in regulatory changes in the key Indian market 2016 and the gold price was up 8% and Chinas slowing economy all impacted the year on year in US dollar terms.
In India, consumers continue to face a challenging environment and demand has dropped most other currencies the increase to a multi-year low, on the back of the relatively was even higher.
The gold price high and volatile gold price, a fragile sentiment among the rural population and new government closed the year at $1 146 per ounce.
The rural population in India has seen Research by the World Gold Council an erosion of disposable income in recent years.
shows that gold demand increased In addition, various government regulations have been implemented during the year in an attempt to by 2% in 2016, primarily as a result control and formalise the gold market.
Price driven of multi-year record inflows into weakness also affected the other Asian markets and in the Middle East.
In the US, jewellery demand physically backed gold ETFs.
was relatively flat and poor consumer confidence in Europe resulted in demand following similar Investment demand was up 70% year on year, the patterns.
highest level since 2012, as investors continued to build their strategic allocations in gold via ETFs.
Central banks continued to add gold to their Demand for gold backed ETFs and similar products reserves and 2016 was the 16th consecutive year of was the second highest on record, just behind 2009. net purchases.
US based ETFs led the increase in demand in the first half of the year, driven by uncertainties about Gold demand for technological use declined by 3% the future path of interest rates and the elections as pressure from a combination of substitution and in that country, as well as by the upward price slowing final product sales continued to weigh on momentum.
The balance in ETF demand shifted to the sector.
European investors in the second half of the year, as they started to focus on the upcoming 2017 elections in that part of the world and the low interest rate environment.
ANNUAL WORLD GOLD PRODUCTION Gold production Moz 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Actual Forecast Estimate Source: SNL Metals and Mining RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 28 The World Gold Council is of the opinion that there Recycling, on the other hand, soared on the back of are currently major trends in the world economy that the higher gold price as well as structural changes are currently supportive of gold demand.
These in some markets, resulting in recycling reaching a include heightened geopolitical risks, currency four year high.
The squeeze on disposable income depreciation, a rise in inflation expectations, the experienced by consumers in India and China level of stock market valuations and the opening of resulted in them selling gold into the higher gold new markets.
In China, the year on year supply of recycled gold increased by 45%.
Total gold supply increased by 5% in 2016.
Although mine production was flat year on year, recycling jumped 17%.
Cost management continues to significantly impact on gold production.
Data produced by SNL Metals and Mining shows that industry-wide all-in sustaining cost has shown a substantial drop since its peak in 2013, and that the continued cuts to project spending imply a constricted pipeline of future gold supply.
Future production was also impacted by the gold majors cutting their exploration budgets, particularly greenfield work, in recent years.
Gold production is anticipated to drop from 2020.
PROJECTED GOLD IN MAJOR DISCOVERIES AND EXPLORATION BUDGETS BY YEAR - 1990 TO 2015 Gold in major discoveries Moz Gold price $ oz Gold exploration budgets $ million 180 7 000 160 6 000 140 5 000 120 4 000 100 80 3 000 60 2 000 40 1 000 20 0 0 Gold found Moz Projected additional gold in discoveries Discovery oriented gold budgets $ million Gold price $ oz Source: SNL Metals and Mining RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 29 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 DIVIDER NAME SECTION HEADING CONTINUED RANDGOLD RESOURCES RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 T 2016 30 30
