DIRECTORS REPORTS DIRECTORS 174 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT REPORTS 238 186 188 210 GOVERNANCE VIABILITY AUDIT REMUNERATION & NOMINATION STATEMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE REPORT REPORT REPORT RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 173 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The board believes that a strong system of governance throughout the company is essential and that this aids effective decision making and supports the achievement of the companys strategic objectives.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The audit committee ensures the companys risk management procedures are kept under review and provides oversight of the companys financial controls and financial reporting.
This is detailed further on page 188 of this annual report.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The remuneration committees primary areas of focus are to keep under review the executive directors remuneration and senior employees base salaries and share incentive schemes, to ensure appropriate pay for performance and to review the Christopher performance measures to ensure these remain Coleman appropriate.
The remuneration report is set out on CHAIRMAN page 210 of this annual report.
GOVERNANCE & NOMINATION COMMITTEE The governance & nomination committee focuses on Dear shareholders board composition and succession.
Its report is set out on page 238 of this annual report.
I am pleased to set out the companys corporate governance report for 2016.
During the year and up to the date of this annual report, a number of changes were made to the The board believes that a strong system of board and to the boards committees.
Both Karl governance throughout the company is essential.
Voltaire and Norb Cole stepped down from the A good governance framework aids effective board after 10 years service.
We owe both Karl and decision making and supports the achievement Norb a huge debt of gratitude for the considerable of the companys objectives and strategy for the contribution they have made to the company over benefit of shareholders and stakeholders alike.
Safiatou Ba NDaw was appointed to board also understands the importance of a strong the audit committee, Jamil Kassum was appointed to corporate culture and the positive impact this has on the remuneration committee, and Andrew Quinn was the companys performance.
Randgold Resources appointed as the companys senior independent entrepreneurial culture, while remaining adaptable director.
Andrew brings a wealth of experience to the changing circumstances a resource company to the role of senior independent director and his in Africa faces, is firmly focused on adding value guidance and foresight will be invaluable to the for its shareholders and other stakeholders as well board.
as promoting a culture of inclusiveness among all its workers, which was enhanced this year by the development of the companys In-Reach programme, further details of which are set out on DIRECTORS GENDER page 118 of this annual report.
2016 2015 BOARD EVALUATION AND IMPROVEMENT The board continuously reviews how it can improve and develop.
At this years formal board and director evaluation review, which I chaired, the 33% directors analysed their own performance and the performance and effectiveness of the board and its 20% committees.
The directors also look at the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the board.
We expect to hold a review of the effectiveness of the board and its committees with 67% an external facilitator next year.
80% Female Male RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 174 In February 2017, Olivia Kirtley joined the company The Code sets out key corporate governance as a non-executive director and was appointed as recommendations for companies, like Randgold, a member of the remuneration committee.
Olivias that have a premium listing of their equity shares on appointment will broaden the boards range of skills the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
It and experience with her significant international consists of broad principles and specific provisions business background and corporate governance of good governance in the following areas: relations knowledge.
The board is looking forward to working with shareholders: remuneration: leadership: with Olivia.
Kadri Dagdelen will retire from the board effectiveness: and accountability.
at the 2017 annual general meeting AGM.
We thank Kadri for his contribution to the company.
This corporate governance report is arranged around those main principles and, together with the Randgold Resources is committed to good audit committee report on pages 188 to 209 of this governance, not only at board level but throughout annual report, the remuneration report on pages the company, and the enclosed report sets out the 210 to 237 and the governance & nomination details of its approach to corporate governance.
committee report on pages 238 to 243, sets out how the company has applied the main principles of GOVERNANCE AT RANDGOLD the Code during 2016.
Randgold Resources Limited is incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands.
The company complies Details of the companys share capital are set out with the United Kingdoms Corporate Governance in note 5 of the financial statements of this annual Code the Code.
report and details of key shareholders are provided on pages 246 to 247 of this annual report.
There are no special rights attached to the companys shares or restrictions on voting rights.
Each notice of general meeting of the company will specify the time for determining a shareholders right to attend and The company has been in compliance with the vote at the meeting, and the deadline for submitting UK Corporate Governance Code published in proxy appointments.
September 2014 and revised in April 2016 throughout the year ended 31 December The powers of the directors are set out in the Articles 2016 and up to the date of this annual report of Association of the company Articles, which including updates which have applied since our are available on the companys website, and are year end, other than as follows: subject to the relevant legislation and, in certain With respect to section D. 2.1 of the Code, for circumstances, authority given by the companys a short period following the retirement of Karl shareholders.
The directors have authorities to allot Voltaire at the annual general meeting on shares and to make market purchases of shares as 3 May 2016, up to the appointment of Jamil granted at the AGM in 2016.
These authorities will Kassum to the remuneration committee at expire at the AGM in 2017, when shareholders will the remuneration committees Quarter 2, be asked to give similar authorities.
The Articles 2016 meeting on 2 August 2016, the also govern the appointment and replacement remuneration committee comprised two of directors and may only be amended with independent non-executive directors and the shareholders approval in accordance with relevant chairman.
No meetings of the remuneration legislation.
committee were held during that time.
From the retirement of Norb Cole from the The information that fulfils the requirements of the remuneration committee on 30 October 2016 corporate governance statement in accordance with to the appointment of Olivia Kirtley to the DTR 7.2 can be found in this corporate governance remuneration committee on 2 February 2017, report and in the reports of the audit committee, the remuneration committee comprised two remuneration committee and the governance & independent non-executive directors and nomination committee on pages 188 to 243 of this the chairman.
There were no meetings of annual report.
the remuneration committee held during that time.
RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS Dialogue with our shareholders The board is responsible for maintaining an effective dialogue with shareholders and for ensuring that its The Code can be viewed on the website of the members develop an understanding of the views United Kingdoms Financial Reporting Council, at of the companys major shareholders.
uk, and also on the companys website with this, the CEO, the corporate communications www.
manager and the companys investor relations consultants prepare a quarterly report for the board, detailing the activities and presentations given to shareholders.
The company also employs international market intelligence experts to provide a global shareholder identification service which enhances the boards understanding of the companys shareholder base.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 175 DIRECTORS REPORTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED While general corporate communication with Annual General Meeting shareholders is conducted by the CEO and the CFO, The board welcomes shareholders participation the chairman, the senior independent director and at the AGM.
At the AGM all resolutions put to the certain other non-executive directors participate in meeting are decided on a poll, which the board dialogue with shareholders and other stakeholders believes is the most equitable method of voting, throughout the year.
The companys investor enabling it to be equitably representative of the relations team also responded to a wide range of companys shareholder base.
The number of shareholder queries throughout the year.
proxies received is disclosed to shareholders in attendance at each AGM.
At the market presentations of the companys quarterly results, the CEO, CFO and members of At the 2016 AGM, the chairman and all other the executive team make themselves available to directors were present and available to address meet with shareholders and other stakeholders queries raised by shareholders.
Results of the before and after each presentation.
Additionally, the AGM are published on the day of the meeting to CEO hosts a conference call each quarter, which inform shareholders not present of the results of affords an opportunity for interested shareholders, the voting.
The company welcomes the increasing stakeholders and international media to engage trend of institutional shareholders exercising their directly with the CEO and the CFO when the rights to vote at the AGM.
At the 2016 AGM all the companys quarterly results are announced.
resolutions were passed by shareholders.
The percentage of votes cast in favour of each resolution Members of the remuneration committee hold annual ranged from 97.65% to 100%.
meetings with the companys major shareholders and voting guidance agencies where the companys The 2017 AGM will be held at The Club Hotel, Green remuneration policies are discussed.
Issues Street, St Helier, Jersey, on Tuesday 2 May 2017 at and observations raised at those meetings are 9:00 am.
The notice of meeting sets out the resolutions then considered by the remuneration committee which shareholders will be able to vote on.
A copy of and reported to the board.
In 2016, members of the notice of meeting is available on the companys the remuneration committee held meetings with website at www.
As noted shareholders and voting guidance agencies in in the chairmans statement on page 8 of this annual Boston, New York and London, and also attended report, the board has recommended that shareholders the companys investor roadshows as mentioned approve at the AGM a dividend of $1.00 per share, below.
Members of the remuneration committee which is a 52% increase from last year.
also make themselves available for conference calls where particular shareholders or voting agencies are unable to attend meetings with the remuneration committee.
MINING CONFERENCES ATTENDED IN 2016 During their visit to the Kibali gold mine in the DRC in January 2016, the full board had the opportunity to interact with shareholders and fund managers who were also visiting the site at the time.
In February 2016, the chairman and the CEO attended the Mining Indaba Conference in Cape Town, South 3 8 7 4 Africa, where they had an opportunity to interact with 5 various investors, fund managers and members of 2 our host Governments.
Investor roadshows 6 It is the companys policy that at least every second 1 year a series of roadshows are conducted by the CEO, CFO and various members of the executive team, during which the companys major institutional shareholders are briefed on the companys 1 Mining Indaba, Cape Town, South Africa activities.
Shareholders and fund managers at those investor meetings are encouraged to interact with 2 BMO Global Metals and Mining Conference, the executive management team.
The company Hollywood, Florida, United States held investor days in New York, Toronto and London 3 Prospectors and Developers Association of during November 2016 and, in the light of their Canada, Toronto, Canada success and positive feedback, intends to hold further such investor days in 2018.
4 BAML Global Metals, Mining and Steel Conference, Miami, Florida, United States Mining conferences 5 Denver Gold Forum, Denver, United States During 2016, the CEO and other members of the 6 Johannesburg Indaba, Johannesburg, South executive team attended a number of international Africa mining conferences and investor forums, where they met with shareholders and other stakeholders.
7 RBC Gold Conference, London, United Kingdom 8 Mines & Money, London, United Kingdom RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 176 Ringing the NASDAQ bell on the day of the New York investor day: Andrew Quinn, Safiatou Ba-NDaw, Christopher Coleman and Jamil Kassum.
RANDGOLDS INCLUSIVE APPROACH WITH ITS The general convention for Randgold Resources STAKEHOLDERS mines board meetings is that the board is provided Randgolds culture is one of inclusiveness with a presentation in French to ensure the not only with its shareholders but also with its government representatives fully understand the employees, union representatives, and the issues and can vote accordingly on resolutions put host governments where it operates.
demonstrated by having government representatives on our mining companies boards and with the Mine employees and union representatives companys interaction with employees and union The CEO undertakes mass meetings with the representatives.
companys workers twice a year at each of its sites.
During those meetings workers are free to raise Government representatives any query or concern with the CEO.
In addition The mines located in Mali and Cte dIvoire have to meeting with union representatives formally two government representative directors on each on a quarterly basis at each of the operations board.
The Ministry of Finance and Ministry of board meetings, the CEO also meets with these Mines each appoints a director to those boards.
representatives during the mine strategy meetings Those government representatives receive a copy which occur on site three to four times a year.
of the board materials and board presentations Separately the CEO holds informal meetings with in French in advance of the meeting.
This union and personnel representatives on an ad hoc affords the representatives an opportunity to fully basis as the need arises throughout the year.
understand the issues and to prepare in advance for the meeting.
The government representatives Unions that are recognised by each mine are invited are encouraged to participate fully in the board to attend and participate in all quarterly board meetings and to question management when the meetings.
At each meeting, union representatives need arises.
are able to view and comment on managements presentations and voice any general issues of The Kibali gold mine has two representatives on concern which they want to bring to the attention of its board from the state-owned mining company, the board.
Union representatives may also make Socit dOr fide Kilo Moto SA SOKIMO.
Those formal presentations to the board, and put questions representatives receive a French language board to management.
pack in advance of the meeting and are also briefed in advance of the board materials and presentations.
The CEO holds dinners with management and union SOKIMO directors typically arrive on site two days representatives, together with local community before the board meeting to allow time to be spent leaders, throughout the year to deal informally with with management and for a visit to the open pit and any queries or concerns those stakeholders may underground mining, production and processing have.
plants, and the environmental and community projects which the mine is developing.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 177 DIRECTORS REPORTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION Board membership The board has established a remuneration The board currently comprises nine members, two committee which is responsible for determining executive and seven non-executive directors.
and agreeing the companys remuneration policy with the board.
The companys remuneration policy The board acknowledges that for Randgold to is designed to deliver sustainable shareholder continue to be a successful gold mining company, it value by attracting and retaining high calibre must be led by an effective board, with appropriate directors and employees.
The remuneration policy skills, experience, independence and knowledge applies to the remuneration of the chairman, the of the activities of the company, its environment executive directors, the non-executive directors and its industry.
It must also be the custodian and the senior management of the company.
The of the companys entrepreneurial culture.
As remuneration committee regularly reviews directors detailed below, all the non-executive directors are and senior managements remuneration.
No considered to be independent both in terms of director participates in the determination of or in any character and judgement.
The board also considers resolution on his or her own remuneration.
all the companys directors to have the necessary balance of skills, experience and knowledge to For details of the companys remuneration policies discharge their duties as directors pursuant to the and practices, and the remuneration paid to the terms of the Code.
The board keeps the optimal directors, please refer to the remuneration report on balance of skills and experience under constant pages 210 to 237 of this annual report.
review, as well as ensuring there is diversity, including gender, nationality, age, educational and LEADERSHIP professional background among its members.
The role of the board The governance & nomination committee is charged The board is responsible for the overall conduct by the board to identify suitable candidates to fulfil the of the companys affairs in a manner that seeks to role of director of the company.
On 2 February 2017, maximise the value of the company for the benefit following a formal, rigorous and transparent of its shareholders as a whole, while complying selection process led by the governance & with relevant regulatory requirements, the Articles, nomination committee where multiple candidates and relevant international corporate governance were considered and following that committees standards applicable to the company.
A key role recommendation, the board appointed Mrs Kirtley of the board is to define the companys long term to the board as a non-executive director and to the objectives and to regularly review its strategic remuneration committee.
The board determined direction against those objectives along with that Mrs Kirtleys significant experience in audit supporting the principle of collective responsibility and financial management and her strong strategic for its success.
and commercial understanding, as detailed in her biography on page 19 of this annual report, would The board sets the tone at the top and also seeks be suitable to the role of non-executive director to ensure there is a strong and effective system and would complement the boards existing skills of corporate governance at all levels.
Following her appointment also ensures that the necessary corporate and at the companys February 2017 board meeting, management structures are in place for the strategy Mrs Kirtley received a pack of board materials and to be implemented.
participated in that board meeting.
RANDGOLD GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK BOARD OF DIRECTORS Governance Chief executive Remuneration Audit committee & nomination officer committee committee Environmental Executive Treasury and social committee committee oversight committee RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 178 Senior Board of directors management In addition, the CEO chairs the companys Chairman environmental and social oversight committee, The chairman is Christopher Coleman, who was details of which can be found in the sustainability appointed to the board in November 2008 and as report on pages 105 to 171 of this annual report.
The chairman leads the board, including chairing the formal board meetings, Biographical details of the senior managers who setting the board agenda and ensuring that participate in the executive committee are set out on sufficient time is devoted to its discussions.
Mr Bristows skills and experience are set out in his biography on page 17 of this annual The chairman is also responsible for ensuring report.
effective communication between the executive and non-executive directors.
He, in conjunction with the Company secretary company secretary and the CEO, sets the agenda The company secretary is Martin Welsh.
He is for each board meeting and makes certain that secretary to the board and its committees, and sufficient time is allocated for discussion, including reports to the chairman and the CEO on corporate discussion of key strategic and operational issues.
The company secretary Mr Colemans skills and experience are detailed in ensures there is an effective flow of information his biography on page 17 of this annual report.
between the board, its committees and the management of the company.
The company Senior independent director secretary is also responsible for ensuring statutory Andrew Quinn is the companys senior independent and regulatory compliance and that decisions of the director.
board and its committees are carried out.
Mr Welshs biography is set out on page 21 of this He was appointed to the board in November 2011 annual report.
and as the senior independent director on 31 October 2016 following the retirement of Norb The boards responsibilities Cole from the board.
Mr Quinn makes himself The boards responsibilities are set out in its available to discuss any concerns shareholders may board charter which is available on the companys have which cannot be raised with the chairman or website www.
The senior independent director also acts responsibilities cover a wide range of corporate as a sounding board for the chairman and the CEO.
The board has reserved Mr Quinns skills and expertise are detailed in his certain matters to itself for decision and delegated biography on page 18 of this annual report.
other matters to the boards audit, remuneration and governance & nomination committees.
As referred Chief executive officer CEO to above, the board has delegated authority for other Mark Bristow is the chief executive officer.
The CEO has delegated authority from the board A summary of the key matters which the board has to manage the day to day administration of the expressly reserved for its approval are set out in the company and to take decisions and actions which table alongside.
The CEOs role and duties are detailed in the board charter.
The board has the authority to amend the matters The board charter sets out those powers which which are reserved for its decision, subject to the are reserved solely for the boards discretion and Articles and to the law and regulations applicable to consideration, while listing separately those issues the company.
for which the chairman and the CEO are respectively accountable.
The CEO remains accountable to the The board keeps its charter under regular review.
board for the performance of the company.
During During the year the charter was reviewed, in particular the year, the CEO escalated certain matters to the at the board meeting in February 2016, and it was board which required deliberation under the board determined that no amendments were required.
The board is of the view that its composition and The CEO has established an executive committee to structure, in conjunction with the activities of its support him in managing the companys business.
committees, are sufficient to allow it to assess The executive committee consists of the CEO, who effectively the performance of management in chairs the executive committee meetings, the CFO achieving the set goals and objectives.
The executive committee is an effective management tool as it allows senior The companys culture management to debate on a weekly basis the The companys directors provide a wide variety companys business and operations together with of skills, experience and knowledge to the board.
any other issues that may arise.
The executive Biographical details of the directors are given committee has also proved a vital forum for sharing on pages 17 to 19 of this annual report.
This information concerning the company among the mix of skills allows for a balanced perspective management team.
When the need arises, the to be provided on the companys business and executive committee establishes sub-committees its strategy, and ensures that the companys to deal with a specific scope of work, which are entrepreneurial approach to business is maintained.
then tasked with reporting back to the executive committee.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 179 DIRECTORS REPORTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Maintaining this culture and strategy and overseeing its alignment throughout the company is a key priority for the board.
To achieve this, a number of BOARD RESERVED MATTERS strategy meetings involving the companys senior Strategy management, and separate meetings with mine Company objectives, strategy and structure management, take place throughout the year, with each meeting regarded as an opportunity to affirm and develop the companys strategy.
All aspects Risk of the companys business are discussed at its Approving procedures for the detection of strategy meetings, which typically last for several fraud and the prevention of bribery days.
During the strategy meetings in 2016 the Internal controls, and risk management following areas, among others, were considered.
Fiscal policies including treasury and hedging policies Approval of risk strategy, appetite and tolerance and approval of all financial, legal, social, environmental and ethical controls of the company 2016 STRATEGY MEETINGS Company performance and strategy Companys values Performance Scenario planning Allocation of capital, operating and capital Developing the companys employees expenditure budgets Financial reporting Significant mergers and acquisitions and other material transactions: approval of all significant mining developments Board attendance Succession planning The company requires all directors to attend its Appointment and removal of the chairman, board meetings wherever possible in person or by CEO, CFO, non-executive directors, and conference call, and to devote sufficient time to company secretary, and approval of their discharge their duties effectively.
The directors roles and responsibilities, and succession attendance at the companys board meetings in planning 2016 is shown below.
Finance BOARD ATTENDANCE IN 2016 Dividends, dividend policy, changes Number of to capital and the listing or delisting of meetings securities including debt instruments eligible to Approval of any significant change in the Director attend Attended accounting policies and practices CL Coleman Chairman 4 4 DM Bristow 4 4 An atmosphere of open, constructive debate exists GP Shuttleworth 4 4 at the companys board meetings, allowing directors 1 NP Cole 3 3 to engage with executive management on key S Ba-NDaw 4 4 aspects of policy and performance.
The chairman K Dagdelen 4 4 encourages all directors to participate in the J Kassum 4 4 boards discussions and debates, thereby fostering a collegiate and collaborative approach which J Mabunda Lioko 4 4 underpins the boards decision making processes.
AJ Quinn 4 4 2 K Voltaire 1 1 Randgold is an entrepreneurial company, focused 3 O Kirtley n a n a on growing value through the discovery and 1 development of gold mines, with a key goal of Mr Cole retired from the board on 31 October 2016.
2 Dr Voltaire retired from the board on 3 May 2016. creation of value for all stakeholders including the 3 Mrs Kirtley joined the board and the remuneration committee on host countries and local communities where the 2 February 2017. company operates.
The companys alignment to shareholder value creation encourages Where a director is unable to attend a board empowerment, ownership and responsibility as well meeting, the chairman will ensure the director as a results-based growth culture.
receives the papers in advance and he will seek to canvas that directors views prior to the meeting in order for all directors opinions to be considered at the meeting.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 180 During 2016, four scheduled quarterly board MEMBERSHIP OF THE BOARDS meetings were held.
Quarterly board meetings COMMITTEES typically take place over a two day period, with Succession planning the first day allocated to the board committee Ensuring effective succession plans are in place, meetings and the second day allocated to the board taking into account the companys strategic plans, meeting.
The intervening evening allows the board is a key responsibility for the board.
The companys members to engage in informal discussions among succession planning is integral to its strategic plans.
themselves on the activities of the company and the The board, in conjunction with the governance groups strategy.
& nomination committee, regularly reviews the companys succession plans for board members The chairman and the non-executive directors met and senior management.
In particular, the board several times during the year in the absence of the has succession plans in place for the chairman, executive directors.
The non-executive directors CEO, CFO and for senior management.
find these sessions useful and it is their intention to have further sessions without the executive directors As indicated in last years annual report and as being present over the course of 2017.
A meeting announced by the company in May 2016, and of the non-executive directors, chaired by the senior October 2016, Dr Voltaire and Mr Cole both retired independent director, was also held to appraise the from the board during the year.
During the previous chairmans performance.
Following that meeting year Mr Kassum had replaced Dr Voltaire as it was determined that the chairman had the chairman of the audit committee and in October necessary skills and experience to lead the board.
2016 Mr Quinn replaced Mr Cole as the companys senior independent director.
As announced on Reappointment 3 February 2017 Mrs Kirtley was appointed to In accordance with the Code, Mrs Kirtley will stand the board and as a member of the remuneration for election by shareholders for the first time at the committee with effect from that date, and 2017 AGM and all other directors will stand for reDr Dagdelen will retire from the board at the 2017 election except for Dr Dagdelen who, as previously AGM.
announced, will retire from the board at the 2017 AGM.
In accordance with the Articles, a director EFFECTIVENESS may be removed from office by the board or by Directors independence shareholders.
In addition the Articles require any The board considers that all the non-executive newly appointed director to stand for election by directors are independent and that the chairman was shareholders after his her appointment by the board.
For the purposes of section B.
1.1 of the Code, the board has considered Board committees the role of Mr Coleman and Mrs Kirtley as nonIn order to facilitate its supervision of the company executive directors of the NASDAQ listed company, and to effectively assess the performance of Papa Johns International, Inc. management in achieving set goals and objectives, the board has established three committees: the audit committee, the remuneration committee and 1 the governance & nomination committee, and MEMBERSHIP OF THE BOARDS COMMITTEES has delegated certain powers to each.
Details of the terms of reference of each committee and the members of each committee are available on the companys website www.
The members of the committees are set out in the diagram alongside and in the respective committee REMUNERATION reports in this annual report.
COMMITTEE Andrew Quinn The board ensures that each of its committees has AUDIT COMMITTEE Christopher Coleman sufficient resources to fulfil its responsibilities.
The Jamil Kassum Jamil Kassum board and each committee also have the ability Andrew Quinn Olivia Kirtley to rely on the services of the company secretary, Jeanine Mabunda Lioko Safiatou Ba-NDaw and to seek other professional advice should it choose.
Each committee reports to the board after its meetings through the committee chairman and through the circulation of meeting minutes and written resolutions.
GOVERNANCE & NOMINATION All committee members may attend a committee COMMITTEE meeting and the chairman of a committee may invite Christopher Coleman others to attend.
No executive director is a member Jamil Kassum of any of the boards committees.
Kadri Dagdelen 1 As at 15 March 2017 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 181 CASE STUDY DIRECTORS REPORTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The board continually evaluates its composition, the independence of its members, and its succession CASE STUDY plans to ensure board members bring objectivity and independent judgement to their roles and that a OF DIRECTORS plan is in place for their succession.
INDUCTION Managing conflicts of interests The directors have a duty to avoid conflicts of interests.
Where conflicts arise the Articles require directors to notify the company.
All potential conflicts of interest are recorded by the company secretary in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and are reviewed by the nonconflicted directors at each quarterly board meeting.
The directors have a continuing responsibility to inform the board of any changes to their appointments.
Before being appointed to the board the interests of potential candidates are considered Olivia Kirtley by the governance & nomination committee in the Appointed to the board on 2 February 2017 first instance and then by the board in order for any potential conflicts to be identified and addressed.
My induction programme was invaluable and The boards procedure to regularly review conflicts provided me with a thorough understanding of interest as they arise operated effectively in 2016. of the importance Randgold Resources puts on corporate governance together with No current director, whether executive or nonproviding an opportunity to meet with the senior executive, is a director of another FTSE 100 management team.
However as can be seen on page 17 of this annual report, Mr Coleman is also a nonOverview of induction programme: executive director of Papa Johns International Inc, Met with the company secretary to discuss Mrs Kirtley is a non-executive director of corporate governance US Bancorp and Papa Johns International, Inc, and Met with senior management including the Mr Bristow is a non-executive director and chairman CEO and CFO, Group GM capital projects, of Rockwell Diamonds Inc, the Johannesburg Group GM mineral resources management, Stock Exchange and Toronto Stock Exchange listed Group GM exploration, and head of internal company.
audit Corporate governance training with the As at the date of this annual report there are companys legal advisers no interests that have been disclosed that Met with analysts and other stakeholders are considered to impinge on a directors independence.
The Articles are available at the companys website www.
Director induction and development NATIONALITY OF The board believes in the ongoing training and DIRECTORS development of its members.
The chairman ensures 2016 2015 that upon appointment each director undertakes a comprehensive programme of induction which is developed by the company secretary in conjunction 11% 22% with the companys legal and financial advisers.
Induction materials are organised by the company 10% 20% and made available to each new director through an online portal.
The chairman encourages each existing director to attend further training to ensure 40% 45% their skills remain effective.
The board is also 22% 30% provided with training on an ad hoc basis overseen by the governance & nomination committee in consultation with the company secretary and Asia working with the companys professional advisers Africa to keep abreast of topical corporate governance Europe issues.
Additionally, throughout the year, the company secretary furnishes the board with North America information on corporate governance procedures and practice.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 182 BOARD OF DIRECTORS LENGTH OF TENURE OF AGES NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2016 2015 2016 2015 22% 10% 29% 56% 25% 25% 43% 20% 50% 22% 25% 25% 28% 20% 40-49 years 0-3 years 50-59 years 3-6 years 60-69 years 6-9 years 70-79 years 9 years Also in 2016, the board visited the Kibali gold mine, Board evaluation DRC, where its first meeting of the year was held.
In accordance with the Code the boards While at the Kibali gold mine the board participated effectiveness is evaluated annually, and every in tours of the mine and the processing plant, third year an independent evaluation is conducted and the directors had an opportunity to discuss by an external facilitator.
The board, led by the the mines progress, and its social programmes chairman, evaluated its performance for 2016 with senior management, employees and local and also the performance of the chairman and stakeholders.
The board derives considerable value the boards committees and individual directors.
from engagement with the operational management Each director completed a detailed questionnaire teams and from the presentations provided by concerning the operation of the board and the management, which further board members committees, followed by a round table discussion knowledge and develop their understanding of day of the questionnaires results and the individual to day operational challenges.
performance of each board member.
The review of the performance of the chairman was led by the In addition each board committee makes its agenda senior independent director and this concluded that and discussion papers available to the full board the chairman continues to perform at a high level rather than limiting those materials to committee and provides the necessary leadership to the board members.
This allows all board members to be to allow it to function effectively.
During the year the aware of the work of each committee.
All directors remuneration committee was provided with a written receive a copy of the committees minutes and the appraisal of the CEOs and the CFOs strategic resolutions passed by a board committee, at the outputs performance.
As well as looking at the balance of skills, As in previous years, Dr Dagdelen a professor experience, independence and knowledge of with the mining and engineering department of the board, the evaluation review also focused on the Colorado School of Mines, USA has provided scenario planning surrounding political risk, volatility mining induction training to newly appointed of input costs and commodity prices from which the directors of the company including most recently companys future strategies were debated.
Following its evaluation, the board determined that no areas of weakness in any individual directors performance were identified.
The board will continue with its succession planning for its members and senior management, and will also continue its review of its balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 183 DIRECTORS REPORTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED At the boards 2016 board and committee The board undertook an evaluation with an external evaluation, the directors discussed ongoing training facilitator at the end of 2014, as detailed in the 2014 requirements and the need to be kept up to date annual report, and intends to undertake a further on developments in corporate governance and evaluation with an external facilitator next year.
The company secretary, drawing on support from the companys legal advisers, is responsible for ensuring that the board is aware of current corporate governance practice in the relevant jurisdictions.
SUMMARY OF MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD 2016 Month Summary of main activities of the board in 2016 Reviewed the results for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the preliminary February announcement Reviewed and approved the viability statement Approved the appointment of Safiatou Ba-NDaw to the audit committee Reviewed the performance of the operations Approved the 2015 final dividend Approved the 2016 budget and considered the 5-year business plan Reviewed and approved the treasury policy Considered the performance metrics for the executive directors remuneration and share incentive arrangements Considered the share incentive arrangements for employees Confirmed the 1-year remuneration policy Set the location and meeting time for the 2016 AGM Approved the companys country ranking Reviewed and approved the companys board charter and board committees terms of reference Considered the quarterly litigation and arbitration report Approved the audited results for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the 2015 annual March mid report and financial statements Approved the notice of meeting for the AGM Approved the annual resources and reserves declaration Approved the audited annual report on Form 20-F March late May Reviewed the Quarter 1, 2016 results and approved the corresponding announcement Reviewed the performance of the operations Considered the 5-year business plan Approved the allotment of shares in relation to the scrip dividend scheme Approved the allotment and issue of shares to the non-executive directors Declared and paid the 2015 final dividend Approved executive directors performance metrics for the remuneration and share incentive arrangements Approved the gift and hospitality policy Considered the quarterly litigation and arbitration report Reviewed the Quarter 2, 2016 results and approved the corresponding announcement August Reviewed the performance of the operations Considered the 5-year business plan Approved the companys country report Considered the share incentive arrangements for employees Approved the groups risk register Considered the quarterly litigation and arbitration report Approved appointment of Andrew Quinn as senior independent director Approved appointment of Jamil Kassum to the remuneration committee Reviewed the Quarter 3, 2016 results and approved the corresponding announcement October Reviewed the performance of the operations Approved external auditor appointment Considered the 5-year business plan Considered the share incentive arrangements for employees Considered the quarterly litigation and arbitration report Approved the treasury policy RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 184 At each quarterly board meeting, the minutes ACCOUNTABILITY and or resolutions of the previous meetings are The board has overall responsibility for setting reviewed and approved by the board.
The board and managing the companys risk management also reviews minutes of the previous meetings of the and financial controls.
Throughout the year three board committees.
An agenda for each board under review the board monitored the groups risk meeting is prepared in advance which is reviewed management and financial control systems and by the chairman and the CEO.
The company reviewed their effectiveness in accordance with the secretary then prepares a detailed briefing pack Code.
Following that review the board confirms of documents which covers the operations and that it is satisfied that risk management and internal business of the company and includes reports from controls remain effective and up-to-date, and that each mine, major project and other activities, along the company is meeting the required standards.
with sections covering health and safety, financial, Further details of the companys risk management legal, technical, human resources, treasury, tax, and financial control systems are set out in the audit environmental, sustainability and investor relations committee report on page 200 of this annual report.
In formulating this view the board considered the In 2016, all the boards meetings were held in regular audit reports from the head of internal audit, Jersey, Channel Islands, other than the February the companys compliance with the US Sarbanesquarterly board meeting which was held at the Kibali Oxley Act and the effectiveness of the internal gold mine, DRC.
Additionally, the board, relying on the detailed assessments undertaken by the audit At the boards February 2017 meeting, which was committee, scrutinised reports from the external held in Cte dIvoire, the board approved the form auditor and its comments on control matters, of the notice for the AGM and the form of directors significant risks and corporate governance matters.
reports for the 2016 annual report.
The board also In 2016, as part of its regular review, the board also recommended that shareholders approve a final considered the risks facing the business and their dividend to shareholders of $1.00 per share, a 52% appropriateness for inclusion in the companys risk increase from last year.
register, the process of identifying risk, and the groups appetite for risk.
The audit committee assists the board in ALLOCATION OF BOARD TIME determining the effectiveness of the companys financial controls and the effectiveness of the internal and external auditors.
The responsibilities 2016 2015 and activities of the audit committee are set out in 3% the audit committee report on pages 188 to 209 of 8% this annual report.
38% 10% 5% 5% 11% 30% 15% 15% 30% 30% Strategy, business planning and On behalf of the board of directors group performance Corporate governance, group policies and risk management Financial controls, reporting and dividends New business including exploration Board composition, effectiveness, Christopher Coleman succession planning and compensation Chairman Randgold Resources Limited Environmental and social RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 185 VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK During 2016 cash costs per ounce were $639 oz Corporate Governance Code published in and from 2012 the cash cost per ounce has never September 2014 and revised in April 2016 the been more than $735 oz and has averaged Code, the directors have assessed the viability of c. $693 oz being at its lowest in 2016. the group and have selected a period of five years for this assessment.
While the group maintains a full The group operates in volatile markets and derives business model based predominantly on the life of all of its revenues from the production and sale of mine plans for each of its significant business units, gold and therefore is subject to the risks associated the group also operates a detailed rolling five year with commodity price fluctuations.
The groups plan which is scrutinised by the board on a quarterly viability depends on the global economy and basis.
The group would remain viable in the event that the current gold price The output of this plan is used to perform the was sustained as it would be able to continue to viability assessment on an annual basis.
The operate based on its current business model which assessment conducted considered the groups is predominately based on a gold price of operating profit, revenue, EBITDA, cash flows, $1 000 oz.
However, long term significant capital investment requirements, dividend cover and devaluation of the gold price and long term cost other key financial assumptions over the five year inflation would cause a threat to the group.
These metrics were subject to downside stress and sensitivity analysis over the assessment In order to maintain viability, the group has a robust period, taking account of the groups current risk control framework which has the objectives position, the groups experience of managing of reducing the likelihood and impact of: poor adverse conditions in the past and the impact of a judgement in decision making: risk-taking that number of severe yet plausible scenarios, based exceeds the levels agreed by the board: human on the principal risk and uncertainties set out on error: or control processes being deliberately pages 202 to 205 of this annual report.
the review has considered all the principal risks identified by the group, the following were focused During 2016 and in making this statement, the board on for enhanced stress testing fluctuations: gold carried out a robust assessment of the principal price, production profile, recovered grade, capital risks and uncertainties facing the group, including investment, exchange rate, oil price and other those that would threaten the groups business mining costs.
The stress testing considered the model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
principal risks assessed both individually and in The board confirmed that its assessment of the combination.
principal risks facing the company was vigorous and remains appropriate.
While this review does not The chairmans statement on page 8, the chief consider all the risks that the group may face, having executives review on page 12 and the financial taken into account the current economic outlook and review on page 22 of this annual report, along with the inherent uncertainty involved, the companys the five year performance indicators on page 5 set directors believe that the group is well positioned to out details of the groups financial performance, manage its business risks successfully.
Taking into operational performance, capital management, account the companys current position, principal business environment and outlook.
risks, and the analysis outlined above, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company The groups business model has proven to be robust will be able to continue in operation and meet its over the long term and the group has consistently liabilities over the five year period.
demonstrated its ability to manage costs whilst retaining solid capital investment in future operations during challenging market conditions.
During 2016 cash generated from operations was $521.2 million and for the past five years the cash generated from operations has never been less than $317.6 million per annum and has averaged about $444.9 million, peaking in 2016.
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2016 were $516.3 million and the group has access to an unsecured revolving credit facility of $400.0 million which matures in December 2018 and is at present undrawn.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 186 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The audit committee has oversight of financial controls and risk management and responsibilities in relation to financial reporting and external audit effectiveness, as required under the UK Corporate Governance Code, to ensure the continued integrity of the companys financial statements.
Jamil Kassum Andrew CHAIRMAN Quinn Safiatou 1 Ba-NDaw Jeanine Mabunda Lioko Dear shareholders I am pleased to present the audit committees report Karl Jamil Kassum for the year ended 31 December 2016.
2 Voltaire CHAI2MAN The principal purpose of the audit committee is to assist the board to fulfil its corporate governance Karl Voltaire2 and oversight responsibilities to ensure the integrity of the companys financial and corporate reporting while ensuring robust systems of internal control Jeanine Mabunda Lioko and risk management are in place and are operating effectively.
Andrew Quinn COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES The audit committees duties, roles and responsibilities are described in its terms of reference available on the companys website Safiatou Ba-NDaw1 www.
com and its 1 Mrs Ba-NDaw was appointed to the audit committee with effect from responsibilities are highlighted on the following 2 May 2016.
2 Dr Voltaire retired as a member of the audit committee on 2 May 2016. page.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 188 DUTIES, ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial and other reporting judgements.
Reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the consistency and appropriateness of accounting principles, policies and practices which have been adopted by the group in the preparation of the annual financial statements, financial reporting issues and disclosures in the financial reports.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk management systems, including reviewing the process for identifying, assessing and reporting key risks and control activities.
Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular reports from the head of internal audit on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
Making recommendations to the board on the appointment, re-appointment or change of the groups external auditors and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the groups external auditors.
Overseeing the boards relationship with the external auditors and ensuring the groups external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process are monitored and reviewed.
Developing, implementing and maintaining a policy on the engagement of the groups external auditors for the supply of non-audit services.
Reporting to the board any matters which the committee has identied as needing to be considered, actioned or improved upon.
Monitoring the groups compliance with legal and regulatory requirements including ensuring that effective procedures are in place relating to the groups whistleblowing and anti-corruption policies.
Assessing whether the annual report, considered in its entirety, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy, and then subsequently recommending its approval to the board.
The audit committee members have been selected MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING to provide the wide range of financial, commercial ATTENDANCE and industry expertise necessary to fulfil the The audit committee oversees the groups financial committees duties and responsibilities.
The board reporting and internal controls and provides a formal has satisfied itself that the audit committee as a link with the groups external auditors.
It performs its whole has competence relevant to the sector in duties by maintaining effective working relationships which the company operates and that members with the board, management and internal and of the audit committee have relevant and recent external auditors.
Under the governance of accounting and auditing competence.
The audit the chairman, the audit committee met seven committee members have extensive relevant and times during the year to discharge its duties and recent experience in relation to financial matters, as responsibilities.
detailed in the biographies on pages 17 to 19 of this annual report, and the board believes that this level Attendance of members of the audit committee of experience continues to be sufficient to meet the during 2016 is shown in the table below.
standards set by the Code.
In the event that any issues arise which are deemed outside the areas of COMMITTEE EXPERTISE AND expertise of the members of the audit committee, INDEPENDENCE independent professional advice is always sought.
Each of the members of the audit committee is an In relation to tax and value added tax TVA disputes independent non-executive director.
as well as general tax matters, management has sought the expertise of external advisers during the year, which has been provided to the audit committee to help support its assessment of these matters.
COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE IN 2016 Date appointed 4 February 14 March 29 March 2 May 31 July 28 October 30 October the audit Member committee 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 J Kassum Chairman 3 May 2014 J Mabunda Lioko 3 May 2014 A Quinn 1 November 2011 1 K Voltaire 1 August 2006 n a n a n a 2 S Ba-NDaw 2 May 2016 n a n a n a 1 Dr Voltaire retired from the audit committee on 2 May 2016.
2 Mrs Ba-NDaw was appointed to the audit committee with effect from 2 May 2016.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 189 DIRECTORS REPORTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED FEES PAID IN 2016 Member Fees J Kassum Received a fee of $55 000 for the 2016 financial year for being a member and the chairman Chairman of the audit committee Received a fee of $35 000 for the 2016 financial year for services provided to the audit J Mabunda Lioko committee Received a fee of $35 000 for the 2016 financial year for services provided to the audit A Quinn committee Received a fee of $11 666 for the 2016 financial year for services provided to the audit K Voltaire committee until his retirement from the audit committee on 2 May 2016 Received a fee of $23 333 for the 2016 financial year for services provided to the audit S Ba-NDaw committee from her appointment to the committee on 2 May 2016 The group has not had any interaction with the COMMITTEES REMUNERATION Financial Reporting Councils FRC Corporate In accordance with the terms of the directors Reporting Review team during the year, however remuneration policy for more details of the BDO LLPs BDO audit of the company in respect companys remuneration policy please see page of the year ended 31 December 2014 was subject 215 of this annual report members of the audit to review by the FRCs Audit Quality Review team committee received the following fees as set out in as part of its routine programme of audit firm quality the table above.
These fees were paid in addition to inspection.
In line with the FRCs policy, the audit the other fees and an award of shares made to each committee was provided with a copy of the review non-executive director as detailed on page 220 of teams findings.
BDOs audit of the company for this annual report.
the year ended 31 December 2014 was also subject to review by The Public Company Accounting FINANCIAL REPORTING Oversight Board PCAOB.
The audit committee The primary role of the audit committee in discussed the findings of both reviews with the audit relation to financial reporting is the review with engagement partner in January 2016 and did not key management and the external auditors, as consider any further action was required by either applicable, of the annual report, Form 20-F, the committee or BDO.
quarterly financial reports and other published information to ensure statutory and regulatory SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY compliance.
The committees views are reported THE COMMITTEE to the board to assist in its review and the approval In planning the year end audit and at the conclusion of results announcements, the annual report and of the audit of the financial statements, the audit annual report on Form 20-F. committee considered with management and the external auditors the key areas of focus for the audit The audit committee considered the 2016 annual and their significance to the groups reporting of report and financial statements and advised the results and the degree of judgement involved in their board that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced evaluation.
The significant areas of consideration and understandable, and provides the information or judgement deliberated by the audit committee in necessary for shareholders to assess the groups 2016, through assessment of management reports position and performance, business model and to the audit committee and presentations by the strategy.
external auditors, in respect of the annual report and financial statements are set out in the table on the The audit committee makes its recommendation following pages.
based on a comprehensive review conducted by the executive directors and the senior management who commence the first review of the annual report in early December at which point key areas for improvement are discussed and amendments recommended.
Guidance is issued to the contributors at the beginning and throughout the preparation process and reports on actions and significant areas of judgement are made to the audit committee as appropriate.
The audit committee closely oversees the work of senior management who are responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the information submitted in the annual report and assessing whether the narrative section of the annual report is consistent with the accounting information.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 190 Significant issues and judgements How the committee addressed these significant issues and during 2016 judgements The tax disputes in which the group The audit committee received managements report on the position is currently engaged of current tax claims, and a review of the arbitration result as well As detailed in notes 3 and 19 on pages as the legal foundation for the dispute of tax claims.
The audit F-21 and F-39 respectively, the group committee also sought, through management, external expert is subject to a range of tax claims and advice in relation to these matters.
The audit committee, with related legal action in the jurisdictions management, reviewed in detail the reports and correspondence in which it operates that have arisen relating to the tax claims and the results of the arbitration ruling.
in the ordinary course of business.
Management presented its view of the disclosure of tax claims and Certain of the claims from the Malian provisioning to the audit committee for scrutiny.
tax authorities were submitted to arbitration with the World Bank Groups As taxation claims represented a higher audit risk BDO also International Center for Settlement of considered this issue, as discussed in their report on pages F-4 to Investment Disputes ICSID.
During F-9, and the audit committee received detailed reporting from BDO 2016 the ICSID arbitration tribunal on these matters.
The audit committee discussed and considered issued its final and binding award, BDOs assessment on this matter, including their assessment of resulting in Loulo being awarded managements judgements that the material tax claims are without $29.2 million in principal together foundation, as well as the appropriateness of the financial statement with an award for costs and interest disclosures and provisioning judgements in respect of each area.
from the State of Mali, for monies found by the tribunal to have been The audit committee is satisfied that the evidence produced, both wrongfully taken by the government from internal assessment and from external legal and tax advice, through TVA credits.
This amount supports the view that the material claims are wholly without merit was subsequently received during the or foundation in the context of the tax laws of the countries in which third quarter of 2016.
In addition, the it operates.
Accordingly, unprovided losses associated with the arbitration ruled that TVA withholding material claims are considered to be remote under IFRS.
tax on foreign suppliers was due to the State of Mali, although the arbitration ruled amounts due are recoverable as TVA receivables such that the TVA payable is matched by an equal TVA receivable.
The arbitration however related to only a portion of the various tax claims which have been received from the State of Mali in respect of the groups Malian operations.
Payments totalling $27.3 million were made against the outstanding claims during 2016.
The outstanding claims in respect of its Mali operations totalled $122.7 million at the end of the year 2015: $280.0 million.
During 2016, the group also paid tax advances to the State of Mali in the amount of $25.0 million, to ensure that it could continue to engage with the Malian authorities to resolve tax disputes, noting that any amounts which are legally not due will be refunded.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 191 DIRECTORS REPORTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant issues and judgements How the committee addressed these significant issues and during 2016 judgements Recoverability of TVA receivables in Management presented an assessment of the recoverability of Mali and the Democratic Republic of the groups TVA receivables to the audit committee including the Congo DRC estimated timing for the recovery of amounts outstanding and, As detailed in notes 3, 7, 10 and 17 where appropriate, whether balances could be offset against future to the financial statements on pages taxes payable in accordance with the groups legally binding mining F-21, F-24, F-25 and F-36, the group is conventions.
carrying significant TVA receivables in Mali totalling $94.4 million, substantially The audit committee interrogated managements assessment of the in respect of its Loulo and Gounkoto recoverability of the TVA receivables along with the expected timing.
As noted in the significant The material nature of the TVA balances and the recoverability of issues and judgements during 2016 TVA balances are areas of higher audit risk and accordingly the relating to tax disputes on the previous audit committee received detailed reporting from BDO on these page, the group received monies matters.
As detailed on pages F-4 to F-9, BDO reported on the relating to Loulos TVA receivables from results of the testing performed in respect of TVA, including their the State of Mali as awarded by the critical assessment of the recoverability of TVA receivables in ICSID arbitration tribunal.
The current Mali and the DRC, as well as the appropriateness of the financial Loulo TVA receivable includes $16.6 statement disclosures in respect of each area.
million in respect of TVA withholding tax on payments to foreign service Subsequent to their detailed review of the recoverability of TVA providers based on the arbitration balances and the timing associated with the recoverability the audit ruling, however as described on the committee was satisfied that the carrying values are recoverable previous page the arbitration ruling and managements assessment is appropriate.
This conclusion stated these amounts are tax neutral was based on the future corporate tax payment profile at Loulo, and therefore recoverable.
The Gounkoto and Morila, the history of cash receipts and the absence group has submitted these amounts of disputed TVA receivables at Kibali.
to be recovered, however these submissions were rejected by the Malian tax authority in contravention of the arbitration ruling.
Management are engaging with the relevant tax authority for resolution of this matter and therefore recoverability of amounts owing.
In addition, the equity accounted Kibali joint venture based in the DRC holds a further $131.1 million of TVA receivables and duties on fuel of which, given the groups 45% joint venture interest, $59.0 million is attributable to the group.
As such, the assessment of the carrying value and the recoverability of these TVA receivables represents a significant area of focus for the audit committee.
The committee focuses on any indicators of underlying impairment associated with disputes, as well as considering the likely timing of recovery.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 192 Significant issues and judgements How the committee addressed these significant issues and during 2016 judgements Impairment of mining assets and Life The audit committee considered and scrutinised managements of Mine LoM estimates detailed assessment of the mining assets, including property, plant The groups mining assets, including and equipment, ore stockpiles and share of assets in investments property, plant and equipment, ore in joint ventures, and the underlying assumptions used in the stockpiles and share of assets in joint impairment testing of the groups assets in support of their carrying ventures represent its most significant value, including key judgements and estimates, LoM plans and the assets as well as having commercial analysis of assumptions used.
significance to the various projects and the long term plans of the group.
Key judgements and estimates undergo extensive internal review and challenge prior to submission to the audit committee.
For The future viability and recoverability of example the gold price utilised is reviewed against average these balances are underpinned by the prices, the current forward gold curve, consensus pricing and groups LoM plans.
Management calculated the discount rates for each impairment test based on the Weighted-Average Cost of The LoM plans and associated Capital method.
The audit committee made detailed enquiry of impairment models are supported by a managements assessment prior to concluding it was appropriate number of variables which are subject and robust.
This review included challenge over the gold price to various significant judgements and used, discount rates, LoM plans and operational assumptions estimates, including the future gold and sensitivities.
The audit committee also critically challenged prices, oil prices, ore reserves and managements assessment of the underlying economic models to future production volumes, future satisfy themselves of the integrity of the impairment tests and the production costs, and appropriate key estimates and judgements contained therein.
A significant variable factor in the groups As detailed in their report on pages F-4 to F-9, BDO considered LoMs is the gold price and during the this matter.
As this is a recurring area of judgement, BDO provided year the gold price has ranged between detailed reporting on these matters to the audit committee including a low of $1 054 oz and a high of their own assessment of key judgements and estimates made by $1 365 oz.
management along with sensitivity testing and analysis.
These judgements continued to Having critically assessed the key assumptions, such as future gold represent a significant area of focus for prices, which are reported to the audit committee each quarter, the the audit committee, including those in audit committee concluded no reasonable sensitivities would give rise relation to the assumptions underlying to impairment reflecting the groups strategic planning and the proven the assessment of the carrying value, and probable reserves being determined at a $1 000 oz cut-off.
The primarily being the sustainability of audit committee was satisfied that the carrying value of mining the long term business plans and the assets, including property, plant and equipment, ore stockpiles and potential volatility in the gold price.
share of assets in investments in joint ventures is appropriate.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 193 DIRECTORS REPORTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant issues and judgements How the committee addressed these significant issues and during 2016 judgements Accounting estimates in underground The audit committee received detailed reports on material capital mining expenditure during the period and challenged managements During 2016 the group continued assessment of areas of estimation such as depreciation, asset to make significant investment in its commissioning dates, production phase, opencast stripping cost mines and projects through capital policy application and allocation of costs between operational and expenditure, especially in relation to the capital expenditure.
The audit committee reviewed the groups underground development at the Loulo capitalisation policies and challenged managements review of and Kibali mines.
The magnitude and the allocation of costs amongst operating expenditure, capital commercial significance of the capital expenditure and ore stockpiles.
expenditure, along with the capital expenditure cycle for the underground The audit committee sought to assure itself through the review of mines including a number of areas with the assessment from internal audit over the capital expenditure significant judgement and estimation, procedures and controls, including controls around authorisation, continued to represent a key area of capital cost allocation and the application of the groups accounting focus for the audit committee.
policies, that controls in place were sufficient.
In addition, the groups unit of As detailed on pages F-4 to F-9 of this annual report BDO production depreciation charge considered this matter and reported to the audit committee on their involves a number of key judgements testing performed on the capital expenditure related controls and including the allocation of assets to areas of estimation.
As the groups depreciation policy is one based on Through their critical assessment and review of material capital a unit of production methodology expenditure, cost allocation methodology, areas of estimation it relies upon determining the ore and the related controls, the audit committee were satisfied that reserves attributable to each key asset managements assessment, accounting and disclosure of these category which requires management matters is appropriate.
to exercise a degree of judgement upon this decision.
Management is also The audit committee reviewed and scrutinised the groups responsible for determining the date depreciation policy and its application, including the judgmental at which key assets are commissioned factors such as the application of asset commissioning and the and thus when depreciation may determination of ore reserves attributable to key asset categories in commence.
the use of a units of production depreciation policy.
Following the assessment, the audit committee is satisfied as to the continued appropriateness of the depreciation policy and its associated estimates.
The committee also considered the viability MAIN ACTIVITIES IN 2016 statement requirement for the annual report pursuant The committee assisted the board in carrying out to the Code.
its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk management and the assessment During the seven meetings in the year, the of internal controls.
During the year, it also reviewed committee focused on and considered the following the effectiveness of the groups internal audit main activities as detailed in the table on the function and managed the groups relationship with following page.
On the recommendation of the audit committee and in line with the groups policy, the board put the companys external audit out for tender during the year.
A detailed review of the process undertaken in relation to the external audit tender is disclosed within this report.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 194 MAIN ACTIVITIES IN 2016 Meeting date Main activities 4 February 2016 Reviewed the groups fourth quarter preliminary announcement, draft report and accounts for 2015, draft longer term viability statement and the groups assessment of going concern.
Considered a dividend in light of the financial results for 2015 and subsequently proposed the declaration of a final dividend.
Reviewed accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements.
Reviewed key accounting estimates and judgements for the 2015 financial statements, as well as significant issues including tax claims: recoverability of TVA balance: capital expenditure and related estimations: and carrying value of mining assets, ore stockpiles and investments in joint ventures.
Reviewed and scrutinised the groups impairment testing and carrying values of mining assets, ore stockpiles and investments in joint ventures.
Considered reports from the external auditors on its audit and its review of the 2015 accounts including accounting policies and areas of judgement, and its comments on control matters, significant risks and corporate governance matters.
Considered reports from the FRC in respect of their review of BDOs 31 December 2014 audit of the group.
Assessed the independence of the external auditors for 2015.
Met with the external auditors without management being present.
Reviewed and approved the groups non-audit services policy.
Approved the audit committees terms of reference.
Considered reports from management relating to tax, TVA, risk factors, litigation and treasury.
Reviewed reports from internal audit on the effectiveness of internal controls and Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 SOX compliance.
Reviewed the performance of internal audit and approved the internal audit strategy and plan for 2016.
Met with internal audit without management being present.
Reviewed the groups insurance update.
Reviewed the groups treasury policy and recommended amendments to be made.
Reviewed draft disclosure of payments to governments for the year ended 31 December 2015.
14 March 2016 Reviewed and approved the annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, including discussion with the external auditors and detailed evaluation of that report.
Reviewed and approved the notice of the annual general meeting of shareholders in 2016.
29 March 2016 Reviewed and approved the annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2015, including discussion with the external auditors and lawyers, and detailed evaluation of that report.
2 May 2016 Reviewed the groups interim management statement for the first quarter of 2016.
Considered reports from management relating to tax, TVA, litigation and treasury.
Reviewed reports from internal audit on the effectiveness of internal controls and SOX compliance.
Reviewed and approved the disclosure of payments to governments for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Considered, approved and initiated the process for tendering the external audit services.
Reviewed the preparation process of the 2015 annual report and Form 20-F. 31 July 2016 Reviewed the groups interim management statement for the second quarter of 2016.
Considered the risk management update and risk review for the year, including considerations on risks facing the business, the risk register and the risk management and operational framework.
Reviewed the groups treasury policy.
Reviewed the group IT risk register.
Considered findings from the 2015 IT audit and review of cyber security.
Received an update on the tender for external audit services.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 195 DIRECTORS REPORTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED MAIN ACTIVITIES IN 2016 CONTINUED Meeting date Main activities 28 October 2016 Meetings held with firms tendering for the external audit.
Considered external audit tenders following meetings with candidate firms.
30 October 2016 Reviewed and considered the tender for the external audit services.
Recommended to the board the re-appointment of BDO as auditor of the company.
Considered the performance of the external auditors, assessed their independence, qualification, expertise and resources, the effectiveness of the audit process and partner rotation: recommended the re-appointment of BDO for 2016 audit.
Reviewed the groups interim management statement for the third quarter of 2016.
Considered and approved the group annual insurance renewal.
Approved the proposed external audit scope and fees for 2016.
Recommended to the board to adopt updated groups treasury policy.
The audit committee is regularly updated on RESPONSIBILITIES proposed and new legislation and best practice.
The committee considers the going concern basis To assist management in providing the information of preparation for the financial statements to be to allow the audit committee to discharge its appropriate having reviewed cash flow forecasts responsibilities, the groups CFO, external auditors prepared by management and challenged the and the head of internal audit, regularly attend assumptions used in such forecasts.
Refer to audit committee meetings.
The audit committee page F-15 of this annual report for further details.
and the board derive considerable value from engagement with the operational management VIABILITY STATEMENT teams and discussing first hand with management The committee considered the companys viability the core control, risk identification and risk over a five year period to 31 December 2021 mitigation processes in place at the operations.
In and recommended to the board that the viability February 2016, the board visited the DRC and in statement set out on page 186 of this annual report February 2017 the board visited Cte dIvoire during be approved.
which time they engaged with local and group management.
COMMITTEES TERMS OF REFERENCE The board reviewed its board charter and committees terms of reference at the February 2016 board meeting and following the review the board ALLOCATION OF COMMITTEES TIME concluded that no changes to the audit committees terms of reference were necessary.
A copy of the audit committees terms of reference is available in the corporate governance section of the companys 2016 2015 website at www.
8% EXTERNAL AUDIT 10% The groups external auditors are BDO.
BDO 35% 7% undertake their audits at all the groups significant 19% 11% operations including any joint venture operations as well as at the groups corporate offices.
The 10% 31% audit committee monitors the external auditors 8% 18% independence and objectivity taking into account 18% 25% relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
Both the board and the external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be External audit and auditor compromised.
The external auditors independence engagement is reviewed on at least an annual basis by the Financial reporting including internal committee.
This review includes confirming that controls and reporting Framework the external auditors are, in their judgement, Risk management and reporting independent of the group, and reviewing the economic importance of the group to the external Regulatory and governance auditors.
Internal audit Financial statements and accounting policies RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 196 The audit committee is committed to maintaining Process and selection criteria the highest standards of audit quality.
The The tender process and selection criteria adopted audit committee monitors the external auditors by the committee, in relation to the external performance and the effectiveness of the audit audit services, closely followed those detailed process.
This is undertaken within the framework of in the audit tender notes of best practice set out the detailed terms of engagement and agreed audit by the FRC focusing on quality and clarity of scope and approach.
Management receives regular approach, understanding of the business and risks, feedback from the business on the audit process appropriate geographic breadth, appropriate team and the audit committee uses this feedback, along structure and experience, cultural fit and approach with other formal and informal processes, to assess to independence and conflict issues.
The audit the effectiveness of the external audit process.
committee were provided with an assessment of The audit committee assesses the effectiveness the external audit service providers and a short of the external audit by reviewing the quality list of three firms was identified based on current and scope of the audit planning process and its market experience, cultural fit, independence and reaction to changes in the companys business reputation.
These three firms were invited to tender and environment, by considering the auditors for the external audit.
methodology, sector experience, their ability to challenge management on significant areas of Process summary May 2016 October 2016 judgement and their demonstration of robust The Request for Proposal RFP was issued by the challenge around key areas.
chairman of the audit committee to the audit firms invited to tender.
The board has an established formal policy relating to the periodic review of the external auditors, which A data room was set up and introduction and stipulates that the external audit shall be put to engagement meetings were held between the audit tender every five years with the next planned tender firms and the chairman of the audit committee, the following the 2021 financial year.
chairman of the board, and the CFO.
BDO rotates the audit engagement partner every Knowledge and information sharing meetings five years: as at 31 December 2016 the current audit were then held between RFP vendors and senior partner has acted as the BDO audit engagement management from key functions as well as the partner to the group for five years.
As a result of head of internal audit.
Functional teams submitted BDO being successful in the external audit tender their evaluation of each RFP vendor based on the process, as detailed below, a new audit partner has selection criteria to the head of internal audit.
been appointed by BDO, who it is anticipated will act as the audit engagement partner to the group for RFP vendors submitted their final written tenders.
A specific audit committee meeting was convened The audit committee reviewed the groups external to consider the tender responses.
Two RFP vendors auditors independence and objectivity, and submitted their final written tenders to the audit the effectiveness of the audit process, together committee for review.
Both of the firms presented with other relevant review processes conducted to the audit committee, including presenting their throughout the year.
The audit committee is responses to the criteria set out in the RFP.
The satisfied that BDO remains independent and committee questioned each firm in detail on its objective.
proposal, including matters in relation to their audit approach, audit quality, sector and global The external auditors are regularly invited to attend experience, issues of independence, team structure and participate in audit committee meetings to and the teams understanding of the business and report on their activities.
The audit committee met its risks.
with the external auditors, without the executive directors or management being present.
Such Following the meetings with the audit firms, the meetings took place in February 2016, October audit committee held a separate meeting to further 2016 and February 2017.
Details of the fees paid to deliberate the outcome of each audit firms proposal the external auditors are shown on page 198 of this and presentations.
In doing so, the committee annual report.
focused on the relative merits of each firm against the selection criteria set out above.
After extensive Group external audit tender process consideration and based on the proven track record Following a tender process in 2007, BDO have been of audit quality, the audit committee concluded to the groups auditors for ten years and in line with the recommend to the board that BDO be re-appointed Code and the groups policy regarding external audit as the groups external auditors from 2017 onwards, services the audit committee held a tender for the subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in May external audit services during 2016.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 197 DIRECTORS REPORTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED RANDGOLDS EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER PROCESS Confirmation in Selection of Invitations to tender participation in the Review of proposals tendering audit firms tender Responses were The audit After The audit received from committee consideration, the committee two audit firms considered audit committee reviewed the wishing to submit various audit selected three proposals a tender proposal.
firms based on audit firms and giving specific their reputation, invited them to consideration to culture, participate in the the audit firms independence tender.
understanding and audit of the groups approach.
business and the approach and delivery of the audit.
Recommendation Audit committee Meeting with each Board approval to the board meeting tenderer The board The audit The audit The audit approved BDOs committee committee held a committee met reappointment recommended special meeting with each tenderer subject to to the board the to further discuss where each firm shareholders reappointment and consider each presented to the approval at the of BDO as the audit firm.
audit committee forthcoming AGM groups external and a Q&A in May 2017. auditors from 2017 session was held onwards.
at the end of each presentation.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES Auditors fees 2016 2015 The audit committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the objectivity and independence of 1 Audit services 712 000 713 870 the external audit which is supported by a policy which stipulates that the external auditors are Non-audit services n a n a prohibited from providing non-audit services to the 1 group, excluding audit related services as defined I ncluding the groups attributable share of audit fees in relation to the joint ventures operated by the group.
under relevant professional ethical standards for auditors such as the issuance of comfort letters and reporting for compliance with regulation.
In line with INTERNAL AUDIT the audit committees policy during the year no nonInternal audit independently reviews the risks and audit services were provided by BDO.
On control processes operated by management.
It 2 February 2017, the audit committee reafrmed the carries out independent audits in accordance with groups non-audit services policy.
an internal audit plan which is reviewed and agreed with the audit committee at the beginning of each EXTERNAL AUDIT FEES financial year.
The internal audit plan agenda is The audit committee approved the auditors fees for driven by the groups assessment of its key risks and 2016 after reviewing the audit plan, level and nature uncertainties, which are contained on pages 202 to of work to be performed as detailed in the audit 205 of this annual report.
scope and after being satisfied that the fees were appropriate for the work required.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 198 The head of internal audit has responsibility to the The audit committee considers the whistleblowing audit committee and has direct access to members procedures in place to be appropriate for the of the audit committee, the chairman of the audit group including appropriate safeguards to protect committee and the chairman of the board.
In the event of any suspected fraud head of internal audit attended five audit committee this would be investigated by internal audit and the meetings during the year.
At these meetings, the general counsel, and reported on directly to the audit committee considered and discussed various audit committee.
committee reports, internal audit plans, SOX and internal audit reports and internal audit findings.
The audit committee reviews the outcomes of such investigations, in order to assure itself that such During the year, the audit committee held instances are appropriately addressed and controls discussions with the head of internal audit without in place are effective.
the presence of management as well as outside the formal committee processes.
The head The company has adopted policies pursuant to of internal audit works across the group with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act responsibility for reviewing, evaluating, developing of 1977, United States Dodd Frank Wall Street and providing assurance on the adequacy of the Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 internal control environment, operating efficiency Dodd Frank Act, the United Kingdoms Bribery and risk identication and management across all Act 2010, and the Corruption Jersey Law 2006. of the groups operations while reporting back to the All group operations and sites, key employees, audit committee on findings.
The audit committee customers, major suppliers, managers and other is also responsible for the oversight of the groups key stakeholders have been briefed, through written compliance activities in relation to Section 404 notification and where possible through workshops of SOX, under which internal audit report to the with management, concerning the implication of the committee in relation to each quarterly period.
policies and the companys obligations under that legislation.
The company continues to work with The audit committee assessed the effectiveness of its external legal counsel regarding the effects of the groups internal audit function during the year, the Dodd Frank Act and any applicable regulations nding that sufficient work had been undertaken which have been published.
to provide effective assurance around financial processes and controls in relation to the SOX CONTROL ENVIRONMENT work performed in the year and that the internal The audit committee has assessed the groups audit function has had full access to all areas of control environment including controls around fraud the group.
The board notes that no cost effective prevention and detection such as whistleblowing system can preclude all errors and irregularities procedures.
This assessment, which included and therefore the groups system of internal controls assessment of reports by the internal and external provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance auditors, enabled the committee to be satisfied that against material misstatement or loss.
risks of management override of controls or material fraud were suitably mitigated.
ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BUSINESS The group maintains a system of internal control INTEGRITY which is embedded at all its operations and sites, The group prohibits bribery and corruption in all as part of the boards commitment to the long forms throughout its business and those of its term success of the company and the protection contractors and suppliers.
The groups code of of the value of its reputation and assets in order to conduct and its general conditions of contract assist safeguard the interests of its shareholders.
its business and employees in countering bribery, corruption and unethical behaviour.
The group An effective system of operational and financial considers and addresses bribery and corruption controls, including the maintenance of qualitative risks as part of its ongoing risk management financial records, is an important element of the process, which includes performing appropriate due groups internal control.
The system of internal diligence when engaging third parties, entering into control provides reasonable rather than absolute partnerships and joint ventures and updating that assurance that the groups business objectives will due diligence periodically during the relationship.
be achieved within the risk tolerance levels dened by the board.
As in previous years, the group continued with its whistleblowing programme at all its operations and sites.
This programme allows all staff and contractors to raise any concerns about the groups business practices, condentially.
The programme ensures that the groups general counsels contact details are widely distributed among its operations and sites, and highlighted periodically to staff and contractors, to allow any person who has information regarding unethical practice within the group to contact the groups general counsel.
All reports received by the general counsel are treated in confidence and are either investigated by the general counsel or referred to an appropriate line manager or the internal audit function for investigation and resolution, depending on the seriousness of the information received.
The general counsel has sole discretion as to how to conduct any investigation and which external advisers to utilise.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 199 DIRECTORS REPORTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The board has ultimate responsibility for the groups RISK MANAGEMENT system of internal control and risk management The board is responsible for determining the and discharges its duties through determining the nature and extent of the significant risks the group risk appetite of the business and its risk tolerance, has to manage in order to achieve its strategic as detailed in the risk management section, as objectives.
The groups businesses are responsible well as overseeing the risk management strategy for the maintenance of effective risk management and ensuring that management is responsible for and internal control systems, in line with the FRC maintaining the established control environment.
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control The groups executive committee develops and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
and monitors the internal control environment Throughout the year the board monitored the and also oversees risk management including groups risk management and internal control the identification of risks and development and systems, adopting an integrated approach to implementation of risk mitigation plans.
The risk management which covers all material executive committee has established a strategic financial, operational, compliance, reputational planning, budgeting and forecasting system against and sustainable development risks.
The board which it monitors monthly financial and operational in conjunction with the audit committee regularly information along with trading results and cash flow considered the groups principal risks.
On a quarterly basis, the executive review focused on the effectiveness of the groups management reviews performance against budget risk management and internal control systems, and forecast along with financial and operational assisted by the assessments undertaken by the reviews and analysis of material variances at local audit committee.
These assessments, which mine board meetings and also reports performance occurred both during the year and at the year end, and findings to the board.
evaluated the groups principal risks, taking into account the strength of the groups control systems The audit committee reviews the internal control and its appetite for risk.
process, including quarterly financial reporting, and its effectiveness on an annual basis to ensure The board delegates responsibility for day to day it remains appropriate in identifying control risk management to the CEO who in turn relies weaknesses as well as to comply with SOX and on the executive committee to identify, evaluate, internal audit requirements.
The group is focused mitigate and monitor the key risks facing the group on maintaining a sound system of internal control, and to implement the groups integrated risk based on the groups policies, procedures and management processes and controls.
For further guidelines, in all operations.
details of the executive committee please see page 20 of this annual report.
This review includes quarterly reports from the head of internal audit in respect of findings from internal The groups integrated approach to risk control reviews and testing, assurances obtained management is outlined in the risk management in relation to the certications required under SOX triangle set out on page 201 of this annual necessary for the companys NASDAQ listing and report.
The groups businesses are responsible other assurances from regular management reviews for maintaining an effective risk management as appropriate.
These are embedded throughout the group and in the day The group carried out an assessment of its internal to day operations of the mines under the direction control over consolidated financial reporting of the executive committee.
This includes the pursuant to Section 404 of SOX and the United implementation and regular monitoring of processes States Disclosure Rules and Transparency and controls which are designed to ensure Rules.
The management of the company, which adherence with the boards appetite for risk and is responsible under SOX for establishing and group policies and procedures.
maintaining an adequate system of internal controls over consolidated financial reporting, evaluated the The groups business functions monitor adherence effectiveness of that system using the Committee to these processes and controls and provide of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway guidance to the business on their implementation Commission COSO framework 2013.
This includes ongoing reviews that evaluation, the management of the company by key functions within the group.
The groups concludes in its annual report on Form 20-F led management team is actively involved in all the with the United States Securities and Exchange groups operations throughout the year, including Commission SEC that the system of internal control numerous visits to the groups sites and operations, over consolidated financial reporting was effective attending monthly meetings with general managers as at 31 December 2016. and participating in weekly meetings with other senior members of staff, in each case to discuss critical issues affecting the operations, all of which are undertaken to assist in reducing the groups risk exposure.
A comprehensive risk register is maintained and presented annually to the audit committee.
The audit committee reviews the risk register and the risk management framework which the board and senior management use to identify and scrutinise key risks facing the group, and consider whether those risks are appropriately managed.
The risk register and framework use the companys existing risk matrix and universal risk prioritisation, and rating scale, which grade and prioritise perceived and known risks.
The risk register assists management in identifying and assessing the key risks facing the business.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 200 Responsibility for implementing The audit committee acknowledges there are The board carried out a robust assessment of the many risks inherent to a mining business and principal risk factors and uncertainties which it the challenge is to effectively manage those considers either individually or in combination as risks.
By its nature, the risk register is a dynamic having the potential to have a material adverse effect document subject to change.
However, it is used on the groups business, including those that would by management to perform their duties while at the threaten the companys business model, future same time allowing the internal audit function to performance, solvency or liquidity.
review and evaluate the activities of management in their efforts to control issues of risk and assess The groups strategy takes into account known whether these activities are sufficient for the risks but there may be additional risks unknown to mitigation and management of risk.
the group and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, which could develop into material risks.
Assurance over the groups risk management, Full details relating to the groups industry generally internal control and governance processes is can be found in the annual report on Form 20-F filed provided by the groups internal audit function.
with the SEC, a copy of which is available on the companys website at www.
As part of the preparation of the companys annual report on Form 20-F, which is filed with the SEC, the From its assessment the board has itemised Key substantial risk factors are identified and set out, Performance Indicators KPIs and has analysed highlighting to the market those aspects which could how the key risks associated with these are being have a material effect on the companys business.
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK Provides oversight to the risk management process, confirms that managements risk thresholds reflect the level of risk the board is willing to accept in pursuit of strategic Board of objectives and monitors group level risk directors Responsible for risk strategy and audit and management within the committee parameters of the groups strategic business plan and ensuring that the risk management process is effective Executive committee Integrated business plan Risk ownership linked to long and control term strategy Business units Operational Audit and assurance Continuous and business over risk management integrated risk reviews against and internal control management objectives, KPIs embedded in and budgets operational activities OPERATIONAL BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE 1 IDENTIFICATION 2 ANALYSIS Financial and non financial risks Risks analysed for impact recorded in corporate and and likelihood to determine operational risk registers inherent risk exposure 4 MITIGATION 3 EVALUATION Risk owners identified along with Risk exposure reviewed and mitigation, monitoring and controls.
risks ranked Robust mitigation strategy subject to regular and rigorous review RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 201 Accountability for monitoring DIRECTORS REPORTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED KEY RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation External risks Risk: gold price Earnings and cash flow Long term financial strategy The group monitors volatility volatility from sudden or and monitoring.
Treasury the market in which it Realised gold significant declines in the policies.
The treasury price gold price or reserves committees responsibilities downgrades as a result of include monitoring and changes in the gold price.
discussing the gold price The group recognises gold which is reported to the sales at spot prices with no executive committee and hedging contracts in place.
the board on an ongoing basis.
Forecasting and budgeting assumptions relating to commodities are prudent and considered by the board and executive committee.
Risk: country risk Inadequate monitoring of Policies to ensure that the Successful relationships Total shareholder in-country political instability group is meeting the terms with governments, senior return performance and changes to political of its agreed and signed in-country officials and other environment may impact the licences and conventions.
key external stakeholders ability to sustain operations.
In-country monitoring and are built and maintained.
stakeholder management This includes delivering policies.
on and adhering to agreements.
The group monitors regulatory and political developments as well as the country risk ratings on an ongoing basis.
Investment in social license across operations and in communities in which the group operates.
Risk: corporate, Poor management of Social and environmental Attention is placed on social and stakeholder, community and policies.
Commitment maintaining sound relations environmental government expectations to improvement of with local communities and responsibility and a lack of corporate communities.
Regular working with these groups to Total shareholder and social responsibility communication with enhance these relationships.
return performance may lead to the inability to stakeholders.
The groups environmental sustain operations in the committee, under the area and impact on the chairmanship of the CEO, groups ability to expand into continues to address these other regions.
issues and reports quarterly to the board.
Review of stakeholder relations at executive committee meetings.
Regular dialogue with the affected communities by senior executives.
Risk: supply Due to the remote location Stock cover policies with Utilisation of local partners routes of the groups operations the minimum levels set for and knowledge of the Total shareholder disruption of supply routes operations.
Buffer stocks return performance may cause delays with to local and regional maintained including construction and ongoing partnerships from executive strategic spares.
supply routes tested and utilised.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 202 KEY RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Financial risks Risk: production Failure to control cash costs Budgeting and reporting Comprehensive budgeting and capital cost per ounce will result in processes.
Project process encompassing all control reduced profits.
Capital expenditure approved by the Cash cost per inability to monitor capital expenditure policy.
Executive approval ounce expenditure and progress for all major expenditure of capital projects resulting and capital expenditures.
Capital in financial losses and Commitment and expenditure and overspend on projects.
expenditure incurred made cost management with approved budgets targets only.
Review of expenditure against budget on regular Return on capital basis and reporting to employed the board and executive committee.
Risk: insufficient The group may be required Financial strategy, The board monitors liquidity, to seek funding from the cash forecasting and the groups operational inappropriate global credit and capital management.
Capital performance and cash financial strategy markets to develop its forecasting and monitoring.
flows against plan, along and inability to operations and projects.
access funding Developments in those This assists the board in from global markets could adversely understanding the variety credit and capital affect the groups ability to of risks facing the group markets obtain financing and capital and the likelihood that Liquidity profile resources required by the future external funding business.
This understanding of the cash requirements of the group allows the board to consider the risks of sourcing funding in difficult market conditions.
The group limits exposure on liquid funds through a treasury policy of minimum counterparty credit ratings, counterparty settlement limits and exposure diversification.
Risk: in-country Failure to adapt to changes Use of experts to review The board reviews tax tax regimes in tax regimes and changes in legislation and positions and changes Taxation related regulations may result in tax regulations.
Regular in conjunction with fines or penalties fines, financial losses and meetings with government management and where corporate reputational officials.
Review of necessary engages experts.
Failure to react regulatory filings to ensure The CEO and CFO, along to tax notifications from compliance.
with in-country executives, authorities could result regularly engage with tax in financial losses or the authorities and governments seizure of assets.
Inability to address the impact of to enforce legislation over any proposed changes to tax or incorrectly applied taxation or fiscal regimes.
legislation could result in Where necessary the lengthy arbitration and company will seek resolution loss of profits or company through arbitration.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 203 DIRECTORS REPORTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED KEY RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Operational risks Risk: sustained The groups mining Resources and reserves The group publishes its resource and operations may yield committee.
Resources and reserve calculations based exploration failure less gold under actual reserves policy.
Adherence on gold prices which are Resources and production conditions to industry standards.
lower than the current reserves than indicated by its gold market prices.
Review at reserves figures, which committee and board level are estimates based on a of the gold price during the number of assumptions, year as well as any changes including mining and to the cost of production.
recovery factors, production Close monitoring and costs and gold price.
reconciliation of resource to mined ore on an ongoing basis.
Risk: Failure to maintain Environmental, health, Formal safety system in environmental, environmental and or safety and security place.
Recording and health, safety and health and safety standards policies.
security incident resulting in a significant health, safety and security Reporting procedures No significant environmental or safety team.
Monitoring system of in place with breaches incidents incident or deterioration incidents.
Health and safety reported to the executive in safety incident rates crisis committee.
Key health committee if necessary on a Lost Time Injury or deterioration in safety threat monitoring.
weekly basis and quarterly Frequency Rates performance standards reporting to the board.
resulting in loss of life or Leadership accountability significant loss of time and for incidents throughout disruption or damage to the group by setting of operations.
environmental, health and A lack of preparedness and safety performance targets.
safe-guarding in relation to Use of external experts in the outbreak of significant respect of environmental, health threats such as Ebola health, safety and security in the countries and the matters.
A dedicated health local communities within and safety crisis committee which the group operates is in place monitoring could result in disruption to developments in relation to operations.
the current health threats in areas of operation.
Risk: risks The groups underground Annual business plan.
Assistance with the associated with projects at the Loulo gold Monthly reporting.
Annual underground operations underground mine in Mali and at the strategic review.
Dedicated from a third party mining mining Kibali gold mine in the owner mining team in place contractor at Kibali.
Ore tonnes Democratic Republic of at operations.
Performance Management by executive produced Congo DRC are subject of owner mining project team and monthly review to the risks associated measured and monitored of performance against Cost per tonne with underground mining continuously by executive budget.
Board review of which may affect the management.
actual performance against profitability of the group.
The Loulo gold mine in Established owner mining Mali transitioned from team at the Loulo gold contractor to owner mining mine.
Comprehensive in 2015, and therefore underground mining the group may be subject business and operational to the risks associated plans in place.
This and monitoring of capital includes significant capital investment requirements as requirements and may affect well as capital expenditure the production levels and and performance of profitability of the operation.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 204 KEY RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Strategic risks Risk: lack of Lack of identification of Exploration project pipeline Ongoing review of the identification of new exploration targets and evaluation policies.
exploration targets by new exploration may lead to a loss of Long term business management and board targets revenue and an inability to strategy and investment in including use of the Resources and grow and meet strategic exploration activities.
resource triangle which reserves statement objectives.
Exploration identifies the number of and development are costly exploration targets and the activities with no guarantee stage of development of an of success, but are asset.
necessary for future growth Regular review of of the group.
exploration activities by executive committee.
Board review of exploration targets on a quarterly basis.
Risk: failure to The loss of key staff, the Succession planning.
Executive team conducts attract and retain lack of internal succession HR policies, training and formal 360 degree key staff and planning and the failure to development of staff.
reviews of teams poor succession attract appropriate staff may against performance planning cause short term disruption measures.
Communication Staff turnover to the business and mechanisms in place to operations.
ensure grievances are reported and resolved.
Executive and employee incentive schemes in place.
Board review of manpower situation on an ongoing basis, which includes review of market trends and skills analysis, as well as approval from board for action to be taken where gaps have been identified.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 205 DIRECTORS REPORTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED COUNTRY RANKING SYSTEM Geological opportunity Economic and fiscal regime Potential for reserves of 3Moz Clearly defined and implemented minerals policy where Known gold potential A the State shares in, but does not control, the mineral A Extensive mineralised sequences of: industry Archaean or Acceptable mining and tax legislation including Lower Proterozoic or reasonable royalties and free carried rides which, if Cenozoic to recent in accreted higher, are offset by tax holidays terraines island arcs Security of tenure and guaranteed right-to-mine Readily available geoscientific data Acceptable foreign exchange regulations Ability to move management and technical skills in and out of the country Close adherence to World Bank principles Availability of foreign investment insurance Gold potential of 3Moz State participation required in mining industry but No significant new projects in the B investors still control their business B pipeline Economy stable with moderate inflation Some known gold potential Bribery generally not prevalent in country Geology is insufficiently known or Major state control of mining industry understood C Economy unstable with excessive inflation C Bribery common in all areas of business Little prospective geology No set rules or regulation D Major state interference and control of all aspects of D the official economy Bribery very common in all areas of business Infrastructure Political stability Multiparty politics established and Good access and telecommunications links and GPRS functioning accepted by general A mobile A population and world bodies Terrain easily traversable No serious underlying ethnic conflicts Access to grid power and or hydropower Low crime risk Perennial water Freedom of press Functioning civil service Recent multiparty politics to Reasonably easy access benevolent non-representative B Fairly good telecommunications B government Pipeline and dam required for water General population acceptance of Potential for grid power and hydro sites or infrastructure government good enough to support own thermal power stations Low level of political unrest Dissatisfaction with non-representative No maintained infrastructure government C Telecommunications uncertain and slow C Some political unrest and or sporadic Access to remote areas made difficult by desert or rebellion tropical rain forest Totalitarian government General unrest, severe repression, civil Access only practical by air war D Communications only possible by radio satellite links D No centralised controlling government No power Overall ranking Country actively targeted for exploration and development opportunities Randgold will invest in grassroots projects A Will establish an office and acquire assets Will invest in existing projects where the potential for deposits that meet Randgolds criteria have been demonstrated B Early risk must be taken out of exploration Opportunity for joint venture to reduce risk exposure Country in state of change Country to be monitored if geology ranks A for improvement in the other three criteria C No investment to be made The possibility of change considered to be long term D RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 206 RANDGOLDS COUNTRY RANKING OF AFRICA Tunisia Morocco Algeria Libya Egypt Western Sahara Mauritania Mali Niger Sudan Eritrea Chad Senegal Burkino Faso Guinea Bissau Guinea Benin Nigeria Togo South Ethiopia Cte Sierra Leone Ghana Central Sudan d'Ivoire African Republic Liberia Cameroon Somalia Eq.
Guinea Uganda Kenya Congo Gabon Democratic Rwanda Republic of Burundi Congo Tanzania A Angola Malawi Zambia B C Zimbabwe Mozambique Madagascar D Namibia Botswana Swaziland Lesotho South Africa The audit committee reviewed the groups treasury COUNTRY RANKING SYSTEM policy in October 2016 and proposed minor As part of the risk management process, and in amendments which were then approved by the fulfilment of its risk management responsibilities, board.
management regularly undertakes a detailed analysis of all countries in Africa based on the The company has a treasury committee, chaired following approach, which is presented and agreed by the companys CFO and comprising members with the audit committee and the board on an annual of the senior management team with financial and basis, as outlined on page 206 of this annual report.
operational experience, which meets on a monthly basis to review the groups treasury activities.
Its Ranking is dependent on a qualitative assessment members receive management information relating combining each of the following on an equal to the groups treasury activities.
The committee weighting basis: recommends group policy, relating to all aspects of Geological opportunity funding, management of interest rate and foreign Economic and fiscal regime exchange exposures, hedging and other financial Political stability risk management, to the audit committee at least Infrastructure once a year for approval.
It also coordinates relationships with banks, rating agencies and other TREASURY MANAGEMENT financial institutions.
The committee monitors all Cash management is a key focus for the group.
significant treasury activities undertaken by the group companies and ensures compliance with the The role of group treasury is to manage and groups treasury policy.
monitor the groups external and internal funding requirements as well as financial risks to support the groups strategic objectives.
Treasury activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the audit committee and where necessary by the board.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 207 DIRECTORS REPORTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The overall objective of the treasury committee is to For investments with institutions products effectively manage credit risk, financial risk, liquidity government bonds with two credit ratings above risk, foreign currency risks and other market risks Abut below AA-, no single institution product in accordance with the groups strategy.
Other should account for more than $12.5 million or responsibilities of the treasury committee include 5% of the total funds, whichever is the higher, safeguarding and managing the groups cash provided that no investment exceeds $25 million.
resources and funding programmes, approval of counterparties and relevant transaction limits, Credit ratings and market information are ensuring an appropriate return on surplus cash continually reviewed by the groups treasurer to resources, and the monitoring of all significant ensure the treasury committee is kept aware of treasury activities undertaken by the group.
The all necessary information pertinent to ensuring group uses conventional financial instruments to effective management of the groups cash manage these risks.
In 2016, the focus of the treasury committee was ACTION PLAN FOR 2017 to manage counterparty risk with banks and other In the year ahead the committee will continue financial institutions where the group places cash overseeing financial controls and risk management deposits, as well as ensuring the groups cash together with focusing on the committees resources were appropriately managed to meet the responsibilities in relation to financial reporting substantial capital expenditure requirements.
and external audit effectiveness, as required under the Code, to ensure the continued integrity of the The treasury committee also oversees the groups companys financial statements.
compliance with its $400 million unsecured revolving credit facility Revolving Credit Facility which it put COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE AND in place in December 2014.
As at the date of this EFFECTIVENESS annual report, the Revolving Credit Facility was The audit committee conducts, in conjunction with undrawn.
the board, a formal review of its effectiveness on an annual basis.
Unless specific dispensation is obtained from the audit committee, the group treasury policy has the At the committees review of its performance for following requirements in respect of credit ratings: 2016, it concluded that its performance during 2016 For investments with institutions products was effective in carrying out its duties in accordance government bonds with two credit ratings of AAwith the Code.
Details of the board and committee and higher, no single institution product should evaluation process may be found on page 183 of account for more than $50 million or 20% of the this annual report.
total funds, whichever is the higher, provided that no investment exceeds $100 million.
On behalf of the audit committee For investments with institutions products government bonds with at least one credit rating of AAand another credit rating above A-, no single institution product should account for more than $25 million or 10% of the total funds, whichever is the higher, provided that no Jamil Kassum investment exceeds $50 million.
Chairman Audit committee RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 208 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Randgold has again delivered higher production, lower cash cost of production and increased dividends to its shareholders against a challenging market background which evidences the success of the companys long term strategy.
Andrew Quinn Jamil 1 2 CHAIRMAN Olivia Kirtley Kassum Christopher Coleman Dear shareholders As chairman of the remuneration committee and on behalf of the board, I am pleased to present our directors remuneration report for 2016, my second since becoming chairman of the committee in May 2015.
2016 was another record-breaking year for Randgold.
After encountering some operational challenges in the first half, the company achieved a strong second half performance, powering to its sixth consecutive annual production increase and driving down total cash cost per ounce to deliver a 38% increase in profit.
This strong performance allowed the company to achieve its objective of building a cash balance of more than $500 million while remaining debt-free.
As a result, the board has proposed a 52% increase in the dividend to shareholders, the 11th year in succession that the Karl Norborne dividend payment has been increased, underlining 3 4 Voltaire Cole the sustainably profitable business model that has been developed and delivered over the past two decades.
As highlighted in this annual report, the companys profits have been generated consistently, year after year, with no asset impairments.
This is in stark contrast to the experience of much of the gold 1 industry over the past five years, where significant Mr Kassum was appointed to the remuneration committee with effect from 2 August 2016. impairments have been commonplace.
This is a 2 Mrs Kirtley was appointed to the remuneration committee with effect testament to the strong financial and operating from 2 February 2017.
3 Dr Voltaire retired from the remuneration committee with effect from discipline demonstrated by the company throughout 2 May 2016.
4 its history and shareholders can be assured that this Mr Cole retired from the remuneration committee with effect from 30 October 2016. will remain a key focus in the future.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 210 Notwithstanding our outstanding long term REMUNERATION POLICY AND performance, in the shorter term the write downs PRINCIPLES taken by many of the heaviest weighted stocks in At our annual general meeting in May 2016, the Euromoney Global Gold Index have reset the shareholders voted on the directors remuneration base for many of them.
Thus, while the companys report and the remuneration policy.
I am pleased annualised Total Shareholder Return TSR to report that we received votes in favour for outperformed the Euromoney Global Gold Index the directors remuneration report and the TSR over the three year period ended 31 December directors remuneration policy of 97.7% and 97.6% 2016, it did so by 3.8% and therefore only 44% of respectively.
the awards granted to the executive directors under the 2014 co-investment plan will vest.
As in previous years, the board continues to maintain a one year remuneration policy period The variation in vesting of the companys short term which it believes provides shareholders with greater and long term incentive plans reflects the complexity transparency and allows for less discretion.
of the business and the market in which it operates, and the committee is satisfied that the outcomes As Randgold is incorporated in Jersey, Channel represent a fair result for the executive directors Islands, voting on the directors remuneration policy and shareholders and are in line with Randgolds and on the directors remuneration report as set out remuneration principles and policy.
on pages 213 to 223 and 224 to 237 respectively will be advisory and the remuneration policy will Further details of the performance metrics for the become effective from 2 May 2017.
The board will annual bonus, the restricted share scheme and the give due and careful consideration to shareholder co-investment plan, are set out on pages 216 to 218 feedback on the directors remuneration policy and of this annual report.
the directors remuneration report, guided by its remuneration principles, which are set out on pages In 2016, the remuneration committee continued to 213 to 214 of this annual report.
exercise oversight of remuneration of those below the board and regularly received information on REWARD OUTCOMES FOR 2016 pay structures and outcomes at all levels within the The companys strong performance against 2016 company.
objectives resulted in outcomes under the annual bonus plan for the CEO and CFO of 65% and 78% REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK FOR 2017 respectively, of the maximum bonus.
However, Following the annual shareholder consultation despite the solid performance against the 2016 undertaken by members of the remuneration objectives, the performance metrics under the third committee in November and December 2016, tranche of the 2012 restricted share scheme award changes were made to the performance criteria for and the second tranche of the 2013 restricted share the annual bonus for 2017 as set out on the following scheme award were not met hence there will be no page.
payouts in 2017 to the executive directors under the restricted share scheme.
SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE GRAPH Rebased to Randgold $ 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 211 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Randgold Spot gold Newcrest Goldcorp Barrick Gold Newmont Kinross Gold AngloGold DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED LOOKING AHEAD The remuneration committee is committed to the principles of accountability and transparency and ANNUAL BONUS to ensuring that remuneration arrangements align The 2017 annual bonus performance metrics for reward with performance.
the executive directors, are weighted as follows: Financial measures 25%, previously 30% The remuneration committee intends to undertake Role-specific operational financial a review of the companys remuneration policy in performance targets 25%, unchanged 2017, including all aspects of the companys long Role specific strategic non-financial targets term incentive plans for the executive directors.
The 30%, unchanged key objectives of the review will be to ensure the Safety and environment 20%, previously 15% executive directors are appropriately incentivised to deliver on the companys strategy to build sustainable value for all its stakeholders as well as reflecting shareholders growing preference for transparency and simplicity of incentive plans.
As The annual bonus and the co-investment plan were part of that review the committee will consult with also amended by the remuneration committee.
the companys largest shareholders, and their While one third of the annual bonus will continue representative bodies, and any changes to the to be converted into shares and deferred for three companys remuneration policy will be presented to years, it will no longer be invested automatically shareholders at the 2018 annual general meeting.
For the 2017 awards granted under the co-investment plan, executive ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING directors may commit shares into the plan using As always we welcome the views of shareholders shares purchased on-market or from their own and their representative bodies on the pay of our personal shareholding, provided their remaining executive directors.
We trust you will support the shareholding exceeds their minimum shareholding annual vote of the directors remuneration report and requirement.
the directors remuneration policy at the companys annual general meeting on 2 May 2017.
Malus and clawback will continue to apply to the annual bonus, the co-investment plan and the On behalf of the remuneration committee restricted share scheme.
The co-investment plan will continue to have a three year performance period followed by a one year post-vesting retention period and the restricted share scheme will continue to have a four year performance period followed by a one year post-vesting retention period.
Andrew Quinn For the year commencing 1 January 2017, the Chairman remuneration committee has agreed to increase Remuneration committee the CEOs and CFOs salary by 3%, in line with the average of the companys employees at management levels and the broader market.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 212 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Randgold is an entrepreneurial company, focused EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES on Africa and growing value through discovery and AND PHILOSOPHY development that has at its heart the creation of Randgold operates in a variety of international value for all stakeholders including its host countries markets and jurisdictions.
In formulating its and local communities where the company operates.
principles, the regulatory requirements of Jersey, the United Kingdom and the United States were Randgolds alignment with shareholder value taken into account and the company has followed creation encourages empowerment, ownership international best practice and good corporate and responsibility, as well as a results-based governance.
The companys executive remuneration growth culture.
Randgolds remuneration plans principles provide the underlying standards on support this through encouraging investment which the remuneration policies and goals are and ownership in the business, as well as setting based.
The remuneration principles are applied stretching performance targets for the delivery of across the group and the remuneration policy reward-based variable short term and long term is applied to the executive and non-executive incentive plans for its executive directors and senior directors.
The principles are reviewed annually management.
by the remuneration committee and at such other times as the remuneration committee considers Objective necessary.
The objective of Randgolds remuneration Randgolds business strategy for success is principles on executive directors remuneration is enduring, consistent, sustainable and long to encourage, reinforce and reward the delivery of established, as is the people strategy and the sustainable value to the companys shareholders remuneration objectives and remuneration principles and its other stakeholders in the host countries that have been developed to support its business where the company operates.
REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES Long term success Building sustainable long term value for shareholders and other stakeholders is the key overriding objective.
Accordingly a significant proportion of our remuneration is aligned to the long term success of the company through both shares and performance-related awards.
In addition, to support the alignment with shareholders and the desired corporate culture of the company, senior executives are encouraged to invest in and hold shares in the company.
Randgolds people Randgolds belief is that a key part of that value creation strategy is ensuring the company has the right people in the right places to deliver this value with the appropriate balance and alignment between the interests of shareholders and an attractive and appropriate reward package for its people.
Randgolds people are highly motivated and have energy and tenacity to achieve and succeed in delivering Randgolds long term vision.
Randgold believes in rewarding for delivering value, showing flexibility and mobility, as well as demonstrating a proactive entrepreneurial approach.
Randgold rewards high performance and alignment with Randgolds culture when it is consistently delivered, and consequently value to Randgold and its shareholders is seen as increasing from an individuals contribution.
Executive directors Competitive total remuneration is used to attract and retain high-calibre executive directors, who have the personal attributes, skills and experience necessary to deliver the companys strategy in the environment within which it operates.
Randgold operates in the international mining industry and, specifically, the international gold mining industry.
Reward packages need to be commensurate with its comparator groups to attract and retain high calibre people with exceptional industry ability in mining and in Africa.
As well as being appropriately reflective of the industry, Randgolds pay philosophy is to ensure its entrepreneurial culture and principles are maintained by ensuring leverage through its variable pay plans.
Performance-related pay Randgolds strategy of delivering value in Africa through its partnerships with other companies international and local, governments, Randgolds people and the people of Randgolds host countries in Africa is clear and this flows through to Randgolds performance in terms of its KPIs.
A significant proportion of total remuneration should vary with performance, aligning the executive directors interests with the interests of the companys shareholders and stakeholders.
Randgolds only material element of fixed remuneration will be base pay, supplemented by performance-related short term and long term remuneration.
A high level of performance, measured with reference to predetermined objective criteria, will be rewarded with higher levels of remuneration.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 213 DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES CONTINUED Performance measures Financial and non-financial KPIs are Randgolds measurement of success and are reflected in its remuneration plans.
Randgold believes sustainable long term growth is a fundamental strength of its strategy, its people and its way of working.
Consequently, its long term incentive plans reward sustained and stretching performance over a three to five year period including the required holding period.
The use of stretching performance measures and key performance indicators are crucial to benchmark performance.
In terms of comparative performance, Randgold will use relevant comparator groups.
Individual executive directors performance, pay and performance metrics and ranges will be reviewed annually to ensure alignment with Randgolds business plans and its overriding objectives.
Risk In addition to the delivery of sustainable value, remuneration arrangements should be aligned with Randgolds approach to sustainability and business risk management which takes into account the companys environmental, social and governance responsibilities.
Expenses and benefits Our culture is to deliver value for shareholders as entrepreneurs.
Accordingly, we reduce long term fixed elements of pay and as such there are no company-funded pension plans within the company and, while we provide access to a company-facilitated medical insurance policy, the company does not fund the contributions.
However, as a responsible employer, we support our workforce and executives in delivering social benefits related to workplace events or events while at work such as ill health and disability.
Any expenses incurred in the course of work are reimbursed.
Shareholding Ownership of shares in the company is encouraged and executive directors are required to build a material shareholding in the company which over time will form a meaningful portion of reward and will align executive directors interests to shareholders interests.
Randgold will require each executive director to have a minimum shareholding in the company.
Recruitment The company will not offer any more than is necessary to attract and retain executive directors of the right calibre and experience.
The company may compensate a new executive director for forfeiture of salary and other remuneration from a previous employer on a comparable basis taking into account performance achieved or likely to be achieved and aligning this new executive director with other executive directors as far as possible.
Service contracts and letters of appointment Executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment will be clear, transparent, and will be drafted by reference to best practice.
Where governance principles vary or conflict across relevant jurisdictions, the board will adopt what it considers to be the appropriate standards that reflect the overriding objective.
Termination payments On determining loss of office payments, consideration will be given to any contractual provisions, the circumstances under which an executive director leaves and the executive directors performance.
Whether a loss of office payment is made is at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Non-executive chairman and directors To attract and retain a high calibre non-executive chairman and non-executive directors who have the necessary skills, experience and commitment, the company will offer competitive remuneration which recognises the time commitment and work required for the roles of non-executive chairman and non-executive directors.
Engaging with shareholders The non-executive directors will maintain an open transparent dialogue with shareholders and regularly seek their views on the companys remuneration practices and policies.
Remuneration policy, practices and outcomes will be clearly explained in the context of performance, to the extent not commercially sensitive, and shareholders will be given the opportunity to vote by way of ordinary resolution on Randgolds remuneration policies and practices at least once a year.
Approval will be sought in 1 relation to the directors remuneration report at each annual general meeting.
Fairness and judgement Appropriate judgement will be applied by the remuneration committee in determining remuneration with consideration given to the conditions affecting the company, including the countries where the company operates, and where the executive directors are required to spend their time.
1 As the company is incorporated in Jersey, this approval will be on an advisory rather than on a binding basis.
In line with the companys commitment to follow international best practice and good corporate governance, it is the boards intention to operate in line with the remuneration policy and the board will give careful consideration to shareholder feedback on this policy.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 214 A co-investment plan rewarding relative Remuneration structure summary performance over three years subject to The groups total remuneration, together with each investment by the executive director, and with a individual element, is benchmarked against a further one year post-vesting retention period.
comparator group of FTSE 100, FTSE mining and A restricted share scheme rewarding operational comparable international gold mining companies.
performance over four years with a further one Further details on the companys remuneration year post-vesting retention period.
policy and remuneration arrangements are contained in this remuneration report.
For 2017, the remuneration of the executive directors will comprise Remuneration policy the following: The remuneration policy is based on the Base salary.
remuneration principles set out on pages 213 Annual bonus with mandatory deferral of one and 214 of this annual report and remains largely third of any annual bonus.
This amount is used unchanged from 2016, except as detailed in the to acquire shares that are held for a period of policy table below.
Any commitment made before an executive becomes a director will be honoured even if inconsistent with this or any future policy.
REMUNERATION POLICY Maximum opportunity performance metrics Purpose Operation changes To ensure that the The remuneration Maximum opportunity Overall companys executive committee reviews the levels for individual pay remuneration policy structure of the executive elements are set out below.
encourages, reinforces directors remuneration Page 222 of this annual and rewards the delivery arrangements every year.
report sets out the total of sustainable shareholder Total remuneration opportunity levels for value.
and each element executive directors in To ensure that pay of remuneration is different performance arrangements are benchmarked periodically scenarios.
fully aligned with the against a comparator companys approach to group of FTSE 100, FTSE risk management and mining and comparable take into account our international gold mining obligations in respect of companies.
environmental, social and governance policies.
Competitive base salaries Base pay levels are The CEOs base salary was Base salary to attract and retain high reviewed annually by the increased from $1 687 140 calibre executives, based remuneration committee to $1 737 754 with effect on personal performance with effect from 1 January from 1 January 2017 an and relevant experience.
each year, taking account increase of 3% in line with Base salary is the only of company performance, the average increase for material element of fixed individual performance, employees at management remuneration.
changes in responsibility levels and the broader The company does and levels of increase for market.
not fund any pension the broader employee The CFOs base salary was contributions.
increased from Reference is also made to 541 096 to 557 329 median levels within FTSE with effect from 1 January 100, FTSE mining and 2017 an increase of 3% comparable international in line with the average gold mining companies, as increase for employees at mentioned above.
management levels and The remuneration the broader market.
committee considers the Under normal impact of any base salary circumstances, there increase on the total will be no base salary remuneration package.
increases during the one year policy period.
In exceptional circumstances, the remuneration committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the executives remuneration to recognise, for example, development in role, change in responsibility and or specific retention issues.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 215 DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Maximum opportunity performance metrics Purpose Operation changes Designed to encourage Target and maximum The annual bonus payable Annual bonus and reward superior annual incentives to the CEO for achieving performance on an annual are determined as a target performance is basis.
The One third of the annual maximum bonus payable bonus is compulsorily to the CEO for achieving deferred.
outperformance is 300% of Subject to malus provision base salary.
to allow reduced payment The annual bonus payable at the discretion of the to the CFO for achieving remuneration committee target performance is based on the overall 100% of base salary.
The performance of the maximum bonus payable company.
to the CFO for achieving Subject to clawback for outperformance is 200% of a three year period from base salary.
the date of payment in The performance metrics the event of a material used to determine the misstatement of the annual bonus cover the companys annual report same categories for both and accounts on which the executive directors, they were based.
weighted as follows: Financial measures 25%, reduced from 30% in the prior year.
Role-specific operational financial performance targets 25%.
Role specific strategic non-financial targets 30%.
Safety and environment 20%, increased from 15% in the prior year.
The deferral of annual One third of any annual Deferred bonuses are Deferred bonus bonus encourages bonus is compulsorily compulsorily deferred and executive share ownership deferred.
This amount is are released as shares and provides longer term used to acquire shares that after three years.
alignment with shareholder are held for a period of interests.
Subject to clawback for a three year period from the date of payment in the event of a material misstatement of the companys annual report and accounts on which the award was based.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 216 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Maximum opportunity performance metrics Purpose Operation changes To reward sustained Each year an executive The maximum commitment Co-investment performance relative to director may choose to opportunity to be offered plan global peers.
commit shares into the under the co-investment Each year, when co-investment plan using plan is 250% of base considering new awards shares purchased in the salary by the CEO and under the plan, the market or from their own 125% of base salary by the remuneration committee personal shareholding, CFO.
will review and may make provided their remaining The extent to which the adjustments to the metrics shareholding exceeds their shares are matched and targets to which the minimum shareholding depends on the vesting of new matching requirement.
performance of the awards granted under the Committed shares must companys TSR compared plan will be subject, before be retained for four with the Euromoney the grant of such awards, years which includes an Global Gold Index TSR taking into account the additional one year holding performance over three strategic objectives of the period post-vesting years.
company for the relevant and may be matched, The match is 0.3 shares periods.
depending on relative Total for each share committed Shareholder Return TSR for performance equalling performance against the the performance of the Euromoney Global Gold Euromoney Global Gold Index TSR performance Index.
For annualised over three years.
performance at 10% above Matched shares are the index performance the subject to a malus match is 1:1 with stepped provision to allow reduced changes in between.
vesting at the discretion of the remuneration committee based on the overall performance of the company.
Matched shares are subject to clawback for a three year period from the date of vesting in the event of a material misstatement of the companys annual report and accounts on which the award was based.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 217 DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Maximum opportunity performance metrics Purpose Operation changes Rewards sustainable long Awards of shares are The remuneration Restricted share term performance.
made annually under committee has determined scheme Focus on operational and the restricted share that the maximum annual financial performance scheme, determined as a award of shares is 200% measures and rewards percentage of base salary.
of base salary for the CEO absolute delivery of key Awards vest after four and 100% of base salary strategic imperatives to years subject to the for the CFO.
build the company for the achievement of stretching Three separate measures future.
operational and financial of business growth, each Four year performance targets.
weighted one third: period supports Subject to malus provision Additional reserves sustainability of growth.
to allow reduced vesting including reserve One year post-vesting at the discretion of the replacement.
retention period further remuneration committee Relative TSR vs a supports long term based on the overall tailored peer group.
performance of the Total cash cost per oz.
The threshold vesting level considering new awards Subject to clawback for a is 30% and is aligned with under the scheme, the three year period from the the co-investment plan.
remuneration committee date of vesting in the event will review and may of a material misstatement make adjustments to the of the companys annual metrics and targets to report and accounts on which the vesting of new which they were based.
awards granted under the restricted share scheme will be subject, before the grant of such awards, taking into account the strategic objectives of the company for the relevant periods.
Any adjustments are to ensure stretching performance targets are set.
Funded entirely by the Executive directors can Not applicable.
Pension executive directors from elect to allocate up to their base salary.
20% of their base salary to contribute to a defined contribution provident fund.
The company does not make any further contributions to the fund.
Main benefits funded from Executive directors can Set at a level that the Other benefits base salary by executive elect to participate in a remuneration committee directors.
medical aid scheme funded determines for the out of the executives base executive director to carry salary.
Where appropriate, executive directors may be provided with benefits while travelling for work.
Life assurance cover is provided by the company through the group life assurance scheme which also provides cover for the companys senior management.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 218 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Maximum opportunity performance metrics Purpose Operation changes To secure the appointment For external appointments Maximum value is Other and promotion of high the remuneration determined by reference commitments.
committee may offer to the policy in relation additional cash shareto each element of pay Recruitment based elements where outlined above for and promotion they consider it is in executive directors and arrangements the best interests of the below for non-executive company and therefore directors.
Such In unforeseen and payments would take exceptional circumstances, account of remuneration in order to attract the right forfeited when leaving the talent at an executive level, former employer and would and after consultation with reflect the nature, time major shareholders, the horizons and performance remuneration committee requirements attaching may make compensatory to that remuneration.
one-off payments on Full details of any such recruitment which might payments would be not otherwise be covered announced to shareholders by the remuneration policy, upon appointment.
but in all cases the value For appointment of an of such arrangement would internal candidate, any be within the financial variable pay element limit of the policy for that awarded in respect of the element of remuneration.
prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take account of appointment.
In addition, any on-going remuneration obligations existing before appointment may continue in place, to the extent they are inconsistent with the policy outlined above, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
For both external and internal appointments, the remuneration committee may agree that the company will meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 219 DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Maximum opportunity performance metrics Purpose Operation changes To attract and retain a The decisions on the The chairman receives a Chairmans fees high calibre chairman chairmans fees are made retainer fee of $60 000 pa. by offering a market by the remuneration The chairman also receives competitive fee.
committee in consultation the chairman fee of The companys policy with the CEO.
$225 000 pa which is on the chairmans fees The chairman is paid an inclusive of committee takes into account the annual retainer fee, a membership fees but need to attract and retain chairman fee and receives exclusive of the committee an individual of the right an annual award of shares chairman fee.
calibre and experience, which is fully vested upon The chairman, subject to their responsibilities and grant.
shareholder approval, will time commitment.
The shares are seen as receive an annual award of an important element of 2 500 shares.
the companys approach The chairman is required to remuneration policy in to retain and maintain relation to the chairman.
from his vested shares a They encourage share number of shares in the ownership and are company at least equal in provided in lieu of cash.
value as at the beginning The chairmans fees are of the financial year to an periodically reviewed amount equivalent to 200% by the remuneration of the annual retainer fee.
committee in consultation with the CEO.
To attract and retain a The decisions on the Each non-executive Non-executive high calibre non-executive non-executive directors director receives a retainer directors fees director by offering market fees are the responsibility fee of $60 000 pa. competitive fees.
of the board, taking into Each non-executive The companys policy account the fundamental director, subject to on the non-executive principle of corporate shareholder approval, will directors fees takes into governance that no receive an annual award account the need to attract individual is involved in of 1 500 shares 2 000 for and retain individuals the determination of their the senior independent of the right calibre own remuneration.
The director and 2 500 for the and experience, their chairman, the CEO and the chairman.
responsibilities and time CFO make the decisions on Non-executive directors commitment.
the non-executive directors are required to retain and fees.
maintain from their vested The chairmen of the board shares a number of shares committees and the senior in the company at least independent director equal in value as at the are paid an additional beginning of the financial fee to reflect their extra year to an amount responsibilities.
equivalent to 200% of the The non-executives are annual retainer fee.
paid an annual retainer fee, The senior independent a committee membership director receives a fee fee, and subject to of $85 000 pa.
This fee shareholder approval, is payable in addition to receive an annual award of other committee fees to shares which is fully vested reflect the roles increased upon grant.
The shares are seen as Each committee chairman an important element of receives an additional fee the companys approach of $20 000 pa. to remuneration policy in Each member of a board relation to non-executive committee excluding the directors.
They encourage chairman of the board share ownership and are receives the following fee: provided in lieu of cash.
Audit: $35 000 pa Non-executive directors Remuneration: fees are reviewed $25 000 pa periodically by the Governance & chairman and executive nomination: directors.
$10 000 pa. RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 220 These measures provide an equal balance between WHY PERFORMANCE MEASURES WERE asset sustainability, profitability and relative CHOSEN AND HOW TARGETS ARE SET shareholder returns, taking into account economic Performance measures are selected by the conditions and gold price fluctuations.
Awards remuneration committee on the basis of their vest on a straight-line sliding scale for performance alignment to the remuneration principles and the between the minimum and maximum performance companys strategy, and to ensure the measures range for the relevant performance metric.
remain fundamental to the operational management of the business.
Measures are reviewed annually The remuneration committee will review the by the remuneration committee, taking into account performance metrics of the restricted share scheme business performance and priorities.
in the event that the company issues a material number of shares.
ANNUAL BONUS The performance metrics for the annual bonus INDICATIVE TOTAL OPPORTUNITY LEVELS are set annually and are based on the business FOR 2017 priorities and strategic objectives.
The remuneration As a result of the companys remuneration policy, committee is of the view that the specific metrics a significant portion of the rewards available for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive to the executive directors is dependent on the and it would be detrimental to the company to performance of the company.
The tables on disclose them in advance of or during the relevant the following page illustrate how the total pay performance period.
The remuneration committee opportunities for the CEO and the CFO vary in three will disclose those metrics at the end of the relevant different performance scenarios: maximum, target performance period when they are no longer and minimum.
These charts are indicative only commercially sensitive in the appropriate years as share price movements and dividend accrual annual report.
Please see page 226 of this annual have been excluded.
The tables are based on the report for the performance metrics for 2016 and a following assumptions: broad outline of the performance metrics for 2017.
Fixed elements are comprised solely of base salary.
CO-INVESTMENT PLAN Target performance consists of base salary and The gold mining industry is capital intensive, cyclical incentive awards at 50% of maximum.
Outstanding performance comes Maximum performance consists of base salary from finding and accessing high quality resources, and incentive awards at 100% of maximum.
successfully developing new projects, managing The value of the co-investment plan award production costs, and maintaining efficient and safe assumes a maximum investment from the operations.
The remuneration committee believes that, in this context, success can best be measured by the companys total shareholder return TSR performance against the Euromoney Global Gold Index TSR performance.
The Euromoney Global Gold Index is a  index calculated in US dollars, representing more than 50 mining companies from around 20 countries.
The companys performance against its peers is set out in the graph on page 228 of this annual report.
For 2017, the remuneration committee has determined that this measure remains appropriate and no changes are planned for the year.
RESTRICTED SHARE SCHEME The performance metrics for the restricted share scheme have been selected on the basis that they are among the companys key performance indicators and drive shareholder value.
The remuneration committee further believes that the performance necessary for awards to vest towards the upper end of the performance ranges is stretching.
They should not, therefore, be interpreted as providing guidance on the companys expected performance over the relevant periods.
The following three measures are applied, each weighted one third: Additional reserves including reserve replacement Total cash cost per ounce Relative TSR versus industry peers RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 221 DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED INDICATIVE TOTAL OPPORTUNITY LEVELS FOR 2017 CEO Maximum 12% 23% 12% 53% $14 770 909 Target 21% 21% 11% 47% $8 254 332 100% Minimum $1 737 754 0 $4 000 000 $8 000 000 $12 000 000 $16 000 000 Fixed elements Annual variable element cash Annual variable element deferred shares Long term variable elements CFO Maximum 2 925 977 19% 25% 13% 43% Target 32% 21% 11% 36% 1 741 653 Minimum 100% 557 329 0 500 000 1 000 000 1 500 000 2 000 000 2 500 000 3 000 000 Fixed elements Annual variable element cash Annual variable element deferred shares Long term variable elements Assumptions: Fixed elements comprise of base salary.
Target performance consists of base salary and incentive awards at 50% of maximum.
Maximum performance consists of base salary and incentive awards at 100% of maximum.
The value of the co-investment plan award assumes a maximum investment from the respective executive director.
SERVICE AGREEMENT PROVISIONS The information below provides a summary of RELATING TO SALARY AND BENEFITS the provisions in the executive directors service The executive directors service agreements and contracts that could give rise to a remuneration or non-executive directors letters of appointment are loss of office payment.
available for inspection at the companys registered office and at each annual general meeting of the company.
TERMS OF SERVICE AGREEMENTS 1 The CEO will be paid a salary of $1 500 000 per annum and the CFO will be paid a salary Salary and 2 of 390 000 per annum or, in both cases, such other rate as may be agreed between an benefit executive director and the company.
The salary will be reviewed by the board annually with no obligation to award an increase.
The service agreements provide that the executive directors are entitled to participate in such pension funds as may be nominated by the executive director and participate in the companys medical aid scheme, in both cases funded entirely by the executive director from their base salary.
The company will provide life assurance against death and disability for each of the CEO and CFO.
The executive directors will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus plan subject to the Annual rules of the plan as amended from time to time.
The board consults with each of the executive bonus directors with respect to the setting of performance metrics.
The service agreements note that under the rules of the annual bonus plan, where a participant ceases employment as a good leaver or there is a change of control event, a participant will be entitled to an award based on the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied and pro-rated to reflect the shortened performance period.
The executive directors are eligible to participate in the co-investment plan and the restricted Incentive share scheme subject to the rules of the plans as amended from time to time.
The service schemes agreements note that under the rules of the plan and scheme, where the participant is a good leaver or there is a change of control event, a participant will be entitled to an award based on the extent to which the relevant performance conditions have been satisfied and pro-rated to reflect the shortened performance period.
The board consults with each of the executive directors with respect to the setting of performance metrics.
1 As at 31 December 2016, the annual base salary of the CEO was $1 687 140.
The base salary of the CEO was increased to $1 737 754 with effect from 1 January 2017.
2 As at 31 December 2016, the base salary of the CFO was 541 096.
The base salary of the CFO was increased to 557 329 with effect from 1 January 2017.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 222 Any pension benefit due from contributions made by Further, the board extended the co-investment plan the executive directors to the companys provident to the most senior managers below board level, in fund will also be paid out on termination or at such line with the existing rules of the plan, with effect other time as the executive director chooses.
This further enhances the company does not contribute to the provident fund.
link between pay and long-term value creation and recognises the significant value the senior management team as a whole has created over the TERMINATION POLICY years.
Both Dr DM Bristow and Mr GP Shuttleworth entered into updated service agreements in June 2011 as amended on 28 January 2013 under which the CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER company and each executive director can terminate VIEWS IN DEVELOPING POLICY their respective service agreement by giving six As in previous years, the remuneration committee months notice in writing.
has engaged extensively during the year with its larger institutional shareholders and the The employment relationship can be ended voting guidance services on remuneration.
The immediately by the company making a payment in remuneration committee acknowledges and listens lieu of notice, equivalent to the base salary payable to the views of the companys shareholders and has for the notice period.
The executive directors duty taken account of their opinions in formulating the to mitigate will be taken into account on termination.
remuneration principles, the remuneration policy and this remuneration report.
The provisions contained in the executive directors service agreements, as summarised in the table on PAYMENTS ALREADY AGREED the prior page, reflect Randgolds termination policy Where unforeseen or exceptional circumstances including in respect of notice periods, the principles arise, after consultation with major shareholders, for calculating each element of a termination the remuneration committee may make payments payment, and whether circumstances of termination outside of the structures envisaged by the are taken into account.
However, the value of any such element would be limited to the usual financial CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS limit for the element of remuneration to which the ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY IN arrangement relates.
Any such event and resultant payments will be announced on a timely basis DEVELOPING POLICY to shareholders in the usual way via the stock Given the geographic spread of the companys exchange information service and on the companys workforce, the remuneration committee does not website.
The remuneration committee will continue consider that consulting directly with employees to honour all existing arrangements under existing on the remuneration policy for executive directors contracts and any payments already agreed with is the most appropriate use of resources, although shareholders.
executive directors pay is carefully considered in the context of pay and conditions across the company as a whole.
The remuneration committee has oversight of remuneration policies for senior management below the board, and applies the principles of transparency, clarity and alignment of reward with performance.
To support the alignment of interests with those shareholders, in 2009 the company extended a form of the restricted share scheme to management below board level.
Awards under the restricted share scheme have historically been made on an ad hoc basis determined by key events or when new senior managers are recruited.
However, with effect from January 2017, awards under the restricted share scheme will generally be made annually.
Vesting of restricted share awards for senior managers is conditional on satisfactory individual performance.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 223 DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Where a share award or part of a share award has EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION vested on or after 1 January 2016, but in respect of SINGLE FIGURE TABLE a performance period ended on 31 December 2015, The figures contained in the single figure table it has been included in the 2015 figure and where a below reflect the base salary and annual bonuses share award has vested on or after 1 January 2017, actually paid during the period and the value of but in respect of a performance period ended on awards that vested under the restricted share 31 December 2016, it has been included in 2016. scheme and the co-investment plan where the performance period ended in the year under review Fixed remuneration comprises only base salary.
No with such value determined by reference to the pension contributions are funded by the company.
market price of the vested award shares on the In 2017, fixed remuneration represents 21% for the relevant vesting date, in accordance with the United CEO and 32% for the CFO of the total remuneration Kingdoms Large and Medium-Sized Companies package based on target performance.
and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the UK Regulations.
As a Jersey incorporated company, the company is not required to follow the UK Regulations but does so in the interest of disclosure to its shareholders.
2 Mr GP Shuttleworths salary was paid in pounds but converted to dollars at the average rate for the year of 1:1.36.
3 Mr GP Shuttleworths bonus will be paid in pounds in March 2017 but has been converted to dollars at the rate of 1:1.22.
4 Other payments include expenses for restricted share awards, performance share awards and co-investment plan awards which are costed in accordance with IFRS 2, based on the valuation at the date of grant rather than the value of the awards that vested in the year.
Vesting is subject to a number of vesting conditions which may or may not be achieved.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 224 BASE SALARY OTHER BENEFITS The CEOs and CFOs base salaries are determined Executive directors can elect to receive other by the remuneration committee, taking into account benefits, including medical aid, funded out of their the performance of the individual.
Where appropriate, executive directors also benchmarks each element of remuneration may be provided with benefits while travelling for and the total remuneration package in comparison work and the cost of membership of professional to FTSE 100, FTSE mining and comparable associations.
Life assurance cover is provided to international gold mining companies.
the executive directors by the company through the group life assurance scheme which is also made When setting base salaries, the remuneration available to the companys senior management.
committee also takes into consideration the requirement for extensive travel and time spent VARIABLE REMUNERATION at the companys operations in Africa.
This is Variable remuneration represents the major considered critical to the effective management of proportion of each executive directors remuneration the companys business.
At 31 December 2016, the annual base salaries of In 2016, variable remuneration of the executive the executive directors were as follows: directors comprised: CEO: Dr DM Bristow $1 687 140 An annual bonus opportunity, coupled with the CFO: Mr GP Shuttleworth 541 096 requirement to defer one third of the annual bonus into the co-investment plan to acquire Following a review of all aspects of the remuneration shares that are held for four years.
packages of the executive directors, it has been Participation in the co-investment plan decided that the CEOs base salary be increased rewarding performance over three years, from $1 687 140 to $1 737 754 and the CFOs base with a further one year post-vesting retention salary be increased from 541 096 to 557 329 requirement of the vested award.
with effect from 1 January 2017, which represent an Awards under the restricted share scheme, increase of 3%.
The CEOs and CFOs base salary rewarding performance over four years, with increases are in line with the average increase for a further one year post-vesting retention employees at management levels and the broader requirement of the vested award.
2016 ANNUAL BONUS As is the remuneration committees usual practice, The annual bonus encourages and rewards superior it sought the views of our larger institutional performance on an annual basis.
The performance metrics are intended to reward the achievement shareholders and voting guidance services before of challenging strategic and financial targets that deciding on these increases.
contribute to the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
During the year, the remuneration committee was provided with information detailing salaries of the Each year, the remuneration committee reviews broader Randgold employee population.
The and may make adjustments to the criteria used for remuneration committee reviewed the information measuring performance, taking into account the on the employees salaries and any increases made strategic objectives of the company for the year, are also taken into account when considering the before the metrics and targets are agreed for the annual remuneration cycle.
base salary increases for the CEO and CFO.
The increases for the employees took effect in October The remuneration committee has the ability to 2016 and ranged from 1.9% to 6.3%.
The average exercise its discretion in respect of the annual increase in employee salaries was approximately bonus calculation, however, in respect of the year 2.8%.
under review it did not do so and relied solely on the application of the performance metrics.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS Executive directors can elect to sacrifice up to 20% of their base salary to contribute to a defined contribution provident fund.
The provident fund is offered to all senior management within the company.
The company does not make any contribution to the provident fund.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 225 DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED OVERVIEW OF 2016 ANNUAL BONUS PERFORMANCE MEASURES, WEIGHTINGS AND OUTCOME CEO Maximum % value of Bonus Threshold Target Maximum Achievement achievement award amount Weightings Measures 0% 150% 300% for 2016 of measure achievable awarded $2.03 $2.47 EPS growth $2.64 100% $759 213 $759 213 Financial Total cash cost per ounce $650 $550 30% of gold $639 11% $759 213 $83 513 2% 2% Growth in reserves 1.6% 9% $632 678 $57 751 Operational 1.15Moz 1.35Moz 25% Production of gold ounces 1.25Moz 51% $632 678 $325 693 Safety 1.0 0.0 10% LTIFR 0.46 54% $506 142 $272 535 Environment 1 0 5% Class 1 incidents 0 100% $253 071 $253 071 Strategic 70% 90% 30% Individual strategic outputs 97.7% 100% $1 518 426 $1 518 426 0% 300% Total bonus 65% $5 061 421 $3 270 202 CFO Maximum % value of Bonus Threshold Target Maximum Achievement achievement award amount Weightings Measures 0% 100% 200% for 2016 of measure achievable awarded $2.03 $2.47 EPS growth $2.64 100% 162 329 162 329 Financial Total cash cost per ounce $650 $550 30% of gold $639 11% 162 329 17 856 Capital expenditure compared $304.5m $276.8m to approved budget $252.5m 100% 135 274 135 274 Operational $114m $104m 25% Inventory reductions $93.5m 100% 135 274 135 274 0.0 1.0 Safety 10% LTIFR 0.46 54% 108 219 58 271 Environment 1 0 5% Class 1 incidents 0 100% 54 110 54 110 Strategic 70% 90% 30% Individual strategic outputs 87% 85% 324 658 276 560 0% 200% Total bonus 78% 1 082 193 839 674 The tables on the following page set out details INDIVIDUAL STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES as to how the CEO and CFO performed against Each of the executive directors and the senior individual strategic outputs for 2016.
The individual management team below board level typically strategic outputs have been grouped into broad receive 20-30 individual strategic objectives categories and further subdivided into more detailed outputs for the year.
These personal objectives measures, and weighted according to the number of are assessed at the end of the year as part of a specific outputs that fall within each measure.
The process of 360 degree feedback.
The outputs results reflect the number of outputs successfully are directly related to the key business objectives.
The outputs are normally specific and Consequently their achievement is an appropriate may be commercially sensitive, including corporate measure of performance and is complementary to activity such as a discussion with a potential merger the various financial metrics included in the bonus or acquisition target.
committee believes that the broad categories and measures highlighted below provide a summary of Individual strategic outputs for the CEO and CFO, the areas that are the focus of the outputs.
and the rest of the executive management team and senior managers, are determined through the companys annual strategic planning process.
The management team identifies the key objectives and deliverables the company needs to achieve for the business to be successful as a whole.
The process includes a combination of scenario planning, SWOT analysis and other strategic discussions.
The companys key strategic outputs are then allocated to the appropriate executives responsible for their delivery, including the CEO and CFO, as their individual strategic outputs.
These outputs are then reviewed with the individual teams and business units throughout the group, to ensure that the executive strategic outputs and the overall strategy of the group are clearly articulated and understood throughout the organisation.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 226 ACHIEVEMENT OF STRATEGIC OUTPUTS FOR 2016 CEO Building and maintaining relationships with key Strategic improvements Key projects partners and stakeholders Measures Internal relations Investor relations Host Developing Implementing Participation in and development and business governments specific aspects strategic decisions key projects, programmes partnerships and local of the business or key operational including site communities improvements visits Weighted outcome % 18% out of 18% 14% out of 14% 14% out of 14% 27% out of 27% 16% out of 18% 9% out of 9% Performance CFO Maximum % value of Bonus Communication and reporting obligations and Strategic and process IT Key projects Threshold Target Maximum Achievement achievement award amount functional objectives improvements Weightings Measures 0% 100% 200% for 2016 of measure achievable awarded Measures Internal Reporting Functional Strategic Process and IT Participation in communications requirements objectives improvements improvements key projects EPS growth $2.64 100% 162 329 162 329 Financial Total cash cost per ounce Weighted 30% of gold $639 11% 162 329 17 856 outcome % 13% out of 15% 15% out of 15% 13% out of 22% 11% out of 11% 15% out of 15% 20% out of 22% Capital expenditure compared Performance to approved budget $252.5m 100% 135 274 135 274 Operational 25% Inventory reductions $93.5m 100% 135 274 135 274 Safety 10% LTIFR 0.46 54% 108 219 58 271 Environment 5% Class 1 incidents 0 100% 54 110 54 110 Strategic 30% Individual strategic outputs 87% 85% 324 658 276 560 Total bonus 78% 1 082 193 839 674 DEFERRED ANNUAL BONUSES CO-INVESTMENT PLAN The deferral of annual bonus encourages and The co-investment plan rewards sustained rewards superior performance on a sustained performance relative to peers over a three year basis.
One third of any annual bonus earned is period.
This amount is used to acquire shares that are held for a period of four In 2016 and prior years, one third of any annual years.
Historically deferred bonuses have been bonus earned was compulsorily deferred and an matched under the co-investment plan.
executive director may also have chosen to commit further shares to the co-investment plan.
For 2016, The annual bonus amounts that were deferred for the maximum commitment opportunity offered 2016 are $1 089 958 for the CEO and $341 433 for under the co-investment plan was 250% of base the CFO.
salary by the CEO and 125% of base salary by the CFO.
Committed shares must be retained for three Amounts awarded under the annual bonus plan years and may be matched, depending on relative are subject to clawback in the event of a material TSR performance over three years, against the misstatement of the companys annual report and Euromoney Global Gold Index TSR performance.
accounts on which they were based.
In 2016, the CEO committed 45 475 shares, and LONG TERM INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR was granted an equal matching award under the co-investment plan.
The CFO committed 10 355 2016 shares, and was granted an equal matching award The company focuses on longer term value and under the co-investment plan.
long term incentives for executive directors which comprise, on an annual basis: If, after three years, the annualised TSR Participation in the co-investment plan rewarding performance of the company equals or exceeds performance over three years, with a further one the annualised TSR performance of the Euromoney year post-vesting retention requirement for the Global Gold Index, then the committed shares may vested award.
be matched on a stepped scale, as shown in the Performance shares awarded under the restricted next table.
The maximum level of matching is one share scheme, rewarding performance over four for one and is awarded for TSR performance of years, with a further one year post-vesting retention 10% per year compounded above the Euromoney requirement for the vested award.
Global Gold Index TSR performance.
This is considered to be a stretching level of performance Awards outstanding under the co-investment plan and the remuneration committee considers this and the restricted share scheme are detailed in the target to be challenging in the context of the tables on pages 236 and 237 of this annual report.
companys historical outperformance of the market.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 227 DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED THREE YEAR TSR PERFORMANCE PER ANNUM RESTRICTED SHARE SCHEME Awards are determined as a percentage of base Level of matching on salary, with the maximum annual award in 2016 Compound growth being 200% of base salary for the CEO and 100% of per annum committed shares base salary for the CFO.
Below the index - For awards granted in 2016, the following three Equal to the index 0.3 for 1 measures will apply, each weighted one third: Total cash cost per ounce measured over Index 2% 0.44 for 1 four consecutive one year periods, with vesting Index 4% 0.58 for 1 at the end of four years.
The overall vesting will be the average annual outcome against Index 6% 0.72 for 1 market guidance weighted by annual production in ounces.
Threshold will equal the maximum Index 8% 0.86 for 1 cost per ounce each year and maximum vesting Index 10% or higher 1 for 1 at the minimum cost per ounce based on the market guidance range approved by the board The companys performance compared with the and communicated to the market in February performance of the Euromoney Global Gold Index each year.
and the FTSE 100 Index over the last five years and Relative TSR TSR is measured over the three ten years respectively is displayed below.
months before the start and the three months before the end of any four year performance period and compared to the TSR, calculated in PERFORMANCE TARGETS FOR 2017 the same way, of a defined comparator group of international listed gold mining companies.
CO-INVESTMENT PLAN AWARDS Vesting is based on the relative TSR outcome For 2017, the remuneration committee has over the four year period.
Threshold vesting determined that the co-investment plan remains occurs at median and maximum at upper appropriate and there is no change to performance quartile.
The defined comparator group for measures for the year.
However, going forward, 2016 subject to the remuneration committee management will be required to commit shares discretion to add or amend the group from time purchased in the market, or from their own personal to time is: shareholding, for the purpose of matching the awards granted, rather than using the shares acquired on the compulsory deferral of the annual bonus into shares.
VALUE OF HYPOTHETICAL $100 HOLDING OF AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS IN RANDGOLD COMPARED TO EUROMONEY GLOBAL GOLD INDEX AT 31 DECEMBER $ 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Gold ADR VALUE OF HYPOTHETICAL 100 HOLDING OF ORDINARY SHARES IN RANDGOLD COMPARED AGAINST TO FTSE 100 AT 31 DECEMBER 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 228 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Euromoney Global Gold Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 RRS LSE FTSE 100 Agnico Eagle Mines Limited: AngloGold CEO PERFORMANCE SHARES Ashanti Limited: Barrick Gold Corporation: At the companys annual general meeting in Eldorado Gold Corporation: B2 Gold 2013, shareholders approved a one-off award of Corporation: Gold Fields Limited: Goldcorp performance shares to the CEO.
Incorporated: Kinross Gold Corporation: Newcrest Mining Limited: Newmont Mining The vesting of the performance shares was subject Corporation: Yamana Gold Incorporated: to the achievement of the following conditions and Buenaventura Mining Company the CEO continuing to hold office or employment Incorporated: and New Gold Incorporated.
with the company during the period of three years Reserve replacement ratio calculated as a from 29 April 2013, being the date of grant of the ratio of the cumulative four year reserves added award.
compared with the cumulative four year reserves mined.
Threshold vesting will occur if this ratio is The conditions to which vesting of the award at least 75% with maximum vesting occurring if was subject were designed to reflect the value the ratio is 110%.
enhancement and focus on the establishment and operation of the Kibali gold mine.
Satisfaction of each condition would result in the vesting of one-fifth PERFORMANCE TARGETS OF RESTRICTED SHARE of the shares subject to the award: SCHEME AWARDS GRANTED IN 2016 The first gold pour occurs at the Kibali gold mine: The cumulative production at the Kibali gold Level of vesting Year 4 mine in aggregate equals or exceeds 500 000oz of gold: Reserve replacement ratio: cumulative over four Gold production of the Randgold group in years aggregate equals or exceeds 1Moz per annum, for any financial year of the company: Nil Less than 75% The vertical shaft at the Kibali gold mine is completed and signed-off by the contractor of 30% 75% the vertical shaft and by the representative of the Pro-rata 30% - Kibali gold mine: and 100% on a The Nzoro II hydroelectric power station provides straight line More than 75% and less than electricity to the Kibali gold mine.
basis 110% At 31 December 2016, four out of five of the 100% 110% performance conditions have been met and the CEO completed the minimum service period applicable to Total cash cost per oz: Average of four years the award.
As a result a total of 40 024 shares were weighted by annual production in ounces transferred from the employee share trust to Mark Bristows nominee on 29 April 2016.
The shares More than the higher end of are restricted from dealing and will only be released Nil costs guidance range when the CEO leaves the service of the company.
In Equal to the higher end of the the interim Dr Bristow will be entitled to vote over the 30% costs guidance range shares on direction of to the nominee and will be entitled to receive any dividends accrued on those Pro-rata 30% - shares at the time the shares are released.
100% on a straight line Between the higher and lower The final tranche of the award remains outstanding basis costs guidance range and subject to the satisfaction of the final performance target, provided the CEO holds office Equal to or lower than the lowest or employment as at the date of achievement of the 100% end of the costs guidance range condition.
The award is subject to clawback up to a maximum value of $4 000 000 at the discretion Relative TSR: Four year TSR vs comparator group of the remuneration committee where a material th Nil Less than 50 percentile misstatement is found contained in the annual report and accounts of the company on which vesting of th 30% 50 percentile the award or any part thereof is or is to be based.
Pro-rata 30% - VESTING OF SHARE PLAN AWARDS FOR 100% on a th straight line More than 50 percentile and THE PERFORMANCE PERIOD ENDING IN th basis less than 75 percentile 2016 The awards, set out in the following tables on the th 100% 75 percentile following page, granted to the CEO and CFO, vested or were capable of vesting or lapsed in respect of a performance period ending in 2016.
PERFORMANCE TARGETS FOR 2017 RESTRICTED SHARE SCHEME AWARDS For 2017, the remuneration committee has determined that the 2016 measures remain appropriate and there is no change to performance measures for the year, as disclosed above.
The remuneration committee will review these performance targets in the event that the company issues a material number of new shares.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 229 DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED CEO CO-INVESTMENT PLAN Expiry of Number of award Maximum value of award performance 1 Date of grant Award of shares at grant date period shares vested 21 Mar 2014 39 004 $3 100 038 31 Dec 2016 17 162 RESTRICTED SHARE SCHEME Maximum value of award Number of award shares 1 2 Date of grant Award of shares at grant date Date of vesting vested 28 843 $2 927 276 16 Mar 2017 0 3rd tranche 16 Mar 2012 18 Mar 2013 36 724 $3 024 956 18 Mar 2017 0 2nd tranche CFO CO-INVESTMENT PLAN Expiry of Maximum value of performance Number of award shares 1 Date of grant Award of shares award at grant date period vested 21 Mar 2014 10 170 $808 312 31 Dec 2016 4 475 RESTRICTED SHARE SCHEME Maximum value of award Number of award shares 1 2 Date of grant Award of shares at grant date Date of vesting vested 16 Mar 2012 6 462 $655 828 16 Mar 2017 0 3rd tranche 18 Mar 2013 8 401 $691 990 18 Mar 2017 0 2nd tranche 1 This figure assumes satisfaction of all performance conditions and maximum vesting.
2 Where a restricted share scheme award has not vested in respect of any shares, the relevant tranche of the award will lapse in accordance with the scheme rules.
Co-investment plan - 2016 outcome Restricted share scheme - 2016 outcome The vesting of the co-investment plan awards The vesting of the above restricted share scheme granted in 2014 to the CEO and the CFO were awards for the CEO and CFO, were subject to the subject to a performance condition which measures achievement of operational and financial targets.
the companys Total Shareholder Return TSR Four separate measures of business growth were performance against the Euromoney Global Gold used, each weighted 25%, with tranches of awards Index TSR performance.
The companys annualised vesting after three, four and five years as follows: TSR performance exceeded the index TSR Additional reserves including reserve performance by 3.8% compound per year and as a replacement result the performance condition was only partially Absolute reserves excluding reserve met.
Accordingly 44% of the awards vested, replacement representing a value of $1 310 147 and $341 622 for EPS growth the CEO and CFO respectively, at a closing share Absolute TSR price on 30 December 2016 of $76.34.
CEO TOTAL PAY AND TSR PERFORMANCE OVER EIGHT YEARS Value of a hypothetical 100 investment 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Randgold Resources RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 230 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Euromoney Global Gold Index CEO EIGHT YEAR TOTAL REMUNERATION 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total remuneration single figure $ 10 577 200 6 000 000 7 483 769 5 423 276 7 365 655 8 625 466 7 683 212 6 267 489 Annual variable pay % of maximum 100% 100% 69% 57% 54% 61% 60% 65% Long term variable pay % of maximum 100% 0% 100% 100% 100% 76% 61% 28% Change in annual TSR 101% 15% 16% 4% 35% 2% 3% 25% Change in remuneration - 43% 25% 28% 36% 17% 11% 18% None of the performance conditions were met in NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS respect of the relevant tranches of the 2012 and REMUNERATION SINGLE FIGURE TABLE 2013 awards, and accordingly no shares were The figures contained in the single figure table awarded.
below reflect the fees actually paid during the period and the value of shares issued and allotted to the The graph on the previous page compares non-executive directors during the period with such Randgolds TSR performance to that of the same value determined by reference to the market price investment in the Euromoney Global Gold Index as of the vested award shares on the relevant vesting the chosen comparator for the TSR performance date.
This index has been chosen as the remuneration committee believes it best reflects the industry against which Randgold should be measured.
TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
Data is based on a one month average of trading day values at the end of each year.
2 Mr Cole retired from the board on 31 October 2016.
3 Dr Voltaire retired from the board on 3 May 2016.
4 Mrs Kirtley was appointed to the board on 2 February 2017.
DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS 4 at 31 Dec 2016 at 31 Dec 2015 Beneficial non-beneficial DM Bristow 788 534 733 991 Beneficial GP Shuttleworth 83 878 78 651 Beneficial CL Coleman 14 800 12 300 Beneficial S Ba-NDaw 3 010 1 500 Beneficial 1 NP Cole Jr 14 527 12 527 Beneficial K Dagdelen 9 000 7 500 Beneficial J Kassum 4 200 2 700 Beneficial J Mabunda Lioko 5 400 3 900 Beneficial AJ Quinn 7 828 6 328 Beneficial 2 K Voltaire 13 527 12 027 Beneficial 3 O Kirtley n a n a n a TOTAL 944 704 871 424 1 Mr Coles shareholding as at 31 October 2016.
2 Dr Voltaires shareholding as at 3 May 2016.
3 Mrs Kirtley was appointed to the board on 2 February 2017.
4 There have been no changes in the interests of each of the current directors in the period from the end of the period under review to 1 March 2017.
Implementation of policy for 2017 Shareholding policy The company uses a one year policy period in The shareholding requirement ensures that the order to fully disclose the parameters for directors interests of directors are aligned with shareholders.
remuneration on an annual basis.
Executive directors are required to build up a holding in shares in the company at least equal in value to However, it is not the intention to make changes to four times base salary for the CEO and two times the policy on an annual basis and as such the policy base salary for the CFO from the value of vested long remains largely unchanged except as highlighted term incentive awards.
As at 31 December 2016, earlier in this report in respect of the annual bonus Dr DM Bristow and Mr GP Shuttleworth each deferral and investment in the co-investment plan.
exceeded their respective shareholding requirements.
Performance measures, relative weightings and targets, to which executive awards and remuneration New directors have three years in which to acquire will be subject, are disclosed on page 226 of this the required shareholding and this period could annual report.
be extended at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Non-executive directors are required to build up and hold shares at least equal in value to 200% of the annual retainer fee of $60 000, from the value of vested awards.
All non-executive directors in office as at 31 December 2016 met this requirement.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 232 Distribution statement Payments to past directors and loss of office The following table demonstrates the relative payments importance of remuneration spend, and shows yearThere were no payments to past directors or loss of on-year percentage change in each of 1 profit, 2 office payments in 2016. dividends, and 3 overall spend on pay.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT In 2016, the CEOs salary was increased by 3% and his total remuneration decreased by 1%.
This 2016 2015 compares to an average increase in salaries across the group of approximately 2.8%.
Underlying group profits $ million 294.2 212.8 Management remuneration During the year the remuneration committee % change 38% 22% reviewed and considered changes and promotions to the composition of the management team, together with their respective remuneration Dividends paid during the packages.
The remuneration committees oversight year group is an integral part of the companys succession and $ million 61.7 55.7 overall strategic planning process.
For details on succession planning of the senior executives please % change 11% 21% refer to the governance & nomination committee report on page 238 of this annual report.
In 1 November 2016, the remuneration committee also Employee numbers group 3 659 3 714 reviewed the remuneration packages of the 25 most % change 1% 34% senior members of the management team.
1 Remuneration structure of employees below the Payroll costs for employees board including taxes The remuneration policy is broadly consistent $ million 133.4 113.1 throughout the business and is designed to encourage, reinforce and reward the delivery % change 18% 28% of sustainable value to our shareholders and to 1 Excludes people employed by contractors and inclusive of joint venture stakeholders in the countries where we operate.
The remuneration package for employees below the board takes into account the local markets and business divisions in which our employees operate.
SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION BELOW THE BOARD ELEMENT Policy Base salary Pay competitive base salaries to attract and retain key employees.
Base salary levels are set taking into account the following factors: individual knowledge, experience and skills, the size and scope of the role, market data and pay elsewhere in the country and the group.
Base salary is the only material element of fixed remuneration, there is no pension entitlement, except in countries where statutory deductions are required.
The average increase in salaries across the group was approximately 2.8% in 2016, however, individual salary increases will vary.
Benefits Benefits are provided based on local practice and role requirements.
Where it is deemed necessary for the performance of duties, specific loans and temporary accommodation provisions are provided to mining employees in certain jurisdictions.
For our management team, whose members add strategic and operational value to the business, share ownership and entrepreneurial behaviours are deemed critical to delivering long-term value: The co-investment plan rewards sustained performance relative to global peers.
Co-investment Participation is offered to the most senior executives below the level of executive plan director, in recognition of their roles in driving company performance.
Participation levels are reviewed each year.
The restricted share scheme rewards sustainable long term performance.
Restricted The scheme focuses on satisfaction of annual personal objectives and performance.
share scheme As of 31 December 2016, 373 members of management participate in the scheme.
Participation levels are reviewed each year by the remuneration committee.
For all other employees, Randgold has an entrepreneurial culture and seeks to create a strong link between pay and performance, and this philosophy runs across the entire organisation: The company operates three bonus plans at its operations, namely: Bonuses Excellence bonus Annual bonus Production bonus Participation in each bonus plans is extended to all permanent employees not participating in the restricted share scheme.
Performance is assessed based on operational and safety parameters and on meeting certain operational production targets, with reference to the annual budget.
Bonuses are targeted as a percentage of monthly or quarterly salary.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 233 DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES ADVISERS The remuneration committees responsibilities During the year, the remuneration committee are set out in its terms of reference, which can be received independent external advice from two found on the companys website separate advisers see the independent external www.
advisers table on the following page.
Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group which oversees DUTIES, ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE the voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive REMUNERATION COMMITTEE remuneration consulting in the United Kingdom.
Remuneration policy and its specific Willis Towers Watson has no other connection application to the executive directors, as with the company.
The remuneration committee well as its general application to the senior is satisfied that the advice provided on executive executives below the board.
remuneration is objective and independent and The determination of levels of reward for that no conflict of interest arises as a result of other the executive directors, and oversight of the services.
remuneration of senior executives below the level of executive director.
OTHER INFORMATION Providing guidance on evaluating the Share usage and dilution performance of the CEO, management The company issues new shares to satisfy the development plans and succession planning.
vesting of awards granted under the restricted share Awards made under the restricted share scheme and matching awards granted under the coscheme and the co-investment plan.
An employee benefit trust is also Communication with shareholders on the in operation for use with executive directors share remuneration policy and the remuneration incentive arrangements.
committees work on behalf of the board.
The table opposite sets out the dilutive effect on the share capital if all share options under the share option scheme, outstanding awards granted under the restricted share scheme and matching awards MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING granted under the co-investment plan capable ATTENDANCE of vesting did vest and, where relevant, were During 2016, the members of the remuneration exercised.
committee were AJ Quinn chairman, NP Cole Jr, CL Coleman, K Voltaire and J Kassum.
Mrs O Kirtley Since 2009 no new share options have been issued was appointed a member of the committee on under the share option scheme.
Both the restricted 2 February 2017. share scheme and the co-investment plan contain a dilution limit of 10% in any ten year period for all The current members of the remuneration committee plans, and as at 31 December 2016, the company are independent non-executive directors in line with had 4.3% available under this limit.
The companys the independence requirements of the Code.
share option scheme contains a dilution limit of 15% in ten years for all plans but the company has, for The remuneration committee met four times during several years, and expects to continue to operate 2016, and attendance is set out below.
At the within a dilution limit of 10% in ten years for all plans.
invitation of the remuneration committee chairman, the CEO attended all four meetings.
The chairman, the senior independent director and the CEO were not in attendance when decisions taken on their own remuneration were considered.
COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Date appointed to Member the committee 4 February 2016 2 May 2016 31 July 2016 30 October 2016 AJ Quinn 3 May 2014 1 NP Cole Jr 1 August 2006 CL Coleman 2 February 2009 2 K Voltaire 29 April 2006 n a n a 3 J Kassum 2 August 2016 n a n a n a 4 O Kirtley 2 February 2017 n a n a n a n a 1 Mr Cole retired from the remuneration committeee on 30 October 2016.
2 Dr Voltaire retired from the remuneration committeee on 2 May 2016.
3 Mr Kassum was appointed to the remuneration committeee with effect from 2 August 2016.
4 Mrs Kirtley was appointed to the remuneration committeee with effect from 2 February 2017.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 234 SHARE USAGE AND DILUTION ACTION PLAN FOR 2017 The remuneration committee intends to commence a review of the companys remuneration policy in Number of 2017, including all aspects of the companys long 31 December 2016 shares term incentive plans for the executive directors.
The key objectives of the review will be to ensure the Total issued share capital 93 813 759 executive directors are appropriately incentivised Outstanding share options under to deliver on the companys strategy to build sustainable value for all of its stakeholders as well the share option scheme capable of as reflecting shareholders growing preference being exercised 14 477 for transparency and simplicity of incentive Outstanding share awards under plans.
As part of that review the committee will the restricted share scheme and coconsult with its largest shareholders, and their investment plan capable of vesting 1 459 997 representative bodies, with any changes to the companys remuneration policy being presented to Enlarged issued share capital 95 288 233 shareholders at the 2018 annual general meeting.
The availability of relevant comparative data for Maximum percentage of share employees in most of the countries within which the capital issued to satisfy vestings 1.5% company operates remains challenging, however, the committee intends to work with other companies and institutions in these countries to expand its VOTING AT THE 2016 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING benchmarking capabilities.
% COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE AND Resolution For For Against Withheld EFFECTIVENESS The remuneration committee conducts a formal Directors review of its effectiveness on an annual basis in remuneration conjunction with the board.
report 78 211 539 97.7 1 848 261 75 900 The committee concluded that it effectively carried Directors out its duties in accordance with the Code during remuneration 2016.
Details of the board and committee evaluation policy 78 176 791 97.6 1 884 261 73 968 process may be found on page 183 of this annual report.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS Executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies, subject to the boards consent, and would normally retain any fees received.
INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL ADVISERS Other services provided to the Fees for services provided to the Adviser Details of appointment company remuneration committee Allen & Overy LLP Appointed by the company, English legal advice 52 960 with the agreement of the on corporate matters remuneration committee, to provide English legal advice on executive and non-executive remuneration and employee share plans.
Willis Towers Watson Appointed by the IFRS 2 valuation 90 000 remuneration committee to advise on executive remuneration and service contracts RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 235 DIRECTORS REPORTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS SHARE AWARDS CO-INVESTMENT PLAN Market Maximum Market price at value of price date of At Awarded award at Vested at date Lapsed At Expiry of Date of award 1 Jan in the grant date in the vested in the 31 Dec performance 1 2 3 award $ 2016 year $ year $ year 2016 period DM Bristow 31 Dec 18 Mar 13 82.37 36 724 - - 36 724 61.93 - - 2015 21 Mar 14 79.48 39 004 - - - - - 39 004 2016 12 May 15 73.42 55 774 - - - - - 55 774 2017 23 Mar 16 92.75 - 45 475 4 217 806 - - - 45 475 2019 GP Shuttleworth 18 Mar 13 82.37 8 401 - - 8 401 61.93 - - 2015 21 Mar 14 79.48 10 170 - - - - - 10 170 2016 13 952 - - - - - 13 952 12 May 15 73.42 2017 23 Mar 16 92.75 - 10 355 960 426 - - - 10 355 2019 1 NASDAQ Global Select Market closing price on day preceding date of grant or if a public holiday, the next trading day.
2 This figure assumes satisfaction of all performance conditions and maximum vesting.
3 Vesting is subject to performance conditions.
CEO PERFOMANCE SHARES Market Maximum Market price at value of price date of At Awarded award at Vested at date Lapsed At Date of award 1 Jan in the grant date in the vested in the 31 Dec 1 2 3 4 award $ 2016 year $ year $ year 2016 Vesting DM Bristow 29 Apr 13 79.95 50 031 - - 40 024 100.50 - 10 007 Each 1 5 of the award vests on the later of the expiry of the third anniversary of the date of grant and the date on which the performance condition is achieved 1 NASDAQ Global Select Market closing price on day preceding date of grant or if a public holiday, the next trading day.
4 The first performance condition in respect of 10 006 shares was met on 24 September 2013, and during 2014 three additional performance conditions in respect of a further 30 018 shares were met.
The final performance condition in respect of 10 007 shares was outstanding as at 31 December 2016.
40 024 shares were transferred to the CEOs nominee on 29 April 2016.
The shares are restricted from dealing and will only be released when the CEO leaves the service of the company.
In the interim the CEO will be entitled to vote over the shares and will be entitled to receive any dividends accrued on those shares at the time the shares are released.
3 Vesting of the executive directors awards was subject to performance conditions in respect of the period ended 31 December 2015.
2 Mrs Kirtley was appointed to the board on 2 February 2017.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 237 GOVERNANCE & NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The governance & nomination committees main focus this year was on succession planning and recommending to the board suitable candidates to be considered as non-executive directors of the company.
Christopher Coleman CHAIRMAN Kadri Dagdelen Jamil Kassum Norborne 1 Cole Dear shareholders As chairman of the governance & nomination committee, I am pleased to present the 2016 governance & nomination committee report.
The principal role of the governance & nomination committee is to ensure the board has the necessary balance of skills, knowledge, independence and experience to enable it to be effective in discharging its responsibilities, and to recommend any changes to the boards composition.
The committee also has oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance.
COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES The governance & nomination committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are available on the companys website at www.
The committees primary roles and responsibilities are highlighted on 1 Mr Cole retired from the governance & nomination committee on 30 October 2016. the following page.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 238 DUTIES, ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE GOVERNANCE & NOMINATION COMMITTEE Developing and monitoring a process for evaluating the boards effectiveness and overseeing the companys code of conduct which can be found in the corporate governance section on the companys website Regularly reviewing and evaluating the structure, size and composition of the board and making recommendations to the board with regard to any changes Identifying, evaluating and recommending, against objective criteria, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise, for board approval Making recommendations to the board with regard to membership of the audit committee and remuneration committee and any other of the boards committees in consultation with the chairmen of those committees Making recommendations on the constitution of the board to ensure there is an appropriate balance in terms of skills, knowledge, independence and experience Succession planning for directors and other senior managers of the company Assessing a directors potential conflict of interest and making recommendations to the board Making recommendations to the board concerning the role of senior independent director MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE MAIN ACTIVITIES IN 2016 The committee met four times during the year As mentioned in the corporate governance report ended 31 December 2016.
The members of the on pages 174 to 185 of this annual report, K Voltaire governance & nomination committee and details retired as a non-executive director on 3 May 2016 of their respective attendance during the year are and NP Cole retired as a non-executive director on shown in the table below.
The committee regularly 31 October 2016, and as such, much of the invites other directors of the company and the committees time this year was spent on assessing companys advisers to attend its meetings where the the current composition of the board and identifying committee considers it appropriate.
whether additional skills and competencies are required for the board.
Following extensive COMMITTEES REMUNERATION deliberation and discussion and upon the In accordance with the companys remuneration recommendation of the committee, the board policy for more details please see page 215 of decided to appoint Olivia Kirtley as a new nonthis annual report members of the governance & executive director to the board and as a member of nomination committee received the fees set out the remuneration committee.
These fees were paid in addition to the other fees paid and an award of The selection and appointment process for a new shares made to each non-executive director as non-executive director is described on page 241 of detailed on page 220 of this annual report.
COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE 2016 Date appointed to 4 February 2 May 31 July 30 October Member committee 2016 2016 2016 2016 CL Coleman Chairman 3 November 2008 1 NP Cole 27 October 2007 K Dagdelen 30 October 2011 J Kassum 3 May 2014 1 Mr Cole retired from the governance & nomination committee on 30 October 2016.
COMMITTEE FEES PAID 2016 Member Fees C Coleman Received a fee of $20 000 for the 2016 financial year for being the chairman of the committee Chairman NP Cole Received a fee of $8 333 for the 2016 financial year for services provided to the governance & nomination committee until his retirement from the committee on 30 October 2016 K Dagdelen Received a fee of $10 000 for the 2016 financial year for services provided to the governance & nomination committee J Kassum Received a fee of $10 000 for the 2016 financial year for services provided to the governance & nomination committee RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 239 DIRECTORS REPORTS GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The governance & nomination committee kept The committee also considered the role of the the boards succession planning and personal companys senior independent director.
Following a development of key senior managers across the recommendation to the board, it was agreed by the group under review during 2016 see pages 129 to board that Andrew Quinn who it was judged had the 132 of this annual report for more information on the necessary skills and experience be appointed as the key senior managers development programme.
companys senior independent director, following The committee receives regular reports on the Mr Coles retirement from the board on 31 October training and development of employees across the 2016. group, particularly in relation to senior managers.
The committee reviewed section C. 3.1 of the Code BOARD AND COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS including the updates made in 2016 and DTR The committee is responsible for nominating 7.1.
1A 3, and formed the opinion that the audit appropriate individuals for membership of the committee as a whole has the necessary relevant boards committees to ensure that each committee competence and that all members have recent and has the necessary skills, knowledge and experience.
relevant financial experience, to perform the function As reported in the 2015 annual report, in February of an audit committee.
2016, upon the committees recommendation, the board approved the appointment of Mrs Ba-NDaw The governance & nomination committee reviewed the as a member of the audit committee with effect from companys key policies during the year including the 2 May 2016, coinciding with the retirement of gift, travel and entertainment policy, the anti-corruption Dr Voltaire.
Following Dr Voltaires retirement, and in compliance policy and the code of conduct and anticipation of Mr Coles retirement from the board made recommendations for certain amendments to on 31 October 2016, Mr Kassum was appointed as those policies to reflect current market practice and a member of the remuneration committee with effect changes to applicable legislation.
Also in 2016 the from 2 August 2016 and Mr Quinn succeeded committee reviewed the boards charter along with the Mr Cole as the senior independent director with terms of reference for each of the board committees effect from 31 October 2016.
Mrs Kirtley was and, where necessary, minor amendments were made.
appointed as a director of the company and as a The companys key policies, the boards charter and member of the remuneration committee with effect the terms of reference for the boards committees are from 2 February 2017. published in the corporate governance section of the companys website at www.
The governance & nomination committee has developed an in-depth knowledge of the necessary During the year, the committee received updates attributes a candidate should possess to be from the general counsel on new corporate a director of the company.
When considering governance developments and legislative changes, recommendations for appointments to the board, and reporting standards in the UK and US.
The the committee is mindful of the necessary skills, committee also reviewed the independence of the knowledge and experience members of the board non-executive directors and considered potential should have, to support the strategic plans and conflicts of interest.
the development of the business, together with the necessary time to visit the companys operations in West and Central Africa.
The committee also takes into account, as part of its deliberations, the ALLOCATION OF COMMITTEES TIME objective of achieving and maintaining diversity on the board including age, gender, nationality and educational and professional background.
2016 2015 In addition, candidates should demonstrate the 6% necessary independence and experience together 6% with knowledge of the countries where the company 7% 10% operates.
44% 9% 15% Due to the complexity of operating in West and 40% Central Africa and the particular experience and 10% skills required to be a non-executive director of 28% 10% the company, and considering the diversity of 15% the existing board, the governance & nomination committee does not typically use an external search agency nor open advertising in relation to the search Board and committee succession for a new non-executive director.
planning Board charter and group policies Independence and conflicts Director training Board and committee evaluation Other RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 240 APPOINTING A DIRECTOR TO THE BOARD OF RANDGOLD RESOURCES Governance & nomination committee evaluation Step 1 The governance & nomination committee evaluates the composition, skills, and diversity of the board and its committees and identifies a requirement for a board appointment.
Identify suitable candidates Step 2 The governance & nomination committee undertakes a review of each candidate and their experience in accordance with the companys directors profile and suitable candidates are identified.
Governance & nomination committee recommendation Step 3 Following interviews with a candidate conducted by the chairman, senior independent director and other members of the board, the governance & nomination committee makes a recommendation on a preferred candidate to the board.
Due diligence Step 4 After a candidate has been recommended to the board by the governance & nomination committee, the company secretary undertakes appropriate background checks on a candidate.
The board of directors meets any candidate recommended by the governance & nomination committee and the candidate is given an opportunity to make a presentation to the board prior to deciding on their appointment.
Board appointment Step 5 The board formally approves a candidates appointment to the board.
Induction Step 6 A newly appointed director undertakes induction with the company.
DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE Following an evaluation of the performance of each director over the course of 2016, the board has DIRECTOR PROFILE confirmed that each of the non-executive directors The committee considers potential candidates in office as at the date of this report continues for appointment to the companys board who to demonstrate their independence in character maintain the highest standards of corporate and judgement and in carrying out their role in an governance and have sufficient time to commit objective manner.
On the recommendation of the to the role, including the time to attend site governance & nomination committee, the board is visits at the companys operations.
The recommending that, in accordance with the United committee considers potential candidates Kingdom Corporate Governance Code, all directors who possess the expertise to help develop will stand for re-election at the companys next AGM the strategy of a major international mining on 2 May 2017 except for Mrs Kirtley, who will stand company along with the ability to debate issues for election for the first time having been appointed and provide constructive challenges.
Potential since the date of the last AGM, and Dr Dagdelen candidates should also demonstrate the who as previously announced will retire from the attributes set out below, which is not intended board at the AGM on 2 May 2017. to be a comprehensive list: Honesty and integrity RANDGOLDS APPROACH TO DIVERSITY Strong independent perspective The governance & nomination committee believes Sound judgement in the benefits of diversity, including the need Ability to share a cohesive vision of the for diversity in order to effectively represent companys strategy shareholders interests.
This diversity is not International business experience restricted to gender but also includes geographic Regulatory and government policy location, nationality, skills, age, educational experience and professional background, knowledge and Understanding the countries and the experience in the mining industry.
The boards industry in which the company operates policy remains that selection should be based on the best person for the role.
The board currently consists of two executive directors and seven non-executive directors, with three of the seven non-executive directors being female.
Female representation on the board is now 33% which satisfies the board level recommendation of the Davies Review.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 241 DIRECTORS REPORTS GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The board recognises that diversity extends LOCAL TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT beyond the boardroom and supports management Randgold is an equal opportunity employer focused in its efforts to build a diverse and well trained on developing local skills through on-the-job organisation.
The board welcomes the practical training and in certain circumstances recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander funding particular university and other training Review on FTSE Women Leaders.
The company courses at higher education establishments.
In is committed to ensuring that there are no internal addition, the companys existing mines are used barriers to prevent women in key executive and as training and development grounds for new staff senior managerial positions, including within joining other operations.
the companys mine management teams, from succeeding at the highest levels in the company The company also partners with local businesses whilst recognising the structure of society in the to assist with the training requirements of its countries in which the company operates in Africa.
The company has implemented training programmes which develop many of its employees The board acknowledges the consultation of The understanding of its business and this alignment has Parker Review Committee on Ethnic Diversity of UK benefited both the employees and the business.
The diverse ethnic and multicultural nature of the companys employees is reflected by the SUCCESSION PLANNING board of the company, which consists of directors The governance & nomination committee from a variety of ethnic backgrounds, including periodically reviews the companys succession seven nationalities from four separate continents.
During the year as in previous years the committee held discussions with the executive LOCAL JOBS directors about succession planning for their own The companys localisation policy which extends positions.
to the companys contractors operates at all of its mines in West and Central Africa and is centred The committee considered the job description of the firstly on recruitment from the local community in CEO and the CFO as well as the natural resources the host countries in which the company operates, market, analysing where external candidates followed by recruitment regionally then nationally.
The committee, together Only if the skills cannot be sourced in this way with the executive directors, considered which does the company recruit expatriates.
An active members of the companys senior management programme of mentoring helps recruits to develop had the necessary expertise to fulfil the roles of the in their roles.
The company continues its policy of executive directors, whether on a short or long term recruitment based on ability and talent.
The committee also considered succession planning for the non-executive directors, in In addition, the company continues its successful particular the succession of the senior independent drive to develop local national managers and director.
Across the operating mines, 83% of senior management positions heads of department and above were held by host country nationals.
ALL EMPLOYEES SENIOR MANAGEMENT INCLUDING GEOGRAPHICAL MIX HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS GEOGRAPHICAL MIX 7% 17% 83% 93% Host country nationals Host country nationals Non-host country nationals Non-host country nationals RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 242 The committee continued to look at succession ACTION PLAN FOR 2017 planning for senior management and in this regard In the year ahead the committee will focus on the the CEO presented the committee with his current boards and committees composition and will succession plans for the companys key senior continue to monitor developments in corporate managers, indicating where successors to key governance to ensure the company remains at positions could be sourced and in most instances the forefront of good governance practices.
The succession was available internally.
committee intends to continue its overview of the companys succession planning for directors and The board has an opportunity to meet with senior senior management.
management and see them operate on site when they visit the groups mines.
The board encourages On behalf of the governance & nomination such site visits, which are undertaken at least committee once every year, as they allow board members to interact with site management, broadening their understanding of the activities of the company.
During 2016 the board visited the Kibali gold mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo and in February 2017 the board and its committees held their quarterly meetings in Cte dIvoire.
Christopher Coleman Chairman The committee considers its succession planning Governance & nomination committee procedures and the processes involved when dealing with new appointments to the board and when considering changes to the boards committees, to be appropriate.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 243 RANDGOLD RESOURCES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 244 244
