Governance Board summary Board composition Board tenure Board diversity Independent 0-2 years 20% Male 5 non-executive 57% 3-6 years 60% Female 2 Executive 29% Over 6 years 20% Chairman 14% Board attendance Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Group risk 1 2 Plc board committee committee committee committee committee P D G Chavasse 5 5 11 12 J W Dean 6 6 6 6 4 4 2 2 4 4 S F Gentleman 6 6 6 6 4 4 2 2 4 4 D T D Harrel 6 6 6 6 4 4 2 2 4 4 P L Howell 6 6 12 12 K A Matthews 6 6 6 6 4 4 2 2 4 4 M P Nicholls 6 6 4 4 2 2 R P Stockton 6 6 12 12 Mr. Chavasse stepped down from the board on 3 November 2016 and was only eligible to attend meetings up to this date 1.
Scheduled monthly meeting UK Corporate Governance Code Board effectiveness The main elements to board effectiveness are as follows: Compliance statement i External board evaluation conducted every three years, The company complied in full with the provisions of the UK which has focused on the following areas: Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014, which applied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2016. management information flows to the board succession planning to develop executive and non-executive directors induction and development for board members risk management.
ii Annual director appraisals conducted by the chairman consisting of the completion of a questionnaire and follow up face-to-face meetings with the chairman.
iii Training and development annual completion of director CPD programmes.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 55 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 55 Corporate governance report continued Senior independent director The role of the board Act as a sounding board for the chairman and serve as an The board provides the leadership and oversight to ensure intermediary for the other directors if required long term success for the company.
The board currently consists Meet with the non-executive directors without the of a non-executive chairman, two executive directors and four other non-executive directors.
The board considers that all of chairman present at least annually and lead the board in the ongoing monitoring and annual performance evaluation the non-executive directors are independent.
The roles of the chairman, the chief executive, the senior independent director of the chairman and the non-executive directors have been clearly defined and Be available to meet with a range of major shareholders to agreed by the board to ensure a separation of power and authority.
develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns In addition to their directors duties, these roles have the following and report the outcome of such meetings to the board specific responsibilities.
The non-executive directors bring independent judgment to the Chairman board table gained at a senior level in other organisations and Leading the board and ensuring effective engagement and constructively challenge strategy and management performance.
contribution from all the directors The biographies of the directors and their details are set out on Managing board meetings with accurate, clear and timely pages 58 to 59. information in order to ensure effective decision-making We meet formally as a full board at least six times a year.
Most Promoting effective and constructive relationships board meetings are preceded by a board dinner, which allows for between non-executive directors, executive directors broader discussions on particular topics.
They also provide an and the executive team opportunity for the board to meet members of the management team or to receive training.
In months where no formal board Chairing the nomination committee and considering the meeting is scheduled, an informal meeting of the non-executive composition and succession plans for the board directors, the chairman and the chief executive is generally held.
Evaluating the performance of the board, its committees The non-executive directors also have informal meetings without and individual directors on an annual basis the chairman or chief executive present.
Chief executive The chairman and the company secretary manage board and Providing executive leadership and management to committee meetings and ensure that the board and particularly the business the non-executive directors are receiving appropriate and balanced information.
The company secretary facilitates the Responsible for the effectiveness of the executive committee induction process for new directors, assists with their professional Delivery of the strategic objectives set by the board in line development and advises the board on corporate governance with the groups risk appetite matters and on the rules and regulations that affect a UK-listed company.
The appointment or removal of the company secretary Oversight of the financial position of the group is a matter for the board.
Maintain strong relationships with the chairman, the board and key shareholders 56 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 56 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Governance The responses of all board members were collated and reported Governance of the company back to the board by an independent third party, Lintstock, who In relation to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance also commented on common themes arising therefrom.
Follow Code the Code, this report together with the directors report up one-to-one sessions were held between the chairman and states the position at 22 February 2017.
The 2014 Code applied to each director.
The directors have considered Overall the board effectiveness review and the one-to-one the contents and recommendations of the Code and confirm that sessions were extremely positive and constructive.
In particular, throughout the year the company has applied the main principles there are common views between the executive directors and and complied with the provisions of the Code.
non-executive directors about what we do well and where there could be improvement.
Particular areas for improvement include Board effectiveness better information on our performance against our strategic There are three key elements to ensuring board effectiveness: milestones, board papers should be more focused on strategy and the annual board effectiveness review, individual director strategic context and our executive and non-executive succession appraisal and training.
Board effectiveness review Director appraisal Each year, the board undertakes an annual review of its In addition to the board evaluation process, the senior effectiveness.
In 2014, an external review was undertaken by independent director led a separate performance review in an independent third party, IDDAS Limited.
This involved their respect of the chairman which involved a review with the attendance at audit, group risk and board meetings, one-to-one non-executive directors, excluding the chairman, and separate interviews with directors and the company secretary and a review consultation with the chief executive.
The senior independent of board and board committee papers and minutes.
The key director subsequently provided feedback to the chairman on points raised in the 2014 review and associated actions by the his appraisal which confirmed his effectiveness.
board in 2015 were disclosed in our 2015 report and accounts.
A subsequent external board evaluation will be held during 2017.
Training and induction The 2016 board effectiveness review was devised internally, as Rathbones is committed to the training and development permitted by the Code.
The board was keen for the evaluation to of all staff to ensure professional standards are maintained and highlight learnings from the past and build on these for the future.
All directors are required to dedicate a certain number The review consisted of a focused questionnaire on key topics of hours to their own development.
Training and development such as: include activities to keep up-to-date with Rathbones specific issues and industry, market and regulatory changes.
board skills and dynamics New directors are involved in a thorough induction process quality of the boards strategic and operational oversight designed to enable them to become quickly familiar with quality of our risk assessment on major decisions the business.
This includes meeting staff in a number of key business areas, attendance at important internal meetings and oversight of culture and our succession planning demonstrations of systems and key business processes.
the effectiveness of the committees.
Board committees Details of the work of the principal board committees are set out in the separate reports for each committee, which follow this report.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 57 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 57
