Executive committee report Our people are our main asset and so HR matters and learning and development are important agenda items.
The maintenance of and improvement in our core IT and operations infrastructure are key to the continuing success of the business and are subject to close scrutiny.
The chief risk officer reports on the work of the risk and compliance teams and updates us on risk and internal control matters as well as on industry developments.
Our response to MiFID II is a material piece of work for Rathbones.
We receive updates from internal audit on their work schedule and discuss any significant issues they raise following their work.
The head of internal audit may attend any meeting.
We also have oversight of business units, banking matters, marketing, social and environmental matters, business continuity and investor relations.
Non-committee members are regularly invited to attend part Executive committee chairmans of a meeting to report on a particular aspect of our business and non-executive directors may also attend meetings.
annual statement Please see the chief executives review on pages 8 to 10.
Biographies for the executive committee members are available Philip Howell on our website.
Chairman of the executive committee 22 February 2017 Role and responsibilities of the committee The committee has been delegated the full powers of the board subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the board.
This list is reviewed annually and approved by the board.
What we have done Our main focus is on the implementation of the agreed strategy and on the day-to-day management of the group.
We review and discuss the annual business plan and budget prior to its submission to the board for approval.
We discuss the management and performance of the operating businesses including their results compared to the budget, risks and regulatory compliance and growth initiatives such as possible acquisitions and new products and services.
Items of particular focus in 2016 were implementation of the strategic initiatives relating to Rathbone Financial Planning and the Rathbone Private Office, the move to new London premises, implementation of an IT transformational programme, managing pension risks and raising 36.9 million in the October Rathbone Brothers Plc share placement.
The committee also oversaw the launch of master feeder funds in Luxembourg, which facilitate international distribution and has been keen to develop suitability processes and systems in investment management teams in the year.
88 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 88 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Governance Executive committee members Our current members and their responsibilities are below.
We formally meet each month.
These formal meetings are minuted and copies of the minutes are sent to committee members and to the board.
Details of attendance by the directors on the committee are set out on page 55.
Ad hoc and informal meetings are held as required.
Philip Howell Paul Stockton Chief Executive Finance Director Rupert Baron Mike Bolsover Andrew Butcher Ivo Clifton Head of Investment Head of Strategy and Chief Operating Officer Head of Specialist and Charity Management in London Organisation Development Business Andrew Morris Sarah Owen-Jones Richard Smeeton Mike Webb Head of Investment Chief Risk Officer Head of Investment Chief Executive Unit Trusts Management outside London Management and Head of Group Marketing Special Projects and Distribution and Recruitment Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 89 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 89
