57 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Executive Committee Rakesh Kapoor Rupert Bondy Amedeo Fasano Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President Executive Vice President, General Counsel Company Supply Secretary Nationality Nationality Nationality Indian British British Italian Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure 29 years started Jan 2017 19 years Experience Experience Experience Joined Reckitt & Colman in 1987, Joined RB as SVP General Counsel Joined in 1997 as Supply Director, serving in various roles including: and Company Secretary in 2017, Italy.
After the Reckitt & Colman Regional Sales Manager, North and is responsible for company and Benckiser merger, Amedeo India: General Manager, Indian secretarial and legal compliance was appointed Manufacturing Southern Region: and Regional matters across RB.
Director for Central, South Marketing Director, South Asia.
Western and Southern Europe In 1999, he was appointed Global Rupert began his career as a Regions.
In 2002 he became Category Director, Pest Control.
In 1989 Regional Supply Director, North Following the merger, he assumed he joined US law firm Morrison & America and in 2003 SVP Supply, the role of Senior Vice President, Foerster, working in San Francisco North America, Australia and New Home Care.
He was appointed and London, and from 1994 he Zealand.
SVP, Regional Director, Northern worked for Lovells in London.
Europe in 2001 and in July 2006 In 1995 he joined SmithKline In 2007 he took over the role of he was promoted to EVP, Category Beecham as Senior Counsel SVP Supply, Developing Markets Development.
Rakesh became CEO for mergers and acquisitions and in March 2009 Amedeo was in September 2011. and other corporate matters.
He When SmithKline Beecham and previously worked for Pirelli Tyres GlaxoWellcome merged to form in various supply roles.
GlaxoSmithKline, Rupert was appointed Senior Vice President and General Counsel.
In 2008, Rupert became Group General Counsel of BP plc, holding that position until he joined RB in January 2017.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 58 Str Strat ate egic R gic Re ep po ort rt G Go ov ver erna nanc nce e F Fin inan ancial St cial Stat ate em me en nts ts Executive Committee continued Roberto Funari Rob fide Groot Adrian Hennah Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Category Development ENA Organisation Nationality Nationality Nationality Brazilian Dutch British Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Three years 28 years Three years Experience Experience Experience Rejoined RB in February 2013 Joined RB in 1988.
After Joined the Company in January as EVP, Latin America, Asia international roles in marketing 2013 as Chief Financial Officer Pacific following two years at and sales he became General Designate, and was appointed Imperial Tobacco where he was Manager, The Netherlands, then CFO in February 2013.
He joined Group Marketing Director and SVP, Regional Director, Eastern the Company following six years Executive Committee member.
In Europe and was appointed at Smith & Nephew plc, as CFO.
his prior 12-year career with RB, Global Category Officer, Surface, Previously he was CFO for four Roberto rose rapidly through the Dish and Home Care before years at Invensys, the international organisation, holding increasingly being appointed EVP, North engineering company.
Adrian also senior marketing and general America & Australia.
As part of spent 18 years at GlaxoSmithKline management roles in both RBs new strategy for continued plc, one of the worlds largest emerging and developed markets, outperformance, in January 2012 pharmaceutical companies, including Brazil, the Netherlands, Rob became EVP of the newly holding a number of senior South Africa, Central Europe and created ENA area.
Rob is now management and financial roles.
Global Category Officer, Fabric responsible for North America, He previously worked at PwC then and Home Care.
He was appointed Europe, Russia, CIS and ANZ and is Price Waterhouse for four years as EVP, Category Development headquartered in Amsterdam.
in both audit and consultancy and Organisation in January 2015. also for Stadtsparkasse Koeln, the German regional bank.
He is a Non-Executive Director of RELX Group plc and RELX NV.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 59 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Frederic Larmuseau Darrell Stein Deborah Yates Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Developing Markets Information Services Human Resources Nationality Nationality Nationality Belgian British Australian Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure 15 years Two years 12 years Experience Experience Experience Joined the Company in 2001 as Joined RB on 1 September Joined RB in 2004 in the Australian Marketing Director for Malaysia- 2014 from Marks & Spencer business.
Since then, Deb has Singapore.
In 2003, Frederic was plc, the UK-headquartered worked in the US, UK and promoted to Regional Marketing international clothes and food Netherlands.
She was appointed Director for East Asia and in 2005 retailer.
Darrell was responsible Global Human Resources Director became Global Category Director for the development of Marks HRD Finance and IS in 2009, for Vanish.
He was appointed & Spencers global online Regional HRD ANZ in 2011, General Manager for Brazil in platform.
Importantly, Darrell also Regional HRD North America in February 2008 and in October has experience of successfully 2012 and Area HRD Europe and 2009, Frederic was promoted delivering global ERP and supply North America in 2013.
In 2015, to SVP, Regional Director, Latin chain systems, including SAP.
Deb was appointed SVP of HR.
Prior to this, Darrell spent five Before joining RB, Deb worked years with Vodafone in a number in a variety of industries in HR in He was appointed as EVP, RUMEA of increasingly senior roles Australia including News Limited, in June 2013 before taking up culminating as Global Director George Weston Foods and Qantas his current role in January 2015.
Before joining RB, Frederic worked and Planning.
He also spent for Procter & Gamble.
five years at Ernst & Young as a programme manager and two years with Mars Inc. as business systems manager.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
