18 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The consumer The megatrends landscape is changing driving our business Our world is changing We are living longer Life expectancy is rising around the world.
The number of people aged over 60 is expected to increase from 900 million in 2015 to Powerful trends are 1.4 billion in 2030 and 2.1 billion by 2050.
Ageing populations put ever-greater demands on changing what consumers, healthcare services and motivate people to find new ways to promote wellbeing and wellness.
society and investors demand from us.
Here we People over 60 explain those trends and 1.4bn in 2030 how they are shaping Up from 900m in 2015 our strategy.
Our incomes are rising The global middle class currently numbers Due to medical advances life 3 billion people.
By 2021, this could surpass expectancy is 4 billion more than half the worlds increasing population with the growth coming from developing markets.
This means people will have more money after meeting their essential needs, spurring demand for health and hygiene products.
Infrastructure improvements, such as new sanitation systems, will further increase demand.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 19 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We are more Our environment proactive about health is changing How this links Longer lives and rising incomes are encouraging to our strategy more of us to look after ourselves and prevent health issues before they occur, for example through better hygiene and healthier RBs response to the home environments.
We believe that selfcare is the new frontier of healthcare.
changing environment Our Health products provide a costeffective way for consumers to treat a range Our lives are busier of ailments, relieving pressure on health services.
We continue to develop innovative The pace of modern life means many people feel busier than ever.
This encourages consumers responses to new health threats, such as our Dettol air pollution range of masks and to use easily accessible over-the-counter health products, rather than wait for a doctors our pest control products.
appointment, to seek out the most effective hygiene product, and to look A key part of our organisation strategy is working to comply with all laws and for personal grooming and beauty treatments they can use at home.
regulations, through our new Safety, Healthcare Quality and Compliance function.
costs are rising We are always connected Access to healthcare is a basic human right.
Current systems are straining due to rising Consumers are making ever-greater use of populations, longer lives and shortages of online resources and e-commerce to manage healthcare professionals.
Scientific advances Stakeholder lifestyles and healthcare.
Sites such as WebMD offer more solutions for health needs but and Facebook allow us to learn about health expectations are at a higher cost.
Society therefore needs and wellbeing, interact with brands and more cost-effective ways to help consumers exchange information.
Consumers around the changing protect and manage their health.
world are increasingly buying online, giving companies data about their preferences that drive tailored offerings and increase engagement.
Companies licence to operate now encompasses stakeholder expectations New health that go beyond the letter of the law risks are emerging and regulations.
To be truly sustainable, companies must continuously improve their As populations urbanise, pollution is becoming environmental and social performance.
an increasing risk to peoples health.
We are also seeing diseases emerging, such as the Zika virus, How this links One particularly strong trend that companies which is spread by mosquitoes and other pests.
to our strategy such as RB can help to address is the growing focus on tackling easily preventable deaths and illness.
For example, each year around Regulation is changing the world there are over 94,000 deaths from RBs response to the sexually transmitted diseases, over 526,000 Governments are demanding responsibility changing consumer children under the age of five years die from and accountability from all stakeholders, as diarrhoea, and malaria kills over 439,000 the evolving consumer landscape exposes landscape people.
All these deaths can be prevented.
gaps in regulations covering areas such as By creating innovative Health, Hygiene environmental stewardship, patient safety and and Home products, we help consumers data protection.
Companies must innovate to to protect and improve their health and meet changing laws and regulations, adapting wellbeing, as they enjoy longer and their products to exclude ingredients that may more prosperous lives.
Our Powerbrands affect safety or the environment and reducing strategy gives consumers brands they their environmental footprint.
This favours can trust to meet these needs.
How this links forward-thinking companies that strive for to our strategy transparency and continuous improvement.
Our Powermarkets strategy addresses the countries with the fastest growing demand for our products, while our RBs response to organisation strategy helps us to scale changing stakeholder our innovations and get them quickly to the consumers who need them.
expectations We are also investing in our e-business Our bettersociety and betterenvironment and data capabilities, to respond to the strategies ensure we work in the way shift to buying online, and developing expected of us by our stakeholders connected products, such as the new and society as a whole.
Nurofen Feversmart digital thermometer which links to the consumers smartphone.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
