93 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Report of the Directors The Directors submit their Annual Report and audited Financial The Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 to the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the alteration of members of the Company.
share capital are also included in the Articles and Shareholders are asked to renew such authorities each year at the AGM.
A copy of the Articles Directors is available from the Companys website at www.
com or can be The Directors who held office during the year and those serving at the obtained on written request from the Company Secretary or from the date of this report are: UK Registrar of Companies.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Companys Adrian Bellamy Ken Hydon Christopher Sinclair Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys 1 Jaspal Bindra Rakesh Kapoor Judy Sprieser Shareholders.
1 Nicandro Durante Pamela Kirby Doug Tough There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate Mary Harris Andr Lacroix Warren Tucker 1 upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover, such as Adrian Hennah Sue Shim commercial contracts, bank agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant 1 Did not stand for re-election and stood down as a Director following the conclusion of the AGM on 5 May 2016 in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Biographical details of the current Directors are set out on pages 54 to 56.
There are no significant agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except that Company is shown on page 92. provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Details of Executive Directors options to subscribe for shares in the Company are included on page 91 in the audited part of the Directors There is no information that the Company would be required to disclose Remuneration Report.
about persons with whom it has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company.
No Director had a material interest at any time during the year in any derivative or financial instrument relating to the Companys shares.
The Dividend details of the Directors remuneration and service agreements are set In July 2016, the Directors resolved to pay an interim dividend of out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 92.
58.2 pence per ordinary share 2015: 50.3 pence.
The dividend was paid on 29 September 2016.
The Directors recommend a final dividend No Director has a material interest in any contract of significance as for the year of 95.0 pence per share 2015: 88.7 pence which, together that term is defined by the FCA to which the Company, or any of its with the interim dividend, makes a total for the year of 153.2 pence per subsidiary undertakings, is a party.
The final dividend, if approved by the Shareholders, will be paid on 25 May 2017 to Shareholders on the Takeover directive register at the close of business on 18 April 2017.
The Company is required to disclose certain additional information required by s. 992 of the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 which Share capital implemented the EU Takeover Directive.
The following sets out As at 31 December 2016, the Companys issued share capital consisted disclosures not covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
of 736,535,179 ordinary shares of 10p each, of which 700,076,212 were with voting rights and 36,458,967 ordinary shares were held in Treasury.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the Board Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued and of options and power to appoint Directors, but also require Directors to submit awards granted during the year are set out in Notes 23 and 24 to the themselves for election at the first AGM following their appointment.
Under the Articles, all Directors are required to offer themselves for re-election every three years.
However, in accordance with the principles The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, Directors submit are set out in the Articles.
The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 94 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Report of the Directors continued There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys In line with recommended best practice, the Company has split the ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company except, in section 561 resolution to be proposed at the AGM into two separate the case of transfers of securities: resolutions.
The first resolution seeks authorisation for 5% of the issued that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws ordinary share capital to be issued on an unrestricted basis, whilst the and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and second resolution seeks authority for the additional 5% of the issued pursuant to the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority ordinary share capital to be used for an acquisition or a specified capital whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of investment.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising the the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
authority sought under the resolutions other than to fulfil the Companys obligations under its executive and employee share plans, No person holds securities in the Company which carry special voting and this authority will maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not future share issues, including issues required to finance business aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result opportunities, should appropriate circumstances arise.
in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Authority to purchase own shares Allotment of shares On 30 December 2015, the Company announced its intention to Under the CA 2006, Directors may only allot shares or grant rights to commence a share repurchase programme for 2016 to offset the dilutive subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares if authorised to do so impact of employee share schemes and to maintain borrowings at by Shareholders in general meeting.
The authority conferred on the around current levels.
In accordance with that announcement and Directors at the 2016 AGM under s. 551 CA 2006 will expire at the subsequent announcements made on 10 May 2016, 28 June 2016 and conclusion of this years AGM.
At the AGM, Directors will ask 20 October 2016, during the period from 4 January 2016 to 5 December Shareholders to renew their authority to allot equity shares representing 2016, a total of 11,658,939 ordinary shares of 10 pence representing approximately one-third of the Companys issued share capital as at the 1.58% of the ordinary shares in issue on 30 December 2016 were latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
repurchased for a consideration of 802 million, including expenses, and In accordance with the Investment Association Share Capital subsequently transferred to be held in Treasury for the purpose of Management Guidelines, Directors will once again seek authority to satisfying the Companys obligations under employee equity incentive allot further ordinary shares, in connection with a pre-emptive offer by schemes.
way of a rights issue, up to a further one-third of the Companys existing issued share capital on the same date.
The authorities sought The authority granted to Directors at the 2016 AGM to repurchase would, if granted, expire at the earlier of six months after the shares in the market remains valid until the conclusion of this years Companys next accounting reference date, or at the conclusion of the AGM.
At the 2017 AGM, Directors will seek to renew the authority AGM of the Company held in 2018, whichever is the sooner.
Such authority, if approved, will be limited to a maximum of 69 million ordinary shares, representing less than 10% of Under s. 561 CA 2006, Shareholders have a right of first refusal in the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares relation to certain issues of new shares.
A special resolution will also be calculated as at the latest practicable date prior to publication of the proposed to renew the Directors power to make non-pre-emptive Notice of AGM, and sets the minimum and maximum prices which may issues for cash up to a nominal amount representing less than 10% of be paid.
The Companys present intention is to hold shares acquired the Companys issued share capital as at the latest practicable date prior under such authority in Treasury to satisfy outstanding awards under to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
The resolution would also employee share incentive plans.
permit Directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash, shares that may be held by the Company in Treasury.
In accordance with the Employees Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles and the Investment During 2016, the Group employed an average of 34,700 2015: 34,700 Association and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Associations employees worldwide, of whom 3,384 2015: 3,176 were employed in supporting guidelines, the Directors confirm their intention that, other the UK.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in than in relation to a rights issue, no more than 5% of the issued employment: no applicant or employee receives less favourable ordinary share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, will treatment on the grounds of nationality, age, gender, religion, race, be issued for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis and no more than 7.5% ethnicity or disability.
The Group recognises its responsibilities to of the share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, will be disabled persons and endeavours to assist them to make their full allotted for cash under a non-pre-emptive basis over a rolling three-year contribution at work.
Where employees become disabled, every period without prior consultation with Shareholders, in each case other practical effort is made to allow them to continue in their jobs or to than in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment provide retraining in suitable alternative work.
It is essential to the which is announced contemporaneously with the allotment or which continued improvement in efficiency and productivity throughout the has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the Group that each employee understands the Groups strategies, policies announcement of the allotment.
Open and regular communication with employees at all levels is an essential part of the management process.
A continuing programme of training and development reinforces the Groups commitment to employee development.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 95 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Regular departmental meetings are held where opinions of employees Substantial shareholdings are sought on a variety of issues.
The Group operates multi-dimensional As at 31 December 2016 and as at 20 March 2017, pursuant to DTR5 of internal communications programmes which include the provision of a the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Company Group intranet and the publication of regular Group newsletters.
had received the following notices of substantial interests 3% or more in the total voting rights of the Company: Group incentive schemes reinforce financial and economic factors Nature % of affecting the performance of the business.
Employees typically have Date of last TR-1 of voting three to five performance objectives which are directly linked to their job Holder notification interest rights and their specific contribution to the overall performance of the Group.
JAB Holdings B. V. 27 January 2016 Direct 8.93 In addition, presentations and videos are given to employees around the Group on publication of the Groups financial results.
Massachusetts Financial Services 1 Company and or its subsidiaries 16 January 2013 Indirect 5.00 The Board encourages employees to become Shareholders and to participate in the Groups employee share ownership schemes, should 1 Under a s. 793 CA 2006 request Massachusetts Financial Services Company they so wish.
Savings-related share plans covering most of the world confirmed on 2 February 2017 that their holding had increased to 8.07%, of which they had the ability to vote 6.62%.
give employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company by means of regular savings.
Corporate Governance Statement In compliance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules Political donations 7.2.
1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
7 are set out in this Authority is sought each year from Shareholders, on a precautionary Report of the Directors and in the Corporate Governance Statement on basis, to approve political donations and incur political expenditures in pages 60 to 67 which together with the Directors Statement of accordance with the requirements of Part 14 CA 2006 as the definitions Responsibilities are incorporated by reference into this Report of the in the Act are broad.
No political donations or expenditure of the type Directors.
requiring disclosure under s. 366 and s. 367 of CA 2006 were made in the year ended 31 December 2016 nor are any contemplated.
Annual General Meeting The tenth AGM of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc will be held on 4 May Independent Auditor 2017 at 11.15 am at the London Heathrow Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, The External Auditor,  LLP PwC, has indicated Hayes, Middlesex UB3 5AN.
The Notice of Meeting, setting out the its willingness to continue in office and a resolution that PwC be resolutions to be proposed, is contained in a separate document for reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
Shareholders and is also available at www.
The Board considers that each of the resolutions is in the best interests of the Company and Further disclosures the Shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend Further information, including information fulfilling the further that Shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions as they intend to disclosure requirements contained in CA 2006, Schedule 7 of the Large do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance By Order of the Board and Transparency Rules can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report for the period ended 31 December 2016 which are Rupert Bondy Company Secretary incorporated into the Report of the Directors by reference: Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Page 103-105 Bath Road Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH Acquisitions and disposals 150 Awards under employee share schemes 144-148 Company registration number: 6270876 Corporate Governance Statement including internal control and risk management statements 60-67 20 March 2017 Directors interests in the share capital of the Company 92 Directors Statement of Responsibilities, including disclosure of information to the Auditor 96 Disclosure of greenhouse gas GHG emissions 34 Employment policy and employee involvement 28-31 Environmental, social and governance ESG matters 28-35 Financial risk management and financial instruments 129-135 Future developments in the business 22-35 Post Balance Sheet events 151 Research and development activities 111 Shareholder information 174-175 Sustainability and corporate responsibility 74-75 Viability Statement 46 There is no additional information requiring disclosure under Listing Rule 9.8.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements
