2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our purpose Our purpose inspires us and informs what we do.
With every decision, we look for innovative solutions that can help our consumers to live better, from new products that improve health to social programmes that touch millions of lives.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 3 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our purpose is to make a difference, by giving people innovative solutions for healthier lives and happier homes.
Our purpose informs every Our world aspect of our strategy, from the brands we focus on and the is changing innovations we bring to market, Many factors, from increasing to the role we play in society.
life expectancy to rising healthcare costs, are boosting demand for health and hygiene products.
See more on pages 18-19 People reached with Health As well as offering innovative and Hygiene messaging products, we improve peoples health and hygiene through our education and prevention 365m programmes.
See more on pages 28-31 Save a Child Every Minute Our campaign with Save the Children uses our expertise and our peoples efforts to stop diarrhoea being a top five killer of children.
See more on pages 28-31 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 4 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements combined with our passion RB has a unique culture that harnesses the passion of our people.
We have a compelling desire to challenge ourselves and each other, to not just deliver but to outperform and make RB the best it can be.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 5 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We want our people to behave as if they own the business.
The Top40 managers in RB have the highest shareholding requirements in the industry.
See more on pages 36-37 Total share ownership Partnerships requirement for Top40 management We tap into innovation, creativity and knowledge through our partnerships with 203m other organisations, and strive We have the highest for a spirit of openness.
shareholding requirement in the industry and the FTSE 100.
Our culture means we continually Achievement look for ways to do things better Everyone wants a sense of achievement and for RB that 150m means outperformance.
Savings targeted from Project Supercharge See more on pages 22-24 Entrepreneurship RB is 35,000 passionate people, pursuing projects they believe in and pushing the boundaries of innovation.
See more on pages 36-37 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 6 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements drives our out performance Bringing together passionate people and giving them a clear purpose makes RB a business where we act fast, take responsibility and aim for and reward exceptional performance.
Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive Officer Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 7 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Why RB delivers Right portfolio strategy We identify unmet consumer needs, drive growth through innovation and invest disproportionately behind our high-potential markets Powermarkets and our fastergrowing brands Powerbrands.
Powerbrands Powermarkets 19 16  based culture innovation Our culture is central to our Continuous, successful outperformance.
We live our innovation is the key to values, and our compensation long-term success.
We listen approach and share ownership to our consumers, develop requirements encourage our new products and invest people to act as if the Company heavily behind them.
Virtuous Value creation earnings model We have created substantial value through organic growth By targeting higher-margin but, in a fragmented consumer segments and optimising cost, health market, we also have we expand our Gross Margin.
the opportunity to acquire This gives us room to invest for strong brands.
The combination growth, increasing Net Revenue of our organic growth strategy and our Operating Margin.
and acquisitions have generated significant returns for Shareholders.
Total Shareholder Return since Gross Margin announcement of strategy in 2012: 100 invested on 1 January 2012 was worth 253 on 31 December 2016.
180bps Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
