96 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages Directors Statement 54 to 56 confirm that, to the best of his her knowledge: the Parent Company Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting of Responsibilities Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and IFRSs as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Parent Company, together with a description of the principal risks The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, and the and uncertainties that it faces.
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Going concern Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the its future development, performance and position are set out in the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Strategic Report on pages 1 to 53.
The financial position of the Group Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and and Parent Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with United facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, policies and processes for Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable credit risk and liquidity risk are described in the Strategic Report on law.
In preparing the Group Financial Statements, the Directors have pages 1 to 53 and in Note 14 to the Group Financial Statements.
also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the Directors must not The Group has considerable financial resources together with a diverse approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give customer and supplier base across different geographical areas and a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent categories.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Parent Company for Parent Company are well placed to manage their business risks that period.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Parent state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed for the Group Financial for at least 12 months.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern Statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial Statements in FRS 102, have been followed for the Parent Company Financial accordance with the FRCs Guidance on risk management, internal Statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and control and related financial business reporting.
This statement is also explained in the Financial Statements: made to fulfil the requirements of Listing Rules 9.8.
10R 1 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and and C. 1.3 of the Code.
prudent: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it Disclosure of information to Auditor is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, state that: continue in business.
1 so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is unaware: and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 2 e ach Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Parent Companys as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of financial position of the Parent Company and the Group and enable that information.
them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as By Order of the Board regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Parent Rupert Bondy Company Secretary Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
103105 Bath Road Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Parent Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Company registration number: 6270876 the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
20 March 2017 The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Group and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements
