14 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our ongoing support in South Korea In 2001, RB acquired Oxy, a South Korean company.
Oxy RB manufactured and sold household products, including HS products which accounted for less than one half of one percent of their sales.
By 2011, Oxy RB was one of about 13 suppliers of HS products in the South Korean market.
RB did not sell HS products in any other market.
Oxy RB continued to sell the HS products in South Korea for the next ten years.
In 2011 the Korean Centre for Disease Control KCDC determined that HS products might be responsible for serious respiratory diseases, including fatalities.
Oxy RB immediately began to withdraw its HS products.
The Humidifier Sanitiser HS Oxy RB was the subject of legal action from the Government and sought to defend itself in the courts.
It took the same approach in defending issue, while dating back to events against civil claims which began to arise from individual victims.
Over the period in South Korea from the late 1990s, to March 2016, 63 of the 79 cases 80% brought by Category I & II Oxy HS victims in required significant senior Rounds 1 and 2 against the company were settled through a court-mediated or private management attention in 2016. settlement process.
We recognised in April 2016 that this courtled process was taking too long, and was RB remains committed to putting not fair on victims.
From this point, Oxy RB publicly apologised to all individuals victims first in working to resolve and their families who had suffered lung injury as a result of its HS product, and this tragedy.
committed to deliver a compensation plan.
In July 2016, it announced a full and fair compensation package for Category I & II Oxy HS victims categorised by the South Korean Government in its first two categorisation rounds.
As of 31 January 2017, 97% of eligible victims are participating in this plan.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 15 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We recognise that it took too long for Oxy RB RB today to move from a legally driven approach and Drawing on the lessons of this tragedy to bring forward a compensation plan.
We RB is strengthening further its approach deeply regret this delay.
We are proud of the to consumer safety.
Actions are the real leadership position that Oxy RB has taken since demonstration of putting safety at the centre April 2016 in working to resolve this tragedy.
We have taken significant steps including the creation of a Board committee Transparency is key in our response to on product safety, compliance and ethics the HS issue.
We have included all the which will ensure that product safety is details of our actions on our website.
further embedded across the organisation.
We recognise that it will be a long road to We have created a new role of Chief recover the trust of South Korean consumers.
Safety, Quality and Compliance SQC We also understand that all the work Oxy RB Officer, reporting directly to the CEO.
can do pales in comparison to the hardship The Quality, Consumer Safety, Employee and irreparable harm suffered by HS victims.
Safety, Sustainability and Product related Oxy RB cannot undo the past but can work compliance programme teams will report to make amends.
Today its focus is on these into this new structure and will support victims and ensuring they have recognition and the work of the Board in relation to fair compensation for the damage caused.
safety, quality and compliance matters.
We believe that victims of lung injury from Our Compliance Management Committee is HS products should be provided with a undertaking a review of safety and quality single, consistent and readily accessible management systems: and working on source of compensation which also covers the continued rollout across the world of uncertain long-term medical needs, SQC activities, including those related to regardless of which products they used.
We evidence, safety and medical oversight.
believe this requires a single, industry-wide approach to compensation, funded fairly For our part, RB is a learning organisation and by all the contributors to this tragedy.
we will ensure our structure and governance continues to put consumer safety at the core.
In 2017, Oxy RB will work hard to engage other stakeholders, including the South The Board has also engaged law firm Korean Government and other manufacturers Linklaters LLP to advise the Board and ingredient suppliers, to try to find such on the Groups management of the a long-term and sustainable industry-wide HS and safety-related issues.
solution for all Category I & II HS victims in the third and fourth rounds of the categorisation process.
Resolving this issue is a matter of urgency, and requires everyone to participate and learn from their mistakes.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
