54 Str Strat ate egic R gic Re ep po ort rt G Go ov ver erna nanc nce e F Fin inan ancial St cial Stat ate em me en nts ts Board of Directors Adrian Bellamy Rakesh Kapoor Adrian Hennah Nicandro Durante Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality British American Indian British British Brazilian Italian Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure 17 years and one month Five years and three months Three years and 11 months Three years and one month Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Chair of Nomination: Corporate Nomination None Corporate Responsibility, Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics Sustainability, Ethics and and Compliance: Remuneration Compliance: Remuneration Skills and experience Skills and experience Rakesh was appointed as CEO of Adrian joined RB in January Skills and experience Skills and experience the Company in 2011.
He joined 2013 as Chief Financial Officer Adrian joined RB as NonRB in 1987 and held a number of Designate, and was appointed Nicandro joined the RB Board Executive Director in 1999 and regional and central marketing CFO in February 2013.
He holds was appointed as Chairman of roles with the Company.
In 2006 a wealth of financial experience: degrees in Finance, Economics the Board in May 2003.
He brings he was appointed EVP, Category prior to joining RB, he spent six and Business Administration.
extensive executive experience Development with responsibility years at Smith & Nephew plc He started his career working and was formerly Chairman of for global category management, as CFO and four years as CFO in finance in Brazil and joined the Body Shop International plc.
R&D, media, market research and at Invensys plc.
He worked for British American Tobacco BAT His other previous directorships strategic alliances.
He has a wealth 18 years at GlaxoSmithKline in 1981.
Whilst at BAT he has include River Island, The Gap Inc, of business experience and brings plc, holding a number of senior worked in the UK, Hong Kong and Gucci Group NV and The Robert to the Board valuable knowledge management and financial roles.
He held senior positions, Mondavi Corporation.
He started his career with PwC including Regional Director for then Price Waterhouse working in Africa and the Middle East, and Adrian earned his Bachelor of Rakesh holds an MBA from audit and consultancy and worked was appointed as Chief Operating Commerce and Master of Business XLRI, Jamshedpur and a with Stadtsparkasse Koeln, the Officer COO prior to his current Leadership degrees from the Chemical Engineering degree German regional bank.
from the Birla Institute of Technology and Science.
Adrian has a degree in Law from Cambridge University and is a Sloan Fellow of the London Business School.
Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Chairman of Williams-Sonoma Inc, None Non-Executive Director of RELX Chief Executive Officer of British and Chairman of the Supervisory Group plc and RELX NV.
American Tobacco p. l. c. BAT Board of Action Nederland BV.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 55 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Mary Harris Ken Hydon Dr Pamela Kirby Andr Lacroix Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality British British British French Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure One year and 11 months 13 years and one month One year and 11 months Eight years and three months Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Audit Chair of Audit: Nomination Chair of Corporate Responsibility, Audit: Nomination Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance: Audit: Nomination Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Mary was appointed as NonKen joined the RB Board as NonAndr was appointed as Skills and experience Executive Director in February Executive Director in December Non-Executive Director of RB 2015.
She was formerly a Partner 2003 and became Chairman of Pam joined RB as Non-Executive in October 2008.
In June 2013 at McKinsey & Company, with a the Audit Committee in November Director in February 2015.
She he became Senior Independent particular focus on consumer and 2006.
He served as Senior served as Chairman of Scynexis Inc Director.
He served as Chief retail businesses in China, South Independent Director between until June 2015.
She was formerly Executive Officer of Inchcape plc East Asia and Europe.
February 2005 and November CEO of Quintiles Transnational from 2006 until March 2015.
Kens career working in Corporation and held senior was previously Chairman and Chief Mary is a graduate of the the electronics, retail, consumer positions at AstraZeneca PLC and Executive Officer of Euro Disney University of Oxford MA Politics, products and healthcare sectors Hoffman-La Roche.
President of Burger King Philosophy and Economics and brings valuable finance and International previously part of Harvard Business School.
business experience to the Board.
Diageo, and also held positions He was formerly CFO of Vodafone at Colgate, PepsiCo and Ernst & Group plc and a former NonYoung LLP.
Executive Director of Tesco plc and Pearson plc.
Andr is a graduate of ESCP Europe.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Non-Executive Director of ITV plc Non-Executive Director of Merlin Non-Executive Director of Chief Executive Officer of and J Sainsbury plc.
DCC plc, Victrex plc, Hikma Intertek Group plc.
of Supervisory Board of Pharmaceuticals PLC and a Unibail-Rodamco SE.
member of the Supervisory Board of AkzoNobel N. V. Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 56 Str Strat ate egic R gic Re ep po ort rt G Go ov ver erna nanc nce e F Fin inan ancial St cial Stat ate em me en nts ts Other Directors Board who served in the year of Directors continued Christopher Sinclair Judy Sprieser Warren Tucker Jaspal Bindra Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director in July 2014.
Jaspal did not seek re-election at the 2016 Nationality Nationality Nationality AGM and stepped down as Non-Executive Director of the American American British Company.
Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure One year and 11 months 13 years and four months Six years and 10 months Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Remuneration Chair of Remuneration: Audit Nomination Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Chris was appointed as NonWarren was appointed as a Executive Director in February Judy joined the RB Board as Non-Executive Director in February Sue Shim 2015.
Throughout his career he Non-Executive Director in August 2010.
Warren was an Executive Non-Executive Director has held a number of executive 2003 and has been Chair of the Director and Chief Financial Officer positions and brings a wealth of Remuneration Committee since of Cobham plc from 2003 to 2013.
Appointed to the Board as experience to the role.
She was previously Previously he was Non-Executive Non-Executive Director in previously Executive Chairman Director and Vice Chairman at Chairman at Paypoint plc, and has July 2014.
Sue did not seek of Scandent Holdings, Executive Royal Ahold NV, CEO of Transora held senior finance positions at re-election at the 2016 AGM Chairman of Cambridge Solutions Inc. and Executive Vice President Cable & Wireless plc and British and stepped down as NonLtd, Chairman and CEO of Caribiner of Sara Lee Corporation and Airways plc.
Executive Director of the International, and President and CFO of Sara Lees Food Group.
CEO at Quality Foods Centers, Inc. Warren is a Chartered Accountant Earlier in his career, he held various Judy has a Bachelors and and has an MBA from INSEAD.
senior management positions Masters degree from with PepsiCo, including Chairman Northwestern University.
and CEO of Pepsi Cola Co. and Chairman of PepsiCo International Foods and Beverages, which gave him the platform to showcase his strong global branding skills.
Chris is a graduate of the University of Kansas Business Doug Tough Administration and the Tuck School at Dartmouth College.
Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Non-Executive Director in November 2014.
Doug did not Chairman of Mattel, Inc. Director of Allstate Corporation, Non-Executive Director of Thomas seek re-election at the 2016 and InterContinental Exchange Inc. Cook Group PLC, Survitec AGM and stepped down as Limited and the UK Foreign & Non-Executive Director of the Commonwealth Office.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
