10 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Acquiring a world leader in infant and childrens nutrition A large and growing market On 10 February 2017, we announced The global infant and childrens nutrition category is worth approximately US$46 that we have signed an agreement billion in annual sales.
We expect this to grow at 35% per annum in the medium to long term.
This growth is underpinned, to acquire Mead Johnson for particularly in developing markets, by trends such as economic growth, urbanisation, US$16.6 billion in cash.
The acquisition increasing spend on premium nutrition, special nutritional needs, more mothers choosing will be a significant step forward in to work while their children are young, and changes to Chinas one-child policy.
Brand, RBs journey as a leader in Consumer quality and innovation are increasingly important differentiators in the category.
Health and will increase our revenues Mead Johnsons geographic footprint in this area by approximately 90%.
significantly strengthens our position in developing markets.
The business derives 67% of its Net Sales in Asia and Latin America, including 2016 Net Sales of Mead Johnsons Enfa brands are the worlds US$1.1 billion in China.
Developing markets will account for approximately 40% of leading franchise in infant and childrens nutrition.
the combined groups sales, with China The Enfa franchise is a natural extension to our becoming our second largest Powermarket.
Consumer Health portfolio and will become our largest Drawing on the best of both businesses Powerbrand.
We already reach millions of mothers Our ambition is to bring together the best through our hygiene education programmes and, of both companies, keeping the consumer at the heart of the combined group.
RB has through world-class brands such as Nurofen and extensive multichannel gotomarket and global branding capabilities across consumer Mucinex, provide parents with relief and reassurance health and a track record of consumercentric when their children are unwell.
This will be enhanced by innovation.
These capabilities, together with our culture of swift decision making and Mead Johnsons deep understanding of a new mothers commitment to driving performance, will enable us to add value to Mead Johnson journey and well-established relationships with by enhancing its position in key markets.
At the same time, Mead Johnson brings significant R&D, quality, regulatory and specialist distribution capabilities to RB.
Following a transitional period, our goal is for Mead Johnson to perform progressively towards the upper end of the 3-5% category growth rate.
Our supply chain infrastructure and distribution network will enhance Mead Johnsons gotomarket capabilities, while our scale and expertise will enable accelerated entry into nascent markets for Mead Johnson, where we already have a deep understanding of the local consumer health dynamics.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 11 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We also expect to build on Mead Johnsons Financing ecommerce platforms.
The two companies The acquisition will be financed through new Mead have complementary ecommerce expertise, fully underwritten debt facilities with Bank of particularly in China where approximately 30% America, Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank and Johnson of RBs sales are online.
These facilities include US$9 billion of term loans over three to five years and US$8 Financial highlights billion of bridge funding to cover the cash Mead Johnson Shareholders will receive US$90 consideration, plus a further US$3 billion to A company with a in cash for each share of common stock, refinance existing Mead Johnson bonds if compelling purpose valuing the total equity at US$16.6 billion.
They also include an additional 1 Including net debt of US$1.2 billion as at billion revolving credit facility, to provide 31 December 2016, the total enterprise value financing headroom from the date of of the transaction is US$17.9 billion, completion.
We expect to refinance the bridge representing a multiple of 17.4x 2016 nonUS by issuing bonds with a variety of maturity Mission GAAP EBITDA of US$1.0 billion and 14.0x 2016 dates which will reflect the expected cash nonUS GAAP EBITDA including the expected flows of the combined group.
We are in To give children the runrate cost savings described below.
discussion with the rating agencies and expect to retain a strong investment grade best start in life We expect the integration to deliver cost credit rating.
savings of 200 million per annum by the end of the third full year following completion.
Integration planning These arise principally from removing We have a track record of effectively duplication in back office functions and integrating consumer health companies.
The leveraging the scale of the combined business acquisitions of Boots Healthcare International, Core beliefs in procuring raw and packaging materials, Adams and SSL all delivered an important advertising and promotional expenditure and inflection point of growth for RB.
Oneoff costs to achieve the Good early life nutrition savings are expected to be approximately We will establish an infant and childrens supports lifelong health 450 million.
nutrition division, which will report directly to Rakesh Kapoor.
Selected key RB employees will Informed decisions: The acquisition is expected to be accretive to transfer to this new division.
access to information helps our Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share in the parents and paediatricians make first full year following completion and We will balance the opportunity to realise better decisions doubledigit accretive by year three.
We also cost savings with the need to retain and expect the acquisition to deliver a posttax invest in valuable talent at Mead Johnson, Empowering women: return on invested capital in excess of our cost especially within the R&D, quality, regulatory working mothers trust infant of capital by year five.
formula to support their childs Our objective will be to balance RBs nutritional wellbeing We intend to maintain our current dividend leadership and FMCG talent with the skill policy of paying out about 50% of our and expertise that has helped establish Adjusted Net Income.
However, we do not Mead Johnson as a category leader.
intend to buy back any further RB shares until debt is materially lower.
Steps to completion The proposed acquisition requires the approval of RBs Shareholders.
We will in due course send a circular to Shareholders, convening a meeting to approve the acquisition.
The RB Board is unanimous in recommending the transaction.
1 global The acquisition is also subject to approval by franchise in infant and Shareholders of Mead Johnson, regulatory childrens nutrition approvals including in the US, China and other markets, and certain other customary conditions.
The transaction is expected to complete by the end of Q3 2017.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
