36 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Its my RB RB has a distinct culture.
Achievement We are driven to outperform, Everyone wants a sense of by acting like owners and achievement.
For RB, that having the drive and passion means we have to outperform.
We constantly challenge ourselves and inspire others to stretch.
We are Our culture comes to life through our not happy with the status quo because we want better innovations, better ways of doing things and better results.
This hunger pushes us to values.
These values are interlinked and be the very best.
Our unique approach to reward means together define how we make decisions, outperformance results in excellent rewards.
how our people behave, how we reward people and how people grow.
The right values Achievement Entrepreneurship We aim high and strive We passionately believe for outperformance.
in our ideas and are We challenge ourselves to willing to win big, even if climb mountains and then we may sometimes fail.
Partnership Ownership We leverage We treat the Company relationships to make as if it is our own in each other the best we Ownership everything we do.
can be, both inside and outside of the Company.
To achieve exceptional things, our people need a sense of ownership.
Value of share ownership requirements 41.8m CEO 13.9m CFO 13.9m EVP We encourage our people to behave as if they own the business.
This means they identify issues, take responsibility and own the outcome.
They act in RBs and consumers best SVP T40 2.1m3.5m interests and spend money as if it were their own.
0m 5m 10m 15m 20m 25m 30m 35m 40m 45m Note: Value of share ownership requirements using a share price of 69.69 the average of Q4 2016 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 37 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our ownership philosophy extends to our shareholding requirements for our senior managers, which are the highest in the industry.
Many of our employees also own shares.
In addition, share-based incentives deliver long-term rewards that can outweigh short-term bonuses.
Creating Shareholder value through outperformance therefore materially benefits our people.
Partnership To be a great company, we must be obsessed with making each other the best we can be.
We cannot be the best if we do everything ourselves.
There is far more innovation, creativity and knowledge outside RB than there can Entrepreneurship ever be inside it.
We therefore partner with organisations that bring us innovative products and better ways of working.
We also strive for Owners are usually openness in our internal partnerships.
We seek help when we need it, entrepreneurs, so we share best practice and make each other better every day.
make a conscious effort to breed a culture of entrepreneurship.
Entrepreneurs are passionate about their ideas.
By tightly controlling resources, we encourage our people to find innovative ways to achieve their goals.
We allow them to pursue projects they believe in, knowing they can fail small and still be rewarded if their project is launched.
This contrasts with the typical big company, which has more resources than ideas and avoids taking calculated risks because it worries more about failure than success.
We create a culture of diversity so we benefit from different experiences, and encourage people to speak up.
Net Revenue 9.9bn Like-for-like growth 3% Total reported growth 11% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
