STRATEGIC FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 77 76 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION REPORT SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT oversaw the findings from customer research on I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR OUR PHILOSOPHY ALIGNING REWARD purchasing intentions in respect to sustainable Report for the year ended 30 June 2016.
WITH PERFORMANCE During the year ended 30 June 2016 the principal homes to improve communication on this issue activities of the Committee were as follows: Our Remuneration strategy has been designed to At the Annual General Meeting on 10 November to prospective buyers: reflect the needs of a UK based, capital intensive, 2014 our Directors Remuneration Policy was debated and approved a re-alignment of the approved the expansion of the sustainability housebuilder, with ambitious growth plans.
We put to a binding shareholder vote, which was Groups sustainability aspirations to focus not team, with an additional team member being make long-term investments, which are approved by over 95% of the votes cast.
The only on environmental stewardship and added during the year, to increase the differentiated by the constant innovation and Remuneration Committee believes that this improvement but also on a broader contribution Companys focus on the social and community quality of our product.
Successfully acquiring approved Policy continues to reflect our overall to economic, physical and social wellbeing.
aspects of sustainability: and land, achieving planning consent, opening outlets, remuneration philosophy set out below and is Set in hand action to further integrate these building quality homes and selling and handing approved the proposal to transition the working effectively to drive and reward the DEBBIE HEWITT aspirations into the Groups core strategy them over on time, are all critical success factors environmental management system from exceptional performance that the business is through the creation of high level business Chairman of the and feature as part of our management BS8555 to BS EN ISO 14001:2015. delivering.
We are therefore not proposing any principles and supporting objectives: Remuneration incentive programmes.
changes to our Remuneration Policy this year.
Committee approved the procurement process to obtain PERFORMANCE EVALUATION As shareholders are now familiar with it, the full We adopt clear, simple and market competitive a software solution which will enable more The Committee completed a performance evaluation Policy is not included in this years report but a remuneration arrangements.
The alignment of efficient and effective sustainability data during the Financial Year and a report was presented summary is provided in the form of a Policy table executive remuneration with the objectives of our collection and reporting: to the Committee and discussed.
The Committee which explains how our framework operates shareholders has been the principal focus, ensuring supported a programme of visits across all was found to be effective and it was concluded that and is set out on pages 79 to 80.
We will be remuneration structures are fully attuned to the Divisions to discuss waste management and the Committee had fulfilled its remit and had in place submitting a Policy for shareholder approval at business strategy.
We aim to balance the short, outline plans to tackle resource efficiency appropriate Terms of Reference.
the 2017 AGM in line with the three year cycle medium and long-term components of our going forward: set out in the regulations.
remuneration, to ensure that we motivate and monitored the internal communication of retain our executives and keep them focused on The Annual Remuneration Report pages 82 to Liz Peace community, wellbeing and environmental issues delivering long-term, sustainable growth.
The 91 provides details on the remuneration we paid Chairman of the Sustainability Committee and approved the publication of In the Loop a annual bonus encourages performance in key areas in respect of 2016 and how we intend to operate new quarterly, in-house, sustainability magazine: of strategic focus for the business and the Long our policies in 2017.
It will be submitted to an 5 September 2016 Term Incentive Plan LTIP reflects our market monitored a programme of internal engagement advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 Annual related growth and return ambitions.
that took place with all the Green Teams to General Meeting.
determine their continuing value and to propose Based on these principles, our remuneration actions to re-invigorate the teams.
A new framework, as codified in our Remuneration Policy, broader programme entitled Pathfinder which includes the components shown in the table below.
addresses social as well as environmental issues was launched in August 2016: monitored and reviewed the Groups response FIXED COMPONENTS VARIABLE COMPONENTS to legislation and regulation by requiring that a SALARY BENEFITS PENSION ANNUAL BONUS LTIP programme of site reviews across all Divisions was planned and implemented to check the Market competitive Maximum 100% of salary Maximum 100% of salary continuing appropriateness of environmental Reflect nature of role, and skills Balanced scorecard of key Based on stretching long-term risk mitigation measures: and experience performance measures for example, EPS and ROCE targets PBT, ROCE, land bank, order book Subject to clawback for five 50% deferred into shares half vest years following vesting after one year and half after two years Cash and shares subject to clawback for five years following payment vesting SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES 100% of salary to be built up over five years from appointment
