STR ATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 33 32 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED TO ENSURE THAT WE GROW OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY, WE ARE FOCUSED ON MANAGING ALL OUR RESOURCES EFFICIENTLY AND EFFECTIVELY 5,372 North 2,588 Central 2,625 MANAGE OUR RESOURCES EFFICIENTLY South 4,114 Greater London 3,397 2,139 1,991 12,545 1,975 FORWARD LAND 1,068 12,724 CONTRIBUTION TO LAND ADDITIONS OWNED LAND BANK 12 13 14 15 16 BY GEOGRAPHY IN LAST FIVE YEARS STRATEGIC REPORT LAND 2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY IN ACTION The Group took advantage of a benign land market WASTE AND CONSTRUCTION during the year to secure 12,724 plots across 46 new sites on attractive terms.
After taking into RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 6% TO 24.2% account legal completions, land sales and re-plans, In order to help identify areas to improve our the current owned and contracted land bank with ROCE waste and construction resource efficiency further, planning increased by 7,784 plots to 26,000 with a Redrow commissioned Ethical Partnerships to Gross Development Value based upon the 2016 undertake a programme of independent site average selling price of 7.5bn.
The owned current inspections on developments in our South East 27% TO 4.95 years land bank stands at 23,374 plots and represents division.
A number of opportunities to minimise 4.95 years of output.
LAND BANK YEARS waste were identified and we have subsequently developed a blueprint for reducing waste on site and Forward land contributed 5,372 plots across ten improving resource efficiency.
Work carried out to sites to the owned land bank with Colindale date on this blueprint has highlighted the value of accounting for 2,900 plots.
Colindale was acquired integrated action across the business involving 172% TO 5,372 plots unconditionally under contract in December 2013 construction, commercial, buying and technical teams and obtained planning two years later: the site was FORWARD LAND CONTRIBUTION working together to develop a culture of resource transferred to the owned land bank in the secondTO OWNED LAND BANK efficiency and waste prevention.
In addition to successfully pulling through plots from the forward land bank, we also One important component of the blueprint is working made good progress on securing draft allocations with subcontractors to improve their understanding of on a number of strategic sites as local authorities waste prevention and control.
To support this we have work towards meeting the Governments deadline become an ambassador for a new UK-wide information of having Local Plans in place next year.
WE ARE WORKING TOWARDS campaign that aims to provide practical support to small businesses, helping them manage waste All regions increased their owned and contracted CERTIFICATION TO ISO14001 efficiently and meet their Duty of Care obligations.
land banks during the year.
The largest gains were BY 2018.
The Right Waste, Right Place campaign, sponsored by in the South, where we have seen most growth the Environment Agency, the Chartered Institution of in the business and in Greater London, largely Wastes Management and the Environmental Services as a result of the Colindale site.
Elsewhere in Association, provides practical information and a range London we adopted a cautious approach to land of tools to help small businesses identify their current buying focusing on the more affordable Outer level of compliance.
A combination of a benign market with the opportunity to acquire a number of large sites on favourable terms, and a strong pull through from forward land, meant we were able to secure land at margins above our hurdle rates.
STR ATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 35 34 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED STRATEGIC REPORT As a result, and despite buying proportionally USING NATURAL AND CONSTRUCTION Energy use, carbon emissions & water Driving down waste more land in the south, the average plot cost of We continue to disclose our carbon emissions During the year we completed an introductory RESOURCES EFFICIENTLY the land bank represents just 21% of the private and reduction activities to the Carbon Disclosure waste campaign across all of our divisions, Our approach to managing natural average selling price.
Project CDP annually and have seen a significant investigating key sources of waste generation and resources efficiently increase in our CDP score in the most recent developing a blueprint for waste minimisation.
Our plans to develop a net positive CONSTRUCTION submission.
The scoring system reflects progress These blueprints provide a framework for environmental approach include making Build output increased by around 20% in the year towards excellence in carbon management by exploring ways to reduce waste at source, saving efficiencies in energy and water and reducing as the number of sites under construction grew measuring awareness, management and actions materials and money as well as reducing the carbon emissions from our operations.
To assist and the Group positioned itself to meet its growth taken on climate change.
environmental impacts of waste management.
with managing these aspects, we have started to targets.
Although the shortage of skills remains an We are already starting to see the benefits of this develop our existing environmental management CDP Score 2014 86C issue for the industry, there were few instances of work since our total waste produced relative to systems and are working towards certification trade shortages leading to serious build delays as productivity has reduced this year to 9.76 tonnes CDP Score 2015 91C to ISO14001 by 2018: ensuring continual 2 2 we continued to work hard to nurture existing and per 100m of build 2015: 9.84t 100m and the environmental improvement year-on-year new subcontractors.
Some material lead times amount of waste we diverted from landfill has Our Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions expressed going forward.
fluctuated during the year with suppliers at times increased to 94.8% 2015: 92.6%.
in relation to the quantity of build we have unable to deliver a reliable service.
Our Supporting sustainably sourced timber undertaken have increased marginally this year Supply chain collaboration 2 longstanding relationships with a number of key Promoting responsible forest management and to 2.61 tonnes of CO e per 100m 2015: 2 We are proud of our reputation for supporting our 2 suppliers helped us mitigate the impact of supply eradicating illegal wood products from our supply 2.57tCO e 100m.
We continue to raise our 2 supply chain and this work continued throughout issues across a range of materials.
chain is a core part of our strategy and we ambitions in this area and are currently developing the year as we strengthened links with our continue our longstanding membership of WWFs a new carbon reduction plan to tackle operational Overall material costs were relatively stable suppliers and subcontractors across all aspects of Global Forest and Trade Network GFTN.
This energy use and carbon emissions systematically during the year.
However, labour rates continued our business.
Every year we provide a series of best year we became the first major UK housebuilder to across the business, with a view to moving towards to rise in areas where skill shortages are most practice events for our subcontractors and those score a maximum rating of three trees in the a net positive approach.
Our GHG emissions are acute and as a result, like-for-like build costs interested in tendering for work with us.
Our purchasing actions independently verified to a limited level increased by about 4%.
On top of this, additional North West and Lancashire divisions have recently in this area send the strongest message of of assurance.
costs due to last years Building Regulation run such events for Groundworkers and Scaffolders sustainable procurement: between 2011 and 2015 changes and some changes to enhance our to enable sharing of best practice and provide a Our efforts to reduce water consumption on we have seen a 55% increase in the volume of specification and improve build times are platform to discuss and resolve key issues our sites have paid off this year as we have sustainable credibly certified timber incorporated beginning to emerge.
The specification changes such as skills, performance, quality, health and 3 seen a 30% reduction in site water use to in our homes to 62,031m.
Our usage of timber in 3 2 will however be recovered through improved safety and sustainability.
At both events industry 14.66m 100m of build.
Some of this decrease accordance with GFTN categories credibly selling prices and productivity gains.
and legal specialists were in attendance and there is also attributable to improvements in our certified, source assessed and verified currently was an opportunity for subcontractors to take part reporting systems in this area.
ROCE AND CAPITAL TURN in an ask the expert session.
Return on capital employed is a key measure for Julia Young, WWFs Global Forest and the Group and is a fundamental consideration Trade Network Manager said: when bidding for land.
Redrow has participated in the WWF Global We target to increase ROCE through both Forest and Trade Network programme since 2003, operating margin and capital turn improvements.
and the commitment made to sourcing timber However, achieving a consistent improvement in from sustainable forest sources shows great capital turn in a growing business is challenging leadership at a time when our natural resources across a portfolio of sites that includes apartment are under great pressure.
Redrows persistence blocks, where work in progress is unavoidably high, over the years to ensure it knows where all the and large strategic sites that require early timber it buys for customers homes comes from, OUR TOTAL WASTE PRODUCED infrastructure provision.
Notwithstanding this, in and that it isnt contributing to forest loss but RELATIVE TO PRODUCTIVITY HAS 2016 ROCE increased from 22.8% to 24.2% due instead to a future where people and nature thrive, to improvements in both operating margins and is a great achievement and example to others in REDUCED THIS YEAR TO 9.76 TONNES capital turn.
