STR ATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 37 36 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED WE ARE FOCUSED ON CREATING HIGH QUALITY PLACES TO LIVE BY DELIVERING WELL DESIGNED, WELL BUILT, ATTRACTIVE HOMES WHILST AT THE SAME TIME ENHANCING THE BENEFICIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE LOCAL LANDSCAPE, ECOLOGY AND COMMUNAL RESOURCES 834 634 571 CREATE BETTER PLACES TO LIVE 353 332 2,724 SOCIAL HOUSING LEGAL 12 13 14 15 16 COMPLETIONS IN LAST FIVE YEARS STRATEGIC REPORT PRODUCT 2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Our product distinguishes Redrow from its main competitors.
We have three house type collections: Heritage, Regent and Abode.
11% to 142m Heritage is the backbone of our business and in MONIES COMMITTED TO FUND 2016 accounted for 79% of the Groups private IMPROVEMENTS TO LOCAL COMMUNITIES sales.
The Collection combines attractive street elevations with modern spacious internal layouts and a high specification.
Although we always ensure it remains faithful to its concept we make continuous but subtle improvements to maintain 46% to 834 homes its market-leading position and to make it more productive to build.
The most recent changes SOCIAL HOUSING LEGAL COMPLETIONS have seen the introduction of taller internal doors to complement our higher ceilings and a switch to more aesthetically pleasing hipped roofs on certain house types that have the advantage of reducing build times.
14% to c240 hectares STRATEGY IN ACTION REGENERATING COLINDALE HECTARES OF PUBLIC OPEN SPACE CREATED Regent and Abode are two collections that Colindale Gardens, London, NW9, is a 48 acre site formerly owned by the Metropolitan Police.
It was acquired by Redrow provide higher density housing using similar unconditionally under contract without planning in December 2013. floorplates.
Regent is more traditional in terms Following extensive work and consultation on the masterplan to regenerate the site, a detailed planning consent for 888 of appearance and internal layout whilst Abode homes together with an outline consent for a further 2,012 homes, was granted in December 2015 and the agreement on WE DELIVERED 86M WORTH offers more contemporary elevations and living community contributions concluded in February 2016. spaces.
Both have been more widely plotted and OF SOCIAL HOUSING TO we have been successful in using both these In addition to the 2,900 new homes planned for the development, across 24 blocks of apartments and townhouses with a COMMUNITIES LOCAL TO collections on larger sites alongside the Heritage residents gym and concierge service, there will be 100,000 sq.
ft. of commercial and retail space.
Collection to attract a broader market and OUR DEVELOPMENTS.
improve output and return on capital employed.
c143m of community benefits are being provided as a result of the development.
These include 580 social housing apartments, a primary school, a health centre, a new neighbourhood centre, a nursery, investment in transport improvements, nine acres of In addition to our Collections, we have also public open space and community financial contributions.
developed a winning formula for our bespoke apartment schemes, especially in London where Preparatory works began on the site in January 2016 with construction commencing in earnest in March 2016 to deliver a we have the expertise and resources to undertake c12 year construction programme.
the building of these complex schemes in-house.
We expect c450 construction workers on site on an average day when at peak production and the first legal completions are We delivered 834 social housing homes in the year, expected in January 2018.
Strong sales have been achieved since the Colindale Gardens sales launch, including a 211 unit with a value of 86m 2015: 571 homes, 59m.
STR ATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 39 38 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED STRATEGIC REPORT ENERGY EFFICIENT HOMES Monies committed to fund the improvement of local communities Our average home scores 84 out of 100 using In 2016, we committed 142m to funding the Government sponsored Standard Energy improvements to communities local to our Assessment Procedure SAP, which compares developments, an 11% increase over last year well to the average for all new homes of 81.
During the year we also increased the proportion Working with the community and partners of our homes fitted with smart meters and We adopt a collaborative approach to planning including domestic recycling facilities to 82% consultation, engaging wherever possible with and 58% respectively 2015: 79% and 56%.
local partners and community stakeholders.
QUALITY OF CONSTRUCTION For example, on our Redbridge Park site, part of We are focused on delivering quality homes to the Liverpool Housing Partnership, we consulted our customers.
This year a record 24 of our site closely with local ward members and the managers have been awarded Pride in the Job community.
We arranged drop-in sessions where Quality Awards, setting the highest standards local people could inspect exhibition boards, in housebuilding.
70% of these site managers discuss the proposals in detail and provide have come up through Redrows succession and feedback.
Observations from participants resulted training initiatives.
in us exploring options to address concerns over traffic disruption and congestion.
PLACEMAKING At Wretchwick Green, a forward land site in Advancing our approach Bicester, working alongside Wates Developments, We focus on building the right homes in the right we carried out extensive engagement with the settings, taking full advantage of the beneficial Town and District Council, local residents and the characteristics of the local landscape, ecology and wider community.
These consultation processes communal architecture.
We have a Group Master have significantly shaped the proposals for this Planning team that are charged with the potential development.
responsibility of upholding our design ethos ensuring, through a comprehensive programme Leisure facilities and green transport of design reviews, that all of our developments Many of our developments provide opportunities create better places for people to live and work.
for residents to participate in leisure activities.
For example, on our Fleetwood development in We are creating visual maps for our developments Lancashire, we have upgraded public footpaths to to highlight key sustainability features, such as become cycleways and are constructing a 1m public open space, biodiversity improvements, pedestrian and cycleway bridge.
transport links and renewable energy.
We want our customers to know that as well as buying a We part funded and supported the creation premium home they are moving into a development of a new report by Carplus on car clubs, in which we have sympathetically designed so as to collaboration with the University of the West of enhance their sense of wellbeing, help them to get England.
Our Cheswick Village development, in in touch with nature and feel part of a community.
Bristol, was one of the case studies featured.
As well as helping new residents that do not own a The intention is to strengthen and further embed car to be more mobile, the report concludes that our Placemaking design ethos by establishing a car clubs can reduce traffic congestion, carbon suite of supporting design principles.
A framework emissions and improve air quality.
will be constructed around the design principles to ensure, that through planning, training, On a number of our developments including communication and review, they are Warren Grove, Dawlish, Devon, each home systematically applied throughout Redrow.
The pack, which contains walking and cycling maps, includes a 50 cycle voucher and a 250 public green travel transport voucher.
