STR ATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 29 28 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION OPERATING REVIEW WE HAVE A CLEARLY DEFINED GROWTH STRATEGY, TO INCREASE REVENUE, PROFITS AND RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS BY INCREASING OUTLETS AND LEGAL COMPLETIONS OVER THE MEDIUM-TERM 4,716 4,022 3,597 2,827 GROW OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY 2,458 17,620 LEGAL COMPLETIONS NEXTGENERATION 12 13 14 15 16 IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS SILVER AWARD STRATEGIC REPORT NEW DIVISIONS 2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS At the start of the financial year we opened a new division in the South East and as part of a reorganisation that created a Greater London 20% to 1.38bn Region, we established our Colindale Gardens site, which was the former Hendon Police REVENUE Training Centre, as a standalone division given its scale and importance to the Group.
Colindale Gardens was granted planning permission for 2,900 homes at the beginning of this calendar year and has got off to a flying start.
We have 17% to 4,716 secured over 300 private sales including 211 LEGAL COMPLETIONS private rented sector sales.
Construction works are well underway and the first legal completions are on track to be delivered in January 2018.
STRATEGY IN ACTION CREATING WOODFORD GARDEN VILLAGE With the South East and Colindale we now have 9% to 128 Redrow acquired an interest in the former BAE Systems Woodford Aerodrome in 2011 following the closure of the facility.
13 homes divisions as well as Harrow Estates, The part brownfield site, which is designated greenbelt, extends across 500 acres of land within Stockport MBC and Cheshire who achieved considerable success in the year OUTLETS East local authority areas.
Through policy promotion, the site was identified in emerging local plans for Stockport MBC as a obtaining planning permissions on a number of possible strategic mixed use development site suitable for housing.
strategic sites and making profits on the disposal of land.
Although our existing operational structure Harrow Estates used their master planning expertise and worked collaboratively with Stockport MBC to assist in the has capacity to build over 6,500 homes per year, preparation of the Policy Framework and design guidance for the site which sets out the principles of development.
a number of our divisions will reach maturity in The main development related planning applications were approved by Stockport MBC in the summer of 2014 and following terms of output over the next two years and place review by the Secretary of State and finalisation of the S106 agreement, planning permission was granted in January 2015. a natural brake upon the pace of growth from the existing structure.
As more of our businesses reach The proposals for Woodford Garden Village include 920 homes with detailed planning permission for the first phase this stage we have the potential to continue to comprising 145 homes : extra care accommodation: local retail: public house: 90,000 sq ft of employment space: c37 ha grow by expanding geographically and opening 2016 WAS THE SEVENTH of public open space including a village green and 108 ha of restored agricultural land.
more new divisions in areas of strong demand.
SUCCESSIVE YEAR OF In addition the development will deliver c28m of community benefits including on-site and off-site social housing: a new Ultimately our growth comes from increasing the primary school: new bus services: improvements and contributions to footpaths and cycleways including connections number of outlets from which we operate.
historically severed by the aerodrome.
The development will also provide play parks and formal sports pitches and a commitment to a local consultative forum throughout the development lifespan.
Woodford Garden Village draws on the REVENUE latest Government thinking for the delivery of large scale housing projects.
2016 was the seventh successive year of growth Following the commencement of the demolition of the existing structures and infrastructure works, housebuild started in the business: since 2009 revenues have grown in September 2015.
Stockport MBC completed their construction of the major new junction into the site in June 2016 and by over 1bn and in the past three years alone, the Sales Centre and seven show home complex opened shortly afterwards.
In addition to the show homes, prospective revenues have more than doubled to 1.38bn.
customers can use a new interactive 3D marketing system to virtually walk the streets of the development and into the homes and gardens to obtain a real sense of how the development will eventually look and feel.
STR ATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 31 30 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED STRATEGIC REPORT As the Group has expanded geographically, OUR BRAND PURPOSE volumes and average selling prices have increased Redrow prides itself on consistently delivering in both existing and new divisions.
The divisions in excellence in the homes it builds and the the South grew most strongly and it is pleasing to communities it creates.
To achieve this, everyone report that the new South East division made a in the business at every level is aligned with a clear valuable contribution to the Groups results in its sense of purpose and how they contribute to the first year of trading.
team effort: Redrows brand purpose.
The sale of homes accounted for 1.36bn of As one of the fastest growing housebuilders in turnover with the balance of 21m attributable to the UK it is particularly important that everyone land sales including the disposal of two sites by joining the business understands this brand our Harrow Estates subsidiary.
purpose and the reason Redrow operates in a certain way: The Redrow Way.
COMPLETIONS Redrows philosophy is one of continuous The key driver behind the rise in homes revenue improvement regardless of how good the previous was the increase in legal completions.
Overall performance level has been.
This is an approach completions grew by 17% to 4,716.
Private shared with many world class businesses and is completions were 12% ahead and social achieved through the Group wide values of hard completions were 46% up.
Social housing work, innovation, passion, attention to detail and accounted for 18% of completions compared to the pursuit of excellence.
Communication is an 14% last year.
Apartments represented 12% of essential ingredient and senior management work private completions against 15% last year with the hard to ensure all staff understand The Redrow Way.
reduction largely being due to the timing of build.
A range of communications tools have been There were 2,538 completions in the second-half, developed to clearly communicate the 17% more than the 2,178 delivered in the first-half brand purpose to every member of staff.
All of and in line with the overall growth of the business.
Redrows marketing messages and materials are OUTLETS consistent in communicating the brand purpose and the Group strapline is completely aligned.
With the growth in overall average selling prices moderating, revenue growth is more reliant upon Typically Redrow build a high quality product volume increases which in turn are dependent on in aspirational locations, employing people the number of outlets from which the Group passionate about the business operating in high operates.
Active outlets increased by 9% in the performance teams.
There is a healthy level of year to 128: the Group opened 54 new outlets and competition across the Group, helping to avoid closed 43 giving a net increase of 11.
The Group complacency and encouraging improvement has increased the number of outlets from which it and innovation.
SILVER AWARD FROM NEXTGENERATION Bringing new outlets on-stream remains a challenge for the industry.
Obtaining detailed We were pleased that our efforts to become more planning permissions and clearing often sustainable were recognised with a silver award superfluous pre-commencement conditions is time from NextGeneration, an independent consuming and places an unnecessary burden organisation which benchmarks the UKs top 25 upon scarce local authority resources.
Any changes housebuilders on their sustainability performance.
the Government can introduce to reduce red-tape This years NextGeneration benchmark saw us in this part of the planning process will be very moving up into fifth place in the rankings.
above average score of 71% is up 8% on last year and was calculated by assessing the impact our operations and the products we build have on the environment, society and the economy.
