STRATEGIC FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 81 80 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED GOVERNANCE REPORT The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office Component Purpose Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Performance Framework including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding Annual A variable pay opportunity which The Committee determines participation 100% of salary Performance is assessed against that they are not in line with the Remuneration Policy set out above where the terms of the payment Bonus motivates and rewards annual levels each year.
Targets are set by the key financial and operational performance and delivery of the Committee at the start of the relevant performance measures linked to were agreed i before the Remuneration Policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant strategy on an annual basis.
financial year and are assessed following the delivery of the strategy and individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was the year end.
shareholder value determined Deferral aligns reward with each year by the Committee.
not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes long-term value of Redrow shares.
A portion currently 50% of any bonus earned will be deferred into Redrow shares, The current performance measures payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to which are awarded in the form of nil-cost are disclosed on page 83 of the an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
options which vest after a period set by the Annual Remuneration Report.
Currently, half of the deferred The Committee retains discretion The Committee may make minor amendments to the Remuneration Policy for regulatory, exchange shares vests after one year and half after two to adjust the measures and or years, subject to continued employment.
control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining weightings in future years to reflect Following exercise of a vested deferred share prevailing financial, strategic and shareholder approval.
award, participants will be entitled to receive operational objectives of the an amount equal to the aggregate of any business or of the individual.
CLAWBACK dividends which they would have been However, a minimum of 50% of entitled to receive as a shareholder during the total will always be based on For awards under the annual bonus plan including deferred share awards made in respect of the the period between the grant and key financial measures.
2015 financial year onwards and awards under the 2014 LTIP, the Committee has discretion to claw satisfaction of the award.
The Committee has discretion back awards in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys audited financial results or In future years, the Committee retains the to adjust the level of pay out if the outcome from a formulaic discretion to change the deferred amount employee misconduct.
and or lengthen the deferral period.
assessment does not appropriately reflect underlying business Where appropriate, the Committee may In such circumstances, at any time prior to the fifth anniversary of the payment of any cash bonus or performance.
determine that deferral is in the form of an vesting of a deferred bonus LTIP award, the Committee has discretion to: equivalent cash award which in all other respects mirrors the terms of the deferred reduce, cancel or impose further conditions on outstanding deferred bonus LTIP awards: or require share awards.
the participant to repay in cash or shares some or all of the value delivered from a deferred bonus Clawback provisions apply to both the cash LTIP awards: and or and deferred elements see section below.
Long Term Designed to motivate and reward Awards may be made under the Redrow plc The maximum award The LTIP is based on performance require the participant to repay some or all of any cash bonus received.
Incentive long-term performance and 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
which may be granted measures aligned to the creation Plan LTIP delivery of the strategy, and in respect of a financial of long-term shareholder value, Awards are normally in the form of nil-cost Where a charitable donation has been made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy, clawback will provide alignment with Redrow year will normally not measured over a performance options and vest subject to the satisfaction not apply.
period of at least three years.
The of performance conditions measured over a current performance measures are: period of at least three years.
However, in exceptional For deferred bonus plan awards granted in previous years, if a participants gross misconduct has circumstances only, the 50% based on earnings per share The Committee may also determine that Committee may make EPS : and resulted in the material misstatement of the Group accounts or the accounts of one of its members, awards are made in the form of conditional awards of up to 200% share awards or as an equivalent cash 50% based on return on capital any unexercised awards will lapse immediately and the participant will forfeit any shares previously of salary.
award which in all other respects mirrors employed ROCE acquired under awards made under that plan.
For threshold performance, 20% Clawback provisions apply see of the maximum vests.
The Committee retains discretion The service agreements of the Executive Directors are rolling contracts which were entered into on the Awards under the 2015 LTIP may to include additional or alternative incorporate the right to receive in cash or financial performance measures dates shown in the table below.
shares the aggregate value of dividends and or adjust the weightings in paid on vested shares between the vesting future years to reflect prevailing Name Contract date Notice period from the Director Notice period from the Company date and the date on which the awards are strategic or operational objectives satisfied, on such basis as the Committee of the business aligned with Steve Morgan 01 01 11 6 months 6 months may determine, which may assume the shareholder value creation.
reinvestment of these dividends in shares John Tutte 01 07 14 12 months 12 months Performance conditions applicable on a cumulative basis.
to 2015 LTIP awards may be Barbara Richmond 18 01 10 6 months 12 months Dividend amounts are not paid on any amended if an event occurs which awards until such time as the performance causes the Committee to consider conditions are achieved and shares vest.
that an amended performance The service agreements provide for formal notice to be served to terminate the agreement, by either condition would be more the Company or the Executive Director, with the required period of notice shown in the table.
The appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy.
agreements do not include any provisions for pre-determined compensation for early termination.
The Committee may terminate service agreements immediately by making a payment in lieu of notice Where an individual waives any current or future right or entitlement to a remuneration payment or other benefit which he would consisting of base salary, benefits and pension for the unexpired period of notice.
At the discretion otherwise be eligible to receive under any of the components set out in the Policy Table on pages 79 and 80, the Committee may of the Committee, this payment may be made as instalments over the period, subject to a duty to determine that a charitable donation, which is, in its opinion, equivalent to the value of that payment or benefit, may be made by mitigate, or as a lump sum.
