STRATEGIC FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 93 92 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT THE DIRECTORS HAVE PLEASURE IN PRESENTING TO THE SHAREHOLDERS THEIR REPORT AND AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE 12 MONTHS ENDED 30 JUNE 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT Formal appraisals of the Executive Directors were The voting rights attaching to the shares held RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS CAPITAL STRUCTURE undertaken during the financial year and the by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust are The Group made a profit after tax of 200m The Company has an authorised share capital of Non-Executive Directors underwent an annual exercisable by Abacus Trust Company Isle of 2015: 162m.
An interim dividend of 4.0p 2015: 480,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each of which appraisal conducted by the Senior Independent Man, the Trustee of the Trust.
2.0p per share was paid on 31 March 2016.
The Company has Non-Executive Director.
In addition, the NonBoard proposes to pay on 11 November 2016, one class of ordinary shares which carry ordinary SUBSTANTIAL HOLDINGS IN THE COMPANY Executive Directors met without the Executive subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 rights to dividends subject to the Companys Directors to undertake an appraisal of the Board.
As at 5 September 2016, the Company has been Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 6.0p Articles of Association.
Each share carries the advised of the following notifiable interests of 3% 2015: 4.0p per share in respect of the year ended right to one vote at general meetings of the The Board confirms that Steve Morgan, John or more in its ordinary shares: 30 June 2016 to shareholders on the Register as Company in respect of resolutions which are Tutte and Barbara Richmond, who stand for at the close of business on 23 September 2016. taken on a poll.
re-appointment as Executive Directors and GRAHAM COPE Bridgemere Securities Limited The Companys dividend re-investment plan Debbie Hewitt, Nick Hewson, Liz Peace and Sir including Steve Morgan 149,386,045 40.40% Company Secretary No person has any special rights of control over gives shareholders the opportunity to re-invest Michael Lyons who stand for re-appointment as the Companys share capital and all issued shares Toscafund Asset their dividends.
Non-Executive Directors, continue to be effective Management LLP 36,427,860 9.85% are fully paid.
and demonstrate the appropriate commitment ACCOUNTING REFERENCE DATE Schroders plc 24,499,172 6.62% Authority was given to the Directors at last years to their roles.
Redrow plcs accounting reference date is 30 June.
Vidacos Nominees 18,770,138 5.08% Annual General Meeting to allot unissued shares Consistent with the normal monthly reporting The Executive Directors have formal service FIL Limited 17,343,977 4.69% up to an aggregate nominal amount of process, the actual date to which the balance agreements and termination of their employment 12,326,665 equivalent to approximately 33% of BlackRock Inc 15,277,577 4.13% sheet has been drawn up is 26 June 2016 2015: may be effective by 12 months notice given by the Companys issued share capital and up to a 28 June 2015.
For ease of reference, all references the Company, except for Steve Morgan where the further aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665 The persons set out in the table above have notified to the year or 12 months and financial position notice period is six months.
in connection with an offer by way of a rights the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure are for the year ended 30 June and as at 30 June.
The authority was not exercised during the and Transparency Rules of their interests in the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance period ending 30 June 2016 or prior to the date of ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ordinary share capital of the Company.
Code, all the Directors will retire at the Annual this Report.
The Company has no current intention Notice of the 2016 Annual General Meeting to be General Meeting to be held on Wednesday, of exercising the authority but nevertheless as this At 5 September 2016, no change in these holdings held on Wednesday, 9 November 2016 will be sent 9 November 2016, and, being eligible, offer authority expires at the forthcoming Annual had been notified, nor, according to the registrar of to shareholders separately.
Members wishing to themselves for re-appointment.
General Meeting the Directors will be seeking new members, did any other shareholder at that date vote should return forms of proxy to the authorities as set out in the Notice of Meeting.
have a notifiable holding of issued share capital.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Related party transactions are disclosed in EMPLOYEES VOTING AND TRANSFER OF SHARES note 22 to the financial statements.
A summary The Companys employment policies do not The Companys Articles of Association do not CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of remuneration provided to key management discriminate between employees or potential contain any specific restrictions on the size of a personnel is provided in note 7.
The Board remains committed to high standards employees on the grounds of gender, sexual shareholders holding or on the transfer of shares.
of corporate governance: details relating to the orientation, age, colour, creed, ethnic origin, POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS Companys compliance with the UK Corporate The Company is not aware of any agreements religious beliefs, pregnancy or maternity or trade Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, Governance Code are given in the Corporate between shareholders that may result in union membership.
It is Company policy to give UK legislation and any of the directions given by Governance Report on pages 62 to 96. restrictions on the transfer of securities and or full and fair consideration to applications for Special Resolution, the business of the Company is voting rights.
employment by, and the employment needs of, DIRECTORS managed by the Board, which may exercise all the disabled persons and in the case of employment powers of the Company.
Directors have been The Companys Articles of Association do not The Directors of the Company during the year needs, persons who become disabled whilst authorised to allot and issue shares by way of contain and the Company is not aware of any to the date of signing together with their employed by the Company where requirements Resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual restrictions on voting rights, including any biographical details on pages 64 and 65. may be adequately covered by these persons and General Meeting.
limitations on voting rights of holders of a given to comply with any current legislation with regard Details of Directors pay, service contracts, and percentage or number of votes, deadlines for to disabled persons.
Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the The rules in relation to the appointment and exercising voting rights and arrangements by Company, are included in the Directors replacement of Directors are as set out in the which the Companys co-operation, financial rights Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 91.
Companys Articles of Association and UK company carried by securities are held by a person other law.
The Articles of Association can only be than the holder of the securities.
amended, or new Articles adopted, by a resolution passed by shareholders in general meeting by at least three quarters of the votes cast.
STRATEGIC FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 95 94 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company places considerable importance After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS on the provision of training and development consider they have a reasonable expectation for The Company has a centralised Product A resolution to reappoint  of its employees and completed 4,787 training stating that the Group and the Company have Development Team charged with identifying LLP as external Auditors will be proposed at days during the year ended 30 June 2016, adequate resources to continue trading for the and evaluating new construction techniques the Annual General Meeting on Wednesday, including those which support the Companys foreseeable future.
These enquiries consisted of and products.
In addition, the Company has a 9 November 2016. induction process.
a detailed review of the Groups financial forecast centralised Environmental and Sustainability for the period to 31 December 2017.
The PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS: Team.
The Company recognises its responsibilities The Directors recognise the importance of good forecasts take into account current market trends to the community as a whole and has adopted an In the case of each Director in office at the date the communications with employees.
The Divisions with reasonable judgements and estimates environment strategy which is a core part of the Directors Report is approved, they confirm that: are encouraged to make their employees aware applied to arrive at future cash flow estimates.
of the financial and economic factors affecting a s o far as the Director is aware, there is no As part of the review, the Group analysed its their respective Divisions and the Company as a The charge to the income statement in respect relevant audit information as defined in forecast covenant compliance over this period whole.
This is assisted through the medium of of research and development in the year ended section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 linked to its banking facility, arriving at an regular management meetings, staff publications, 30 June 2016 was 0.4m 2015: 0.5m.
of which the Companys Auditors are assessment of the headroom evident between its internal staff InSight Magazine and the unaware: and the forecast covenant test outturn and the Redrow intranet.
Employees are consulted on GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS outturn necessary to achieve covenant a regular basis so that employee views may be b h e has taken all of the steps that he ought This disclosure in the form of the table below compliance.
The review confirmed headroom taken into account when decisions are made to have taken as a Director in order to includes all of the emission sources required within both financial covenants and facilities.
that may affect their interests.
make himself aware of any such relevant under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report audit information and to establish that Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
These Employee share ownership is encouraged through the Companys Auditors are aware of concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
sources fall within our consolidated financial savings related schemes.
statement and we do not have responsibility An assessment of the Groups viability has been for any emission sources that are not included CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS undertaken by the Directors and is summarised GOING CONCERN in our consolidated statement.
The Group made no political donations but paid The Directors acknowledge the guidance on going 0.8m in charitable donations during the year, This inventory of greenhouse gas emissions has concern and financial reporting published by the By order of the Board being 0.7m in respect of national charities and been verified by SGS to a limited level of Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
0.1m in support of local charities.
The Company assurance, in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2006, and its employees are actively involved in As explained in the Financial Review on pages 52 as meeting the requirements of the Greenhouse fundraising activities for specific charities.
The to 55, the Group maintains adequate committed Graham Cope Gas Protocol A Corporate Accounting and Company made a 0.7m donation during the year banking facilities.
As stated in note 14 to the Company Secretary Reporting Standard.
Emissions have been to the Morgan Foundation, a UK registered charity financial statements, at 30 June 2016, the Group Redrow plc calculated using the UK Governments GHG of which Steve Morgan is a Trustee.
This is included had 135m of undrawn committed borrowing Registered no: 2877315 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting: within the charitable donations in respect of facilities available.
5 September 2016 national charities noted above.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for the period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 are set out in the table below.
Current Reporting Year Comparison Year Emissions from: 1 July 15 to 30 June 16 1 July 14 to 30 June 15 Units Scope 1 activities: Combustion of fuel at our offices and sites Business use of Redrow-owned and leased vehicles 10,607 8,636 tonnes of CO e 2 Scope 2 activities: All purchased electricity 2,814 2,899 tonnes of CO e 2 Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Scope 1 Scope 2 13,421 11,535 tonnes of CO e 2 Our preferred intensity ratio: 2 Total Greenhouse Gas emissions relative to build: 2.61 2.57 tonnes of CO e per 100m of build 2
