STRATEGIC FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 65 64 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS AN ACTIVE, COMMITTED BOARD OF DIRECTORS WITH DIVERSE AND COMPLEMENTARY SKILL SETS LENGTH OF TENURE OF COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MAIN BOARD BY GENDER Executive One to three years Female Non-Executive Over three years Male GOVERNANCE REPORT STEVE MORGAN 63 JOHN TUTTE 60 BARBARA RICHMOND 56 GRAHAM COPE 52 SIR MICHAEL LYONS 66 LIZ PEACE 63 DEBBIE HEWITT 53 NICK HEWSON 58 CHAIRMAN GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR COMPANY SECRETARY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ROLE: The Non-Executive Directors are members of the Board but do not form part of the Executive Management team.
They have responsibility to ROLE: He is primarily responsible for ROLE: He is responsible for the ROLE: She is responsible for the ROLE: He is responsible for constructively challenge and contribute to the development of strategy, scrutinise the performance of management, satisfy themselves that financial the effective working of the Board, operational management of the financial management of the Group governance structures and information is accurate and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and are responsible for determining appropriate levels taking a leading role in determining Group, the implementing of in its broadest sense.
mechanisms, corporate conduct of remuneration of the Executive Management team.
the Boards composition and strategic plans and reporting on within the Companys regulatory STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Barbara structure and ensuring that effective these to the Board.
environment and circulars to Richmond joined the Board of STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Sir STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Liz joined STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Debbie STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Nick communications are maintained shareholders and is the primary STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: John Redrow in January 2010, bringing Michael joined the Redrow Board in the Redrow Board in September joined the Redrow Board in August joined the Redrow Board in with shareholders.
source of advice on the conduct of Tutte joined the Board of Redrow with her a proven track record, with January 2015.
She has a wealth of board December 2012.
STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Steve in July 2002.
In September 2009 he over 20 years experience as Group the Lyons Housing Commission to CEO of the British Property experience in executive and career to date has been spent Morgan founded Redrow in 1974 was promoted to Group Managing Finance Director at a number of UK Graham is Company Secretary to produce a road map for increasing Federation and also had a long non-executive roles.
mainly in the property industry, and led the business from a small Director and in July 2014 became listed companies including Inchcape the Main Board and Secretary to house building in this country.
and distinguished career in the from commercial to residential.
She is currently the Noncivil engineering contractor to Group Chief Executive.
plc, Croda International PLC and all Committees.
He is also Chairman of the English Executive Chairman of Moss Nick is currently a Non-Executive become one of the UKs leading Whessoe plc.
John qualified in civil engineering STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Graham Cities Fund, which undertakes large She is currently a Non-Executive Bros plc, The Restaurant Group Director of Croma Security home builders.
He floated the and has amassed more than 35 She has a strong background in Cope joined Redrow as Head of scale urban regeneration schemes Director of Morgan Sindall Group plc plc, White Stuff and Visa UK.
Company in 1994 and eventually years experience within the both manufacturing and retail as Legal in November 2002 and was in a number of places and is and The Howard fide Walden Estate.
stepped down as Chairman in She is also Non-Executive Nick is a Fellow of the Institute of industry, having previously held well as having completed a number appointed Company Secretary two Chairman of SQW Group and a She is also a Trustee of the Peabody November 2000, returning to the Director of NCC plc, BGL and Chartered Accountants in England the position as Chief Executive of of major acquisitions and disposals months later.
He has over 20 years strategic adviser to CBRE.
Trust and a Trustee and Chair of the helm in March 2009.
and Wales and has a degree in Law Wilson Connolly plc.
experience in the housebuilding property charity Land Aid.
Prior to this, following a long and from Cambridge University.
Steve is also Chairman of The sector, either working in-house or Debbie has an MBA from Bath John was appointed to the board Barbara was appointed a Nondistinguished career in local Liz was awarded a CBE in the 2008 Bridgemere Group of Companies, for clients in private practice.
R S M A N University, is a fellow of the of the Home Builders Federation Executive Director of Lonza Group government, Sir Michael completed New Years Honours List.
Carden Leisure and Trinity Aviation.
Chartered Institute of Personnel in February 2015.
Ltd with effect from 16 April 2014.
Graham qualified as a Solicitor a four year term as Chairman of He set up The Morgan Foundation S M A N R and Development and was awarded in 1989 and is a member of the the BBC and has held a range of M in 2000, which is one of the Barbara is a Fellow of the Institute an MBE in 2011 for services to Law Society.
non-executive positions across largest charitable trusts in the of Chartered Accountants in business and the public sector.
England and Wales and a graduate M A N R of the University of Manchester.
M A N R Steve is a Fellow of the Chartered M Institute of Building and holds five Honorary Degrees.
He was awarded an OBE in 1992 for services to the construction industry and a CBE in 2016 for philanthropy.
M M A N R S Main Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Sustainability Committee Board Experience: Finance Property Operational Sustainability Committee membership: STRATEGIC FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 67 66 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED THE BOARD IS COMMITTED TO COMPLYING WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES AND TO MAINTAINING HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT preparation and include key strategic, operational 9.8.
4R 14, the Board confirms that the Company MAIN BOARD and financial information.
Attendance by complied with the independence provisions set out individual Directors at Board meetings are in the Relationship Agreement during the period set out below.
under review and, so far as the Company is aware, Bridgemere Securities Limited, Steve Morgan and Details of internal control and risk management their associates complied with the independence processes are included in the Audit Committee provisions set out in the Relationship Agreement Chairman Report on pages 70 to 73. during the period under review.
Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Group Finance Director BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE Independent Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND Group Regional Chief Executives The Board considers that it is of a size and has a PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Group Human Resources Director balance of skills, knowledge and experience that The Board undertook an internal formal Group Sales & Marketing Director is appropriate for its business.
The Executive Team Group Development Director evaluation of its own performance during the provides the Board with an appropriate view of year ended 30 June 2016.
This started with a the detail of the business and the benefit of their questionnaire designed to assess performance significant collective experience of the UK NON-EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE and ongoing effectiveness across key areas in the housebuilding industry and that enables it to TEAM MANAGEMENT year ended 30 June 2016 and to maintain discharge their respective duties and responsibilities TEAM visibility and progress during the financial year.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a Following the completion of the questionnaire, a wealth of experience and understanding from report was presented to the Board and discussed outside the Company which enables them to and, as a result, the Board considers that it challenge and help develop proposals on the continues to operate effectively with meetings Companys strategy.
All Non-Executive Directors to facilitate and debate decision making.
The governance structure is set out in the INTRODUCTION holding office during the year ended 30 June 2016 diagram above.
are considered to be independent.
This report sets out the Companys compliance The evaluation also considered succession with the UK Corporate Governance Code planning for the Executive Team.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Details of the Directors respective experience the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Board and its Committees and his appointment is set out in their biographical profiles on pages The Board recognises that a structured appraisal Council www.
uk and describes how the and removal is a matter for the Board as a whole.
64 to 65. process and good training are important governance framework is applied by the Company.
The Company Secretary is a Member of the requirements across the Group.
The Board Under the Code, at least half the Board, excluding Executive Management Team and all Directors The Directors have considered the contents and receives regular presentations and briefings from a Non-Executive Chairman, should comprise have access to his advice and services.
In certain requirements of the Code and confirm that those responsible for key Group disciplines.
In Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board circumstances, Board Committees and individual throughout the year ended 30 June 2016, the addition, the Board maintains close working to be independent.
The Board currently comprises Directors may wish to take independent Company has been compliant with the provisions relationships with Divisional Management Teams.
three Executive Directors, including the Chairman, professional advice in connection with their of the Code other than as set out in this Report.
and four Independent Non-Executive Directors in responsibilities and duties and, in this regard, compliance with the Code.
the Company will meet the reasonable costs and THE BOARD Table of Attendance expenses incurred.
Where appropriate, the Board The Board comprises an Executive Chairman, two Name Role Attendance at Meetings The Board considers that each Director is able delegates decisions to the Executive Management further Executive Directors and four Independent to allocate sufficient time to the Company to Steve Morgan Chairman 6 6 Team and other relevant management bodies.
John Tutte Group Chief Executive 6 6 BOARD MEETINGS Steve Morgan, as Chairman, is responsible for Barbara Richmond Group Finance Director 6 6 RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT leadership of the Board and ensuring its The Board meets regularly and frequently, not Debbie Hewitt Senior Independent Director 6 6 The Company is party to a Relationship effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The role of less than six times during the year and maintains Agreement with Bridgemere Securities Limited Nick Hewson Non-Executive Director 6 6 John Tutte, as Group Chief Executive, ensures that a close dialogue, as appropriate, between and Steve Morgan, which regulates the relationship Liz Peace Non-Executive Director 6 6 there is a clear division of responsibilities at the meetings.
Board meetings are held at Head between the parties and complies with the head of the Company between the running of the Office or Divisional Offices when visits are Sir Michael Lyons Non-Executive Director 6 6 requirements of the Listing Rules, including Listing Board and the operational responsibility for the frequently made to a selection of developments Rule 9.2.
In running of the Companys business as required by accompanied by the local Management Team.
All details for the Directors are provided on pages 64 to 65. accordance with the requirements of Listing Rule the Code.
This balanced approach also ensures no Board papers are distributed in advance of the one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
meetings to allow adequate time for review and STRATEGIC FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 69 68 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED GOVERNANCE REPORT All Directors undertake a comprehensive induction approval of Redrows long-term objectives APPOINTMENTS AND RE-ELECTIONS SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT programme following their first appointment.
and strategy: TO THE BOARD The Company announces its financial results half-yearly and, immediately following their approval of the Annual Report, preliminary The Nomination Committee has recommended The programme for the Non-Executive Directors publication, undertakes formal presentations and half-yearly financial statements, interim the re-appointment of the Executive and Nonis specifically designed to encompass the full to equity analysts.
These presentations are management statements, trading updates Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee breadth of the business and includes visits to available on the Companys website.
and the recommendation of dividends: Report can be found on page 74. operating businesses.
approval of any significant changes in accounting During the year ended 30 June 2016, the Under the Companys Articles of Association, all During the year the formal appraisals of the Group policies or practices: any changes relating to Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Directors are subject to re-election at their first Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and capital structure: approval of treasury policies: Group Finance Director, together with the Senior General meeting after appointment.
The Board Senior Independent Director were undertaken by Independent Director, also held a number of ensuring the maintenance of a sound system having been informed of the conditions of the the Chairman.
meetings with significant shareholders and of internal control and risk management: Code on election and re-election, including that subsequently briefed the Board on issues there should be a formal, rigorous and transparent All Independent Non-Executive Directors had an approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, discussed at these meetings.
procedure for the appointment of new directors annual appraisal conducted by the Senior significant land purchases or contracts: to the Board, and that re-election is subject to Independent Director.
Following the full year and half-yearly results changes to the size, structure and composition continued satisfactory performance, has decided announcement in September 2015 and February of the Board: COMMITTEES that all Directors will be submitting themselves for 2016, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The The Board is supported by Audit, Nomination, approval of significant policies, including Group Finance Director met current and potential Board has satisfied itself that all Directors who will Remuneration and Sustainability Committees and Redrows Health and Safety policy: and significant shareholders.
This included visits to be submitting themselves for re-election continue their memberships, roles and activities are set out review of overall corporate governance London and Edinburgh and feedback from these to perform satisfactorily.
Details of appropriate in separate reports: the Audit Committee Report arrangements.
meetings was independently collated and Annual General Meeting Resolutions will be found can be found on pages 70 to 73: the Nomination disseminated to the Board.
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which Committee Report on page 74: the Directors The Chairman is primarily responsible for: will be sent to shareholders separately.
Remuneration Committee Report on pages 77 to The Annual General Meeting takes place at a effective working of the Board: 91: and the Sustainability Committee Report can venue close to the Companys Head Office.
All CAPITAL STRUCTURE taking a leading role in determining the be found on pages 75 to 76.
Directors attended the Annual General Meeting on Boards composition and structure: and The information of the capital structure of the 10 November 2015.
Shareholders are encouraged Each Committee has terms of reference approved Company is included in the Directors Report on ensuring that effective communications to attend the 2016 Annual General Meeting, which by the Board and the Minutes of the Committee page 93. are maintained with shareholders.
represents an opportunity for all shareholders meetings are circulated, and the Committee attending to table questions formally during the Chairmen provide reports, to the Board.
DIVERSITY The Chief Executive is responsible for: meeting and informally afterwards to the The principle of boardroom diversity is strongly operational management of the Group: Companys Directors.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Nick Hewson, supported by the Board.
It is the Boards policy the Remuneration and the Nomination implementing strategic plans: and Formal notification of the 2016 Annual General that appointments to the Board will always be Committees are chaired by Debbie Hewitt Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 21 working reporting on these to the Board based on merit, so that the Board has the right and the Sustainability Committee by Liz Peace.
It is the Companys policy to individuals in place and recognises that diversity is Debbie Hewitt, the Senior Independent Director propose a separate Resolution at the Annual seen as an important consideration as part of the The Board completed a performance evaluation supports the Chairman in ensuring the Board is General Meeting on each substantive issue.
selective criteria used to assess candidates to of its Committees during the financial year ended effective and that constructive relations are achieve a balanced Board.
30 June 2016 and it was concluded they were maintained.
In addition to acting as a Senior Redrows website, www.
co. uk, gives access contributing and functioning effectively and Independent Director in which capacity she The table below sets out the current position of to current financial and corporate information.
were complying with their terms of reference.
leads the annual performance evaluation of the Company on a gender basis.
the Chairman, she also provides an additional GOVERNANCE AT WORK IN THE BUSINESS Female Male point of contact for shareholders.
Graham Cope The Board aims to meet governance best practice Main Board 3 43% 4 57% Company Secretary where it fits with the Companys business.
The Company has Directors and Officers Executive Management Team 2 20% 8 80% insurance in place which insures Directors 5 September 2016 The Board has a formal schedule of matters Direct reports to Executive against certain liabilities, including legal costs.
reserved specifically for its decisions.
The Management Team 10 29% 25 71% matters reserved include: Redrow employees at June 2016 648 33% 1,314 67%
