14 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Scientific, Technical & Medical Business overview Scientific, Technical & Medical provides information and analytics We help researchers make new discoveries, collaborate with that help institutions and professionals progress science, advance their colleagues and give them the knowledge they need to find healthcare and improve performance.
We help governments and universities evaluate and Elsevier is a global business with principal operations in improve their research strategies.
We help doctors save lives, Amsterdam, Beijing, Boston, Chennai, Delhi, London, Madrid, providing insight for physicians to find the right clinical Munich, New York, Oxford, Paris, Frankfurt, Philadelphia, Rio fide answers and we support nurses and other healthcare Janeiro, St. Louis, San Diego, Singapore and Tokyo.
It has 7,500 professionals throughout their careers.
Our goal is to expand employees and serves customers in over 180 countries.
the boundaries of knowledge for the benefit of humanity.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2016 were 2,320m, compared with 2,070m in 2015 and 2,048m in 2014.
In 2016, 42% of revenue by geographical market was derived from North America, 26% from Europe and the remaining 32% from the rest of We enhance the quality of research output by organising the world.
Subscription sales generated 70% of revenue, the review, editing and dissemination of 16% of the worlds transactional sales 27% and advertising 3%.
Elsevier serves the needs of scientific, technical and medical ScienceDirect, the worlds largest database of markets by organising the review, editing and disseminating of peer-reviewed primary scientific and medical research, primary research, reference and professional education content, has 14m monthly users.
as well as by providing a range of database and decision tools.
Elseviers customers are scientists, academic institutions, research leaders and administrators, medical researchers, Scopus is the most extensive abstract and citation doctors, nurses, allied health professionals and students, as well database of research literature in the world, with over 65m as hospitals, research institutions, health insurers, managed information records from 5,000 publishers.
healthcare organisations, research-intensive corporations and governments.
All these customers rely on Elsevier to provide SciVal offers insights into the research performance of high-quality content and critical information for making scientific 7,500 research institutions.
and medical decisions: review, edit, disseminate and preserve research findings: and create innovative tools to help focus ClinicalKey, the flagship clinical reference platform, is research strategies, increase research effectiveness, improve accessed by more than 4,200 institutions.
medical outcomes, and enhance the efficiency of healthcare and healthcare education.
Elsevier journals have at some point featured articles by In the primary research market during 2016, over 1.5m research 163 of 164 science and economics Nobel prize winners papers were submitted to Elsevier.
More than 20,000 editors since 2000. managed the peer review and selection of these papers, resulting in the publication of 420,000 articles in about 2,500 journals, many of which are the foremost publications in their field and a primary point of reference for new research.
This content was accessed by around 14m people, with over 900m full-text article downloads last year.
Elseviers journals are primarily produced and delivered through the ScienceDirect platform, the worlds largest database of scientific and medical research, hosting over 14m pieces of content and 35,000 e-books.
Flagship journals include Cell and The Lancet families of titles.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Scientifi c, Technical & Medical 15 In 2016, Elsevier launched 64 new subscription and author-pays engineers that helps them to select the right materials, a journals, including Chem from Cell Press and The Lancet mission-critical use case in product development across Gastroenterology & Hepatology and The Lancet Public Health chemicals, oil & gas and other engineering-focused industries.
Elsevier is also a global leader in scientifi c, Elsevier serves academic and government research administrators technical and medical reference markets, providing authoritative through its Research Intelligence suite of products.
Leveraging and current professional reference content.
Elsevier has been a bibliometric data from Scopus and other data types such as patent leader in driving the shift from print to electronic.
Flagship titles citations and usage data, SciVal is a decision tool that helps include works such as Grays Anatomy, Nelsons Pediatrics and institutions to establish, execute and evaluate research strategies.
Netters Atlas of Human Anatomy.
Pure is a comprehensive research information management Elseviers fl agship clinical reference platform, ClinicalKey, system which enables evidence-based research management provides physicians with access to leading Elsevier and decisions, promotes collaboration, simplifi es administration and third-party reference and evidence-based medical content in optimises impact.
Our Analytical Services team provides accurate, asingle, fully integrated site.
ClinicalKey is growing strongly, unbiased analysis on research performance by combining andis currently accessed by more than 4,200 institutions.
high-quality data sources with technical and research metrics expertise.
Expert LookUp helps funding bodies fi nd the best peer In medical education, Elsevier serves students of medicine, reviewers for evaluating grant applications.
nursing and allied health professions in a number of formats including electronic books and electronic solutions.
For example, For healthcare professionals, Elsevier develops products to HESI, an online testing and remediation solution designed to help deliver patient-specifi c solutions at the point of care to improve students of nursing and allied health professions, conducted patient outcomes.
Its clinical solutions include Interactive Patient over775,000 tests in 2016.
Education, which provides patient education and discharge information, and Care Planning, which provides a data-driven Elseviers products provide a range of tools and solutions for framework to support nurses in undertaking procedures.
professionals in the scientifi c, technical and medical fi elds.
Customers include academic and corporate researchers, research administrators and healthcare professionals.
For academic and corporate researchers, signifi cant products include Scopus, Reaxys and Knovel.
Scopus, the largest abstract and citation database of peer-reviewed literature with over 65m records from more than 21,800 journals and 5,000 international publishers, allows researchers to track, analyse and visualise the worlds research output.
Reaxys supports the early stages of drug development in the pharmaceutical industry, exploratory chemistry research in academia, and product development in industries such as chemicals and oil & gas.
Knovel is a decision support tool for The worlds largest abstract and citation The leading suite of preparation, testing and database of peer-reviewed literature remediation resources that generate featurestools to track, analyse and actionable data to prepare nursing and health visualisescholarly research profession students for success in pursuing degrees, passing exams and starting their careers The worlds largest database of scientifi c Premier life sciences journal with the One of the worlds leading medical journals andmedical research articles highest impact factor in biochemistry since 1823 andmolecular biology Ready-to-use tools to analyse the world of Combines leading reference and An innovative research management and research, and establish, execute and evaluate evidence-based medical content into its social collaboration platform the best strategies for research organisations fullyintegrated clinical insight engine 16 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Market opportunities Business model, distribution channels and competition Scientific, technical and medical information markets have good Science and medical research is principally disseminated on long-term growth characteristics.
The importance of research apaid subscription basis to the research facilities of academic and development to economic performance and competitive institutions, governments and corporations, and, in the case of positioning is well understood by governments, academic medical and healthcare journals, to individual practitioners and institutions and corporations.
This is reflected in the long-term medical society members.
For the past decade content has been growth in research and development spending and in the number provided free or at very low cost in over 100 countries and ofresearchers worldwide.
Growth in health markets is driven territories in the developing world through Research4Life, a byageing populations in developed markets, rising prosperity United Nations partnership initiative.
For a number of journals, indeveloping markets and the increasing focus on improving advertising and promotional income represents a small medical outcomes and efficiency.
Given that a significant proportion of revenues, predominantly from pharmaceutical proportion of scientific research and healthcare is funded companies in healthcare titles.
directlyor indirectly by governments, spending is influenced Over the past 15 years, alternative payment models for the bygovernmental budgetary considerations.
The commitment dissemination of research such as author-pays or authorstoresearch and health provision does, however, remain high, funder-pays have emerged.
While it is expected that paid evenin more difficult budgetary environments.
subscription will remain the primary distribution model, Elsevier has long invested in alternative business models to address the Strategic priorities needs of customers and researchers.
Over 1,850 of Elseviers Elseviers strategic goal is to lead the way in providing information journals now offer the option of funding publication and solutions that advance science, technology and health.
To achieve distribution via a sponsored article fee.
In addition, Elsevier now this, Elsevier creates solutions that reflect deep insight into the produces around 170 stand-alone author-pays open access way its users work and the outcomes they are seeking to achieve: journals.
In 2016 we published over 24,000 author-pays and strives for excellence in content, service and execution: constantly sponsored open access articles, up over 22% on the previous year, adapts and revitalises its products, business models and making us one of the top three open access publishers in the world.
technology: and leverages its institutional skills, assets and resources to promote innovation and efficiency.
Electronic products, such as ScienceDirect, Scopus and ClinicalKey, are generally sold direct to customers through a dedicated sales Elseviers strategic priorities are to: continue to increase content force that has offices around the world.
Subscription agents volume and quality: expand content coverage, building out sometimes facilitate the sales and administrative process for integrated solutions and decision tools combining Elsevier, remaining print sales.
Reference and educational content is sold third-party and customer data: increase content utility, using directly to institutions and individuals and accessed on Elsevier Smart Content to enable new e-solutions: combine content platforms.
Sometimes it is still sold in printed book form through withanalytics and technology, focused on measurably improving retailers, wholesalers or directly to end users.
productivity and outcomes for customers: and continue to drive operational efficiency and effectiveness.
Competition within science and medical reference content is generally on a title-by-title and product-by-product basis.
In the primary research market, Elsevier aims to grow volume Competition in research and reference products is typically with through new journal launches, expansion of author-pays journals learned societies and professional information providers, such as and growth from emerging markets: enhance quality by building Springer Nature, Thomson Reuters and Wolters Kluwer.
Decision on our premium brands: and add value to core platforms by tools face similar competition, as well as from software implementing new capabilities such as advanced companies and internal solutions developed by customers.
recommendations on ScienceDirect and social collaboration through Mendeley.
In clinical reference markets, priorities are to expand content coverage and ensure consistent and seamless linking of content assets across products.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET REVENUE BY TYPE Advertising 2,320m 2,320m 2,320m 3% Print Transactional 20% Rest of 27% North world America 32% Face- 42% to-face 1% Electronic Subscription 79% Europe 26% 70% Print book revenue 10% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Scientific, Technical & Medical 17 2016 financial performance 2016 2015 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 2,320 2,070 2% 0% 10% 12% Adjusted operating profit 853 760 3% -1% 10% 12% Key business trends remained positive in 2016, with underlying Print books, which now represent around 10% of divisional profit growth slightly exceeding underlying revenue growth.
revenues, saw steeper second half declines than in recent years, reflecting market conditions.
Print pharma promotion revenues Underlying revenue growth was 2%.
The difference between the were stable.
reported and underlying growth rates primarily reflects the impact of exchange rate movements.
2017 outlook Underlying adjusted operating profit growth of 3% was slightly Our customer environment remains largely unchanged.
Overall ahead of revenue growth, resulting in a small underlying margin we expect another year of modest underlying revenue growth, improvement which was partly offset by exchange rate with underlying operating profit growth continuing to exceed movements.
In primary research, strong growth in usage and article submissions continued.
In 2016 we launched 64 new journals.
Good growth continued in databases & tools, as well as in electronic reference products.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 2% Underlying growth 3% 2,320 853 2,070 760 2015 2016 2015 2016 18 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 The keyword search means I can find researchers anywhere.
If Im looking for international collaborators, for example, its usually not too difficult to find experts among the people already working with us.
But identifying experts among people not already working with us would be impossible without SciVal.
Michelle Hutnik Director of Research Analytics and Communications, Penn State 21,000 Penn State research authors are listed in SciVal SciVal: helping Penn State analyse and showcase its research Penn State is a research-intensive public university with 24 campuses throughout Pennsylvania, 20,000 faculty and staff, and 99,000 students.
The university started using SciVal in 2015, initially to benchmark its own scholarly output relative to its peers and subsequently for many other projects.
Michelle Hutnik of Penn State Since the university is so large and spread out, it was extremely About SciVal challenging for staff to track what research was being carried out SciVal offers quick, easy access to the on each campus and by each college or department.
Using SciVal, research performance of 7,500 research staff can now carry out complex analysis, such as evaluating institutions and 220 countries worldwide.
interdisciplinary artificial intelligence expertise in language This easy-to-use research and analysis processing, which crosses a large number of different campuses, solution has unparalleled power and colleges and departments, in a matter of minutes.
It enables customers to visualise used to find and evaluate potential international research research performance, benchmark partners.
Part of the universitys strategic plan is to increase its relative to peers, develop collaborative international research efforts.
SciVal enables researchers to find partnerships and analyse research trends.
out quickly and easily what other institutions are doing in Using advanced data analytics particular research fields and where there may be overlapping super-computer technology, SciVal allows areas of strength.
users to instantly process an enormous amount of data to generate powerful data visualisations in seconds.
The SciVal database covers 38m publication records from 21,915 journals of 5,000 publishers worldwide.
It is powered by RELX Groups HPCC High Performance Computing Cluster big data technology.
