34 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Ex h i bi t i on s Business overview Exhibitions is the worlds leading events business, enhancing the We help match customers with the right solution.
Our events power of face to face through data and digital tools at over 500 enable customers to learn about a market, source products events, in more than 30 countries, attracting more than 7m and complete transactions, generating billions of dollars of participants.
revenues for the economic development of local markets and Reed Exhibitions is a global business headquartered in London national economies around the world.
and has principal offices in Paris, Vienna, Norwalk Connecticut, So Paulo, Mexico City, Abu Dhabi, Moscow, Beijing, Tokyo and Sydney.
Reed Exhibitions has 4,000 employees worldwide, and its portfolio of events serves 43 industry sectors in more than 30 countries.
More than 500 events are in the Reed Exhibitions portfolio.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2016 were 1,047m 43 industry sectors are served across the globe.
In 2016, 20% of Reed Exhibitions revenue came from North America, 43% from Our digital products increase the value of our events to Europe and the remaining 37% from the rest of the world on an participants, enabling them to make new contacts and event location basis.
meet face-to-face to do business over 80 events offered Reed Exhibitions organises market-leading events which are matchmaking in 2016. relevant to industry needs, where participants from around the world meet face-to-face to do business, to network and to learn.
Its events encompass a wide range of sectors.
They include construction, cosmetics, electronics, energy and alternative energy, engineering, entertainment, gifts and jewellery, healthcare, hospitality, interior design, logistics, manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, real estate, recreation, security and safety, transport and travel.
Market opportunities Growth in the exhibitions market is influenced both by business-to-business marketing spend and by business investment.
Historically, these have been driven by levels of corporate profitability, which in turn has followed overall growth in gross domestic product.
Emerging markets and higher growth sectors provide additional opportunities.
Reed Exhibitions broad geographical footprint allows it to effectively and efficiently capture growth opportunities globally as they emerge.
As some events are held other than annually, growth in any one year is affected by the cycle of non-annual exhibitions.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Exhibitions 35 Strategic priorities In 2016 Reed Exhibitions launched 32 new events.
These included Reed Exhibitions strategic goal is to understand and to respond many events which delivered on the strategy of taking sector toits customers evolving needs and objectives better than its expertise, customer relationships and leading brands from one competition through deep knowledge of its customers and the market and extending them into new geographies using local markets they serve.
Reed Exhibitions delivers a platform for industry communities Reed Exhibitions Japan continued its successful launch toconduct business, to network and to learn through a range of programme, the highlights being the cloning of Manufacturing market-leading events in all major geographic markets and World, taking it to its third location of Nagoya and its first show higher growth sectors, enabling exhibitors to target and reach covering international building and urban development, which new customers quickly and cost-effectively.
Organic growth will be achieved by continuing to generate greater After a successful launch of in-cosmetics Korea in 2015, the team customer value through the intelligent application of customer continued to branch out and followed up with an event in New York.
knowledge and data, by developing new events, and by building Following the 2015 acquisition of Jewelers International Showcase outtechnology platforms to ensure the rapid deployment of in the US, the US team launched JIS Exchange, which took place innovation and best practices across the organisation.
Reed alongside JCK Las Vegas, one of Reed Exhibitions best-known Exhibitions is also shaping its portfolio through a combination of brands.
strategic partnerships and acquisitions in high-growth sectors and geographies, as well as by withdrawing from markets and The fashion portfolio Agenda added to its number of events by industries with lower growth prospects over the longer term.
working with the fashion, pop culture, music and sports magazine Complex to launch the event ComplexCon.
Reed Exhibitions is committed to improving customer solutions and experience continuously by developing global technology A number of small acquisitions and investments were completed platforms based on industry databases, digital tools and analytics.
These included REX in Russia commercial real By providing a variety of services, including its integrated web estate industry, Franchise Seoul in Korea, K Fairs in Korea platform, the company continues to drive up customer satisfaction electronics manufacturing and home decoration and Reed by proactively putting the right buyers and sellers together on the Exhibitions increased its interest and acquired control of Thebe event floor.
Increasingly, digital and multichannel services such Reed Exhibitions in South Africa.
asactive matchmaking are becoming part of the customer expectation and product offering, enhancing the value delivered through attendance at the event.
Using customer insights, Reed Exhibitions has developed an innovative product offering that underpins the value proposition for exhibitors by broadening their options in terms of the type and location of stand they take and the channels through which they can address potential buyers.
MIPIM: The worlds property market Equiphotel : The hospitality and PAX: Focused on the culture and restaurant event community that is gaming World Travel Market: Premier global event Metalex: ASEANs international machine JCK : The North American jewellery for the travel industry tool & metalworking technology exhibition industrys premier event Arabian Travel Market: The global meeting Agriworld: Japans largest agricultural Aluminium: International trade fair for place for the travel trade technology trade show the aluminium industry 36 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Business model, distribution channels and competition Reed Exhibitions is the global market leader in a fragmented Over 70% of Reed Exhibitions revenue is derived from exhibitor industry, holding less than a 10% global market share.
Other fees, with the balance primarily consisting of admission charges, international exhibition organisers include UBM, Informa IIR and conference fees, sponsorship fees and online and offline some of the larger German Messen, including Messe Frankfurt, advertising.
Exhibition space is sold directly or through local Messe Dsseldorf and Messe Munich.
Competition also comes agents where applicable.
Reed Exhibitions often works in from industry trade associations and convention centre and collaboration with trade associations, which use the events to exhibition hall owners.
promote access for members to domestic and export markets, and with governments, for which events can provide important support to stimulate foreign investment and promote regional and national enterprise.
Increasingly, Reed Exhibitions is offering visitors and exhibitors the opportunity to interact before and after the show through the use of digital tools such as online directories and matchmaking and mobile apps.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET EVENTS REVENUES BY SOURCE Electronic North 1,047m 1,047m 1,047m 3% America 20% Other 26% Rest of world 37% Exhibition Europe fees 74% Face-to-face 43% 97% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Exhibitions 37 2016 financial performance 2016 2015 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 1,047 857 5% 1% 13% 22% Adjusted operating profit 269 217 7% 1% 16% 24% Exhibitions achieved strong underlying revenue growth in 2016, We continued to pursue growth opportunities, launching 32 new in line with prior year.
events and completing seven small acquisitions.
After portfolio changes and 2017 outlook three percentage points of cycling effects, constant currency We expect underlying revenue growth trends to continue.
The difference between the reported we expect cycling out effects to decrease the reported revenue and constant currency growth rates reflects the impact of growth rate by four to five percentage points.
Underlying adjusted operating profit growth was 7%.
The 40 basis point improvement in reported margin largely reflects exchange rate movements.
Revenue growth was strong in the US and moderate in Europe.
Japan grew strongly, and China saw good growth.
Revenues in Brazil continued to reflect the general weakness of the wider economy.
Most other markets continued to grow strongly.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 5% Underlying growth 7% 1,047 269 857 217 2015 2016 2015 2016 FIBO: powering ahead in the international fitness market Headquartered in Peterborough, UK, Escape Fitness is a market leader in functional training solutions, delivering fitness equipment, education and facility design to fitness clubs and distributors in more than 80 countries.
The company has strong partnerships in international markets, many forged at FIBO, the global fitness event, which has played akey role in the companys growth over the past nine years.
Escape Fitness first exhibited at FIBO in 2008 to enter the German About FIBO market and its presence has grown every year with the event.
FIBO is the worlds leading fitness event.
Today, the company uses FIBO to support its international Held each year in Cologne, it has achieved distributor base and engage new customers through live brand its number one position by targeting experiences.
In 2016, the company had a major presence in FIBOs customers across the entire value chain Functional Training Hall, where buyers, trainers and fitness from equipment manufacturers, gym enthusiasts were treated to fast-paced demos and fun workouts operators and professional trainers, to the featuring Escapes most innovative new fitness equipment and rapidly expanding population of fitness training concepts.
The company generated 592 significant sales enthusiasts who are driving demand.
FIBOs leads, and achieved its ROI targets within six months of the show.
success in generating new business is reflected in its growing attendance figures, which have doubled to over 153,000 during the past four years.
Revenueshave also more than doubled over the same period.
Business review Exhibitions 39 As a global leader in functional training, were represented at many trade fairs around the world.
But FIBO is the crown jewel the most important trade fair in strategic terms.
Itoffers afantastic setting for us to present our innovations to the world, close deals and make lots of new contacts.
Matthew Januszek CEO, Escape Fitness 153,000 attendees in 2016 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review 41 Corporate Responsibility The Corporate Responsibility Report is an integral part of our Annual Reports and Financial Statements.
This section highlights progress on our 2016 corporate responsibility objectives.
You can read the full 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report atwww.
