20 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Risk & Business Analytics Business overview Risk & Business Analytics provides customers with solutions and We help US auto insurance companies with better risk decision tools that combine public and industry-specific content assessment so they can offer their customers lower prices with advanced technology and analytics to assist them in andenable healthcare providers to keep down medical costs.
evaluating and predicting risk and enhancing operational Wemake the world a safer place from criminals, rescue efficiency.
missing children and help save the lives of police officers.
The business has principal operations in Georgia, Florida, Illinois Weprevent fraudsters from exploiting stolen identities and and Ohio in the US and London, Amsterdam and Shanghai.
It has givebanks the data and tools to help combat money laundering.
8,200 employees and serves customers in more than 170 Weenable millions of disadvantaged people to obtain credit, countries.
We help farmers with their efforts in precision agriculture and airlines to improve their operations Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2016 were 1,906m, and services for passengers.
In 2016, 79% of revenue came from North America, 17% from Europe and the remaining 4% from the rest of the world.
Subscription sales generated 36% of revenues, transactional sales 61% and advertising 3%.
70% of car owners in the US have lower premiums thanks The business is organised around market-facing industry sector to Risk Solutions products.
groups: Insurance Solutions, Business Services, Government Solutions, Health Care Solutions, as well as Major Data Services Accuity delivers accurate payments data on over 819,000 including banking, energy and chemicals, and human resources.
bank branches worldwide, especially in emerging markets.
Insurance Solutions, the largest segment, provides Our Tax Refund Investigative Solution TRIS has saved comprehensive data, analytics and decision tools for personal, 11 US states a total of more than $500m over four years.
commercial and life insurance carriers in the US to improve critical aspects of their business.
Information solutions, including the most comprehensive US personal loss history database, LexisNexis eCrash cuts the average time it takes to file a C. L. U. E. help insurers assess risks and provide important inputs traffic accident report from 60 minutes to 19, reducing the to pricing and underwriting insurance policies.
Additional key threat to life for police officers at the scene.
products include LexisNexis Data Prefill, which provides information on customers directly into the insurance workstream and LexisNexis Current Carrier, which identifies insurance coverage details and any lapses in coverage.
In the US, we remain focused on delivering innovative decision tools through a single point of access within an insurers infrastructure.
LexisNexis Active Insights, our solution for active risk management, connects proprietary linking algorithms with vast amounts of data to proactively inform insurers of key events impacting their policyholders.
We are advancing our strategy to drive more consistency and efficiency in claims through our solution suite, Claims Compass.
Our Risk Classifier solution, which uses public and motor vehicle records and predictive modelling, is used by more than 25 life insurers tobetter understand risk and improve underwriting efficiency.
We continue to make progress outside the US.
In the UK, the contributory No Claims Discount module, which automates verification of claims history, is now available for insurers at the point of quote.
In China, the Genilex joint venture is delivering key vehicle data to auto insurers and is looking to add more analytics solutions.
In India, we launched our Intelligence Exchange contributory platform and Risk Insights solution for life insurers topredict, better assess and manage risk within the underwriting and claims management processes.
In 2016, Risk and Business Analytics acquired the Crash and Projectbusiness of Appriss.
This increased the number of US law enforcement agency customers to more than 5,000, and improved crash report dissemination.
The acquisition of Insurance Initiatives Limited IIL expanded offerings to UK insurers and improved the delivery of information predominantly at the point of quote in the UKs property and casualty insurance industry.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Risk & Business Analytics 21 Business Services provides organisations with risk management, LexisNexis business networks to identify businesses not identity management, fraud detection and prevention, credit risk complying with the law.
These include Know Health Care Solutions utilises socioeconomic, consumer, Your Customer KYC and Anti-Money Laundering AML products.
provider and medical claims data to deliver leading identity, Collection solutions help debt recovery professionals in the fraud, compliance and health risk analytics solutions across key segmentation, management and collection ofconsumer and stages of healthcare to enable intelligent decision-making for business debt.
We leverage the combination ofour big data payers, providers, life sciences organisations and pharmacies.
technology HPCC Systems, our vast repository ofalternative Key developments in 2016 included successfully validating the data and advanced analytics to provide better economic useof the LexisNexis Socioeconomic Health Score as a predictor information for consumers and businesses.
of health risk without the use of medical or claims data, and In 2016 we launched our new fraud and identity platform that launching LexisNexis VerifyHCP, a provider directory accuracy enables companies to customise their identity verifi cation and solution that helps payers and providers to meet key federal and authentication customer experience to the risk level of each state requirements by ensuring the accuracy of data published individual consumer.
Our small business credit scores, credit toconsumers through directories.
reports and risk attributes enable lenders to increase the number Major Data Services include: Accuity, a provider of services and of potential small business applicants by 60% so that more solutions to the banking and corporate sectors focused on start-ups and privately held companies can be included earlier in payment effi ciency, KYC, AML and compliance: ICIS, an the funding process.
We enhanced our AML suite by combining information and data service in chemicals, energy and fertilisers: Bridger Insight XG, a Bank Secrecy Act and AML solution and our XpertHR, an online service providing regulatory guidance, best WorldCompliance high-risk individuals database with an alert practices and tools for HR professionals: Nextens, a provider of remediation service to mitigate fi financial crime risks and tools and services for tax professionals: FlightGlobal, aleading accelerate growth in Europe, Asia and Latin America.
provider of data and analytics for the global commercial aviation Government Solutions provides identity intelligence to US and travel industry: Proagrica, a provider ofsoftware, connectivity federal, state and local law enforcement and government solutions, data, analytics and media streams for the global agencies to help solve criminal cases and identify fraud, waste and agriculture sector: and Estates Gazette, which delivers a mix of abuse in government programmes.
In 2016, we launched high-quality data, decision tools and high-value news and LexisNexis Accurint Virtual Crime Center, which combines data information to the UKs commercial real estate market.
During the from police departments with public records data to give agencies year FlightGlobal acquired Diio and FlightStats, two leading visibility into cross-jurisdictional data in one interface.
We aviation data and analytics companies based in the US.
Accuity continued to grow our contributory database footprint in the also completed the acquisition of Fire Solutions, a provider of health, human services and public safety markets.
We developed compliance and training solutions to US regulated investment a contributory solution linking an agencys data with nationwide advisers and broker dealers.
Data and analytics for the global commercial Global provider of news, price benchmarks, aviationand travel industry data, analytics and research to the energy, chemical and fertiliser industries LexisNexis Active Insights VerifyHCP LexisNexis RiskView An active risk management solution that The VerifyHCP solution provides a proven An innovative tool using public records and provides timely alerts of recent changes approach to help payers keep their provider non-traditional data to accurately assess the occurring in the household to help insurers directories current and improve compliance creditworthiness of more than 40m enhance customer relationships with with US state and federal regulations individuals with little or no traditional credit betterservice history Claims Compass The Small Business Credit Score Data analytics suite with C. L. U. E. Police Innovative solutions for payments A breakthrough tool that increases a lenders Records, LexisNexis Claims Datafi ll, andcompliance professionals, from number of decisionable small-business LexisNexis Claims Medical Discovery and comprehensive data and software to manage applicants by up to 60% by blending our robust LexisNexis Claims Analyzer that improves risk and compliance, to fl exible tools to business, owner and authorised theclaims process from fi first notice of optimise payments pathways representative data with fi financial payment loss, triage, investigation and resolution performance histories through recovery Accurint Virtual Crime Center Policing platform used for analytics, crime analysis and investigations linking public records to national law enforcement data for acomplete picture across jurisdictions 22 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 The risk and identity management solutions described above This activity is stimulated by competition among insurance utilise a comprehensive database of public records and companies, high levels of carrier advertising and rising levels proprietary information with more than six petabytes of unique ofinternet quoting and policy binding.
data, which makes it the largest database of its kind in the US A number of factors support growth in banking and financial market today.
Our market-leading HPCC Systems technology services markets, including cross-border payments and trade enables Risk & Business Analytics to provide its customers with finance levels.
New credit originations, continued high fraud losses, highly relevant decision-making insights and to create new, stringent regulatory compliance requirements, escalating low-cost solutions quickly and efficiently.
anti-money laundering fines and high-profile anti-bribery and In 2016, we continued to reshape our portfolio, exiting areas not corruption cases impact growth opportunities for us with all core to our strategy.
A number of magazine titles and brands in the entities, including financial institutions, e-commerce, Netherlands were divested, including Elsevier Weekblad, communications, mobile and media companies.
In collections, Beleggers Belangen, P&O Actueel and PBNA.
demand is driven mainly by levels of consumer debt and the prospect of recovering that debt, which is impacted by employment Market opportunities conditions in the US.
We operate in markets with strong long-term growth in demand for Growth in government markets is driven by the increasing use of high-quality advanced analytics based on industry information and data and analytics to combat criminal activity, fraud and tax evasion, insight including: insurance underwriting transactions: insurance and to address security issues.
The level and timing of demand acquisition, retention and claims handling: healthcare, tax and inthis market are influenced by government funding and revenue entitlement fraud: credit defaults, identity solutions and financial considerations.
In healthcare, there are numerous growth drivers crime compliance: due diligence requirements surrounding for identity, fraud and clinical analytics solutions including the customer enrolment: security and privacy considerations: and data expansion of compliance requirements driven by new regulations.
and advanced analytics for the banking, energy andchemicals, human resources and aviation sectors.
Growth in the global energy and chemicals markets is driven by increasing trade and demand for more sophisticated information In the insurance segment, growth is supported by increasing solutions.
Aviation information markets are being driven by transactional activity in the auto, property and life insurance markets increases in air traffic and in the number of aircraft transactions.
and the increasing adoption by insurance carriers of more Growth in agriculture markets is being driven by adoption of sophisticated data and analytics in the prospecting, underwriting and technology and data solutions plus increasing supply chain claims evaluation processes, to assess underwriting risk, increase connectivity.
competitiveness and improve operating cost efficiency.
Transactional activity is driven by growth in insurance quoting and policy switching, as consumers seek better policy terms.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET REVENUE BY TYPE Rest of world Advertising 1,906m 1,906m 1,906m Print 6% 4% 3% Subscription Face-to-face 36% 2% Europe 17% North America Transactional 79% Electronic 61% 92% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Risk & Business Analytics 23 Strategic priorities Business model, distribution channels and competition Our strategic goal is to help businesses andgovernments achieve Our products are for the most part solddirectly, typically on a better outcomes with information anddecision support in their subscription or transactional basis.
Pricing is predominantly on individual markets through better understanding of the risks and atransactional basis for insurance carriers and corporations, opportunities associated with individuals, other businesses, andprimarily on a subscription basis for government entities.
Byproviding the highest quality In the insurance sector, our competitor Verisk sells data and analytics industry data and decision tools, we assist customers in solutions toinsurance carriers but largely addresses different understanding their markets and managing risks efficiently and activities to ours.
Principal competitors in Business Services and cost-effectively.
To achieve this, we are focused on: delivering government segments include Thomson Reuters and major credit innovative new products: expanding the range of risk management bureaus, whichin many cases address different activities in these solutions across adjacent markets: addressing international segmentsaswell.
opportunities in selected markets to meet local needs: further growing our data services businesses and continuing to strengthen Major Data Services competes with a number of information our content, technology and analytical capabilities.
providers on a service and title-by-title basis including: Platts, Thomson Reuters and IHS as well as many nicheand privately owned competitors.
Transactional and subscription revenues now account for 97%ofthe total business with the remaining 3% derived from advertising.
2016 financial performance 2016 2015 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 1,906 1,601 9% -1% 11% 19% Adjusted operating profit 686 575 9% -1% 11% 19% Underlying revenue growth improved in 2016, with strong initiatives continued to progress well, with strong growth in the growth across all key segments in both subscription and UK, and early stage developments in China and India.
Underlying profit growth broadly In Business Services, growth was driven by demand for identity matched underlying revenue growth.
authentication and fraud detection solutions across the financial Underlying revenue growth was 9%.
The difference between the services and corporate sectors.
reported and underlying growth rates reflects the impact of The government and healthcare segments continued to develop exchange rate movements and a minor effect from portfolio strongly.
Major Data Services saw strong underlying revenue changes.
Underlying adjusted operating profit growth broadly growth, and other brands & services remained stable.
matched underlying revenue growth as we continued to develop new products and services.
2017 outlook The fundamental growth drivers of Risk & Business Analytics The insurance segment continued to see strong growth, driven by remain strong, and we expect underlying operating profit growth volume growth and strong take up of new products and services to broadly match underlying revenue growth.
across the insurance workflow, and by expansion in adjacent verticals including life and home insurance.
The international REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 9% Underlying growth 9% 1,601 1,906 686 575 2015 2016 2015 2016
