170 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Directors Report The Directors present their report, together with the financial Parent company financial statements statements of the Group and RELX PLC the Company, for the year The individual parent company financial statements of the Company ended 31 December 2016. are presented on page 174, and were prepared under Financial Reporting Standard 101 FRS 101.
RELX PLC is incorporated as a public limited company and is registered in England and Wales with registered number 77536.
Distributable reserves as at 31 December 2016 were 1,472m RELX PLC's registered office is 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N 5JR.
2015:1,487m, comprising reserves less shares held in treasury.
Parent company shareholders funds as at 31 December 2016 were Corporate structure 3,112m 2015: 3,114m.
RELX PLC and RELX NV are separate, publicly-listed holding companies.
RELX PLCs ordinary shares are traded on the London Strategic Report and New York stock exchanges, and RELX NVs ordinary shares are The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to present a fair traded on the Amsterdam and New York stock exchanges.
RELX review of the Group during the financial year.
The Strategic Report, PLC and RELX NV have equal voting rights in RELX Group plc, which which includes a review of the Groups business areas, a financial holds all of RELX Group's operating businesses, subsidiaries and review, the principal risks facing the Group, any important events financing activities.
RELX PLC, RELX NV, RELX Group plc and its affecting the Group since 31 December 2016, and the likely future subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are together known as developments in the Group's business, is set out on pages 2 to 63 'RELX Group' or 'the Group'.
which are incorporated into this Directors' Report by reference.
TheDirectors' Report, inclusive of the Strategic Report Financial statement presentation incorporated therein, forms the management report for the Under the Governing Agreement between RELX PLC and RELX NV, purposes of the Financial Conduct Authority's Disclosure and one RELX PLC ordinary share confers an equivalent economic Transparency Rule 4.1.
interest to one RELX NV ordinary share.
Therefore, all shareholders can be regarded as having interests in a single economic entity.
Dividends Accordingly, the Group forms a single reporting entity for the The Board is recommending a final dividend of 25.70p 2015: 22.30p presentation of consolidated financial statements.
The Group per ordinary share to be paid on 22 May 2017 to shareholders consolidated financial statements represent the interests of both appearing on the Register at the close of business on 28 April 2017. sets of shareholders and are presented by both RELX PLC and Payment of this final dividend remains subject to the approval of the RELX NV as their respective consolidated financial statements.
This Company's shareholders at its 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Directors Report and the financial statements of the Group and Together with the interim dividend of 10.25p 2015: 7.40p per Company should be read in conjunction with the other reports set ordinary share, paid in August 2016, the total ordinary dividends for out on pages 2 to 106.
A review of the Groups performance during the year will be 35.95p 2015: 29.70p.
the year is set out on pages 8 to 51, the principal risks facing the Details of dividend cover and dividend policy are set out on pages Group is set out on pages 60 to 63, and the Group statement on 58 and 59. corporate responsibility is set out on pages 42 to 51.
The shares of RELX PLC and RELX NV are regarded as two separate Corporate Governance classes of share which together form the consolidated issued share The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions capital of the Group.
In calculating the earnings per share of the of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the UK Code, which is Group, the earnings for each company are calculated on a fully publicly available on the Financial Reporting Council website distributed basis.
The Groups usual practice is for only a portion of www.
Details of how the main principles of the UK Code earnings to be distributed by way of dividends.
Dividends paid to have been applied and the Directors statement on internal control RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders are, other than in special are set out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 71 to 79, circumstances, equalised at a gross level and included, until 6 April which are incorporated into this Directors' Report by reference.
2016, the benefit of the then prevailing UK attributable tax credit available to certain RELX PLC shareholders.
As a result of the Greenhouse gas emissions abolition of the UK tax credit, effective from 6 April 2016, reported The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in earnings per share have the same value for each RELX PLC and tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from Group operational RELX NV share from 2016. activities.
Details of our emissions during the year ended 31 December 2016 and the actions being taken to reduce them are In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit figures are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic presented as additional measures used by management to assess Report on pages 50 and 51, which are incorporated into the Directors' the performance of the business.
These exclude the Groups share Report by reference.
Further details can be found in our online of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
costs, tax in joint ventures, disposal gains and losses and other non-operating items, related tax effects, and movements in Directors deferred taxation assets and liabilities related to acquired The names of the Directors who served on the Board during the intangible assets, and include the benefit of tax amortisation where year, and changes to the Board, are set out on pages 66, 67, 74 and available on acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
76, which are incorporated into this Directors' Report by reference.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Directors' Report 171 Share capital Authority to purchase shares The Companys issued share capital comprises a single class of At the 2016 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution authorising the ordinary shares, all of which are listed on the London Stock purchase of up to 117.6m ordinary shares in the Company Exchange.
All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary shares by obligations or special rights.
Each share carries the right to one vote market purchase.
During the year, 29,235,507 ordinary shares with 51 at general meetings of the Company.
a nominal value of 14 116p representing 2.6% of the ordinary shares in issue on 31 December 2016 were purchased under this In a general meeting, subject to any rights and restrictions attached and the previous authority, for a total consideration of 376m, to any shares, on a show of hands every member who is present in including expenses, and subsequently transferred to be held in person shall have one vote and every proxy present who has been treasury.
The purpose of the share buyback is to reduce the capital duly appointed by one or more members entitled to vote on the of the Company.
resolution has one vote although a proxy has one vote for and one vote against the resolution if: i the proxy has been duly appointed by On 22 December 2016, the Company cancelled 33.7m ordinary more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution: and ii the shares held in treasury.
Therefore, as at 31 December 2016 there proxy has been instructed by one or more of those members to vote were 59,415,287 ordinary shares held in treasury, representing for the resolution and by one or more other of those members to 5.2% of the issued ordinary shares.
A further 3,745,255 ordinary vote against it.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares were purchased between 3 January 2017 and the date of this shares, on a vote on a resolution on a poll every member present in report.
The authority to make market purchases will expire at the person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which 2017 AGM, at which a resolution to further extend the authority will he she is the holder.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Substantial share interests registrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting.
There As at 31 December 2016, the Company had been notified by the are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the following shareholders that they held an interest of 3% or more in transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general voting rights of its issued share capital pursuant to Rule 5 of the provisions of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Company is Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR : not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights attached BlackRock Inc 9.62% to the shares.
Invesco Limited 5.03% At the 2016 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution authorising the Legal & General Group plc 3.40% Directors to issue shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis up to The percentage interests stated above are as disclosed at the date a nominal value of 16.9m, representing less than 5% of the on which the interests were notified to the Company.
Company's issued share capital and authorising the Directors to issue up to an additional 5% of the issued share capital for cash on a Between 31 December 2016 and 20 February 2017, the Company did non-pre-emptive basis in connection with an acquisition or not receive any notifications under DTR 5. specified investment.
Since the 2016 AGM, no shares have been issued under this authority.
The shareholder authority also Employee Benefit Trust permitted the Directors to issue shares in order to satisfy The trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust held an interest in entitlements under employee share plans, and details of such 4,229,442 ordinary shares in the Company representing 0.37% of allotments are noted below.
The authorities to issue shares will the issued ordinary shares as at 31 December 2016.
The trustee expire at the 2017 AGM.
Two separate resolutions to extend the may vote or abstain from voting any shares it holds in any way it authorities will be proposed at the 2017 AGM: i to authorise the seesfit.
Directors to issue shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis up to 5% of the issued share capital and to satisfy entitlements under Significant agreements change of control employee share plans: and ii to authorise the Directors to issue up The Governing Agreement between RELX PLC and RELX NV states to 5% of the issued share capital for cash on a non-pre-emptive that, upon a change of control of RELX PLC for these purposes, the basis in connection with an acquisition or specified investment acquisition by a third party of 50% or more of the issued share subject to certain conditions in accordance with the Pre-Emption capital having voting rights, should there not be a comparable offer Groups 2015 Statement of Principles.
from the offeror for RELX NV, RELX NV may serve notice upon the Company varying certain provisions of the Governing Agreement, During the year, 1,907,786 ordinary shares in the Company were including the governance and the standstill provisions.
issued in order to satisfy entitlements under employee share plans as follows: 530,771 under a UK Sharesave option scheme at prices There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit between 410.80p and 1032.00p per share: and 1,377,015 under facilities that, in the event of a change of control of both the Company executive share option schemes at prices between 466.50p and and RELX NV and, in some cases, a consequential credit rating 1255.00p per share.
downgrade to sub-investment grade may, at the option of the lenders, require repayment and or cancellation as appropriate.
The issued share capital as at 31 December 2016 is shown in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Articles The Company's Articles of Association, which were not amended during the year, may only be amended by a special resolution of shareholders passed at a general meeting of the Company.
172 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Appointment and replacement of Directors Financial Instruments The appointment, re-appointment and replacement of Directors The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, isgoverned by the Company's Articles, the Governing Agreement including hedging activities and exposure to risks, are described in between RELX PLC and RELX NV, the Companies Act 2006 and note 19 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 150 to 154. related legislation.
RELX PLC shareholders maintain their right to appoint and re-appoint Directors by way of an ordinary resolution Political donations inaccordance with the Articles.
However, no individual may be The Group does not make donations to European Union EU appointed to the Board unless recommended by the joint political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
In the US, Nominations Committee of RELX PLC and RELX NV.
Subject to this Group companies donated 74,264 2015: 53,791 to political restriction, the Directors may appoint additional or replacement organisations.
In line with US law, these donations were not made directors, who may only serve until the following AGM of the at federal level, but only to candidates and political parties at the Company, at which time they must retire and, if appropriate, seek state and local levels.
election by the Company's shareholders.
ADirector may be removed from office by the Company as provided for by applicable Employee relations law, in certain circumstances set out in the Company's Articles, and The Group is committed to employee involvement and participation.
at a general meeting of the Company by thepassing of an ordinary Where appropriate, major announcements are communicated to resolution.
Information on performance, development, organisational changes and other matters of interest The Articles provide for a Board of Directors consisting of not fewer is communicated through briefings and electronic bulletins.
The than two, but not more than 20 Directors, who manage the business Company is an equal opportunity employer and does not and affairs of the Company.
discriminate on the grounds of race, gender or other characteristics in its recruitment or employment policies.
The Group seeks Powers of Directors opinions from employees through a triennial survey.
The last Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company's employee survey was carried out in 2015.
Certain employees Articles and any directions given by special resolutions, the throughout the Group are eligible to participate in the Groups share business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which may incentive plans.
exercise all the powers of the Company.
Disabled persons Directors indemnity RELX Group has a positive approach to diversity and inclusion.
In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted Directors Details of the Groups Diversity and Inclusion Statement are set out an indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of liabilities on page 46, which is incorporated into this Directors' Report by incurred as a result of their office.
This indemnity was in place for reference.
The Group is committed to the full and fair treatment of Directors that served at any time during the 2016 financial year, and people with disabilities in relation to job applications, training, also for each serving Director as at the date of approval of this promotion and career development.
The Company also purchased and maintained throughout become disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment, the year Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of support and training wherever practicable.
Disclosures required under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Related party transactions The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 is set out on the Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party pages below: transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an arms-length basis and are properly recorded and Information required Page disclosed where appropriate.
1 Interest capitalised by the Group n a 2 Publication of unaudited financial information n a Conflicts of interest 4 Long-term incentive schemes 100 Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have a duty to avoid 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director n a situations in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director n a interest that conflicts with the interests of the Company.
The Board 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer n a has established formal procedures for identifying, assessing and 8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash major subsidiaries n a reviewing any situations where a Director has an interest that 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary n a conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
10 Contracts of significance n a 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder n a The Nominations Committee considers any such conflict or 12 Shareholder waiver of dividends 144 potential conflict and makes a recommendation to the Board on 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividends 144 whether to authorise it, as permitted under the Company's Articles.
14 Agreements with controlling shareholders n a In reaching its decision, the Board is required to act in a way it considers would be most likely to promote the success of the Company and may impose limits or conditions when giving its authorisation, if it thinks this is appropriate.
Actual or potential conflicts of interest are reviewed annually by the Nominations Committee.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Directors' Report 173 Financial statements and accounting records the Directors' Report includes a fair review of the development The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report and performance of the business and the position of the Group, and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and together with a description of the principal risks and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Having taken into account all the matters considered by the Board statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are and brought to the attention of the Board during the year, the required to prepare the consolidated financial statements in Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial position and performance, business model and strategy.
statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
misleading statement or omission shall be determined in In preparing the parent company financial statements, the accordance with Section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and Act 2000. then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether Financial Disclosure of information to auditors Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework has been In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and Director in office at the date the Directors' Report is approved, explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial confirms that: statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit presume that the Company will continue in business.
information of which the Company's auditors are unaware: and In preparing the Group financial statements, IAS1 requires that he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant information, including accounting policies, in a manner that audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable are aware of that information.
information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS are insufficient to enable users to Going concern understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and The Directors' statement regarding the appropriateness of conditions on the entitys financial position and financial adopting the going concern basis of accounting is set out on page 78, performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to which is incorporated into this Directors' Report by reference.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Long-term viability statement records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The Directors' statement regarding the long-term viability of the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Group is set out on page 79, which is incorporated into this Directors' financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that Report by reference.
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Auditors and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as detection of fraud and other irregularities.
auditors of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, to determine their remuneration will be Directors responsibility statement submitted to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Each of the Directors, whose names and roles can be found on By order of the Board pages 66 to 67 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted Henry Udow by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, Company Secretary liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: 22 February 2017 the parent company financial statements, prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 'Reduced Disclosure Framework' FRS 101, give a true and fair view of the Registered Office assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 1-3 Strand Company: and London WC2N 5JR
