178 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Report of the Board The Non-Executive and Executive Directors present their joint result of the abolition of the UK tax credit, effective from 6 April report, together with the financial statements of the Group and of 2016, reported earnings per share have the same value for each RELX NV the Company, for the year ended 31 December 2016.
RELX NV and RELX PLC share from 2016.
RELX PLC and RELX NV are separate, publicly-listed holding In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit figures are companies.
RELXPLCs ordinary shares are traded on the London presented as additional performance measures used by and New York stock exchanges, and RELX NVs ordinary shares management.
These exclude the Groups share of amortisation of are traded on the Amsterdam and New York stock exchanges.
acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related costs, tax in joint RELX PLC and RELX NV have equal voting rights in RELX Group ventures, disposal gains and losses and other non-operating plc, which holds all of RELX Groups operating businesses, items, related tax effects, and movements in deferred taxation subsidiaries and financing activities.
RELX PLC, RELX NV, RELX assets and liabilities related to acquired intangible assets and Group plc and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are include the benefit of tax amortisation where available on together known as RELX Group or the Group.
This report of the Board and the parent company financial Parent company financial statements statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated In accordance with article 2:362 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, the financial statements and other reports set out on pages 2 to 168, individual parent company financial statements of RELX NV which are incorporated by reference herein.
Summary presented on pages 177 to 184 were prepared under Financial consolidated financial information in euros is set out on page 186.
The consolidated financial statements on pages 108 to 168 are to be considered as part of the notes to the statutory financial The profit attributable to the shareholders of RELX NV was statements.
The Annual Report of RELX NV within the meaning of 869m 2015: 787m and net assets as at 31 December 2016, article 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Code consists of pages 177 to 180 principally representing the investment in RELX Group plc under and, incorporated by reference, pages 2 to 168 and the Corporate the historical cost method and loans to their subsidiaries were Governance Statement of RELX NV dated 22 February 2017 which 4,318m 2015: 4,218m.
Free reserves as at 31 December 2016 is published on the RELX Group website www.
com is were 4,046m 2015: 3,946m, comprising reserves and paid-in incorporated by reference herein in accordance with the surplus less shares held in treasury.
Vaststellingsbesluit nadere voorschriften inhoud bestuursverslag January 2010 article 2a under 1 sub b.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 0.301 per ordinary Principal activities share.
This gives total ordinary dividends for the year of 0.423 RELX NV is a holding company.
Its principal investment is its 2015: 0.403, up5%.
The final dividend will be paid on 22 May direct47.1% shareholding in RELX Group plc.
Payment of this final dividend remains subject to approval of is a global provider of information and analytics for professional the Company's shareholders at its 2017 Annual General Meeting.
and business customers across industries.
The remaining Details of dividend cover and dividend policy are set out on page 58. shareholding in RELX Group plc is held by RELX PLC.
A full description is set out on page 71.
Financial statement presentation Under the Governing Agreement between RELX PLC and RELX NV, one RELX PLC ordinary share confers an equivalent economic interest to one RELX NV ordinary share.
Therefore all shareholders can be regarded as having interests in a single economic entity.
Accordingly, the Group forms a single reporting entity for the presentation of consolidated financial statements.
The Group consolidated financial statements represent the interests of both sets of shareholders and are presented by both RELX PLC and RELX NV as their respective consolidated financial statements.
Areview of the Groups performance during the year is set out on pages 8 to 39, a summary of the principal risks facing the Group is set out onpages 60 to 63, and the Group statement on corporate responsibility is set out on pages 42 to 51.
The shares of RELX PLC and RELX NV are regarded as two separate classes of share which together form the consolidated issued share capital of the Group.
In calculating earnings per share of the Group, the earnings for each company are calculated on a fully distributed basis.
The Groups usual practice is for only a portion of earnings to be distributed by way of dividends.
Dividends paid to RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders are, other than in special circumstances, equalised at the gross level and included, until 6 April 2016, the benefit of the then prevailing UK attributable tax credit of 10% available to certain RELX PLC shareholders.
As a Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Report of the Board 179 Share capital On 8 December 2016, the Dutch Monitoring Committee Corporate All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional Governance Code issued a new revised Dutch Code, which is obligations or special rights.
expected to apply to financial years starting on or after 1 January 2017.
During 2016, 1,730,714 ordinary shares in RELX NV were issued as follows: Significant agreements change of control under convertible debentures at prices between 5.24 The Governing Agreement between RELX NV and RELX PLC states and15.64 that upon a change of control of RELX NV for these purposes, the acquisition by a third party of 50% or more of the issued share under executive share option schemes at prices between 5.40 capital having voting rights, should there not be a comparable and 15.29 offer from the offeror for RELX PLC, RELX PLC may serve notice Information regarding shares outstanding at 31 December 2016 upon RELX NV varying certain provisions of the Governing isshown in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
At Agreement, including the governance and the standstill provisions.
31December 2016 the total shares held in treasury were 53,204,378.
There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit Another 4,519,538 shares were held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
facilities that in the event of a change of control of both RELX NV At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders approved and RELX PLC and, in some cases, a consequential credit rating the reduction of the capital of RELX NV by the cancellation of up downgrade to sub-investment grade may, at the option of the to30 million of its shares held in treasury.
On 22 December 2016, lenders, require repayment and or cancellation as appropriate.
30 million ordinary shares held in treasury were cancelled on the basis of this authorisation.
Financial statements and accounting records The financial statements provide a true and fair view of the state Substantial holdings ofaffairs of the Company and the Group as of 31 December 2016 As at 22 February 2017, based on the public database of and on and ofthe profit or loss in 2016.
In preparing the financial notification received from the Netherlands Authority for the statements, the Board ensures that suitable accounting policies, Financial Markets, the Company is aware of interests in the capital consistently applied and supported by reasonable judgements and and voting rights of the issued share capital of the Company of at estimates, have been used and applicable accounting standards least 3% by the following persons or organisations: have been followed.
The Board is responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at RELX NV any time the financial position of the company and enable them to Henderson Group Plc ensure that the financial statements comply with the law.
The BlackRock, Inc. Board has general responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the company and to prevent and detect The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation fraud and other irregularities.
FIL Limited Jupiter Asset Management Ltd. Internal control As required under sections II.
1.5. of the Dutch Code, the Massachusetts Financial Services Company Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the effectiveness ofthe systems of internal control and risk management during Authority to purchase shares thelast financial year.
The objective of these systems is to manage, At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, shareholders passed a rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business resolution delegating authority to the Board to acquire shares in objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable, but RELX NV for a period of 18 months from the date of the Annual notabsolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
General Meeting up to and including 19 October 2017, for the The outcome of this review has been discussed with the external maximum amount of 10% of the issued capital.
The Board confirmed that as regards financial reporting, 26.1 million shares were purchased under this and the previous the risk management and control systems provide reasonable delegation of authority.
As at 31 December 2016 there were assurance against material inaccuracies or loss and have 53,204,378 shares held in treasury, representing 5.22% of the functioned properly during the financial year.
A further 3.3 million shares were purchased between 3January 2017 and the date of this report.
A resolution to renew the delegation of the authority is to be put to the 2017 Annual General Meeting, together with a proposal for approval of the reduction of RELX NVs capital by cancellation of accumulated shares held in treasury.
Corporate Governance RELX NV is subject to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code issued in December 2008 the Dutch Code.
For further information on the application of the Dutch Code, see the Corporate Governance Statement of RELX NV published on the RELX Group website, www.
com, which are incorporated into this Report of the Board by reference.
180 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Directors responsibility statement Signed by: Each of the Directors whose names and roles can be found on pages 66 to 67 confirms that to the best of their knowledge that Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors A Habgood E Engstrom the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance Chairman Chief Executive Officer with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by W Hauser N Luff the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted Senior Independent Director Chief Financial Officer by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the financial A Hennah position and profit or loss of the Group, and M van Lier Lels the parent company financial statements prepared in R MacLeod appointed 20 April 2016 accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 'Reduced C Mills appointed 20 April 2016 Disclosure Framework' FRS 101 and Part 9 of Book 2 of the L Sanford Dutch Civil Code, give a true and fair view of the assets, B van der Veer liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company, and Registered office the Report of the Board includes a fair review of the Radarweg 29 development and performance of the business during the 1043 NX Amsterdam financial year and the position of the Group as at 31 December The Netherlands 2016 together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Chamber of Commerce Amsterdam Register file No: 33155037 Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any 22 February 2017 person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that such liability arises under Dutch law.
Disclosure of information to auditors As part of the process of approving the RELX NV 2016 financial statements, the Board has taken steps to ensure that all relevant information was provided to the Company's auditors and, so far as the Board is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware.
Going concern For details of the businesses cash flows, financial position and liquidity for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the appropriateness of adopting the going concern assumption, see the Chief Financial Officers Report onpages 54 to 59 and page 78 in the Governance section.
Long-term viability statement The Directors statement regarding the long-term viability of the Group as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out on page 79, which is incorporated into this Report of the Board by reference.
Auditors Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young Accountants LLP as the Company's auditorsand to authorise the Board to determine their remuneration will be submitted to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2017.
