66 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Board Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Erik Engstrom 53 Anthony Habgood 70 R Wolfhart Hauser 67 R N C N C Chief Executive Officer Chairman Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed: Chief Executive Officer of RELX Appointed: June 2009 Group since November 2009.
Joined the Group Other appointments: Chairman of: Court of the Appointed: April 2013 as Chief Executive Officer of Elsevier in 2004.
Bank of England and Preqin Holding Limited.
Other appointments: Chairman of FirstGroup Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Past appointments: Previously was Chairman plc and a Non-Executive Director of of Smith & Nephew plc.
of Whitbread plc, Bunzl plc and Mlnlycke Associated British Foods plc.
Past appointments: Prior to joining the Group Health Care Limited and served as Chief Past appointments: Chief Executive Officer of was a partner at General Atlantic Partners.
Executive of Bunzl plc, Chief Executive of Tootal Intertek Group plc from 2005 until 2015.
Prior Before that was President and Chief Operating Group plc and a Director of The Boston to that hewas Chief Executive Officer of TV Officer of Random House Inc and President Consulting Group.
Formerly Non-Executive Sud AG between 1998 and 2002 andChief and Chief Executive Officer of Bantam Director of Geest plc, Marks and Spencer plc, Executive Officer of TV Product Service Doubleday Dell, North America.
Began his National Westminster Bankplc, Powergen plc, GmbH for 10 years.
Formerly a Non-Executive career as a consultant with McKinsey.
Served SVG Capital plc, andNorfolk and Norwich Director ofLogicaplc.
as a Non-Executive Director of Eniro AB and University Hospitals Trust.
Chairman of Norwich Education: Holds a master's degree in Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA.
Research Partners LLP until March 2016 and Medicine from  Education: Holds a BSc from Stockholm a member of its board until September 2016.
Munich and a Medical Doctorate from School of Economics, an MSc from the Royal Education: Holds an MA in Economics from Technical University Munich.
Institute of Technology in Stockholm, and Cambridge University and an MS in Industrial Nationality: German gained an MBA from Harvard Business Administration from Carnegie Mellon University.
He is a visiting Fellow atOxford University.
Nationality: Swedish Nationality: British Nick Luff 49 Robert MacLeod 52 R Carol Mills 63 A C R C Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: September 2014 Appointed: April 2016 Appointed: April 2016 Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Other appointments: Chief Executive Other appointments: Chair of the Board of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
ofDirectors of Xactly Corporation and an Past appointments: Prior to joining the Group Independent Director of Zynga Inc. Past appointments: Prior to joining Johnson was Group Finance Director of Centrica plc Past appointments: A member ofthe Boards Matthey, spent five years as Group Finance of Adobe Systems, Alaska Communications, from 2007.
Before that was ChiefFinancial Director of WS Atkins plc, having joined as Tekelec Corporation, BlueCoat Systems, Officer at The Peninsular &Oriental Steam Group Financial Controller in 2003.
From WhiteHat Security and Ingram Micro until Navigation Company P&O and its affiliated 1993 to 2002, held a variety of senior finance December 2016.
From 2004 to 2006, was companies, having previously held a number and M&A roles with Enterprise Oil plc in the Executive Vice President and General of senior finance roles at P&O.
Formerly a Non-Executive Manager of the Infrastructure Products career as an accountant with KPMG.
From 1998 to Formerly a Non-Executive Director of QinetiQ Nationality: British 2002 was Chief Executive Officer of Acta Group plc.
Technology, and before Acta, spent 16 years Education: Has a degree in Mathematics from atHewlett-Packard in a number of executive Oxford University and is a qualified roles.
Nationality: American Nationality: British Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Board Directors 67 Adrian Hennah 59 A Marike van Lier Lels 57 A C C Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: April 2011 Appointed: RELX NV, January 2010.
Other appointments: Chief Financial Officer RELX PLC and RELX Group plc, July 2015. of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Other appointments: Member of the Supervisory Boards of TKH Group NV, Eneco Past appointments: Chief Financial Officer of Holding NV and NS Dutch Railways, and Smith & Nephew plc from 2006 to 2012. amember of the Executive Committee of Before that was Chief Financial Officer of Aegon Association.
Invensys plc, having previously held various Past appointments: Member of the senior finance and management positions Supervisory Boards of Royal Imtech NV, with GlaxoSmithKline for 18 years.
Formerly, Maersk BV, KPN NV and USG People NV, and a Non-Executive Director of Indivior PLC.
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Nationality: British Officer of the Schiphol Group.
Prior to joining Schiphol Group, was a member of the Executive Board of Deutsche Post Euro Express and held various senior positions with Nedlloyd.
Member of various Dutch governmental advisory boards.
Nationality: Dutch Linda Sanford 64 A Ben van der Veer 65 A C N C Board Committee membership key Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A Audit Committees Chairman of the Audit Committees R Remuneration Committee Appointed: December 2012 Appointed: September 2009 N Nominations Committee Other appointments: An independent Other appointments: Member of the C Corporate Governance Committee Director of Consolidated Edison, Inc, Supervisory Boards of Aegon NV, TomTom NV Committee Chairman PitneyBowes, Inc and ION Trading UK Limited, and Koninklijke FrieslandCampina NV.
and a consultant to TheCarlyle Group.
Serves Past appointments: Chairman of the All of the Directors are directors of RELX Group plc, on the board of trustees of the New York Hall Executive Board of KPMG in the Netherlands RELX PLC and RELX NV.
and a member of the Management Committee Past appointments: Senior Vice President, of the KPMG International board until his Enterprise Transformation, IBM Corporation retirement in 2008, having joined KPMG in until 2014, having joined the company in 1975.
Formerly a member of the Supervisory Formerly a Non-Executive Director of ITT Boards of Royal Imtech NV andSiemens Corporation, served on the boards of Nederland NV.
directors of The Business Council of New York Nationality: Dutch State and the Partnership for New York City, and on the boards of trustees of the State University of New York, St Johns University and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.
