28 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 L e g al Business overview Legal is a leading global provider of legal, regulatory and business We help lawyers win cases for their clients, manage their work information and analytics that help professional customers make more efficiently, and grow their practices.
We assist more informed decisions, increase productivity and serve their corporations to better understand their markets and prevent clients better.
bribery and corruption within their supply chains.
We aid universities in their efforts to help students become LexisNexis Legal & Professional is headquartered in New York successful legal professionals, and we support governments and has principal operations in the New York area, Ohio and North and courts by making laws accessible and strengthening legal Carolina in the US, Toronto in Canada, London and Paris in Europe, infrastructures.
We help collect evidence against war and cities in several other countries in Africa and Asia Pacific.
criminals and provide tools to combat human trafficking.
We Ithas 10,700 employees worldwide and serves customers in more endeavour to advance the rule oflaw across the world.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2016 were 1,622m, compared with 1,443m in 2015 and 1,396m in 2014.
By geographical market, 68% of revenue in 2016 was derived from North America, 20% from Europe and the remaining 12% from More than 10m docket entries are included in Lex Machina, therest of the world.
In 2016, 80% of the revenue came from which provides legal analytics to companies and law firms, subscription sales and 20% from transactional sales.
enabling them to craft successful strategies, win cases, and close business by mining litigation data.
This data LexisNexis Legal & Professional is organised in market-facing reveals insights never before available about judges, groups.
These are supported by global shared services lawyers, parties and the subjects of the cases themselves, organisations providing platform and product development, sourced from millions of pages of litigation information.
operational and distribution services, and other support functions.
In North America, electronic reference and decision tools from More than 27m SEC filings are held in Intelligize, helping Research Solutions help legal and business professionals make securities and M&A professionals find standard language better informed decisions in the practice of law and in managing for corporate agreements and identify critical areas for their businesses.
Flagship products for legal research are SEC examiners when preparing filings for submission.
com and Lexis Advance, which provide federal and state Intelligize offers powerful filtering tools to hone in on statutes and case law, together with analysis and expert relevant SEC staff opinions ensuring professionals have a commentaries from sources such as Matthew Bender and Michie higher degree of relevance in their filings.
and the leading citation service Shepards, which advises on the continuing relevance of case law precedents.
Research solutions Almost 4bn people live outside the protection of the rule of also include news and business information, ranging from daily law.
LexisNexis publishes many of the worlds primary news to company filings, as well as public records information and laws.
We continue our collaboration with the United analytics.
LexisNexis also partners with law schools to provide Nations to develop theGlobal Rule of Law Business services to students as part of their training.
In 2016, LexisNexis continued to release new versions of Lexis Advance, an innovative web application designed to transform how More than 20bn connections within the LexisNexis legal professionals conduct research.
Built on the New Lexis database are continually explored and updated to deliver advanced technology platform, Lexis Advance allows primary the latest legal information via computer, tablet or researchers within legal and professional organisations to find smartphone.
relevant information more easily and efficiently, helping to drive better outcomes.
Future releases will continue to expand content 2.4 petabytes of data are held in the LexisNexis Legal & and outreach and add new innovative tools.
lawyers and trained editors with professional legal backgrounds who review, annotate and update its legal content to help ensure each document in the collection is current and comprehensive.
This domain expertise combined with the application of the Groups big data HPCC Systems technology means LexisNexis is able to update its entire legal collection faster and more efficiently than before, while also identifying and linking content, enabling customers to identify previously undiscovered relationships between documents.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Legal 29 New analytical tools and content sets are regularly introduced on Its extensive portfolio includes a number of leading brands: Lexis Advance.
For example, in 2016 LexisNexis released Search Halsburys, Tolleys Butterworths, Mlex and Jordan Publishing.
Term Maps, enabling a graphical visualisation of term hits within Jordan Publishing business and its market-leading content offering results and documents.
In 2016 LexisNexis continued to make includes fl agship titles such as Family Court Practice, Family Law enhancements to Lexis Practice Advisor to improve the homepage Reports and Gore-Browne on Companies.
In 2016, MLex launched a and build out new modules and content.
Additional product subscription service on Brexit, recognising the need for insights on releases, tailored to improving attorney productivity, include the UKs decision to leave the EU.
MLex Brexit coverage continues to GetaDocument forms, which enable users to retrieve a single break news and has become a regularly cited source for document by citation, title or number and a redesigned Shepards mainstream news outlets.
The content is delivered through multiple Brief Check for Lexis Advance.
formats including online, mobile apps and embedded incustomers work practices.
In Canada, LexisNexis released new versions of Lexis Advance Quicklaw with signifi cant content enhancements in areas like In 2016, LexisNexis continued to build on its UK LexisPSL product Securities or Labour & Employment, and new functionalities such suite with new Property Litigation and Planning modules and as the launch of a French interface.
signifi cantly upgraded search performance through the introduction of a new search engine.
Additionally, LexisNexis LexisNexis Business & Litigation Software Solutions provides law launched a new International Comparator Tool on LexisPSL to allow fi rms with practice management solutions, including time and users to compare multi-jurisdictional practical content more easily.
billing systems, case management, cost recovery and document management services.
Its litigation software provides lawyers In France, LexisNexis is a leading online provider of information with a suite of tools covering case preparation to processing and tolawyers, notaries and courts.
JurisClasseur and other leading review to trial preparation.
authoritative content is provided through multiple formats.
These content sources are, as in the UK, being combined with new In international markets outside North America, LexisNexis content and innovative decision tools to develop practical guidance serves legal, corporate, government, accounting and academic and practice management solutions.
LexisNexis Frances main marketsin Europe, Africa and Asia Pacifi c with local offering is Lexis 360, the fi first online semantic search tool andinternational legal, regulatory and business information.
combining legal information, practical content and results from Themost signifi cant businesses are in the UK, France, Australia, the web by providing tailored solutions for the public sector and Canada and South Africa.
LexisNexis focuses on providing customers with leading In 2016, LexisNexis France launched major improvements to collections of content and innovative online solutions to help Lexis360 Practical Guidance with new value-added services legaland business professionals make better decisions more indemnity calculator visualisation, online codes commentaries, effi ciently.
Adoption of online information services has grown document version comparison, features and back-offi ce strongly and electronic solutions now account for over 70% of improvements to enhance mobile services.
In the UK, LexisNexis is a leading legal information provider offering an unrivalled collection of primary and secondary legislation, case law, expert commentary, current awareness, forms and precedents.
LexisNexisUK legal practical Provides Legal Analytics to companies and guidanceservice law firms, enabling them to craft successful strategies, win cases and close business New resource that offers guidance to help Leading legal news provider covering Critical analysis, checklists, forms and attorneys handle transactional matters the entire spectrum of practice areas practice guides authored by industry experts more efficiently and effectively every singlebusiness day covering over 50 major practice areas New online legal research tool that Premier citations service A media organisation providing exclusive transforms the way legal professionals market insight, analysis and commentary conduct research on regulatory risk LexisNexisUK flagship legal online product 30 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 In the Asia Pacific region LexisNexis released Advanced Search In the US, LexisNexis focus is on the continuing development of Forms on Lexis Advance Pacific and launched the Lexis Advance next-generation legal research and practice solutions.
It is also research application in New Zealand.
LexisNexis launched Lexis conducting a major upgrade in operations infrastructure and Red 3.0, extending this award-winning digital product beyond customer service and support platforms.
This will provide Australia and New Zealand into Hong Kong, Singapore and customers with an integrated and superior experience across Malaysia.
LexisNexis also launched Practical Guidance in multiple products and solutions.
Over the next few years, Singapore and India, with four modules available in each country progressive product introductions, often based on the New Lexis and another five to be delivered by the end of the year.
Australia platform, leveraging big data HPCC Systems technology, will and Japan both launched regulatory compliance solutions new combine advanced technology with enriched content, multi-platform databases of regulatory content with plain sophisticated analytics and applications to enable LexisNexis language commentary, checklists, registers, alerts and audit customers to make better legal decisions and drive better tools that serve the corporate non-legal markets.
outcomes for their organisations and clients.
Outside the US, LexisNexis is focused on growing online services Market opportunities and developing further high-quality actionable content and Longer-term growth in legal and regulatory markets worldwide decision tools, including the continuous development of practical isdriven by increasing levels of legislation, regulation, regulatory guidance and practice management applications.
In 2017, complexity and litigation, and an increasing number of lawyers.
LexisNexis will continue to expand the New Lexis platform Additional market opportunities are presented by the increasing globally.
Additionally, LexisNexis is focusing on the expansion demand for online information solutions, legal analytics and other ofits activities in emerging markets.
solutions as well as practice management tools that improve the quality and productivity of research, deliver better legal outcomes Business model, distribution channels and competition and improve business performance.
Notwithstanding this, legal LexisNexis Legal & Professional products and services activity and legal information markets are also influenced by aregenerally sold directly to law firms and to corporate, economic conditions and corporate activity, as has been seen with government, accounting and academic customers on a paid the subdued environment in North America and Europe in the subscription basis, with subscriptions with law firms often aftermath of the global recession.
Strategic priorities Principal competitors for LexisNexis in US legal markets LexisNexis Legal & Professionals strategic goal is to enable areWestlaw Thomson Reuters, CCH Wolters Kluwer better legal outcomes and be the leading provider of .
In news and business information they are enhancing information, analytics and information-based decision Bloomberg and Factiva News Corporation.
Competitors tools in its market.
To achieve this, LexisNexis is focused on inlitigation solutions also include software companies.
introducing next-generation products and solutions on the global  competitors include Thomson New Lexis platform and infrastructure: leveraging New Lexis Reuters, Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
globally to continue to drive print-to-electronic migration and long-term international growth: and upgrading operational infrastructure, improving process efficiency and gradually improving margins.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET REVENUE BY TYPE 1,622m 1,622m Rest of world 1,622m 12% Print Transactional 18% 20% Europe Face- 20% to-face 0% North Electronic America Subscription 82% 68% 80% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Legal 31 2016 financial performance 2016 2015 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 1,622 1,443 2% 0% 10% 12% Adjusted operating profit 311 274 12% -10% 12% 14% Underlying revenue growth improved slightly in 2016, with US and European markets remained stable but subdued.
Revenue continued efficiency gains driving strong underlying operating from other international markets continued to grow well.
The roll out of new platform releases in the US and international Underlying revenue growth was 2%.
The difference between the markets continued, and adoption and usage rates progressed reported and underlying growth rates reflects the impact of well.
exchange rate movements and minor portfolio changes.
2017 outlook Underlying adjusted operating profit growth was 12%.
The Trends in our major customer markets are unchanged, continuing margin increase reflects organic process improvement and the to limit the scope for underlying revenue growth.
We expect ongoing decommissioning of systems, largely offset by lower underlying profit growth to remain strong.
profits from joint ventures and other portfolio effects.
Electronic revenues saw continued growth, partially offset by print declines.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 2% Underlying growth 12% 1,622 311 1,443 274 2015 2016 2015 2016 32 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Lexis Advance is innovative, easy to use and navigate, and saves us a lot of time.
Its invaluable when I need to check something especially when Im working out of the office.
Thecustomer service is also exceptional.
Natalie Ledlin Practice Director and Lawyer, Ledlin Lawyers 50,000 sources of news, business, public records and legal information Lexis Advance: providing a reliable legal research partner Ledlin Lawyers is a dynamic Australian commercial law firm set up by Terry Ledlin and his daughter Natalie in the Sydney Central Business District.
The firm has been using Lexis Advance as its legal research platform forthe past year and views it as its own personal research partner.
Terry and Natalie Ledlin of Ledlin Lawyers Being a boutique firm, Ledlin Lawyers doesnt always have About Lexis Advance a colleague available to carry out the detailed research Lexis Advance is an online legal research each of their clients may require.
Lexis Advance fills that platform that enables clients to access role for it and at the same time speeds up research times more than 50,000 sources of news, significantly.
Using the Lexis Advance precedent and business, public records and legal previous pleadings research, for example, can shave as information, including premium sources much as eight hours off the time needed to prepare for a that cannot be found elsewhere.
The snapshot tool highlights relevant results and the content for more than 40 areas of legal history feature enables partners to go back at a later date practice and can be accessed wherever the and review research already completed.
Increasingly, client happens to be, whether in the office, clients want to know why they are given certain advice and travelling or in court.
Lexis Advance the firm uses the pictorial research map to show the facilitates high-quality legal research, process by which conclusions and recommendations enabling clear connections among werereached.
disparate sources and types of information, and helping to drive better legal outcomes.
Cutting-edge technology and an innovative, user-friendly interface ensure customers never miss a critical source.
