68 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 RELX Group Business Leaders Senior Business Executives Ron Mobed Mark Kelsey Chet Burchett Mike Walsh Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Scientific, Technical Risk & Business Analytics Exhibitions Legal & Medical Joined in 2004.
Appointed to current Joined in 2003.
Appointed CEO to current position in 2012. Business Information in 2010 and position in 2015. to current position in 2011.
Previously President of Previously CEO of LexisNexis US Previously President of Cengage the Americas for Reed Exhibitions.
Legal Markets and Director Learnings Academic & Professional Has held a number of senior Group and Co-President and positions across theGroup over the Prior to that was President and ofStrategic Business Development past 30 years.
Studied at Liverpool Chief Executive Officer, USA, Home Depot.
Prior to that was a Co-Chief Operating Officer with University and received for Burson-Marsteller, practising attorney at Weil, Gotshal information services company IHS.
a leading global public relations and Manges in Washington DC and Holds a degree from Trinity College, his MBA from Bradford University.
Cambridge, and a masters degree agency.
Holds a degree from Baylor served as a consultant with University.
Holds from Imperial College, London.
a Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School and is a graduate of Yale University.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance RELX Group Business Leaders 69 Corporate Executives Ian Fraser Kumsal Bayazit Youngsuk YS Chi Henry Udow Andrew Matuch Human Resources Chairwoman, RELX Director of RELX Chief Legal Officer and Chief Strategy Officer Director Technology Forum Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary andPresident, Chairman Elsevier ExhibitionsEurope Joined in 2005.
Appointed current position at that time.
current position in 2016. current position in 2011. current position at that time.
Previously Global HR Previously Chief Strategy Previously was President Previously Chief Legal Previously was Executive Director atBHP Billiton Officer, RELX Group, and and ChiefOperating Officer Officer and Company Vice President Global 1998 to 2005.
Holdsan MBA Executive Vice President of of Random House, founding Secretary of Cadbury plc Strategy and Business in Finance and International Global Strategy and Chairman of Random House having spent 23 years Development for LexisNexis Business from Londons City Business Development for Asia and Chief Operating working with the company.
University and an MA from LexisNexis Legal & Officer for Ingram Prior to that worked at Prior to that was a partner at Edinburgh University.
Holds an MBA Shearman & Sterling in New OC&C Strategy Consultants.
also a Chartered worked with Bain & from Columbia University York and London.
Holds a Holds an MBA from Harvard Psychologist.
Company in New York, Los and is a graduate of Juris Doctor degree from Business School and a Angeles, Johannesburg and Princeton University.
the University of Michigan bachelors degree from Sydney.
Holds an MBA from Law School and a bachelors Williams College.
Harvard Business School degree from the University and is a Graduate of the of Rochester.
University of California at Berkeley.
