Accuity: improving mBanks delivery to customers Headquartered in Warsaw, mBank is one of the strongest and fastest growing financial brands in Poland, providing innovative banking solutions to its retail and corporate customers.
mBank was finding challenges in booking payments properly and About Accuity efficiently.
Staff were using a manual process to search for Accuity offers a suite of innovative payments routing information and this method cost valuable time solutionsfor payments and compliance and resources.
On a mission to improve operational efficiency and professionals, from comprehensive grow its payments capacity, mBank looked to Accuitys Global dataand software that manage risk and Payment File-Plus GPF-Plus product to automate international compliance, to flexible tools that optimise payments and significantly reduce the teams manual workload.
With deep expertise and industry-leading data-enabled The implementation of GPF-Plus took less than six months and solutions from the Fircosoft, Bankers formed part of a wider project to optimise and automate mBanks Almanac and NRS brands, the Accuity internal systems and processes.
It gave the bank a fully functional portfolio delivers protection for individual solution within a very short timeframe as well as immediate and organisational reputations.
mBank now processes 99% of payments automatically, a data filecontaining global payment routing saves 2-3 minutes of employee time pertransaction, saves information from multiple sources.
$300,000 annually on operational costs, fully returning its investment in one year, reduces human error through automation and has experienced a 10% rise in transaction volume.
Business review Review & Business Analytics 25 Accuitys Global Payment File-Plus is the ideal solution for any innovative financial institution aiming to automate high volumes of cross-border transactions by properly defining its payments routing.
As well as presenting some immediate benefits, the solution gave us a full return on our investment within one year, taking into consideration the cost of the product, as well as the associated project to integrate it into our operational banking system.
In reducing our operational costs and increasing the volume of payments we can process, Global Payment FilePlus has made mBank much more competitive inthe Polish market.
Piotr Sikorski Transactional Banking Products Division, mBank, Poland 99% of payments processed automatically 26 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Individualised interventions make Tandem such an effective tool.
We want to focus those interventions as precisely as possible, so our members see the most benefit.
The LexisNexis Socioeconomic Health Score helps us see risk ahead that traditional analytics tools just couldnt.
That means we can offer customised ways to help our members early, when intervention is most effective.
Russell Benaroya Co-Founder and CEO, EveryMove 250 clinically validated attributes in LexisNexis Socioeconomic Health Score
