Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 16 Strategic report The automotive market Dr Henry Shih, CEO of automotive supplier SuperAlloy Industrial Company SAI.
Improving quality and throughput The company believes that metal 3D Worldwide demand for vehicles Driving down re-work printing allows more design freedom: continues to grow and there is andscrap itisideal for producing prototypes and it increasing focus on fuel efficiency Another company benefiting from is also more efficient for the production and emissions control from Renishaws technology within the of parts that are currently very costly due both domestic and commercial automotive industry is Taiwanese to the multiple processes involved in their transport.
There is also an manufacturer SuperAlloy Industrial manufacture.
After investigating available Company Ltd SAI.
The company is a increasing need to produce additive manufacturing systems, Katcon supplier of high-quality lightweight forged extremely accurate and reliable chose Renishaws AM 250 additive metal products.
They produce more manufacturing systems, with manufacturing system.
Alberto Serna, than 200 types of wheel and have 600 Tooling Engineer at Katcon explains, a trend towards automated CNC machine tools working on wheel Theadvantage we have with the additive manufacturing processes to rim production.
technology is that we design in a free reduce cycle times.
space, in a free volume, and we generate In order to increase production precision Applying additive technology our welding fixtures.
Compared to the and reduce scrap, SAI equipped the normal process of machining which can relevant lathes with Renishaw OLP40 toautomotive production take up to four to five weeks, we have touch probes.
The CNC milling machines Katcon, based in Nuevo Le, Mexico, is been able to reduce the time to 36 hours were equipped with RMP60 machine tool a manufacturer of catalytic converters, depending on the complexity of the probes which measure workpiece position treatment devices and exhaust modules design.
We are offering in some scenarios as well as providing in-line key dimension for diesel and for gasoline systems, all a lower cost at a higher speed.
detection, thereby increasing production designed to protect the environment from performance.
The OLP40 systems allow vehicle emissions.
Katcon decided to SAI to carry out in-process measurement adopt additive manufacturing 3D printing control to improve cutting and efficiency technology to speed up and improve their for surface precision processing after processes to develop components.
Even more importantly, it reduces rework by 80%.
Dr Shih says, When we choose suppliers, we dont just look at the price of the Katcon, Mexico, produces automotive A Renishaw RMP60 touch probe parts using a Renishaw additive measuring an alloy wheel at SAI.
product: we also attach a great deal of manufacturing system.
value to their R&D capabilities and service.
Renishaw has an excellent reputation in manufacturing industries, and also provides service for different industries, so it doesnt just offer a product or a solution, but also shares with us its experience, expertise and the industrys best practices.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 17 The majority of key components on domestic and commercial vehicles are subject to process control using Renishaw products.
This illustration highlights just a few Latest engine technology Body panels and components From camshaft manufacture to quality Automated production lines rely on key applications for our control of valve seats, probing systems indexable and scanning probe systems for products relating to a enable modern engines to deliver enhanced checking car bodies known as Body in typical car.
performance, higher reliability and reduced White prior to painting and assembly.
Precision gears and reliable gearbox Suspension and braking components Wheels components Systems which enable automation and the Alloy wheel manufacture requires highly High-volume precision machining and quality control of parts on the shop floor are productive precision machining which can rapid part inspection necessary to support adapt to the variation inherent in forging paramount for the economic production of automotive gearbox and drivetrain high-quality components inthe volumes processes.
On-machine probing systems production are made possible with process ensure productivity through automated required by the automotiveindustry.
