Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 66 Governance Board of directors and Company Secretary N Sir David McMurtry John Deer Allen Roberts CBE, RDI, FRS, FREng, CEng, FIMechE FCA Chairman and Chief Executive Deputy Chairman Group Finance Director Formerly employed by Rolls-Royce plc, Trained as a mechanical engineer and Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1972 Bristol, for 17 years, holding the positions of worked for Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, for and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Deputy Chief Designer and Assistant Chief 14 years.
Accountants in England and Wales.
of Engine Design for all Rolls-Royce engines Co-founded Renishaw with Sir David Joined Renishaw in 1979 and appointed to manufactured at Filton, Bristol.
McMurtry in 1973, serving as Managing the Board of Renishaw plc in 1980.
Invented the original measuring probe in the Director from 1974 to 1989.
Heads group finance, business systems, early 1970s and co-founded Renishaw with Primarily involved in the commercial human resources and Wotton Travel Ltd. John Deer in 1973. direction of the Group, with particular Responsible for both metrology and Responsible for group technology.
emphasis on marketing and the healthcare regulatory and quality establishment of the Groups .
Reports to the Board on corporate social Responsible for group manufacturing responsibility matters.
and Chair of the overseas marketing subsidiaries.
A R N Geoff McFarland Will Lee Sir David Grant CBE, FREng, FLSW, CEng, FIET Group Engineering Director Group Sales and Marketing Director Senior Independent Director Graduated with a BEng in computer-aided Joined Renishaw in 1996.
Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc mechanical engineering at Heriot-Watt in April 2012.
Became Director and General Manager University, and subsequently worked for for the laser and calibration products line Currently senior independent director of IQE several years as a research associate.
in 2007 and subsequently Director and plc, non-executive director of the Defence After working briefly in the high-volume General Manager of the machine tool Science and Technology Laboratory Dstl, manufacturing electronic sector, joined products line in 2014. chair of STEMNET, and chair of the National Renishaw in 1994.
Appointed to the new role of Director Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc of Group Sales and Marketing in Vice-Chancellor of Cardiff University from in 2002.
Responsible for group engineering, group Holds a degree in physics from Previously held leadership positions at IP and the neurological products line.
OxfordUniversity and an MBA from Dowty Group, GEC, the Royal Academy BathUniversity.
of Engineering and Innovate UK.
Appointed to the Executive Board in 2015.
Received a knighthood in the Queens Birthday Honours 2016 for his contributions Appointed to the Board with effect from to engineering, technology and education.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 67 A R N R N A R N Carol Chesney Kath Durrant John Jeans FCA CBE, CEng Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc inOctober 2012.
Chartered accountant who worked Currently Group HR Director for Wolseley Currently chair of Imanova, UK Biocentre at Arthur Andersen for seven years in plc and an Advisory Board member for the Ltd and Edinburgh Molecular Imaging.
Non-executive director of ProMetic Pharma Worked for some time in the group Was previously the Group HR Director at Small Molecule Therapeutics Ltd. accounts function at English China Rolls-Royce plc and held a variety of senior Serves on several government bodies Claysplc.
positions at AstraZeneca plc, including the Ministerial Committee on including Vice President, HR and Currently Company Secretary of Halma plc, Medical Technologies.
Communications for its research and having also been Group Financial Controller.
Leads Innovate UKs Stratified Medicine development division.
Advisory Board and the KTNs Health Board.
Appointed advisor to the Prime Minister at the Office of Life Sciences in June 2014.
Norma Tang Ben Taylor retires 31st July 2016 CEng, FIMechE General Counsel and Company Secretary Assistant Chief Executive Joined Renishaw plc in 2001.
Ben Taylor retires from the Board on 31st July 2016 following an outstanding Qualified as a solicitor in 1988 and since contribution to the Groups performance then has specialised in company and over the last 31 years.
Ben has helped to commercial legal matters, advising articulate the vision for Renishaw and has business clients and as an in-house been a partner in developing longstanding counsel.
Heads the group legal and company We wish him well in his retirement.
secretariat function, advising the Board on legal, compliance and governance matters.
Committees A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee Denotes Chair of committee
