Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 38 Strategic report The consumer products market Optical testing equipment from UMA Technology checks smartphone lens quality.
Improving manufacturing capabilities directly onto an imaging sensor by the lens.
Speed is another important factor in Consumer products and This test pattern is an image evaluation tool the industrys assessment of equipment electronics continue to change for determining the resolving power, limiting performance.
UMA states, There is a at a rapid pace, with ever shorter resolution and modulation transfer function gap between the edge of the lens and life cycles driven as much by MTF of electronic still-picture cameras.
the insert on the lens tray.
The original fashion as functional requirements.
Different lenses project differing image system had to readjust position until Advances in technology, including qualities such that high-quality lenses the lens, light source and image sensor more sophisticated hardware closely reproduce the chart standard, were aligned, which often took several and sleeker physical design, whereas poor-quality lenses do not.
Consequently, enhancing call for rapid improvements in process efficiency was a big challenge Renishaw has supplied the optical for us.
encoder components required by UMAs encoder allows our latest system to locate DSC-E1 series, designed for small lens Focusing on fast and accurate the correct position at once, reducing mass production line testing.
The general positioning processing time significantly.
test process starts with the precise Smartphone cameras have become placement of a lens tray on the DSC-E1 UMA adds, Benefiting from the indispensable tools.
Lens quality is more series mobile platform: the candidate explosive growth in smartphones and important now than ever, due to the everlens is then lined up with the standard mobile devices, our potential market increasing number of megapixels found in chart and the imaging sensor beneath.
We must enhance todays digital phone cameras.
Taiwans Each lens test examines 9 25 different our equipment speed to maintain our UMA Technology Inc UMA develops image regions such that thetotal time leading position in order to seize these optical testing equipment for industry to taken for each lens is less than 3 seconds.
Renishaws encoders are provide accurate, rapid and reliable lens The platform moves with high speed back well known in the market and, when error detection schemes.
and forth, in both X and Y directions, compared with other brands, have the andaccuracy depends on high-quality best cost-performance ratio.
We have Lens testing equipment is used to ensure closed-loop feedback information noreason to choose others.
The optical quality of lenses provided by an optical encoder on is measured using a uniformly illuminated each axis.
ISO 12233 chart standard projected UMA linear stage incorporates The lens quality of smartphone cameras RenishawRGH22 optical encoders.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 39 The fast-paced nature of the consumer products market demands flexible manufacturing systems that can adapt to shorter lifecycles, yet still meet the requirements for high-quality, high-volume components.
This Digital display manufacture Metal housings for computers Large-scale manufacturing of flat panel High-volume production machining needs illustration of a typical household displays requires accurate encoders for probing technology to automate part setting shows a few examples of how position and motion control of high-speed and control cutting tools to minimise scrap Renishaw products are allowing systems.
Absolute encoders improve and maximise production capacity from reliability and productivity.
manufacturers to satisfy these demanding requirements.
High-quality look and feel Lens testing for digital cameras Plastic moulded casings Precision manufacturing using multiple High-quality cameras incorporated into Additive manufacturing and precision process control techniques is used to compact devices require good lenses.
machining technology are used to produce produce the high standard of fit and finish Position encoders are used to enable injection mould tooling with optimised required on casings and components for high-speed automated testing of optics conformal cooling for leading consumer phones and tablets.
at the production rates required by brands, enhancing product quality and smartphone manufacturers.
