Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 10 Strategic report Our markets We develop innovative products that significantly advance our customers' operational performance from improving manufacturing efficiencies and raising product quality, to maximising research capabilities and improving the efficacy of medical procedures.
Our products serve truly diverse markets Population growth and rising incomes Automotive across a wide range of industries, increased consumption in our customer types and geographic regions.
Continuing investment in From the manufacture of jet engines manufacturing capacity Life expectancy rising globally and wind turbines, through to dentistry to meet growing global increased demand for healthcare and brain surgery, our products, and our demand.
Improved fuel products and continuing demand for people who service them, are making a efficiency requires tighter consumer products.
real difference to the capabilities of our tolerances on powertrain manufacturing and healthcare clients.
We are also increasingly spreading components.
Cost These benefits are extended to the end risk through the diversification of our efficiencies and automated consumer of our clients products and applications for product lines, our processes required services, whether using a smartphone, customer base and our routes to market.
driving a car, riding a mountain bike, or Renishaws business has transitioned See pages 1617 having a new dental crown fitted, many over recent years from primarily being a of these products rely on Renishaws supplier of products to capital equipment technology and applications expertise.
manufacturers, to becoming much more As Sir David McMurtry has said, We are focused on delivering a full solution directly confident that there are not many modernto end-users.
Our experience in our core day planes, trains or automobiles in the product lines, which has highlighted that world that have not been touched in some our global customers need assistance in way by Renishaw products.
solving their problems, is being carried across into our newer offerings.
On these two pages we have listed some of our principal markets and the Today, many of our products lines specific key drivers of growth within those including measurement and automation, markets, for our products.
However, there additive manufacturing and healthcare are more generic market growth drivers lines are primarily sold direct to the that are positive for our business: end-user.
This helps to build brand loyalty and open up new revenue Global skills shortages increased opportunities including hardware and investments in automation and usersoftware upgrades, the cross-selling friendly technology.
of complementary products and Power generation Rising energy costs increased maintenance contracts.
demand for products that Manufacture of components Our business focus is to provide maximise output.
for civil nuclear, wind and solutions for our customers across these solar energy.
Increasing Focus on reducing emissions and highlighted markets and to be seen as focus on maximising output waste increased demand for high a trusted technology partner meeting from machinery used in performance products with ever tighter their needs.
Increasing manufacturing tolerances and products research into energy storage.
that help minimise waste and re-work.
See pages 6263 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 11 Aerospace Agriculture New aircraft production Increasing global demand to meet growing global for food products from demandfor civil air transport.
Increasing New fuel-efficient engines with global demand for biofuels.
complex parts requiring faster Greater investment in measurement.
Improvements machinery for intensive to fuel efficiency by farming capabilities.
See pages 1415 Construction Major infrastructure projects driving heavy equipment sales.
Skills shortages requiring more automation in equipment manufacturers.
See pages 4041 Consumer products Healthcare Ever shorter product life Neurological disorders cycles require flexible require highly precise manufacturing systems.
Growing Newgenerations of electronic demand for cosmetic dentistry devices demand precision with superior aesthetics.
manufacturing systems for Need to rapidly diagnose form and function.
infectious diseases for faster, more specific treatments.
See pages 3839 Growing demand for .
See pages 2021 Resource exploration Equipment manufactured tostringent safety requirements requires accurate, cost-effective andtraceable processes.
Non-renewable resources require exploration in demanding terrains and appropriate surveying tools.
Global population growth and urbanisation drive long-term demand for fossil fuels.
