Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 28 Strategic report Our strategy in action Global customer support Through the life-cycle of all our product ranges, Renishaw is focused on providing innovative services to support changing customer expectations and market requirements.
We are flexible with our approach, and support customer needs from initial purchase right through to obsolescence, irrelevant of global location.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Top-tier service centres 7 Test and calibration locations Our skilled support engineers provide All of our global service centres carry out 10 service in maintenance, retrofits product repairs to the same high standards andanybreakdowns.
Understanding our customers Accessing Renishaw support Renishaw support structure With a diversity of products and markets Renishaw continues to invest in the As well as local support within our to service, Renishaw understands the infrastructure and service capabilities subsidiary network, we have invested in requirement to be flexible with any afterto provide seamless customer service seven top-tier service centres as well as sale offerings.
through the variety of channels used ten test and calibration locations.
Our local to distribute products.
In many cases offices have facilities and the ability to Customer satisfaction is a fundamental our relationship with customers now provide local training courses in product factor when creating any after-sale encompasses multiple product solutions, operation, applications and maintenance.
Renishaw doesnt just want to each with unique service requirements.
meet customer requirements, it wishes to We have invested in over 400 support exceed expectations.
We are constantly reviewing our customer personnel, offering their expertise in field journey, whenever they have a need to service, application support, training and Innovation in the support of our products contact our support department, whether technical help desk assistance.
is critical in the long-term relationship with their request is for: our current and future customers and this The majority of our support teams have is why we have implemented: detailed information regarding any had a long career within Renishaw and ofour after-sales product offerings: we encourage them to develop skills repair by exchange service for and technical knowledge so that they customers that require a fast repair access to our technical literature: can become a specialist in a particular turnaround time, ensuring minimal purchase of spare parts: or product range.
system downtime: We invest heavily in training our people, emergency contact in a loan units for those customers breakdown situation.
providing test rigs and documentation requiring return of their original unit when a new product is launched, and also once repaired: Irrelevant of which Renishaw subsidiary throughout the life-cycle of the product.
will be looking after the local customer, transfer of equipment operational skills we recognise the importance that our Where we dont have a local subsidiary, from healthcare applications, where support message is cohesive and we have agreements with local agents our technical teams proactively attend and distributors to support our customers.
medical procedures, to our metrology These have been trained and supported customers who visit our global training as though they themselves were centres for bespoke courses: and employees of Renishaw.
support agreements from extended We are very focused on having a longwarranty to 24 7 support, whatever term relationship with our customers.
the customer requires, we will try and It is not just about a sale but more about flex our offer to meet each individual supporting and helping our customers customers needs.
develop their processes and improving the quality of their product output.
We continually review our support policies Whenever they need our support, we are and create new services to help our there providing them with tailored service customers in their changing markets.
solutions to meet their needs.
