Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 24 Strategic report Our strategy in action People Continual research creating Efficient high-quality strong market positions with manufacturing innovative products Renishaws people are central to the Renishaw is well known for its Renishaw is a highly vertically success of its business.
Our innovative, sector-leading investment in R&D and integrated organisation with significant hard-working and loyal employees engineering.
Apply innovation is a in-house manufacturing capabilities.
make Renishaw the business success way of life for Renishaw employees, not With high-quality manufacturing that it is.
A significant number of them just a strap-line.
We have continued plants located in the UK, Ireland, have worked in the Group for two to protect our core businesses with India, Germany, USA and France, we or three decades, creating a large exciting new patented technology are able to deliver robust and reliable collaborative team with a wealth of and process developments, whilst products tested to our exacting specialised engineering expertise.
also diversifying into new product and standards.
Our efficiencies, through Renishaw has actively focused on the market areas.
in-house automation and the use of ongoing recruitment and training of For further information see pages 3233 our own latest product developments, many bright and enthusiastic young enable us to be competitive with the graduates and apprentices and highest volume processes.
experienced professionals in order to For further information see pages 3031 further develop talent.
For further information see pages 5455 Global customer Focus on delivering support solutions Renishaw is founded on the belief that Renishaws business has transitioned excellent customer support delivers over recent years from primarily success.
Our customers are often being a supplier of products to global, with an order being placed in capital equipment manufacturers, to one country, the product shipped to becoming much more focused on another and the eventual end-user delivering a full solution directly to the often located on a different continent.
Our experience in our core By having local global support product lines, which has highlighted through our wholly-owned subsidiary that our global customers need network, we are able to assure assistance in solving their problems, customers that whatever their needs, is being carried across into our we are able to support and assist newer offerings.
them, resulting in a positive return on For further information see pages 2627 their investment.
For further information see pages 2829 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25 Strong market presence Consistent organic Supplementing the and focus on emerging growth business via niche markets acquisitions Renishaw has always been a global Whilst Renishaw does invest for the We actively undertake acquisitions as a group with a strong local presence.
long term, it also closely manages means to expand our product portfolio, By ensuring we target emerging costs at all levels and ensures that quicken geographic market penetration markets we are able to develop it does not undertake undue risks.
and gain access to new patents, strong working partnerships with It isthrough this approach that technologies and customers.
Renishaw has been able to deliver Progress These loyal relationships build quickly such a long-term track record of We continue to integrate acquired as our customers realise that all our profitable growth.
businesses and evaluate acquisition customers are important to us.
We have deepened Progress Renishaw has continued to experience our relationship with and increased Renishaws expansion into new underlying growth, which has justified our investment to 24.9% in HiETA growth economies continues, and further investment in infrastructure Technologies Limited, a UK company this year we have established new including our people, facilities and specialising in the design and delivery subsidiaries in Finland, Denmark and subsidiaries.
For example, our ROW of additive manufacturing products, Hungary.
We have also relocated to Rest of the World sales operation, such as heat exchangers for a range larger 14,800 sq ft premises in Taiwan which is responsible for 11 overseas of applications a complementary in order to accommodate growth areas has expanded this year by business for our additive manufacturing in the Far East region.
The process opening new subsidiaries in Finland, products line.
of developing larger offices in the Denmark and Hungary as well as USA, Mexico, Spain and Sweden is recruiting extra sales and technical also underway.
support staff, in order to support growth.
ROW is also progressing upgraded facilities in Sweden and new offices in Turkey and Hungary as well as increased investment generally in India.
Furthermore, our additive manufacturing business is establishing a global network of Solutions Centres in order to support existing and future growth.
This year we have already opened our first Solutions Centres in Europe, North America and Asia with further facilities due to open later in 2016, see page 27 for more information.
