243977 Renewable R&A pp042-pp052 22 02 2017 15:57 Page 52 SECTION 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Members of TRIGs Board of Directors, all of whom are the British Isles and Australia in banking, specialising in non-executive and independent of the Managers, are listed corporate and commercial credit and in private businesses below.
Graduating from the University of Durham with a degree of Master of Business Administration Helen Mahy CBE Chairman, in 1988, Jon also holds qualifications from the Institute of appointed 14 June 2013, aged 55, is Chartered Accountants in England and Wales where he is an experienced chairman and nona Fellow, the Chartered Institute of Marketing and the executive director.
Helen was Group Australian Institute of Company Directors.
Jon is a member Company Secretary and General of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, the Institute of Counsel of National Grid plc and was Directors and a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute a member of its Executive Committee for Securities and Investment.
Jon is a resident of Guernsey.
from September 2003 to January 2013 when she retired from National Grid plc.
She is also a director Shelagh Mason Director, appointed of SSE plc where she joined the board in March 2016.
Her 14 June 2013, aged 57, is an English other directorships are with Bonheur ASA, an Oslo listed property solicitor with over 30 years of company, which she joined in October 2013 and which in experience in commercial property.
May 2016 merged with Ganger Rolf ASA where Helen was She retired as Senior Partner of also on the board, and SVG Capital plc from July 2014 Spicer and Partners Guernsey LLP on where she chairs the Remuneration Committee.
SVG Capital 30 November 2014 and has taken up plc SVG is in the process following shareholder agreement the position of consultant with Collas of selling its assets to an entity managed by HarbourVest Crill, specialising in English commercial property.
Her last Partners LLC and it is expected that SVG will be wound up position in the United Kingdom was as a senior partner of during 2017.
Helen is also a member of the steering Edge & Ellison.
For two years until 2001, she was Chief committee of the Parker Review which in 2016 reported on Executive of a property development company active ethnic minorities on UK Boards.
She was a director of throughout the United Kingdom and the Channel Islands.
Stagecoach Group plc from January 2010 until February Shelagh was a member of the board of directors of Standard 2016 and she also chaired the Health, Safety and Life Investments Property Income Trust, a property fund Environment Committee there.
She was also non-executive listed on the London Stock Exchange for 10 years until director of Aga Rangemaster Group plc between March 2003 December 2014.
She is also a director of Medicx Fund and December 2009.
In 2005 and 2006, Helen sat on the Limited, a main market listed investment company investing General Management Committee of the Bar Council and in primary healthcare facilities.
She is also non-executive chaired its Employed Barristers Committee in 2006 and was Chairman of the Channel Islands Property Fund Limited a Director of Bar Services Company Ltd between January which is listed on the Channel Islands Securities Exchange 2006 and February 2008.
Helen was Chair of the General and also holds other non-executive positions.
She is a past Counsel 100 Group in 2007.
Helen qualified as a barrister Chairman of the Guernsey Branch of the Institute of and was an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute.
Directors and a member of the Chamber of Commerce, the Helen was awarded a CBE for services to business in June Guernsey International Legal Association and she also holds 2015.
Helen is a resident of the UK.
the IOD Company Direction Certificate and Diploma with distinction.
Shelagh is a resident of Guernsey.
Jon Bridel Director, appointed 14 June 2013, aged 52, is currently a Klaus Hammer Director, appointed non-executive chairman or director of 1 March 2014, aged 61, is a graduate listed and unlisted companies of the University of Hamburg and comprised mainly of investment funds gained an MBA at IMD Lausanne.
These was previously Chief Operating include Alcentra European Floating Officer of the global combined-cycle Rate Income Fund Limited, Starwood gas turbine power plant business of European Real Estate Finance Limited, Sequoia Economic E. ON, and also served on a variety of Infrastructure Income Fund Limited and Funding Circle SME boards including E. ON Vrmekraft Sverige AB, Horizon Income Fund Limited which are listed on the main market Nuclear Power Ltd. and the UK Association of Electricity of the London Stock Exchange, as well as DP Aircraft I Producers.
Prior to E. ON, which he joined in 2005, he spent Limited and Fair Oaks Income Fund Limited.
He was 20 years with Royal Dutch Shell in a variety of roles in both previously Managing Director of Royal Bank of Canadas Europe and Africa.
Among his other recent roles, he was a investment businesses in the Channel Islands.
Prior to this public member of Network Rail until mid-2014.
Klaus also and after specialising in corporate finance with Price advises investors in energy-related businesses.
Klaus is a Waterhouse, Jon served in senior management positions in resident of Germany.
52 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016
