Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 62 Strategic report The power generation market Dr Taiki Inoue, University of Tokyo, using an inVia Raman microscope.
R&D support for energy generation and storage anode materials to improve overall energy Worldwide attention is continuing Studying advanced materials density, rate of discharge and safety of to focus on expanding our The Mechanical Engineering Department electrochemical energy storage materials use of renewable energy.
at the University of Tokyo, Japan, uses for electronics and vehicles.
Whilst equipment such as solar a Renishaw inVia confocal Raman microscope to study graphene and other panels and wind turbines are in Dr Becker investigates in situ changes nano-materials in the development of in materials during battery charge and increasing supply, and research energy-related devices such as solar cells.
discharge with his Renishaw Bruker continues into making this combined Raman AFM.
This system - equipment as efficient as possible, The departments laboratory focuses its unlike scanning electron microscopes and the storage of energy generated is research on the synthesis and analysis of x-ray photoelectron spectrometers - does carbon nanotubes CNT, graphene and another area where significant R&D not require samples to be in high vacuum.
The laboratory uses efforts are being applied.
Therefore, he uses the Renishaw Bruker scanning Raman spectroscopy as an system to study cells with standard Researching battery life important tool for the investigation of the electrolytes, in an inert environment synthesised materials and their structure.
The US Army Research Laboratory provided by a glovebox.
This provides the ARL in Maryland, USA, is studying Lecturer Dr Shohei Chiashi says, The most realistic picture of the chemical and electrochemical energy storage materials Renishaw inVia is one of the most mechanical events taking place during with a hybrid instrument consisting frequently used instruments in our battery cycling.
of a Renishaw inVia confocal Raman university.
Scanning Raman imaging The capability to use systems like the microscope and a Bruker Dimension Icon spectroscopy is very useful for observing inVia in an argon-filled glovebox is critical atomic force microscope AFM.
the structure of CNTs and graphene.
It is for lithium ion battery materials since they one of the most important tools for our Dr Collin Becker is a mechanical engineer are typically air and moisture sensitive, research.
We find it possible to measure at ARL and his group studies materials says Dr Becker.
The ability to do mapping Raman images quickly and stably using for advanced lithium ion batteries and experiments and still be able to have the inVia.
Additionally, we find the software future-generation energy storage systems, system coupled with the electrochemical very useful for image analysis.
with a focus of developing high capacity cell used for in situ AFM is very important.
Dr Collin Becker using a combined Raman AFM system at ARL.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 63 From fossil fuels to renewable energy, Renishaw products are at the heart of associated manufacturing processes.
Whether in exploration and production in the oil and gas sector or solar panel manufacture, our Gearboxes and power transmission Wind turbine blades Equipment for inspection and quality control Probing and other process control products are used to control the ensures power transmission systems meet technologies enable precision manufacture production of key componentry.
the demanding specifications required of both large and small-scale components This illustration highlights just a for efficient service in power stations and for high performance operation and hostile environments.
reliability of turbines in service.
few keyapplications within the renewables sector.
Photovoltaic panel testing Solar panel manufacturing Analysis of chemical deposits on thin film Absolute position encoders provide layers using Raman spectroscopy enables smooth velocity control and high accuracy quality control and assurance for solar panel for automated operations in solar panel production.
manufacturing and other high-tech industries.
