Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 26 Strategic report Our strategy in action Focus on delivering solutions Additive manufacturing AM provides tremendous freedom to create complex, intricate and customised products, manufactured direct from a sliced CAD model, with no need for expensive tooling.
Renishaw is leading the transition of metal AM to volume production applications.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 27 innovative products.
AM istransitioning Re-using AM powder from a niche technique to a mainstream At the end of a build, unmelted metal manufacturing process.
powder is collected and sieved ready for re-use.
Potentially, powder can change Solutions Centres either physically and or chemically with To accelerate this process, Renishaw repeated re-use, causing it to go out of isestablishing a global network of specification and rendering it unsuitable Solutions Centres, where it can work for the AM process.
Renishaw has collaboratively with companies that intend conducted a study examining to what to deploy AM in production.
The Solutions extent powder is affected by multiple Centres support customers from re-uses.
Tests were carried out on Additive manufacturing machines build conceptual design, through product and the Renishaw AM 250 metal additive components up layer by layer.
process optimisation, to pre-production manufacturing system, which features scale-up and production deployment.
a class-leading inert atmosphere inside Customers can access AM machines and How AM works the build chamber whilst processing.
application engineering support, as well Titanium alloy Ti6A14V was selected Unlike subtractive manufacturing as Renishaws expertise in machining, for the study, due to its high cost and processes such as machining, which metrology and finishing operations.
propensity to pick up oxygen and start with a billet of metal and then Private incubator cells provide a secure nitrogen impurities from the atmosphere.
remove material to create finished environment in which to develop AM Over the course of 38 builds the same features, additive manufacturing AM designs, whilst pre-production facilities batch of titanium powder was used, with builds components up layer by layer.
enable stable, capable production no addition of fresh powder, to test a In Renishaws metal laser powder bed processes to be established.
The first worst case scenario.
The conclusion fusion machines, a thin layer of fine metal Solutions Centres in Europe, North was that the powder did not change to powder is spread evenly across a build America and Asia are now operational, any significant extent, either chemically plate and a focused laser beam traces out with further facilities due to open later or physically, over multiple re-use cycles.
com the powder, which cools to form a dense powder-recycling.
Renishaw is working with customers to alloy.
The build plate drops by a small develop production AM processes in amount so that another layer of powder a wide range of sectors, including civil can be deposited and the next slice of the component is built on top of the previous aerospace, defence, space, automotive, one.
Unmelted powder is available for remedical devices, mould and die, oil and gas, consumer electronics and use on subsequent builds, creating very sporting goods.
This layer-wise build process yields benefits in both the manufacturing process itself and in product performance.
Production benefits include the minimisation of tooling, reduction of waste and automation of the manufacturing process.
But the real power of AM lies in its ability to create innovative products that are difficult or impossible to make by alternative methods.
AM components can be made lighter by making them hollow, filling them with lattice structures or by locally optimising wall sections.
Surfaces can be shaped and textured Build plate showing a set of titanium Robot Bike Cos R160 mountain bike frame for effective bonding, and complex lugs for a bespoke mountain bike.
assemblies can be integrated into a single, multi-functional component.
AM can also be used to manufacture parts from highCustomised AM parts performance alloys that are very difficult Robot Bike Cos R160 mountain bike features a unique construction using additive to process conventionally.
Finally, there is manufactured titanium lugs, proprietary carbon fibre tubing and double lap bonded minimal cost penalty to making products joints.
AM enables each bike to be tailored to suit its owners body shape and that are customised for perfect adaptation riding style agreat example of product and business model innovation using AM.
Whilst AM has been used very effectively For further information see page 8 for many years to produce prototypes, its future lies in the volume manufacture of
