Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 64 Governance Corporate governance report Introduction The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for all the Groups activities, its strategy and financial performance, the efficient use of the Groups resources and social, environmental and ethical matters.
Sir David Grant, Senior Independent Director With the assistance of the Audit The Annual report on remuneration Other appropriate steps were also taken Committee, the Board approves the 2016 sets out the details of directors in order to maintain adequate procedures.
Groups governance framework and compensation throughout this financial We have now trained 1,282 people reviews its risk management and year, which will be subject to the normal worldwide via our anti-bribery E-Learning internal control processes with a view to advisory vote at the AGM.
module, as well as other training initiatives.
maintaining high standards of corporate In the period, the Board reviewed its Scope of disclosures governance throughout the Group.
risk management and internal control This corporate governance report has A key area of focus for 2016 was the framework, and has enhanced its been prepared in accordance with tender of our external audit contract.
operation, including setting up an the UK Corporate Governance Code The Audit Committee ran a rigorous executive risk committee which has, 2014 Code.
The Code can be viewed process resulting in Ernst & Young being in turn, formed working groups to at www.
This report, which selected as the preferred new audit focus on anti-bribery, information and incorporates the reports of the Audit firm, subject to shareholder approval cyber security, and data protection.
Committee and Nomination Committee, at the annual general meeting AGM in Further details are set out on pages 48 together with the Directors remuneration October 2016. and 49. report, describes how we have applied the main principles of the Code.
On behalf of the Board, I would like The Board also considered the new tothank Ben Taylor, who retires on viability statement requirement, and an We report on the operation of our 31stJuly 2016 for his huge commitment explanation of our process is contained business in the following ways: and contribution to Renishaw over on page 48 and the viability statement is 31 years.
Will Lee is appointed to the contained on page 73.
A review of the Groups business and Board as Group Sales and Marketing likely future developments is given in the The Board takes seriously its Director from 1st August 2016 and will Chairmans statement and the Strategic responsibilities for making sure that be proposed for election as a director at report.
Segmental information by all employees are aware of their the AGM.
geographical market is given in note 2 to obligations to act with openness, the financial statements.
I am delighted that Kath Durrant took honesty and transparency.
This strong on the role of Chair of our Remuneration anti-corruption culture is embedded in The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Committee from May 2016 bringing a our Group Business Code and AntiRules and Transparency Rules DTR, wealth of experience to this role.
Bribery Policy which can be found at require the Annual report to include a www.
com en  report which can be found In relation to our remuneration report on in the Strategic report.
In 2016, we have pages 80 to 86, the policy table from our continued to closely monitor operational three-year remuneration policy, which was The Directors corporate governance risks in key regions and are implementing approved by 86% of shareholder proxy report and other statutory and regulatory additional compliance policies in votes at our annual general meeting in disclosures set out on pages 64 to 75 certain areas.
October 2014, is set out for information and 87 to 89 form the Directors report purposes only.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 65 For the purposes of the DTR, which Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R require a corporate governance statement The information that fulfils the reporting requirements under this rule can be found in the to be included in the Directors report, Directors report, the Directors remuneration report and on the pages identified below, the Companys corporate governance as applicable.
practices are set out in the Directors corporate governance report, which forms Section Topic Location part of the Directors report.
1 Interest capitalised Not applicable For the purposes of the UK Listing 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable Authoritys Listing Rules LR, certain 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Not applicable information required to be provided to 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable the shareholders is also contained in 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable the Directors corporate governance 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity forcash Not applicable report, the Directors remuneration 8 As item 7, in relation to major subsidiary Not applicable report and the Other statutory and undertakings regulatory disclosures, including certain information relating to arrangements with 9 Parent participation in a placing by alisted Not applicable controlling shareholders.
subsidiary 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable For the purposes of the DTR, the 11 Provision of services by a controlling Directors remuneration report information required by section 7 of shareholder pages8086 such rules is referred to in the Directors 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable corporate governance report.
13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Other statutory and regulatory disclosures pages 8889 Cautionary note and safe harbour: this Annual report has been prepared for the purpose of assisting the Companys shareholders toassess the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeedand no-one, including the Companys shareholders, may rely on it for any other purpose.
The directors owe their duties only to the Company as a whole and they undertake no duty of care to individual shareholders, other stakeholders or potential investors.
This Annual report has been prepared on the basisof theknowledge and information available to the directors atthe time.
Given the nature of some , which has been given in good faith, the Companys shareholders should treat this information with due caution.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability of directors in respect of statements in, and omissions from, the Strategic report contained on pages 1to 61 and the Directors report.
Under English law the directors would be liable to the Company but not to any third party if the Strategic report and or Directors report contains errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
