Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 23 The main performance measures monitored by the Board are: Key performance indicators Financial KPIs Included in the Consolidated income statement Gross expenditure Revenue m Total engineering costs Adjusted earnings per Dividend per share pence including research and share pence We are focused on growth in We aim to achieve significant revenue, through increasing long-term returns to shareholders development m In order to provide an increasing our market and geographic by maintaining a progressive return to shareholders, along The growth of the business penetration and continually dividend policy, whilst maintaining with retaining adequate funds is fundamentally dependent introducing new products.
a solid capital base with sufficient for reinvestment in the business, on the continuing investment We have also made a number of working capital to support the we aim to achieve year-on-year in engineering costs for the acquisitions over the last five years forecast growth.
growth in earnings per share.
development of new products and which expand our product range processes.
The Group continues and will support revenue growth to make significant investment in by using the Groups worldwide future products, with engineering marketing and distribution costs equal to approximately 16% infrastructure to expand of group revenue, and has also these businesses.
been accelerating new product development in certain areas.
Non-financial KPIs Renishaw employee turnover Number of new placements and Total lost working time injuries per compared to the bar chart members of the graduate and 100,000 hours worked.
apprenticeship schemes on a calendaryear basis.
New apprenticeships New graduates New placements Employee turnover % Number of apprentices Training Health and safety intraining We continue to train, develop Our strategy is to grow organically, In a manufacturing environment, and reward our employees so so developing students and it is crucial that we maintain high We believe we need to provide that we retain skilled and effective taking on apprentices and standards of health and safety.
many options for career entry for teams of people.
Our aim is to graduates forms a key element Our aim is to have zero fatalities young people and we are proud maintain a UK employee turnover of this strategy.
Dependent on and zero lost working time injuries.
of our apprenticeship scheme rate which is below the UK economic conditions, we propose and the success it has achieved, average for the manufacturing to increase year-on-year the both for the apprentices that have andproduction sector.
number of new apprenticeships, trained with us and for Renishaw graduate and student placements in terms of addressing skills gaps.
In a period of growth, we intend to increase the number of apprentices taken into training each year.
