Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 42 Strategic report Performance Healthcare The medical dental products line also Hybrid systems, combining Raman Performance benefits from sales of Renishaw AM chemical analysis with the high spatial During the year there was growth from machines which are configured specifically resolution of either scanning electron our medical dental and neurological for healthcare applications, which includes microscopy or atomic force microscopy, products lines.
sales to world-leading dental company continue to be in strong demand.
The medical dental products line DENTSPLY Implants following an Likewise, the growing life science again achieved a record year for the agreement reached last year.
market is showing renewed interest in annual production levels of additively Raman combined with laser scanning There was good progress for the manufactured metal dental structures confocal microscopy.
neurosurgical products line, with created from cobalt chrome powder key strategic sales of the neuromate Market conditions using Renishaw AM machines.
This came stereotactic robotic system achieved from a mix of LaserPFM frameworks Life expectancy is increasing in both during the year.
The second installation crowns and bridges, newLaserRPD developed and developing markets, of a system in Spain was made in the partial dentures see page 43 and meaning that key drivers include the renowned Sant Joan fide Du Barcelona LaserAbutments, which are implantrequirement for faster procedures Childrens Hospital with the first surgery supported custom abutments that are to reduce waiting times, more being a  made by Renishaws hybrid manufacturing economical treatments, more patientSEEG implantation case for epilepsy.
additively manufactured to capture specific treatments e. g. implants and Neuromate systems along with the fine occlusal details and then precision personalised medicines, and safer neuroinspire surgical planning software machined to achieve precisely fitting procedures with reduced human errors.
were also installed in leading hospitals in interface geometry for screw-retained All our healthcare products lines are well the UK including Great Ormond Street implants: porcelain is then applied directly placed to deliver for these requirements.
Hospital for children in London, UK to the abutment without the need for a Global economic conditions continue to and these have been successfully used separate crown.
Sales of the latter have for SEEG cases as well as biopsies of limit the availability of academic research been boosted by a collaboration with tumours in delicate regions of the brain.
funding in certain markets, while remaining global implant innovator, BioHorizons, strong in others.
We entered the first which is allowing its customers to offer Whilst we are able to meet the high half in a very positive mood with strong acustom AM abutment for the first time.
performance Raman instrumentation first half growth for our spectroscopy requirements for a wide range of research There has also been substantial progress line, but this has not been sustained into applications, including life sciences, in the supply of additively manufactured the second half where further delays graphene and other 2D materials, LaserImplants which were introduced to funding have been experienced.
pharmaceuticals and advanced materials at the end of the previous year.
Key research areas including 2D and 3D for the green energy market, there is an These custom-made craniomaxillofacial materials, green energy and biomedical increasing use of our technology within patient specific implants PSIs and research continue to attract funding medical research.
associated cutting guides are supporting and our spectroscopy products are reconstructive surgery, typically resulting During the year, we highlighted several well placed to service these sectors, from head or neck trauma, birth defects such applications for our inVia system: particularly with the launch of our new or cancer treatment see Centro Mdico inVia Qontor with LiveTrack technology.
in Canada, The Irving K Barber School Teknon case study on page 20. of Arts and Sciences at the University Strategy for growth of British Columbia, is using our system The majority of medical dental AM to detect radiation damage in cells and We aim to develop innovative healthcare products manufacture now takes tissues during cancer treatments, so that products that will significantly advance our place in the new Healthcare Centre of customers operational performance by dosages can be adjusted to be more Excellence which has been established maximising research capabilities, reducing precise and targeted: The Childrens at the Miskin site.
The Centre operates process times and improving the efficacy Hospital of Michigan, USA, is analysing under an ISO13485 quality management childhood diseases with the ultimate goal of medical procedures.
We are also system for the design and manufacture of to have Raman technology available in increasingly addressing the requirement medical devices and will operate additive for personalised healthcare treatments.
the operating room for accurate, real-time manufacturing processes to produce diagnosis of tissue during operations: medical products.
The manufacture of As a key Renishaw focus is to develop and, also in the USA, the University zirconia dental structures continues at our technologies that provide patented of Colorado Boulder is analysing the Stonehouse facility.
products and methods, we invested mechanical behaviour and underlying 9.0m net of capitalised costs of materials science of biological tissues expenditure on R&D and engineering and biomaterials, including those used during the year.
in biological tissue replacement e. g. for tissue repair and regeneration.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 43 The regulatory requirements for healthcare Key developments Outlook products demand significant investment, A key launch for the spectroscopy line In developing markets, levels of wealth but make barriers to entry high for was the inVia Qontor, our most advanced are increasing at a national and individual competitive products.
Raman microscope which builds on the level, which is driving demand for highermarket-leading inVia Reflex.
The new quality medical treatments, often requiring Our metrology and healthcare businesses system includes Renishaws innovative more technologically advanced products.
are interconnected and we employ LiveTrack focus tracking technology, core metrology technologies and Increased life expectancy on a global which enables users to analyse samples manufacturing expertise to minimise basis means greater incidences of with uneven, curved or rough surfaces.
This is illustrated very degenerative neurological diseases, Optimum focus is maintained in real-time clearly in our medical dental products line which will require surgical therapies.
during data collection and white light where we utilise our own AM machines in With appropriate regulatory approvals video viewing, removing the need for the manufacture of dental structures and and increasing numbers of reference sites timeconsuming manual focusing, medical implants, whilst also utilising our we are increasingly well-placed to supply pre-scanning or sample preparation.
knowledge of subtractive machining in the neurosurgeons with the products and hybrid manufacture of LaserAbutments.
During the year the medical dental techniques to support such procedures.
Our Raman systems are supplied with products line introduced LaserRPD The market for Raman spectroscopy a high-speed encoded stage which removable partial dentures which are continues to grow in fields such as incorporates our position encoders, additively manufactured from cobalt nanotechnology, advanced materials, whilst a key aspect of our offering is the chrome powder.
For patients, these lifesciences and medical research.
ability to give customers the flexibility to offer a lower-cost alternative to implants rapidly change key components within our and for people who are concerned spectrometers, such as diffraction grating about the invasive surgery required to and Rayleigh filters this is made possible place implants.
by kinematic mounts which are also used We have supplied an investigational extensively in our CMM and machine tool drug delivery system for a clinician-led probing systems.
clinical trial for a therapy for the treatment of Parkinsons disease.
The convection enhanced delivery CED system was manufactured for North Bristol NHS Trust and used to infuse glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor GDNF.
The same system is also being used for the delivery of a chemotherapy drug for the treatment of childhood brain tumours.
Installation of a neuromate system at Two LaserRPD removable partial Great Ormond Street Hospital in London.
