Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 69 International Sales and Marketing Board Kevin Gani Sean Hymas Stewart Lane Rainer Lotz Director of Sales Development President and Representative General Manager, Managing Director, Director, Renishaw KK UK Sales and Group Renishaw GmbH Business Development Joined Renishaw in 2011 and Joined Renishaw in 1989 Joined Renishaw in 2000 Joined Renishaw in 2006. appointed Director of Sales following a years sandwich working as both a design and Over 20 years experience in Development in 2012. placement between 1987 business manager within the related positions.
Responsible for the Responsible for the operations development of commercial Over 25 years experience of Appointed as the Groups in Germany and Austria.
teams, systems and marketing, international sales, Business Development Appointed as a member of processes.
Manager in 2012 and General the International Sales and Manager for the UK sales Manages and leads the Moved to Japan in 2008 Marketing Board in 2008. organisation in 2013. development of the Renishaw to further drive sales and Academy.
On the boards of the West of England Aerospace Appointed as a member of Appointed President of Forum, the Manufacturing the International Sales and Renishaw KK and to the Technologies Association Marketing Board in 2012. International Sales and MTA and CECIMO, the Marketing Board in 2012.
John Deer Deputy Chairman See page 66 forbiography Allen Roberts Group Finance Director See page 66 forbiography Will Lee Clive Martell Jean-Marc Meffre Rhydian Pountney Group Sales and Marketing General Manager, Head of Global Managing Director, Director ROW Sales Additive Manufacturing Far East See page 66 forbiography Leo Somerville Joined Renishaw in 2015.
Joined Renishaw in 1988 Joined Renishaw in 1979.
President, Renishaw as Managing Director of Responsible for the strategy Appointed as a member of NorthAmerica Renishaw France.
and direction of additive the International Sales and See page 68 forbiography manufacturing.
Holds a masters degree in Marketing Board in 2008.
Over 30 years experience Over 30 years experience Norma Tang inadvanced engineering and Moved to Renishaw Hong in sales and marketing.
General Counsel and international sales.
Responsible for Responsible for 11 overseas Company Secretary all the operations in the Far operations, including India Progressed from graduate See page 67 forbiography East and Australasia, except and Russia.
engineer to CEO of Delcam Japan.
plc, and managed transition UK Chair of the Technology from AIM listed company to Appointed as a member of Collaboration in Advanced adivision of Autodesk.
the International Sales and Engineering working group of Marketing Board in 2008. the UK-India joint economic Appointed as a member of and trade committee.
the International Sales and Marketing Board in 2015.
