Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 87 Other statutory and regulatory disclosures All the interests were beneficially held Review of the business Share capital and change with the exception of 2,434,411 shares A review of the business and likely future ofcontrol 2015: 2,434,411 shares which were nondevelopments is given in the Chairmans Details of the Companys share capital, beneficially held by D J Deer but in respect statement and the Strategic report.
including rights and obligations, is given of which he has voting rights.
Segmental information by geographical in note 19 to the financial statements.
market is given in note 2 to the There has been no change in the holdings The Company is not a party to any financial statements.
shown on page 85 in the period 1st July significant agreements that might 2016 to 27th July 2016.
In accordance terminate upon a change of control of The Group has established and acquired with the provisions of the Code all the Company.
overseas manufacturing, marketing and directors will retire and, being eligible, distribution subsidiaries to manufacture A shareholders authority for the purchase offer themselves for re-election at the some of the Groups products and to by the Company of a maximum of 10% annual general meeting AGM to be provide support to customers in our major of its own shares was in existence during held on 13thOctober 2016.
Details of markets in the following regions outside the 2016 financial year.
However, the directors who offer themselves up for the UK: Company did not purchase any of its own re-election or election, as the case may shares during that time.
Europe: Denmark, Finland, Germany, be, are shown on pages 66 and 67 and Hungary, France, Italy, Spain, full biographical details are available at Auditor Switzerland, Netherlands, Czech www.
Following selection by the Audit Republic, Poland, Russia, Sweden Sir David McMurtry, as one party, and Committee as a result of a tender and Austria: DJ Deer and Mrs M E Deer, as the other process, a resolution to appoint Ernst Americas: USA, Mexico, Brazil party, have entered into an agreement & Young LLP as the new auditor of and Canada: relating to the way each party would vote the Company will be proposed at the in respect of his or her shares if requested forthcoming AGM.
Far East: Japan, Hong Kong, Australia, by the other party to do so.
Under this South Korea, Peoples Republic of Disclosure of information agreement Sir David McMurtry, John Deer China, Singapore and Taiwan: and and Mrs Deer agree that i Mr and Mrs toauditor other regions: India and Israel.
Deer will vote their shares in favour of any The directors who held office at the date ordinary resolution if requested to do so of approval of this statement confirm that, There are also representative offices in by Sir David McMurtry and ii Sir David so far as they are each aware, there is Turkey, Malaysia, Vietnam, Indonesia and McMurtry will vote his shares against no relevant audit information of which the Thailand and an associate company in any special or extraordinary resolution Companys auditor is unaware, and each Slovenia, RLS, which is 50%-owned.
if requested to do so by John Deer.
director has taken all the steps that he Also part of the Group is a subsidiary in The voting arrangement was renewed in or she ought to have taken as a director Slovenia which designs and arranges 2013 for a further period of five years and to make himself herself aware of any the procurement of application-specific will terminate on the earlier of 25th May relevant audit information and to establish integrated circuits for the Group and RLS.
2018 and the deaths of both of Sir David that the Companys auditor is aware of McMurtry and John Deer.
Further information is available on the Companys website: www.
The rules on appointment, reappointment Annual general meeting and retirement by rotation of the directors Dividends The notice convening the AGM and an and their powers are set out in the explanation of the resolutions sought The directors propose a final dividend Companys Articles of Association.
are set out in a separate circular.
At the of 25,839,932 or 35.5p per share There are no powers given to the directors meeting, the Company will be seeking 2015: 24,748,105 or 34.0p per share that are regarded as unusual.
shareholder approval for, amongst which, together with the interim dividend Directors and officers other things, the ability to make market of 9,098,568 or 12.5p per share purchases of its own ordinary shares, 2015: 9,098,568 or 12.5p makes a indemnity insurance up to a total of 10% of the issued share total amount of dividends for the year Subject to the provisions of the capital as well as the appointment of a of 34,938,500 or 48.0p per share, Companies Act 2006, the Companys new auditor.
compared to 33,846,673 or 46.5p per Articles of Association provide for the share for the previous year.
directors and officers of the Company The directors consider that all the to be appropriately indemnified.
resolutions proposed are in the best Directors and their interests The Company maintains insurance for interests of the Company and its The directors at the end of the year its directors and officers in respect of shareholders as a whole and unanimously are listed on page 85 together with their acts and omissions during the recommend that shareholders vote in their interests in the share capital of the performance of their duties.
favour of the resolutions, as they intend to Company with the equivalent number of do in respect of their own holdings.
voting rights, as notified to the Company.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 88 Governance Other statutory and regulatory disclosures continued Substantial shareholdings Employees Donations Apart from the shareholdings and The retention of highly-skilled employees is No political donations were made during corresponding voting rights of Sir David essential to the future of the business, and the year.
McMurtry and John Deer 36.23% and the directors place great emphasis on the Controlling shareholders 16.80% respectively, the table below continuation of the Companys approved arrangements discloses the voting rights that have training policy.
Health and safety matters been notified to the directors under the are given special attention by the directors The Listing Rules require that premium requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys and well established systems of safety listed companies with controlling Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules management are in place throughout shareholders defined as a shareholder DTR 5, which represent 3% or more of the the Group to safeguard employees, who individually or with any of their voting rights attached to issued shares in customers and visitors.
concert parties exercises or controls 30% the Company, as at 30th June 2016. or more of the votes able to be cast on Employment policies are designed to all or substantially all the matters at the % of issued provide equal opportunities irrespective of Substantial share Number of Companys general meeting must enter race, colour, religion, sex, age, disability or shareholdings capital shares into a relationship agreement containing sexual orientation.
Proper consideration Baillie Gifford & Co 5.25% 3,846,993 specific independence provisions.
is given to applications for employment BlackRock Inc. 4.92% 3,578,133 from disabled people where suitable for The independence provisions required by Capital Research appropriate vacancies.
Employees who the Listing Rules are that: and Management become disabled whilst with the Company Company 4.76% 3,465,730 i transactions and arrangements with will be given every opportunity to continue the controlling shareholder and or any Standard Life their employment through reasonable of its associates will be conducted Investments adjustment to their working conditions, at arms length and on normal Limited 4.99% 3,631,612 equipment, or where this is not possible, commercial terms: re-training for other positions.
They will Research and development also be afforded opportunities to continue ii neither the controlling shareholder nor training and gain promotion on the same The Group has a continuing commitment any of its associates will take any action basis as any other employee.
to a high level of research and that would have the effect of preventing development.
The expenditure involved the Company from complying with its Details on information provided to is directed towards the research and obligations under the Listing Rules: and employees on the performance of the development of new products relating business, consultation with employees iii neither the controlling shareholder nor to metrology, including computer-aided and performance incentives are contained any of its associates will propose or design and manufacturing systems, and in the description of corporate social procure the proposal of a shareholder relating to healthcare products, including responsibility activities set out on pages resolution which is intended or appears Raman spectroscopy systems, dental 52 to 61. to be intended to circumvent the and craniomaxillofacial implants and proper application of the Listing Rules.
certain areas in the medical devices field.
There are no agreements with employees Further information on the expenditure on providing for compensation for any loss of employment that occurs because of a research and development is contained in takeover bid.
the financial review section of the Strategic report and the interview with Geoff McFarland on page 33.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 89 By virtue of his shareholding in the Guidance has been received from Company, Sir David McMurtry Chairman the FCA about the application of the and Chief Executive 36.2% shareholder enhanced oversight measures to the is a controlling shareholder.
John Deer remuneration and benefits received by the Deputy Chairman, together with his wife, controlling shareholders in their capacity 16.8% is also a controlling shareholder by as executive directors in accordance with virtue of a long-standing voting agreement the Companys approved remuneration between John Deer and his wife with policy as well other ordinary course Sir David McMurtry.
The Board confirms corporate matters, such as the payment that the Company has not been able to of dividends by the Company to all enter into a relationship agreement with shareholders.
The FCA confirmed that its controlling shareholders, containing either these are not transactions or the independence provisions required arrangements that fall within the enhanced by the Listing Rules.
The Financial oversight measures or that the FCA will Conduct Authority FCA has been permit a modification of the enhanced notified of this, as required by the Listing oversight measures so that they will not Rules.
The controlling shareholders apply provided that the arrangements have informed the Board that they are remain in the ordinary course of business not willing to enter into a relationship and, in the case of salary reviews and agreement because they are of the view bonuses, provided that they fall within the that the requirement to enter into the small transaction exemption in the Annex relationship agreement infringes upon to LR 11. their rights as shareholders and their track Greenhouse gas emissions record demonstrates that they act in the best interests of the Company.
The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by law are set As a result of there being no relationship out in the Corporate social responsibility agreement in place, the Listing Rules report on page 60. provide that certain enhanced oversight measures will apply to the Company.
This means that, unless and to the extent that the FCA agrees otherwise, Norma Tang all transactions with the controlling Company Secretary shareholders must be approved by the 27th July 2016 Companys shareholders excluding the controlling shareholders in accordance Renishaw plc with the related party transaction Registered number 1106260 requirements of the Listing Rules, and England and Wales none of the normal exemptions apply.
