Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 18 Strategic report Our business sectors Healthcare Our technologies are helping within applications such as craniomaxillofacial surgery, dentistry, neurosurgery, chemical analysis and nanotechnology research.
These include engineering solutions for stereotactic neurosurgery, diagnosis of infectious diseases, analytical tools that identify and characterise the chemistry Neuroinspire software is used in the and structure of materials, the supply planning of stereotactic neurosurgery.
of implants to hospitals and specialist design centres for craniomaxillofacial surgery, and products and services that allow dental laboratories to manufacture high-quality dental restorations.
The neuromate stereotactic robot is used for a range of functional neurosurgical procedures.
Healthcare revenue 3% 28.4m Healthcare operating loss inVia Raman microscope integrated with aBruker atomic force microscope.
6.4m Percentage of group revenue 7% RenDx SP-2000 used to process a diagnostic assay for infectious disease diagnosis.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 19 Titanium craniomaxillofacial implants Support for a dental laboratory using DS30 blue light dental scanner produced using a Renishaw metal Renishaws dental CAD software.
Neurosurgical robot Hybrid Raman systems The product range A stereotactic robot that provides a Renishaws hybrid systems unite the includes the following: platform solution for a broad range of chemical analysis power of Raman Dental scanners functional neurosurgical procedures spectroscopy with the high spatial including deep brain stimulation resolution of other techniques, 3D contact scanners and non-contact DBS,  such as atomic force microscopy optical scanners used for digitising of SEEG, neuroendoscopy and and scanning electron microscopy.
dental preparations and the measurement stereotactic biopsies, and is being These new instruments are vital tools of implant locations for tooth-supported used within the context of clinical trials forinvestigating materials and devices frameworks and custom abutments.
for both neurosurgical disorders and fornanotechnology applications.
Dental computer-aided design brain oncology.
Turn-key Raman analysis CAD software Neurosurgical planning The RA800 benchtop platform provides Dental CAD software that allows set-up of software companies with a high-performance scanning routines and enables laboratory chemical imaging and analysis system Software that allows advanced staff to design abutments and structures that can be tailored for the needs of their planning of targets and trajectories for for crowns and bridges, including powerful customers.
Raman microscopy performance in a Neurosurgical implants Class 1 laser-safe, simple-to-use form.
Dental structures manufacturing Implantable devices that allow surgeons service Diagnostic systems to verify expected DBS electrode A central manufacturing service that can Renishaw Diagnostics Limited has position relative to targeted anatomy handle CAD files from a wide variety developed the RenDx Multiplex Assay using magnetic resonance imaging of dental CAD systems to produce System, an automated, multiplex platform MRI for the treatment of Parkinsons structures for crowns and bridges in for clinical diagnosis of infectious disease, disease, other movement disorders zirconia, cobalt chrome, PMMA used and has CE certification for the platform andneuropathic pain.
for temporary restorations and wax, and its first assay, Fungiplex, for diagnosis andabutments in cobalt chrome.
Neurosurgical accessories of invasive fungal infections.
Specialist electrodes and instruments Craniomaxillofacial customfor use in epilepsy neurosurgery, made implants manufactured by DIXI Medical.
Additively manufactured from titanium, custom-made craniomaxillofacial implants Raman microscopes are structural implants that are used in the Scientists and engineers worldwide use reconstruction of a patients head, face or Renishaws research-grade inVia Raman jaw.
These are most commonly required microscope for the non-destructive after oncology treatment or as a result chemical analysis and imaging of of trauma.
Its high-speed, high-quality results and upgradeability are valued in fields as diverse as nanotechnology, biology and pharmaceuticals.
