Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 14 Strategic report The aerospace market Equator gauging system is used at Renishaws customer, High-Tech Engineering to inspect aerospace components.
Applied innovation to the aerospace market a preferred supplier to leading UK Air travel popularity continues and form measurements, with typical aerospace companies.
Recently to grow, especially in Asia, and tolerances of plus or minus 25 microns.
High-Tech won a contract to produce demand for passenger aircraft The Equator does this within 10 minutes, precision-milled titanium parts for a large and well within the production is higher than ever as a result.
Due to the nature requirements, far less than the machining The 2015 Boeing Global Market of the parts, High-Tech was instructed time.
This is almost a 50% reduction Forecast sees the commercial fleet to carry out 100% part inspection, and in cycle time compared to running the doubling by 2034, with 58% of the for this requirement, Hi-Tech is using a program on High-Techs co-ordinate 38,000 new aircraft required to Renishaw Equator gauging system for measuring machines.
New fuelone particularly complex component.
The Equator is fully programmable efficient engines with complex The Equator system works by comparing and can be used on multiple parts, parts require faster measurement, the manufactured parts against a meaning High-Tech can perform highly whilst there is also a drive to matching master part, gauging all the repeatable and rapid automated routines minimise airframe weight to further features in a single operation with an across numerous contracts, resulting in aid fuel efficiency.
immediate pass fail decision, along with significantly reduced labour costs.
a report of the component dimensions.
Gauging success Following the success of High-Techs High-Tech has also managed to reduce manufacturing cell, the company plans to High-Tech Engineering, a precision the cost of producing the aerospace part use Equator as part of future cells they will engineering company based in Dunstable, by 27%.
This has had a real impact on the be commissioning for jobs in the pipeline.
Bedfordshire, UK, has always focused competitiveness of this type of production, According to High-Techs Managing on the quality of the parts it produces.
allowing the company to make the Director, Steve Tickner, Since we started Started in 1985, High-Tech built a same precision quality parts, whilst also using Equator we have not made a single reputation in the motorsport industry for delivering better value to its customers.
When you find something which delivering high-quality machined parts.
Around 150 features on the part are helps you make a perfect part every The company has since moved into the inspected by the Equator system, time, reduces manpower commitments, aerospace market and gained some key including a number of bores, thicknesses reduces overall costs and doesnt cost industry approvals, including becoming afortune itself, its a winning solution.
Renishaw's Equator is a highly repeatable Typical parts manufactured by and versatile shop floor gauging system.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 15 Aircraft are highly complex structures and key assemblies, from engines and wings to control systems and landing gear, all rely on Renishaw products for process control and postprocess inspection during their Landing gear components Advanced manufacture of control Precision machining of high-value materials surfaces manufacture.
This illustration uses on-machine probing to eliminate costly Adaptive machining relies on probing of a typical passenger aircraft scrap in the production of undercarriage technology and advanced software highlights a few key applications and landing gear equipment.
to enable the economic production of aircraft control surfaces e. g. flaps and for our products.
Control systems and actuators Quiet and efficient aero engines Wings and wing spars Fluid power componentry, including control Scanning technology for machine tools Long-range laser encoders provide the accuracy required for large-scale machining valves and actuators, benefit from metal and inspection equipment benefits the of composite wing skins whilst on-machine additive manufacturing which enables part production and maintenance of a broad probing systems enable efficient production consolidation, functional improvements and range of engine components, including of wing spars and other machined significant weight reductions.
the adaptive machining and precision components.
