Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 40 Strategic report The construction market C-ALS borehole-deployable laser scanner for concealed cavity and void scanning.
Scanning for safety and accuracy The Council required verification that the georeferenced relative to the borehole An important part of any section of underground cellars extending collar position.
construction, mining and quarrying beneath public land had been made safe project is surveying, and sites need In conclusion, it was found that the cellar and that there was no risk of collapse.
to be rapidly assessed to aid in the network beneath the public land had not The entrance to the cellar network had efficient planning of operations, been filled by the previous occupant.
been sealed and Fondasol required a The C-ALS survey, however, also showed such as the re-routing of roads and solution that would enable them to survey that the cellar network appeared to positioning of heavy machinery.
the voids in detail, from a safe location be in good condition and indicated There is therefore an increasing without entering the cellars.
no concerning structure dimensional use of laser scanning technology The solution was to use Renishaws deformation, meaning no risk of collapse.
to map construction sites so as C-ALS cavity monitoring system, a The Council now has a detailed record of to gain accurate measurements surface-operated laser scanner that the area, including cavity volumes, which in a fraction of the time of is used to obtain the 3D geometry can be consulted for future development traditional methods.
The system of the site and should future infill is deployed down a borehole using be required.
Out of sight, but top of mind lightweight rods with communication C-ALS proved to be the only Fondasol is a firm of consulting engineers and power supplied from a dedicated non-destructive way of effectively and which advises constructors in the design surface unit.
safely mapping and assessing the of geotechnical structures.
The company An integrated nosecone camera provides condition of the cellars while minimising was contracted by Schiltigheim Town forward-looking visibility during use.
time and disruption on site.
Council to conduct a survey on a This means that operators can observe brownfield site in the 9th century town Fondasol trusted Renishaw for its any obstructions, and judge when the which is located in north east France, C-ALS system, noting that it is the most C-ALS probe has entered the cavity.
where the site contained a series of complete and practical tool that we The sensors ensure the C-ALS probes subterranean man-made cellars below tested and that it completely meets the position can be tracked down the ademolished building.
expectations that we had on the issues borehole so that the scan is automatically related to subterranean cavities.
Deploying a C-ALS system for Complete scan of the underground site measuring underground voids.
in Schiltigheim performed by Fondasol.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 41 From heavy earthmoving equipment to surveying systems and mineral analysis, Renishaws products are used in a diverse range of construction industry applications.
This illustration of a typical quarry highlights Investigation of underground structures Manufacture of large high-value and cavities components just a few areas in which Borehole-deployable scanners are used Wireless probing technology is used to our products are helping to from the surface to map voids and old or control and automate the machining improve manufacturing and unrecorded workings, improving safety and of chassis and other components for project planning for mining, quarrying and earthmoving plant where scrap is too costly processefficiency.
Quarry surveying and stockpile Precision parts for power plants Materials identification monitoring High-precision manufacturing uses Analysis of geological samples and Laser scanning systems are used to profile advanced scanning probe systems to identification or certification of gemstones whole rock faces for blast optimisation, control quality, enabling power plants to are two of the many applications for Raman enabling improved safety and productivity deliver enhanced performance, higher spectroscopy, sometimes combined with in quarrying.
