Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 12 Strategic report Our business sectors Metrology Our metrology products help manufacturers to maximise production output, significantly reduce the time taken to produce and inspect components, and keep their machines running reliably.
In the fields of industrial automation and motion systems, our position measurement Equator gauge integrated within and calibration systems allow machine arobot-loaded manufacturing cell.
builders to manufacture highly accurate and reliable products.
Machine tool probe system for on-machine measurement.
Metrology revenue -13% Precision styli ensure accurate acquisition of measurement data.
408.2m Metrology operating profit -43% 85.9m Percentage of group revenue Laser calibration system being used to test positioning accuracy of a rotary axis.
93% Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 13 Incremental encoder for rotary motion Modular fixtures are used to hold parts Prototype manifold produced by a control on an air-bearing stage.
Performance testing products Fixtures The product range Calibration and testing products to Modular and custom fixtures used to hold includes the following: determine the positioning accuracy of parts securely for dimensional inspection Co-ordinate measuring a wide range of industrial and scientific on CMM, vision and gauging systems.
machinery to international standards, machine CMM products Position encoders including a laser interferometer, rotary axis Sensors, software and control systems for calibrator, wireless telescoping ballbar and Position encoders that ensure three-dimensional CMMs, including touchsoftware for data capture and analysis.
accurate linear and rotary motion trigger and scanning probes, automated control in a wide range of applications probe changers, motorised indexing Gauging from electronics, flat panel displays, probe heads and 5-axis measurement TM Equator enables process control by robotics and semiconductors to systems, which enable the highly delivering highly repeatable, thermally medical, precision machining and print accurate measurement of manufactured insensitive, versatile and reprogrammable production.
These include magnetic components and finished assemblies.
gauging to the shop floor, both as encoders, incremental optical encoders, a standalone device and as part of absolute optical encoders and laser Machine tool probe systems an automated manufacturing cell.
Sensors and software for computer TM Combined with INTUO software, numerically controlled CNC metal-cutting Additive manufacturing AM Equator is also an ideal alternative to machine tools that allow the automation traditional manual gauging, with training Advanced metal AM systems for direct of setting and on-machine measurement in a few hours, allowing engineers to manufacturing of 3D-printed metallic operations, leading to more productivity components.
A total solution is offered program parts in minutes.
from existing machines and reductions in from systems, materials, ancillaries and scrap and rework.
These include laser tool Spatial measurement software through to consultancy, training setters, contact tool setters, tool breakage High-speed laser measurement and and support for a range of industries detectors, touch probes, contact surveying systems for use in extreme including industrial, healthcare and scanning systems and high-accuracy environments, such as mine and quarry mould tooling.
surveying, marine positioning and Vacuum casting mobile mapping.
Styli for probe systems Vacuum casting machines from entry-level Precision styli that attach to probe sensors to high capacity for rapid prototyping and TM for CMMs, machine tools and Equator production of polymer end-use parts.
gauging systems to ensure that accurate measurement data is acquired at the point of contact.
