Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 32 Strategic report Our strategy in action Continual research creating strong market positions with innovative products From the perspective of societal impact, the Renishaw technology that excites me the most has to be our neurological developments and the potential of significantly improving survival rates inoncology.
Commercially, Ithink that the application of metal additive manufacturing isvery exciting.
Geoff McFarland Group Engineering Director Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 33 A Renishaw engineer discusses the REVO measuring system for co-ordinate Company's innovative products at an measuring machines.
additive layer manufacturing knowledge querying how they will work in a difficult We asked, Geoff McFarland, built up over many decades.
I think environment or, in the case of healthcare Group Engineering Director to that we really underrate our process products, how it can be easily adapted, explain what drives Renishaws technology innovation.
as each patient is different.
You really have to turn the decisionWhere do ideas for new Why has Renishaw Q making around and find out reasons Q products originate?
been able to sustain whyyou can say yes to an idea innovation for so long?
ifits areason to say no then it can Many come from the market A overwhelm your decision-making.
bringing us a problem, but There is a fundamental they are also generated internally A You have been involved answerto this and watching what issues do we face in our own Q mykids reinforces this for me.
with many products, but manufacturing and what we would like to When my daughter first started cooking is there one that gives you solve?
However a key differentiator is that as a seven-year-old she had no fear of part of the Renishaw culture is saying well the most satisfaction?
the outcome Renishaw also has that if you solve that problem, what is the next in-built confidence that we can make Probably the REVO measuring problem are they connected and where A things work, that we can always find a system, as I spent a lot of my early do you want to jump to?
It is also because there is a real design career working on that project.
Quite often customers will ask you for a understanding that behind every problem It gives me the most satisfaction, and solution but at the same time they are lies an opportunity.
it also gives me the most frustration it usually asking other suppliers exactly the was such a breakthrough product, but Where does this in-built same question, and often they are also Q manufacturing is quite a conservative confidence come from?
What we really industry and the adoption of something need to understand is the fundamental that is such a breakthrough is so difficult, It was the original culture it problem we can then create a solution because you have to create the market.
Lots of that is well beyond what other suppliers people, especially engineers, have will conceive, and which therefore gives What makes you most Q lots of great ideas about how they might rise to the potential for the creation of proud about Renishaw?
solve a problem, but it never gets any valuable intellectual property.
further because they dont know how One of the things that I am How do you decide they are going to put the back-end A incredibly proud about is our Q together: they havent a clue how they are which ideas should go employees and the Renishaw family.
Thats the bit that was a forward?
I think that we have a group of talented real eye-opener to me when I first joined and like-minded people who are really well Renishaw.
When someone suggested a Saying no is a difficult thing respected within the wider engineering A great technical idea, but then said How to do, but the sooner we can community, where most people have are we going to make this?, the answer say no the more productive we heard of Renishaw.
The respect that we was always go away and find out see can be.
We also get many approaches receive is very gratifying.
what knowledge we already have within from all sorts of people in differing The other thing that I am very proud the business and then lets have a go!
sectors presenting us with what they about is our technology pipeline because believe is a great idea and asking for us The front-end idea is the easy bit.
there are awful lot of projects in there, to get involved.
But unfortunately, an Renishaws advantage is that we have atvery different stages in the development awful lot of those ideas are knocked out the core knowledge of how it might be life cycle.
quickly by considering the application made, whether its electronics, optics, of the suggested products whether software, machining, fabrication or
