Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 20 Strategic report The healthcare market Pre and post surgery comparison for cranioplasty procedure at the Centro Mdico Teknon in Barcelona, Spain.
Additive manufacturing for customised care MD, PhD, was introduced to a 68-year-old UK.
The parts were manufactured on From complex reconstructive facial female patient with a benign growth from a Renishaw AM 250 metal additive surgery to orthopaedic and trauma the left side of her cranium, caused by a manufacturing machine in titanium with a surgery, advances in additive meningioma, a tumour that arises from the satin finish as per Dr Olivers specification.
manufacturing have inspired a meninges the membranes surrounding The material used was Ti MG1 tested to growing number of progressive brain and spinal cord.
ISO 10993 part 1, which was then treated surgeons to commission metal with Renishaws X-flex technology.
The computerised tomography CT 3D-printed patient specific This ensures high ductility, which is scan revealed the growth was expanding implants PSIs and cutting important to prevent the risk of breakages outwards into the skull-bone.
The patient guides for both complex and in surgery should the implant need to be required a craniotomy to remove the adjusted, for example, due to unexpected straightforward procedures.
growth and a cranioplasty to rebuild her hard tissue changes.
Dr Oliver planned for the combined Personalising patient craniotomy and cranioplasty operation The operation was successful and treatments allowing the patient to be treated in a incident-free with the cranial plate being UK NHS hospitals, in their quest for single procedure.
better quality and efficiency, have used The hospitals CT scans were transferred With safety being the paramount priority, 3D-printed anatomical models, guides from Spain to PDR, a world-leading supplying a predefined cutting guide and implants to improve the predictability, design consultancy and applied research and the corresponding implant helped accuracy, safety and speed of operations.
centre, based in Cardiff, UK, where they eliminate all the risk that might come Now, a hospital in Spain has proved were imported into the MIMICS software from the current manual nature of the that the technology can also be used program and then converted into an STL procedure.
Dr Olivers own verdict: It across international borders in a classic file for modelling by PDR.
ensured an absolutely safe operation with example of global technology transfer with no risk to the patient.
Renishaw received the files of the UK experts.
approved designs for both the implant and Dr Oliver reported a 30% saving in theatre At the Centro Mdico Teknon in cutting guide and 3D-printed them at its time which was a further benefit of this Barcelona, neurosurgeon Bartolom Oliver central manufacturing unit in Stonehouse, streamlined method.
Metal 3D printed models, guides and implants for cranial surgery.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 21 Our technologies are being applied to an ever increasing number of applications within healthcare, includingbrain surgery, , dentistry and infectious disease diagnosis.
Thisillustration highlights areas Drug delivery systems for oncology and other treatments inwhichRenishaw products Metal 3D printing techniques are used to aremaking a real build compact multi-channel ports and the difference to neuromate surgical robot with neuroinspire planning software enables precise patient outcomes.
Maxillofacial implants and surgical guides Customised implants and cutting guides for use during surgery are designed using specially developed software and built with additive manufacturing systems, optimised for healthcare applications.
Orthopaedic implants Rapid diagnosis of infectious disease Dental implants and restorations Metal 3D printing machines enable the In vitro tests for rapid identification of Precision machining combined with 3D production of patient specific custom fungal diseases reduce the need for costly printing results in shorter manufacturing implants in bio-compatible materials, and prophylaxis and improve patient outcomes lead times and improved fit of dental with surfaces that aid osseointegration.
through earlier diagnosis of life threatening frameworks, meaning patients need to infections.
spend less time in the dentists chair.
