Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 36 Strategic report Performance Metrology Position encoders again achieved solid A notable weakness during the year was Performance growth, with particular benefit derived the oil and gas sector, which has suffered There was a large reduction for our from the ongoing global drive towards from a lack of investment due to lower oil machine tool products line due to nonindustrial automation which aims to prices.
The impact has been most notably repeating large orders from the FarEast, increase capacity and flexibility, whilst felt by our spatial measurement products but there was good growth for our reducing manufacturing lead times and line, which has historically been highly measurement and automation, metal costs.
There were also high levels of reliant on the sector, although we continue additive manufacturing and encoder investment in the Far East semiconductor, to expand our range of surveying products products lines.
As for the previous year, electronics and robotics sectors, including which target alternative applications.
the measurement and automation in flat panel displays.
All these sectors products line, currently focused on the Strategy for growth require rapid, reliable and accurate Equator gauging system, continues measurement of position between moving A key focus is on developing technologies to see high levels of success in the parts, and our award-winning RESOLUTE that provide patented products and automotive, aerospace and consumer absolute encoder continues to win methods which support our product electronics sectors on a global basis, new business.
strategies, with 60.1m net of capitalised with integration within automation cells costs expenditure on R&D and continuing to be anotable trend.
Especially in Asia, we are seeing orders engineering during the year.
The current for position encoders on ever shorter The AM products line, which includes technology focus includes user-friendly lead times.
Our ongoing investments in the LBC business in Germany metrology software for CMMs, machine manufacturing capacity have given us an specialising in AM parts manufacture, tool probing, calibration systems and agile capability that allows us to respond including conformally cooled mould gauging: miniaturised high-resolution quickly to such demands.
tools and tool inserts for injection position feedback systems that support moulding and die-casting applications, the manufacture of high-precision Market conditions continues to benefit from high levels of electronics: and the development of The drivers for our metrology business investment and integration within the AMsystems with faster processing are similar across the world.
Many of Groups infrastructure, including the capability and improved process control our lines are benefiting from global skills previously mentioned Solutions Centres.
shortages in the engineering sector, These new centres require machines requiring increased investments in We continue to position Renishaw as a for benchmarking and customer use automation to offset the need for highly solutions provider and reduce the risks with additional machines required for skilled machine operators and demanding of over-reliance on large customers who demonstration facilities around the Group.
user-interfaces and software that are integrate our products.
Our measurement Whilst the majority of AM machine sales easier to operate.
Manufacturers are also and automation, calibration, additive are still for research and prototyping, these faced with a relentless drive to reduce manufacturing and spatial measurement are being supplied worldwide to major costs, shorten lead times, meet the need products, plus accessory ranges, such manufacturing OEMs and key suppliers in for increased complexity and closer as styli and fixtures, can be supplied a range of sectors, including aerospace, tolerances in product design, and supply direct to the end-user, whilst we continue automotive and medical.
into markets where shorter product lifeto strengthen our portfolio of hardware Awareness of our fixtures line continues cycles are compressing times for process and software for CMMs that can be to grow and whilst the R&R brand has development.
Renishaw technologies used to upgrade machines that are been retained in the USA due to long-term provide them with proven solutions to already installed.
For example, our new recognition, elsewhere we sell under the keep machines running reliably, maximise REVO vision measurement probe RVP Renishaw name.
Growth is also being output from those machines, assist fast is compatible with the new REVO-2 aided by our increasing drive to provide changeover between different products, five-axis measuring head and offers a full metrology solutions to end-use and significantly reduce the time taken to solution for the inspection of parts with customers, which includes the supply of inspect finished components.
large numbers of holes that cannot be fixtures to users of co-ordinate measuring accurately measured with tactile probing A key sector for Renishaw continues machines and Equator gauging systems.
to be the civil aviation sector.
The 2015 The web shop, introduced last year, Boeing Global Market Forecast sees the We also constantly evaluate continues to increase the range of styli, commercial fleet doubling by 2034, with new opportunities for existing or fixtures and other metrology accessories 58% of the 38,000 new aircraft required complementary technologies both to available for sale or quotation, including to accommodate growth.
Our products increase sales to our existing customer products for the measurement and are used heavily in the aerospace sector base and to expand upon that base.
automation, co-ordinate measuring and the drive towards lightweight The new RenAM 500M system features machine, machine tool and calibration components is generating strong interest aZ-axis fitted with a RESOLUTE absolute products lines.
The site is now available in additive manufacturing.
encoder for highly accurate positioning, in25 different countries.
and many of the opportunities for AM sales are to existing customers who Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 37 understand Renishaws holistic approach Renishaw probes.
Allowing time-based Manufacturing DfAM process, which is to manufacturing and the complementary data capture with the QC20-W ballbar, essential to gain the full benefits of AM.
products that can assist their part the new Ballbar Trace software package Outlook production, such as machine tool probes, opens up many new applications, gauging or CMM inspection products.
including static monitoring and data We continue to be confident that there will capture for the ISO 10791-6 test.
be increased adoption of AM technologies Key developments by many of our existing customer groups, There were also key new developments During the year, we launched new spatial whilst a continuing drive to automate for the AM products line.
The RenAM measurement products that will continue manufacturing processes in many sectors, 500M is an additive manufacturing system to reduce reliance on the oil and gas both to minimise labour costs and reduce designed specifically for the volume markets.
Merlin is a dedicated timethe need for skilled labour, will benefit production of metal components on tagged marine laser scanning system our position encoder, measurement the factory floor.
It features automated that will help cut the cost of vessel-based and automation, and machine tool powder and waste handling systems surveying.
It supports safer, faster and products lines.
that enable consistent process quality, more comprehensive data acquisition for reduce operator interaction and ensure Growth in the worlds middle-classes, coastal, offshore and inland waterway high standards of system safety.
with increasing disposable income, is project management.
Also introduced Also introduced was the AM 400 machine also forecast to drive demand in areas was Boretrak Viewer software which such as civil aviation, consumer products, which is a development of the existing can be used for safer and more efficient AM 250 system, offering improved agriculture, construction and power planning of drilling and blasting in quarries control software, revised gas flow and generation including renewables and and mines.
optical window protection system, and a a recovery in oil and gas.
These trends Several new software products were also new 400 W optical system that gives a should all result in increased demand introduced, all designed to simplify and for our metrology products to help reduced laser beam diameter.
enhance the operation of our metrology drive efficiencies, reduce waste, A further important development is the products.
For machine tool probe increase automation and aid product QuantAM build preparation software users, Inspection Plus with SupaTouch measurement traceability.
which prepares CAD models for optimisation automatically optimises probe production on Renishaw AM systems.
measurement cycles on CNC machine The software allows tighter integration tools to minimise cycle times, whilst Set into the machine control software and and Inspect is part of a developing family the ability to accurately and rapidly review of on-machine apps that complements all build files for Renishaw AM systems, the new range of touchscreen CNC including those from third party packages.
controllers, allowing interactive part It can also be used as a tool to help set-up, inspection and tool setting using guide a customers Design for Additive The year saw strong growth for the New QuantAM build preparation measurement and automation software for Renishaw AM systems.
