Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 30 Strategic report Our strategy in action Efficient high-quality manufacturing PCB test equipment installed within the Line of RAMTIC systems used to Miskin electronics facility.
applied to the hardware used to perform improvements in machine tool technology, Manufacturing overview machining operations, since we have the fundamental process remains the During the last year, the manufacturing an excellent understanding of process same and is the mainstay of Renishaws operations have continued to support capability for each platform.
A secondary standard machining platforms for significant activity levels for all product benefit to this strategy is that it provides prismatic parts, with 62 RAMTIC systems lines, the development of in-house the ability to upscale production through now in operation.
processes to support new product duplication, as required, without the need development and growth for the future of The same approach has also been to invent alternative techniques, and this the healthcare and additive manufacturing taken with respect to our investments has been key to delivering the growth in businesses.
A substantial investment in assembly-based technologies.
our turnover in recent years.
has been made during the year by Renishaw has a very broad product refurbishing the second manufacturing The same standardisation philosophies range that is largely produced in low hall at Miskin and the associated office are applied to design for assembly to medium volumes, but through our accommodation to create additional and test during product and process strategies of standardisation and design capacity, and also manufacturing facilities development, and during the last year, a for manufacture we have created the to support the healthcare business, as number of new products have transferred circumstances to develop and invest in well as reorganising the operations to from pre-production to the assembly sites highly efficient and capable assembly separate piece parts manufacturing and in the UK, Ireland and India.
systems that deliver exceptional process assembly operations to allow for future control and efficiencies.
The electronics The Group has manufacturing facilities capacity requirements.
production facilities utilise the very latest inthe UK Woodchester 165,000 sq ft, technology capable of placing 40,000 Stonehouse 100,000 sq ft, Miskin Strategy components per hour, process control 460,000 sq ft and smaller operations At a strategic level, Renishaws by using in-line component validation, atNew Mills, Old Town, Stone and York, manufacturing operations are highly automated optical inspection and Ireland Swords 70,000 sq ft, India vertically integrated.
This is as a result of innovative technology to validate the Pune50,000 sq ft, Germany Vlklingen our commitment to delivering exceptional performance of assembled printed circuit 19,000 sq ft, France Lyon 5,500 sq ft service levels in terms of delivery, service, boards PCBs.
Another example is the and the USA Grand Haven 14,000 sq ft. and product quality to our customers.
in-house development of automation This approach also ensures that we are systems for assembly of certain products Long-term investment in control of our costs, quality and many in the UK and Ireland facilities, where Renishaw continues to be committed to of the supply chains that are critical to the automation and closed-loop controls have significant investment in its manufacturing success of our business.
This approach delivered significant reductions in process capability for both the medium and has continued during the year with variation, hence providing enhanced long-term.
The Renishaw Automated substantial investments in processes product quality, as well as reducing Mill Turn Inspection Centre RAMTIC and capital to support the future of the our costs.
system developed in the early 1990s AM business.
uses a standard machine tool platform There has been continual and substantial Over many years, we have strived to that has been modified to provide a investment in the latest manufacturing ensure that our products are designed highly efficient manufacturing solution, technologies in order to optimise the to optimise manufacturing capability, involving a high degree of automation cost and capability of our manufacturing whether in relation to our machining and closed-loop control that is facilitated systems, where investment in new andassembly processes, or that of thirdby Renishaw probing technology for equipment in the UK over the period 2010 party suppliers.
This is best illustrated by tool setting, in-process monitoring and to 2016 has been 35m.
our approach to metal cutting, where a component validation.
Whilst the base high degree of standardisation has been machine platform has evolved with Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31 Renishaw apprentice being trained at an Electronics production lines at the awardapprentice training centre.
Supply chain management People Progress at a glance As a manufacturer operating in a high mix Consistent with the strategy in other During the last year, investment low volume situation, with a strategy of parts of the business, the manufacturing in manufacturing facilities and delivering exceptional customer service, operations take a long-term view with equipment have continued to ensure our approach has been to maintain as regard to development of people.
that future requirements can be much control as possible of our supply In many cases employees transfer satisfied in a highly efficient and costchains.
This has been achieved through from manufacturing into other parts effective manner.
a combination of in-house manufacturing of the business to assist other roles The remaining factory floor space has including the creation of in-house such as new product development or been refurbished at the Miskin facility capability for critical processes as they applications engineering, making best and operations have been relocated to become financially viable, duplication use of the experience gained within the of critical processes, dual sourcing and manufacturing arena.
create separation between assembly and piece part manufacturing.
strategic long-term partnerships with our The investment in apprentices and third-party suppliers.
We also have supply Substantial capital investments and graduates is very much in evidence chain management teams based in China, at the manufacturing operations at process development activities have India and at our manufacturing facilities taken place to provide both in-house each site.
All manufacturing graduates in Ireland.
piece part manufacturing capabilities and apprentices follow a well-defined and new assembly processes for the programme that provides exposure to a Risk management new RenAM 500M machine.
wide range of functions and technologies We have duplicated key processes in such that we develop well-rounded Production of various products have order to reduce the risks associated individuals with a broad grounding with certain critical in-house supply transferred to alternative assembly in a variety of  chains such as machining, anodising of locations in the UK, Ireland and India disciplines.
Many of our apprentices and aluminium components and the assembly as a result of capacity forecasts graduates succeed in developing career or the completion of new product and test of electronic PCBs.
For thirdpaths into more senior engineering and development activities.
party supply chains, regular monitoring operational roles within the organisation and review takes place with a view to for example, see pages 54 and 55. determining supply risk, dual sourcing strategies and our contractual terms with suppliers in order to ensure continuity of supply.
