14 Our Business Model How we create shareholder value What we off er Rentokil Initial Hygiene Initial Workwear off ers a complete range provides a dedicated and specialises in the ofpest control services, expert hygiene service.
supplyandlaundering from rodents to fl ying Itoff ers the widest range of ofworkwear, uniforms, insects, to other forms washroom hygiene services cleanroom uniforms ofwildlife management.
including the provision and andpersonal protective maintenance of products.
A leader in our chosen Clear, diff erentiated Highly cash-generative markets, generating high management strategy returns with good growth todrive performance opportunities andcapital allocation Proven management Clear plan to deliver Further scope for profi t team executing strategy mid-single-digit Ongoing growth and margin at pace Revenue growth, enhancement high-single-digit Ongoing Operating Profi t growth and sustainable Free Cash Flow of 120m p. a. Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 15 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our Business Model What we do and how we generate value 1 2 We train, develop and equip our We develop, procure and manufacture people with the best skills and tools to products that we sell, supply or apply offer outstanding customer service.
We generate value by developing our people Through continued development and our and creating true experts in the field.
This allows knowledge and expertise, we generate value us to take advantage of new opportunities and byoffering market-leading products that add continually grow new revenues.
value to our customers businesses.
3 4 We market, sell and provide We innovate, creating the retained services to customers.
products and services of the future.
We generate value through the strength ofourcustomer relationships.
We have the We add value by enabling our colleagues abilityto drive organic growth and upsell todeliver the most effective service possible furtherservice offerings.
Why were different RIGHT PEOPLE RIGHT THINGS RIGHT WAY 32,150 experts Industry leadership Global reach Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
