151 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Report The Directors submit their report and audited financial statements The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the of the Company and the Group to the members of Rentokil Initial plc Directors Remuneration Report starting on page 71.
Directors service theCompany for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Details of the contracts and the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors Directors of the Company during 2016 can be found on pages 48 and 49. are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and the offices of theCompanys legal advisors, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer The Corporate Governance Report for the year on pages 46 to 86 forms LLP, at 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS until the conclusion of the part of the Directors Report, together with the sections of the Annual AGM and will beavailable at the AGM which will take place on 10 May Report incorporated by reference.
A pro-forma of the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment is available at rentokil-initial.
The Company has chosen to disclose the following information in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 44 and 91 to 93: Directors powers Particulars of any important events affecting the Company which have Under the articles of association, the Directors are responsible for the occurred since the end of the financial year.
management of the business of the Company and may exercise all the An indication of likely future developments in the business of the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes Company.
and the Companys articles of association.
For example, the articles An indication of the Companys research and development activities contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys pages 4 and 5. power to borrow money.
The articles of association also give power to Details of employee policy and involvement Corporate Responsibility, the Board to appoint and replace Directors as detailed above.
Powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in the articles Information on greenhouse gas emissions Corporate Responsibility, of association and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each page 44. year at the AGM, as detailed below.
Principal risks and uncertainties Risks and Uncertainties, pages 34 Directors interests in shares to39.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the share capital of the The Strategic Report and the Directors Report constitute the Company are shown on page 81.
During the year no Director had any management report as required under the Disclosure and Transparency material interest in any contract of significance to the Groups business.
Dividend Information to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 in relation to The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 2.38p per share allotment of shares for cash Listing Rule 9.8.
4 7 and waiver of for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2016.
Payment of this dividend dividends Listing Rule9.8.
No other issubject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
Further information paragraphs under Listing Rule 9.8.
on the Companys dividend policy can be found on page 93.
Company constitution Share capital Rentokil Initial plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales, with The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange company number 5393279.
The Company is a holding company with and an over-the-counter American Depository Receipt ADR listing to limited trading in its own right and with subsidiary undertakings in over facilitate shareholding in the United States.
All ordinary shares carry 66 countries.
The Companys related undertakings are listed on pages the same rights and no shareholder enjoys any preferential rights, 139 to 142. regardless of the size of their holding.
Articles of association The Companys share capital during the year consisted of ordinary The articles of association set up the internal regulations of the shares of 1p each.
There were 1,829,332,965 shares in issue at Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the 31December 2016, which represents 100% of the Companys issued conduct of the Board and general meetings.
The articles themselves share capital 2015: 1,822,832,965.
Each ordinary share other than may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
treasury shares, which have no voting rights carries the right to vote Amendments to the articles of association have to be approved by at a general meeting of the Company.
The Company did not hold any at least 75% of the votes cast by those voting in person or by proxy.
treasury shares as at 31 December 2016.
The Companys articles of Subject to company law and the articles of association, the Directors association provide that on a show of hands, every member who is may exercise all the powers of the Company and may delegate authority present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company shall to Committees and day-to-day management and decision-making to have one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by individual Executive Directors.
The articles of association are available proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
upon request and are displayed on the Companys website at The articles do not contain special control rights or restrictions rentokil-initial.
com on transfer or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no requirements for the prior approval of any transfers.
No person holds Re-election of Directors and service contracts securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control In accordance with the articles of association, Directors can be of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between appointed by the Board and must be subsequently elected by holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shareholders in general meeting.
In accordance with the UK Corporate securities or on voting rights.
Governance Code the Code, Directors now submit themselves for re-election annually.
Directors can be removed, and their replacements The Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another appointed, by shareholders in general meeting.
corporation or by an individual and there are no arrangements which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the Company.
Information on our Board of Directors, including full biographical details, and changes during 2016 can be found in the Corporate Governance Authority for the Company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for Report on pages 48 and 49.
All Board members will seek election in the shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,116,821 was obtained case of Chris Geoghegan who was appointed to the Board in 2016 or at the AGM on 11 May 2016.
The authority remains in force and approval re-election at the 2017 AGM, other than Alan Giles who will be stepping will be sought from shareholders at the 2017 AGM to renew the authority down at the conclusion of the AGM.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 152 Directors' Report During the year a total of 6,500,000 ordinary shares with an aggregate Financial risk management nominal value of 65,000 were issued and allotted to Computershare Details of financial risk management and the relevant policies and Nominees Channel Islands Limited, the account nominee of certain exposures of the Company are disclosed in Note C1 on pages Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited who acts as trustee for the 123 and 124 of the Financial Statements.
Rentokil Initial Employee Share Trust the Trustee.
These shares were Key contracts issued to satisfy awards that vested in 2016 under the Companys Performance Share Plan.
The Group does not have any dominant customer or supplier relationships.
Details of the shares held by the Trustee are contained in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity table on page 96.
The Post balance sheet events Trustee holds on trust 0.27% of the issued share capital of the Company There are no post balance sheet events.
0.01% of this is held as nominee for the benefit Political donations of certain senior executives of the Group, and 0.26% of this is held on trust on behalf of the Company to satisfy awards that vest under It is the Companys policy not to make payments to political the Companys Performance Share Plan.
The Trustee has agreed to organisations.
The Company does however maintain a shareholder waive any right to all dividend payments on shares held by it, with authority to make payments of a political nature but does so only in the exception of shares held in respect of awards which have vested order to ensure that the Company has authority from shareholders for and have a dividend entitlement during their holding period.
With the the limited number of activities associated with the operation of the exception of the shares held for the benefit of certain senior executives, business which might be caught by the broad definition of payments the voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee.
of a political nature contained within current legislation.
There were no The Trustee may vote or abstain from voting with the shares or accept payments to political organisations during 2016 2015: nil.
or reject any offer relating to the shares, in any way it sees fit, without Human rights incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for its decision.
The Company supports the rights of all people as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We acknowledge the Repurchase of shares responsibility of businesses to respect human rights, by acting with Authority for the Company to make purchases of its own shares of up due diligence to avoid infringing on the rights of others and to address to 181,934,245 shares was obtained at the AGM on 11 May 2016.
No any adverse impacts in which they are involved, in line with the UN purchases of its shares were made by the Company during 2016.
The Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
These Human Rights authority is normally renewed annually and approval will be sought from Principles reinforce the behaviours expected of our colleagues as set shareholders at the 2017 AGM to renew the authority for a further year.
out in the Companys Code of Conduct.
Change of control provisions Equal opportunities There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate The Company regards equality and fairness as a fundamental right of all upon a change of control of the Company, such as some financial and of its colleagues.
Every colleague is required to support the Company commercial agreements and employee long-term incentive or share to meet its commitment to provide equal opportunities in employment plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their and avoid unlawful discrimination.
People with disabilities should have potential impact on the Group as a whole.
A description of the Groups full and fair consideration for all vacancies and disability is not seen debt funding arrangements is set out in Note C6 to the Financial to be an inhibitor to employment or career development.
Note C1 describes the change of control provisions relating arrangements are made for the continued employment and training, to the Groups Euro Medium-Term Note Programme.
career development and promotion of disabled persons employed by the Company.
In the event of any colleague becoming disabled Substantial shareholders while with the Company, their needs and abilities would be assessed The Company has been notified pursuant to the Disclosure and and, where possible, we would work to retain them and seek to offer Transparency Rules DTR 5 that the following shareholders held, or alternative employment to them if they were no longer able to continue were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys issued in their current role.
Branches Substantial interests in shares as at 31 December 2016 The Company, through various subsidiaries, has branches in several No.
of ordinary Nature of different jurisdictions in which the business operates outside the UK.
% shares holding Directors indemnity and insurance 1 Ameriprise Financial Inc. 10.02 182,600,557 Indirect The Directors are ultimately responsible for most aspects of the BlackRock, Inc. 6.37 116,617,165 Indirect Companys business dealings.
They can face significant personal liability Majedie Asset Management Ltd 5.61 101,963,126 Indirect under criminal or civil law, or the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure Schroders plc 4.91 89,878,920 Indirect and Transparency Rules, and can face a range of penalties including Invesco Ltd 4.89 89,477,118 Indirect censure, fines and imprisonment.
The Company considers that it is in its best interests to protect individuals who serve as Directors from Artemis Investment Management LLP 4.80 87,765,202 Direct the consequences of innocent error or omission, since this enables AXA SA 4.80 87,093,421 Indirect the Company to continue to attract prudent, appropriately qualified Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 4.06 74,347,678 Direct individuals to act as Directors.
Ameriprise Financial Inc. includes Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Ltd.
The Company maintains at its expense a directors and officers liability No other interests have been disclosed to the Company in accordance insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain circumstances for the with DTR 5 between 31 December 2016 and 22 February 2017.
Since benefit of Group personnel including, as recommended by the Code, these dates, the interest of any shareholder listed above may have the Directors.
The policy does not provide cover where the Director or increased or decreased.
No requirement to notify the Company of any officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up ordown through a whole number percentage level.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 153 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors' Report In addition, the Company has granted indemnities in favour of Directors, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting as permitted by sections 232 to 235 of the Companies Act 2006. records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys In general terms, the indemnities protect Directors to the extent transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the permissible by law from all costs and expenses incurred in the defence financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgment is given in their that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They favour or the proceedings or otherwise disposed of without finding have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open fault or where there is a successful application to court for relief from to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect liability.
The indemnity operates to the extent that the Director is not able fraud and other irregularities.
to recover the relevant amounts under the Companys directors and Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also officers liability insurance.
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement Related party transactions that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are Other than in respect of arrangements relating to the employment of responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and Directors, details of which are provided in the Directors Remuneration financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation Report or as set out in Note D4 on page 133 of the Notes to the Financial in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Statements, there is no indebtedness owed to or by the Company to any statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
colleague or any other person considered to be a related party.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages Disclosure of information to the auditor 48 and 49, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: The Directors confirm that, insofar as each of them is aware, there is no the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable relevant audit information as defined by section 418 2 of the Companies set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the has taken all of the steps that should have been taken to ensure that undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: they are each aware of any relevant audit information as defined by the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review of section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006 and to establish that the the development and performance of the business and the position Companys auditors are aware of that information.
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Going concern taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and The Directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company uncertainties that they face: and and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, aperiod of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these annual balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary financial statements.
For this reason, they consider it appropriate to for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Further details on the Groups net debt, borrowing facilities and financial The Directors Report on pages 46 to 86 and pages 151 to 153 and the risk management policies is provided in the C. Financing section of Strategic Report on pages 1 to 44 and 91 to 93 were approved by a duly Notes to the Financial Statements on pages 123 to 131. authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 22 February 2017 Statement of Directors responsibilities and signed onits behalf by Daragh Fagan, the Company Secretary.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group Daragh Fagan financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Company Secretary Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable 22 February 2017 law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards including Registered office: FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Riverbank, Meadows Business Park, Blackwater, Camberley, Surrey, GU17 9AB.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Registered in England and Wales No: 5393279 statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
