12 Our Markets We are leaders in our chosen markets Rentokil is the worlds Initial Hygiene is the Initial Workwear is leading commercial worlds leading hygiene the second largest pest control company.
provider of workwear 1 in Europe.
Rentokil is the leading pest control Initial Hygiene is the leading hygiene 1 company in 46 of its 66 markets around services company in 19 of its 41 markets Initial Workwear is a leading provider of the world, with a number two position in around the world with a number two workwear services across continental 12countries and a number three position position in 10 countries and a number 1 Europe.
It is the number two integrated infive markets.
three position in eight markets.
workwear services provider overall, with strong positions in Belgium, France, the The global commercial pest control The hygiene services market offers Netherlands and Germany.
market is worth c. $8bn p. a. and the good growth opportunities as totalglobal pest control market is worth organisations demand increasing The European workwear market c. $16bn.
standards of hygiene hand hygiene, including general workwear, cleanroom, air hygiene and a professional feminine flat linen andpersonal protective Pest control is a highly defensive hygiene service.
equipment is valued at c. 4.75bn.
With industry and offers sustainable, longa compound annual growth rate of 2%, term growth prospects.
It covers a vast Margin growth is driven by density of itis expected to reach 5.1bn by 2020. array of pests, some unique to certain customers by location, what we call countries or climates, while others such postcode density, and by the number Industry and trade services sectors as rodents are present in every country of serviced products by customer, or comprise 35% of the market while hotels, around the world.
restaurants, caterers and healthcare comprise 50% of which around 80% is There are c. 40,000 pest control flat linen.
The cleanroom laundry market companies worldwide, of which about is valued at over 400m, and is growing half are in North America.
Industry at 5%-7% p. a. consolidation is an ongoing market dynamic.
In December 2016 the Company announced the transfer of its Workwear and Hygiene businesses in Benelux, Sweden and CEE to CWS-boco under the terms of a joint venture with Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH.
Post completion of the transaction in mid-2017 the Company will have Hygiene operations in 30 countries and will retain Workwear operations in France only.
1 in 5 1 3 New contracts Global pest control In Initial Hygiene sales ofcoloured market or non-white dispensers now Five major players account for account for one in five products around one third of the global innew contracts.
c. $8bn 35% North America market Scented environments North America is the worlds The premium scenting market largest pest control market is currently growing at 35% worth c. $8bn.
1 40,000 CAGR GDP Critical discipline Customer segments Global pest control market In Asia where Initial Hygieneis Toilet handles in public Principal pest control customer expected to grow annually by number one in five markets, and washrooms can harbour up to segments include high between 4% and 5% to2026.
number three in four markets, 40,000 germs per square inch, dependency, food processing growth in the hygiene sector is making handwashing acritical and pharmaceutical, offices, various industry reports inline with country GDP at c. 8%.
hospitality, retail, healthcare, education and residential.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 13 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our Markets What dynamics are shaping our markets?
Climate change and urbanisation Increased economic activity 66% 1.8% 66% of the worlds 2017 GDP forecasts for High Income Pests are becoming more endemic.
population will countries USA, UK, Europe is 1.8%.
Increases in temperatures are live in urban areas leading to longer breeding seasons by 2050 currently and migrations of pests to new 54%, raising regions, while fewer harsh winters 4.2% transmission risk.
2017 GDP forecasts for Emerging and Source: UN Developing countries is 4.2%.
Source: World Bank Demographic change Regulatory standards 8bn Customers facing increased laws, World population is expected regulations, codes of practice and to grow to 8bn by 2025 enforcement burden, require higher standards of pest control and hygiene.
7bncurrently, changes in age distribution and rising middle classes in Asia and Latin America in particular rising demand in healthcare, housing and food production sectors.
Environmental standards Growing demand for sustainable products and services.
Increased risks to public health Reputational risk Organisations are acting to reduce the risk of reputational damage through social media and other channels for instance, the potential impact of poor 48 hygiene in food retail.
To date, 48 countries and territories Common manifestations of poor food inthe Americas have confirmed hygiene are typically upset stomachs vector-borne transmission of Zika virus leading to work absence through since 2015. sickness.
The cumulative effect of thesesituations can be costly to health, well-being and economic productivity.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
