32 Key Performance Indicators We use Key Performance Indicators KPIs to judge progress towards strategic objectives.
Priorities and principles Link to strategy How we measure performance As a service organisation, our people make our company Lost time accident LTA rate what it is.
LTA rate defined as number of lost time accidents Colleagues Our priority is ensuring Everyone Goes Home Safe.
Health and safety H&S is the first agenda item in all senior Ensuring Everyone Goes Working days lost WDL rate management meetings including Executive Leadership WDL rate defined as number of working days lost as Team andBoard.
Home Safe a result of LTAs per 100,000 standard working hours.
We hold an annual Board review of H&S Policy.
We invest in training and development to ensure our Sales and service colleague retention Investing in our people colleagues expertise is unrivalled.
Defined as total sales and service staff retained We recruit, appoint and promote on merit.
in year as apercentage of sales and service We listen to our colleagues via Your Voice Counts surveys headcount at start of year.
and act on feedback to make improvements.
We are passionate about delivering excellent service to State of Service every customer and keeping our promises to them.
Defined as total number of service visits performed Customers divided by total number of visits due.
Keeping our promises to customers Our business model depends on servicing the needs of Customer Voice Counts CVC Delivering outstanding our customers in line with internal high standards and to Measured by implementation of an average Net customer service levels agreed in contracts.
Promoter Score across all branches, including Measuring customer satisfaction allows us to identify in-year acquisitions.
CVC score represents the net unhappy customers, reduce churn and increase revenue, balance of those customers promoting our service profit and cash.
compared with those neutral or not promoting.
Customer retention is crucial to our long-term success Customer retention Retaining our customers Benefits include: increased purchasing and cross-selling Defined as total portfolio value of customers retained activity, lower price sensitivity and terminations, positive as a percentage of opening portfolio.
customer recommendations and a strengthened USP.
We aim to drive shareholder value through higher revenue Ongoing Revenue growth by focusing on our Pest Control, Hygiene and Workwear Defined as revenue growth at CER from the continuing Shareholders businesses, supported by M&A investment and divestment operations of the Group including acquisitions after of non-core or poorly performing businesses.
removing the effect of disposed or closed businesses.
Driving higher revenue Financial target: mid-single-digit revenue growth.
Our objective is to deliver sustainable profit growth Ongoing Operating Profit Achieving greater through reductions in central and regional overheads and Defined as operating profit at CER from the continuing profitability restructuring costs, and by improving service productivity, operations of the Group including acquisitions after pricing and margin improvement.
Financial target: high-single-digit profit growth.
Ongoing Operating Profit is an adjusted measure and is presented before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets excluding computer software and one-off items.
We aim to generate sustainable Free Cash Flow through Free Cash Flow at AER Delivering sustainable managing working capital, bringing capex in line with Defined as net cash flows from operating activities, Free Cash Flow depreciation and significantly reducing restructuring costs.
adjusted for cash flows related to the purchase of Financial target: 120m p. a. property, plant, equipment and software, the interest element of finance lease payments and dividends received from associates.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 33 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Key Performance Indicators Commentary on performance Our progress in 2016 Our safest year ever with improvements driven by execution of the Company's H&S operating plan.
In-year achievements included: 19% deployment of SHE Golden Rules to all colleagues to build an entrenched safety culture where rules are LTA rate: 19% improvement consistently followed: at0.62 2015: 0.77 improved driver safety and fuel efficiency through development of new Driving at Work global minimum standards:and in Focus campaign resulting in improved H&S standards in France Workwear business 20% 31% reduction in LTA in 2016.
Regrettably, there were four fatalities in 2016.
Three were pedestrians involved in road traffic accidents with Company WDL rate: 20% improvement service vehicles and the fourth a trespasser who gained access illegally to a building undergoing fumigation.
In addition, at15.31 2015: 19.02 a North American colleague involved in a road traffic accident in 2015 died of her injuries in 2016.
Key drivers of colleague engagement identified by the Company as skill development and personal development opportunities.
78.2% 84.8% Over 300,000 items of online training and development, and over 300 courses and videos created around Sales colleague Service colleague topics including sales, technical and operations in 2016. retention: 78.2% retention: 84.8% Group engagement and enablement levels now five points above global norms.
2015: 76.8% 2015: 81.9% Our ongoing improvement in performance reflects: continued strong management focus within all markets and businesses: 97.7% improved products and service training programmes: and State of Service: 97.7% new routing and scheduling tool for Pest Control deployed in over 15 countries with positive results.
2015: 97.4% Increase driven by improvements from all categories across most regions.
Performance also includes the benefit of portfolio changes, in particular the addition of Steritech Pest Control 37.6 witha CVC significantly higher than Group average.
Customer Voice Counts: CVC respondents asked to rate five service elements: technician, complaint handling, customer contact, product 4.7 points to 37.6 2015: 32.9 quality and documentation each area has shown improvement over the past two years.
In-year improvements have been generated through: increased customer account management to drive customer loyalty: 85.8% improved customer service responsiveness within European operations, in particular in our Workwear Customer retention: operations through implementation of the Quality agenda: and 85.8% 2015: 85.2% improved products and services.
Organic Revenue growth 3.0%, growth from acquisitions 9.6%.
Particularly strong Ongoing Revenue performance from Pest Control: 25.9% 5.7% Organic Revenue growth.
12.6% Encouraging momentum in Hygiene Ongoing Revenue: 4.8% 3.1% Organic Revenue growth.
Ongoing Revenue growth: Very strong performance in Ongoing Revenue growth from North America: 38.5% 4.4% Organic Revenue growth.
12.6% 2015: 6.5% 41 companies acquired adding 124m of combined annualised revenues.
Performance reflects growth in North America, the UK, Asia, Pacific and Latin America.
However, partially offset by lower profits in France and an increase in central and regional overheads reflecting 11.5% increased charges for long-term incentive plans as a result of share price growth during the year.
Ongoing Operating Profit 2016 Operating Profit margin 12.9% 2015: 13.0%.
growth: 11.5% 2015: 9.1% Free Cash Flow performance driven by continued strong operating cash flow and favourable foreign exchange movements.
156.4m Spend on current and prior-year acquisitions of 109.2m and dividends of 55.5m largely funded from Free Cash Flow.
Free Cash Flow: 156.4m Free Cash Flow target raised to 120m for the coming year and we expect a minimum Free Cash Flow of 130m in2017.
2015: 147.7m Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
