Andy has broad commercial He is a former Chairman of e2v experience gained in senior technologies plc and Hampson executive positions and legal Industries plc, and former Senior roles.
Andy joined Rentokil Initial Independent Director of Kier from ICI where he held various Group plc and Volex plc.
Chris positions as a senior lawyer is a Council Member and past and head of the mergers and president of the Society of British acquisitions team since 1987.
In Aerospace Companies and a John McAdam, Richard Burrows, 2005, he was appointed to the Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Chairman Non-Executive Director executive management team as Society.
N N R Executive Vice President, Mergers Current external commitments & Acquisitions, General Counsel NED and SID, SIG plc Appointed: January 2008 Appointed: May 2008 and Company Secretary.
He also had operational responsibility Skills and experience Skills and experience for ICIs Regional and Industrial John brings to the Group a deep Richard worked at Irish Distillers Division.
During his career with ICI and strategic understanding of in various areas of the business he spent several years working a wide range of industry sectors before being appointed Chief in its businesses in the US and gained from his career with Executive in 1978, and Chairman Canada.
Andy is a graduate of the Imperial Chemical Industries plc CEO in 1991.
He held this position University of Southampton and ICI and Unilever over more than for nine years before being aqualified solicitor.
30 years and his other Board appointed joint Chief Executive and advisor appointments.
John of Irish Distillers parent company Alan Giles, Current external commitments joined ICI following its acquisition Pernod Ricard in 2000, from Non-Executive Director Director and Trustee of Street of Unilevers Specialty Chemicals which he retired in 2006.
Richard A N R League Companies in 1997 and was then also served as the Governor of appointed Chief Executive of the the Bank of Ireland from 2005 Appointed: May 2006 and Group in 2003.
He has significant became Senior Independent John spent 24 years with Unilever international business experience Director in January 2015 where he held a number of senior ranging from leading successful Skills and experience management positions.
John was branded manufacturing and Alan previously served as CEO Senior Independent Director at service businesses in the drinks ofHMV Group plc, Chairman of JSainsbury plc from 2005 to 2016 industry to banking and financial Fat Face Group Limited, Managing and a Non-Executive Director of services roles.
Richard attended Director of Waterstones and Jeremy Townsend, Sara Lee Corporation in America Wesley College, Dublin Ireland Executive Director of WH Smith from 2008 to 2012 and Severn Chief Financial Officer and and is a Fellow of the Institute of PLC and Book Tokens Limited.
John Chartered Accountants of Ireland.
Chief Information Officer He has also held several Nonreceived a B. Sc.
honours degree Executive Director positions at the Current external commitments in Chemical Physics at Manchester Appointed: August 2010 Office of Fair Trading, Somerfield Chairman, British American University and later gained a Ph.
D. Skills and experience plc and Wilson Bowden plc.
He Tobacco p. l. c. before becoming a research fellow.
Jeremy joined Rentokil Initial as brings strong listed company NED, Carlsberg A S Denmark Chief Financial Officer in 2010 experience to the Board as Current external commitments Chairman, Craven House and, in addition, became Chief well as extensive commercial Chairman, United Utilities Capital plc Information Officer in November and strategic serviceindustry GroupPLC 2013.
He previously worked at experience, having led two major NED, Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Mitchells & Butlers, where he retail brand businesses through to May 2017 joined as Deputy Finance Director significant periods of change.
NED and SID, Electra Private in June 2005 before becoming Equity PLC Current external commitments Finance Director in February NED, Perpetual Income & 2008.
He was previously Growth Investment Trust plc employed by J Sainsbury plc NED, Competition and Markets where he held various finance Authority Chris Geoghegan, roles including Group Financial Chairman, Advisory Board at Non-Executive Director Controller, Corporate Finance the Oxford Institute of Retail A N R Director and Strategy Director.
Management Prior to Sainsburys, Jeremy Associate Fellow, Sad Business Appointed: June 2016 worked in audit and corporate Andy Ransom, School, Oxford University finance at Ernst & Young Skills and experience Honorary visiting professor, Chief Executive LLP.
Jeremy has a degree in Chris was on the Board of Cass Business School Management Sciences from Directors of BAE Systems plc from Appointed: May 2008 Manchester University and is a 2000 until 2007, where he worked Skills and experience Fellow of the Institute of Chartered as Joint Chief Operating Officer.
Andy joined Rentokil Initial in Accountants of England and Chris has also worked in a series 2008 as the Executive Director of Wales.
of senior executive roles at Airbus the global Pest Control business and British Aerospace over a 34 Current external commitments with functional responsibility for year executive career and has a Member of the Accounting Corporate Development, M&A, wealth of commercial experience Council of the Financial Legal, Company Secretariat, of complex, international Reporting Council Risk and Health & Safety.
NED, parkrun Trading Limited was appointed Chief Executive and parkrun Global Limited of Rentokil Initial plc in October R Ren ent to ok kil il I In niit tiia all p pllc c A Ann nnu ual al R Rep epo or rt t 2 20 01 16 6 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 49 Board of Directors Chief Financial Officer of Virgin COMPANY SECRETARY Age of Directors Atlantic Limited for 10 years from 2000 to 2010.
She has also held a number of additional senior financial roles including Group Finance Director at Porsche Cars Great Britain and Finance and Operations Director at HJ Angela Seymour-Jackson, Chapman & Co Ltd. Julie is a Non-Executive Director former Non-Executive Director N R Daragh Fagan, of gategroup Holding AG and brings valuable listed company Group General Counsel & Appointed: March 2012 experience gained at her former Company Secretary and current roles.
Julie is a Skills and experience Chartered Accountant, having Angela was Managing Director Appointed: July 2014 trained with Price Waterhouse and of the Workplace Division at Skills and experience 45-55 37% has a BA Hons in Economics from Aegon UK plc from December Daragh joined Rentokil Initial 55-65 38% Cambridge University.
Prior to asGroup General Counsel in 65-75 25% this, Angela was Chief Executive September 2013 and, in addition, Current external commitments Officer of RAC Motoring Services became Company Secretary in NED, NXP Semi-Conductors from 2010 until 2012.
Daragh has extensive N. V. NASDAQ roles also include Distribution in-house legal and company NED, DFS Furniture plc Director at Aviva UK Life and secretarial experience in major NED, Cineworld Group plc Distribution Director at Norwich listed multinational corporations, NED, Stagecoach Group plc Union Insurance.
She has including those with significant extensive executive and business RETIRED IN 2016 businesses in emerging markets.
experience in motoring and Daragh joined Rentokil Initial from insurance services and also has Thomson Reuters where he was valuable knowledge of service General Counsel, Europe & Asia, focused organisations with a and prior to that General Counsel, strong track record of improving EMEA of Reuters Group plc.
Angela has a Before joining Reuters, he spent Masters degree in Marketing and 10 years working in the oil and gas is a Member of the Chartered industry for the Italian multinational Institute of Marketing and the Eni SpA, after qualifying as a Peter Bamford, Chartered Insurance Institute.
Daragh Chairman 12% Non-Executive Director has a Masters degree in History Current external commitments Executive Directors 25% A N from Cambridge.
Deputy Chairman and SID, Independent Gocompare.
com Group plc Current external commitments Non-Executive Directors 63% Appointed: July 2006 NED, Henderson Group plc None Retired: May 2016 NED, esure Group plc Professional background Skills and experience Senior Adviser to Lloyds Peter is currently Chairman Banking Group Insurance ofSuperGroup plc and was previously Chairman of Six Degrees Holdings Limited from 2011 to 2015.
Peter was a Director of Vodafone Group Plc from 1998 to 2006 where he held senior executive roles, including Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Executive of Northern Europe, Middle East Julie Southern, and Africa and Chief Executive of Non-Executive Director Vodafone UK.
Prior to this he held A N senior positions with WH Smith PLC, Tesco Plc and Kingfisher Plc.
Appointed: July 2014 He also served as the Chairman Finance and accountancy 37% ofPRS for Music Limited and Skills and experience Marketing 25% Brandtone Holdings Limited Julie has had a long, successful Key Science 25% Ireland.
He brought extensive career in a number of Law 13% A Audit Committee Member experience to the Board, commercially oriented finance N Nomination Committee particularly in brand development and related roles working for Member and marketing.
some of the worlds best known R Remuneration Committee consumer brands.
She was Chief Member Commercial Officer of Virgin Committee Chair Atlantic Limited between 2010 and 2013, responsible for the NED Non-Executive Director commercial strategy of Virgin SID Senior Independent Atlantic Airways and Virgin Director Holidays.
Prior to this, Julie was R Ren ent to ok kil il I In niit tiia all p pllc c A Ann nnu ual al R Rep epo or rt t 2 20 01 16 6
