18 Strategy in Action Pest Control Ongoing Revenue 25.9% Accelerating growth 989.2m AER: 1,094.5m, 39.3% in Pest Control by Ongoing Operating Profit 25.1% building on market- 184.4m leading positions and AER: 203.1m, 37.7% 1 Operating Margin consistent delivery.
18.6% Pest Control is our core business line and Global and national accounts engine for growth.
Continued acceleration We are making good progress in targeting ofour business will be achieved through: global customers particularly in the food Percentage of Group processing and hospitality sectors.
Our building on our unrivalled global leadership Ongoing Revenue acquisition of Steritech in North America, through continued expansion in Growth and combined with our increasingly active Emerging markets.
We will also continue to participation in the Global Food Safety expand in North America: Initiative, has strengthened our global brand maintaining a strong, value-creating presence in these sectors.
In 2016 we acquisition programme to build density: signed our first major contract with a global harnessing the digital opportunity food production and agricultural products completing the roll-out of our best-in-class organisation with a geographic footprint customer portals and developing web % that closely matches our own.
In addition, 50 presence for a mobile digital-first world.
we have a strong pipeline of further new We aim to lead in connected products, business opportunities within the food particularly for high dependence food production, pharmaceutical, hotels, hospitality, clients: transportation and logistics sectors.
exploiting the international sales opportunity The acquisition of Steritech last year has also using tight profiling and framework significantly enhanced our capability in the US agreements.
Our pipeline of international national accounts market, currently estimated Percentage of Group opportunities is now c. 50m: and 1 to be worth over $700m and representing Ongoing Operating profit continuing to innovate at pace for future 28% of the total US commercial pest control growth through deployment of new pest market.
While Rentokil has a 10% share of the control products and services from our commercial market, we have less than 3% of innovation pipeline.
Now with greater national scale and density, we are Attractive and growing market more competitive and a key component of our Pest control is an attractive and growing sales strategy is to grow our national accounts market offering sustainable, long-term portfolio rapidly through: growth prospects.
It is expected to deliver 56% targeting specific national account prospects acompound annual growth rate of between within the most attractive industry segments 4% and 5% through to 2026.
Structural growth such as food and pharmaceuticals: drivers include: economic activity in growth markets offices, housing etc.
: population taking a standardised and focused expansion and urbanisation, particularly in approach to sales execution with common Emerging markets: a growing middle class performance metrics and sales processes: demanding higher standards of hygiene: rising international standards in food safety and leveraging the combined national sales Three-year revenue growth hygiene regulation: increasing pressure from expertise of both Rentokil and Steritech: and pest species such as mosquitoes through maximising cross-selling opportunities climate change for example the Zika virus 989m across brands.
786m In 2016 we have increased our national Driving growth in Pest Control 692m account sales by 55% and, as with our global As the worlds leading pest control business accounts, our pipeline of prospects is strong.
we have the scale and expertise to drive Organic Revenue growth, which rose by 5.7% in 2016.
We provide an update on some of our Organic Revenue growth levers opposite and 2014 2015 2016 overleaf.
P re central and regional overheads and restructuring costs.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 19 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategy in Action 5.7 % Our Pest Control business has more thandoubled its Organic Revenue growth rate from 2.3% to 5.7% between2013 to 2016.
78 pest control companies acquired over the last three years, predominantly in Growth and Emerging markets.
% 10 While Rentokil has a 10% share of the commercial market, we have less than 3% of the national accounts opportunity.
$1 bn Post the acquisitions ofSteritech and Residex, annualised revenues in our North American business are now over $1bn, some two years ahead of plan.
5 5% 55% growth in national 3 11m account sales in 2016 The business has added inNorthAmerica.
c. 311m in combined annualised revenues over the last three years from acquisitions.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 20 Strategy in Action 50m 10m 35 worth of international In 2016 our web pest control companies contracts are currently platform handled havebeen acquired in our pipeline.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 21 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategy in Action Technical expertise shared across Growth through M&A Market markets This year we acquired 35 pest control Rentokil is the worlds largest commercial pest companies in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, control company and has c. 15% of the global Across the world we combat the dangers to Chile, China, Denmark, French Guyana, commercial market and 8% of the total pest public health from mosquitoes and believe our Germany, Guatemala, Honduras, Hong Kong, control market worldwide.
We continue to depth of expertise and experience in global New Zealand, Spain, Switzerland, UK and the increase our international presence through mosquito control is unrivalled.
In addition, on 1 July 2016, we completed acombination of organic growth and targeted proud to be awarded a contract by the U. S. the acquisition of pest and turf products acquisitions.
For further information on the Federal Governments Centers for Disease distribution company Residex see below.
pestcontrol market, please see page 12.
Control and Prevention to help control the Theintegration of all acquisitions is progressing species of mosquito that could potentially Customers well and the pipeline remains verystrong with carry the Zika virus across the USA and its In over 66 countries, businesses and further opportunities to create value.
homeowners trust Rentokil to solve their acore component of our strategy and we will Rentokil has a network of experts available pest problems and prevent them from continue to look for attractive targets to further for deployment as required alongside its reoccurring.
Commercial customers account build density, particularly in North America and global technical resource to target affected or for approximately 80% of revenue and in Emerging markets.
It can also provide additional include non-food sectors, food processing, services that entail community outreach, Acquisition of Residex food service and food retail sectors, largely surveillance and inspection, and support for Our Target Specialty Products business asaresult of their regulatory requirements the distribution of materials and educational which accounted for approximately 10% of forpest control services.
The contract will run to June 2018, our North American revenue is a leading Residential pest control represents subject to government review.
USdistributor of pest control and turf products.
approximately 20% of business revenue with At the beginning of July we announced the In Central and Latin America and across over 75% of this coming from the US and acquisition of US pest control and turf products the Caribbean, Rentokil is also undertaking Australia.
On a per capita basis both countries distribution business Residex LLC for $30m.
monitoring and control services to support its have much larger residential markets for pest Residex is the largest independent products customers against the potential threat of Zika control than in Europe, primarily because of the distribution company in the US, with annualised and in Asia we have over 30 years experience presence of termites.
revenues for the 12 months prior to acquisition in helping customers to combat the threat of of $113m.
The acquisition increases the scale Outlook for 2017 dengue fever.
of our US pest products operation, more than Pest control is a highly resilient industry and doubling its size to $200m in revenue.
We now Digital leadership and web expertise offers sustainable, long-term growth prospects.
have the second largest products business The world is becoming increasingly focused on We are well placed to take advantage of of this type in the US, delivering national digital applications and Rentokil is leading the major growth drivers which include: the coverage and a greater density footprint.
pest control industry in the commercialisation convergence of international standards of the Internet-of-Things through connected particularly in the food industry : the drive for The acquisition also provides entry into the devices.
We now have digital expertise at quality and consistency from multi-nationals: Canadian pest control products market.
Post every stage of the customer journey from web rising expectations from consumers driving the acquisitions of Steritech and Residex, searching through to e-billing.
In addition, over companies to invest in brand protection: and annualised revenues in our North American the last three years we have been developing, growing demand in developing markets.
Pest business amount to just over $1bn, some testing and deploying our range of remote control benefits from exposure to higher GDP twoyears ahead of plan.
monitoring sensors and connected devices.
growth territories, principally within the Growth Integration of Steritech and Emerging markets, and these will remain PestConnect, our remote monitoring system The integration of Steritech is progressing well.
our primary focus for investment.
for rodents, is the worlds smartest mouse All integration work streams are on track and trap.
It is now used in over 1,200 customer In 2017 we will continue to build our business management integration is complete.
Both premises across 12 countries and has sent in North America and central to this will be the back office rationalisation and procurement us over three million individual messages successful integration of recent acquisitions savings programmes are running to plan.
relating to the presence of rodent activity and including Steritech and Residex.
In addition, we Whileour IT infrastructure migration and service productivity such as battery life and will continue the deployment of new products application roadmap is in place, we are the level of mobile connectivity.
The system and services, increase digitalisation of our only halfway through this element of the also guides our technicians to the exact unit services and productivity tools, complete the programme and this will be a focus for 2017. that has signalled rodent activity particularly roll-out of our enhanced global web presence The business achieved profits of over $30m useful on sites which use multiple units.
in2016, at the top end of expectations.
In 2016 our web platform handled over ten million visits with double-digitvisitor growth in key markets.
One new website has been launched every three weeks.
In addition, the myRentokil online customer portal was rolled out to 20 countries with over 60,000 customers registered.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 22 Strategy in Action Rio 2016: the pest control perspective The eyes of the world were on Brazil this summer as tens of thousands of visitors and athletes arrived for the Rio 2016 Summer Olympic andParalympic Games.
The health and safety of everyone attending the Games were of absolute importance to the International Olympic Committee.
Ahead of the Games, Rentokil was appointed Knowledge of the local area was critical to And finally to undertake pest control and mosquito our success.
The local environment included French polo player Mehdi Maezouki control services as part of the extensive risk ground marshes, areas of environmental commented in the French media that, with management approach that was undertaken protection, dense vegetation, rivers, lakes allthat appeared in the international press, by the Rio 2016 Organising Committee.
and waterfalls all of which were seen as he was apprehensive about attending the areas of potential risk.
Rentokils approach to RioOlympic Games.
However, he added This case study aims to outline the steps and proactive pest control ensured that a detailed after the Games that he had experienced innovations delivered by Rentokil to provide pre-survey, prevention plan and technical no problems, saying, Zika?
I did not see a pest-free Games and support other cities or performance targets were presented and amosquito in Rio.
organisations as they undertake similar pest approved by the Organising Committee.
management programmes to protect public Each target such as speed of response was health at large scale events around the world.
tracked daily with full transparency of results and ultimately delivered in full.
Rentokil in Rio Rentokil is Brazils leading provider of pest Mosquito control in Rio % 90 control services and has been supporting Much attention ahead of the Games focused businesses, public authorities and residential Ultrasonic pulses on the harrowing effects of the Zika virus in customers since 2012.
During the Games we used for the Brazil and around the world, and thus Rentokil first time an innovative, non-chemical set about delivering the most extensive We commenced work for the Games in treatment using ultrasonic pulses mosquito control programme ever undertaken May 2016, providing an intensive range of to kill larvae in open water, reducing for an event of this scale.
Despite large areas preventative pest control services to the the mosquito larvae population by of open water, poor sanitation in parts of Rio Athletes' Village, Operating Village, three over 90%.
ideal conditions in which larvae can develop Media Villages, arenas, stadiums and the and high temperatures, the combination Olympic Parks, including hospitality areas.
of Rentokils service, highly trained and Acore team of 20 technicians provided a full dedicated technicians and the introduction range of services to prevent rodents, flies, ofnew innovations delivered a highly effective insects, birds and mosquitoes.
of the team undertook additional technical and operational training to work under the Outcome specific procedures of the Rio 2016 Organising In August 2016 the WHO Zika Committee Committee.
congratulated Brazil on its successful Disease Control and Prevention Our Rentokil team was able to monitor and application of appropriate public health In July we were awarded a contract by apply new applications where required, and measures during the Olympic Games.
S. Federal Governments Centers was available 24 7 to undertake preventive confirmed that to date there have been no for Disease Control and Prevention to and corrective services as required, reports of confirmed cases of Zika virus among help control the species of mosquito particularly in priority areas such as the people who attended the Games.
that could potentially carry the Zika virus Athletes Village.
across the USA and its protectorates.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 23 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategy in Action 360 Rentokils 360 mosquito programme, used for the first time at a major event, included a combination of methodologies that disrupted the mosquito larvae to adult lifecycle.
The programme featured regular inspections ofthe areas where mosquitoes were most likely to be: 80 monitoring traps were placed in key sites to act as an early warning system: mosquito types were identified to target action in line with WHO protocols: control solutions, such as fogging and insecticide sprays on vegetation: online risk mapping and detailed reporting.
Our mosquito programme was also used by specific Olympic teams and hotels around their own properties.
Proven pedigree Rentokil delivered pest control services for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
Innovations introduced for the event included PestNetOnline, our online pest control reporting system, and RADAR, the worlds smartest mousetrap utilising CO technology to control rodents 2 ina humane and eco-friendly manner.
International knowledge sharing Rentokil applied the expertise it had developed from working in the US and Asia for over 30 years to enhance our Rio teams understanding and expertise.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 24 Strategy in Action Hygiene Ongoing Revenue 4.8% Pursuing an Execute m 446.0 AER: 486.0m, 14.2% Now growth strategy Ongoing Operating Profi t 3.9% to leverage our key 1 86.1m strengths in our 41 AER: 94.4m, 14.0% 2 Operating Margin countries of operation.
% 19.3 In 2016 we achieved our strongest levels of Postcode density and service Ongoing Revenue growth for many years.
productivity However margins have come under pressure Our Service route planner is a web-based Percentage of Group this year, in part due to the costs associated planning tool which we use in our Pest Control Ongoing Revenue with the roll-out of our new product ranges.
During the year we have been developing this tool for further application Improvements in performance will be across our Hygiene operations.
achievedby: building on the strength of our leading The Service route planner has been hygiene brand and strong market positions: formulated to optimise both territory and daily route planning.
Customer service visits, driving selling with confi dence our product routes and working days are automatically ranges such as Refl ection, Signature, Colour, pre-planned and optimised, then service visits NoTouch and Premium Scenting: 23 % requiring further planning can be appointed, leading on innovation through  confi rmed and the plans Things for Hygiene, for example sensing, updated.
hand hygiene compliance, particularly in the food and health market sectors: and Product penetration and customer building city density and extending our upselling footprint through organic growth and Signifi cant leverage is gained in Hygiene targeted M&A.
Percentage of Group through selling multiple services per customer 2 premises.
We have high-quality product Ongoing Operating profit Attractive and growing market ranges now in place and are off ering our sales Initial Hygiene is the worlds leading hygiene colleagues specialist training to help them sell services business, operating in an attractive multiple services to customers, supported by industry off ering good growth opportunities promotional campaigns to highlight our range as expectations around standards of hygiene proposition.
In addition, we are putting in continue to increase.
The business is highly place country-specifi c incentive programmes profi table and, as in Pest Control, margins are with local rewards to focus our sales force driven by postcode density servicing as many and frontline colleagues on achieving greater customers as possible in a tight geographic % 26 product density.
zone and customer penetration selling In addition, we continue to strengthen our multiple service lines to customers.
What washroom range to maximise our selling we seek therefore is more customers on our capabilities through additional product routes and more products on customers walls.
launches and the continued roll-out of the Driving growth in Hygiene range across our operations.
As the worlds leading hygiene services Digital leadership and web expertise Our Hygiene strategy business, we have the scale and expertise to Our digital sales and service tools are also drive Organic Revenue growth, which rose by being utilised to build customer awareness of 3.1% in 2016.
We provide an update on some M&A Products Initials multiple product off erings, for instance, ofour organic growth levers opposite.
City-focused Best in Class the new customer portal, myInitial, is being developed to highlight the full spectrum of hygiene solutions on its home page.
Density Service Customer Hygiene High and Execute Now Quality Product Innovation Including Digital 1.
Post completion of the Companys transaction to create a joint venture with Haniel, the Company will have Hygiene operations in c. 30 markets globally.
Pre central and regional overheads and restructuring costs.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 25 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategy in Action Growth through M&A In M&A we are adopting the same route density, city-focused strategy for our Hygiene business as we have for our Pest Control business, seeking small, highly-targeted acquisitions in Growth and Emerging markets to build density and grow margins.
This year 12m we bought five businesses in Australia, Chile, Malaysia, New Zealand and the Republic Five acquisitions of Ireland generating combined annualised during the year revenues of 12m all of which are performing to build scale well.
The increased number of acquisitions in and density, Hygiene in 2016 is a reflection of our growing with combined confidence in the performance of the business annualised and the beneficial impact of greater density on driving margins.
We will continue to seek revenuesof 12m.
Market We operate in a competitive market with good growth opportunities.
We are well placed to increase market share through market segmentation and the introduction of value propositions to customers.
Significant investment has been made in updating and delivering best-in-class product solutions.
Customers We achieve high customer satisfaction levels and believe this is a key competitive advantage.
We have account management processes in place for contacting customers at least annually to confirm service requirements are being met.
We use feedback from our Ongoing Revenue growth Customer Voice Counts surveys to improve in 2016 service levels and every detractor score is followed by a call from an account or branch manager within 24 hours.
The launch of 4.8 % myInitial gives complete transparency about customer service including proof of service and proof of delivery with e-invoicing rolled FY 2015: out to 46% of our UK customers during 2016.
Four Hygiene product offers: Outlook Signature, Signature Colour, Reflection The Next Phase of our plan involves further and No Touch.
2.7% implementation of our Execute Now growth strategy to leverage our strengths, building onthe power of our brand and selling our new product ranges.
Building city density through M&A in the Growth and Emerging quadrants remains a key focus.
3.1% As stated at the beginning of this section, Continued despite our improved revenue performance performance this year we have seen some margin momentum in contraction in 2016.
Our focus for 2017 Hygiene with 2016 therefore will be on yield management to drive margin expansion.
We see opportunities Organic Revenue for improvement through increasing growth.
postcode density through targeted selling and acquisitions and by increasing services provided per premises and in particular where we provide only one service per -60 premises through targeted sales.
In addition, Gross margin productivity can be improved through the rolldecline of 60 basis out of Service.
Finally, we will be linking sales points in 2016 incentives more closely to margin delivery, yield management thereby reducing price discounting and driving akey focus for 2017. improved yield management.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 26 Strategy in Action Workwear Ongoing Revenue -1.3% Delivering 342.7m AER: 383.7m, 10.5% differentiation through Ongoing Operating Profit -14.5% product and service 39.8m quality.
AER: 44.5m, -4.2% 1 Operating margin 11.6% Our Workwear business operates across the Since implementation of the plan at the end major European markets of Germany, France of 2015 we have made encouraging progress and Benelux.
It is profitable and highly cashagainst operational KPIs.
Percentage of Group generative with a good overall market share.
Ongoing Revenue State of Service is at its highest level in over five years, missing item complaints are down In December we signed a joint venture in all markets and good progress has been agreement with Haniel to create a leading achieved in complaint resolution.
provider of workwear and hygiene services in Europe.
This will be created by transferring In addition, customer satisfaction scores have our Workwear and Hygiene businesses in risen for nine consecutive quarters, standards Benelux, Sweden and CEE into CWS-boco in washing quality are rising and new work owned by Haniel, retaining an 18% stake in the flow tools have been introduced to reduce the % 18 joint venture.
Completion is expected in midtimeframe from contract to deployment.
2017, subject toclearance from the competition authorities.
We have also been driving new innovations across the business including the launch of Post completion of the transaction, our new product ranges, the implementation of Workwear operations will be based exclusively CO washing processes, and introduction 2 in France.
of RFID chips into customer garments to aid traceability and minimise garment losses.
Performance in 2016 Performance this year was held back by Percentage of Group Outlook 1 challenging economies, intense competition Ongoing Operating profit We expect trading conditions in France to and significant pricing pressure, particularly remain difficult in 2017.
This resulted in an Ongoing to make good progress in improving the Revenue decline of 1.3% and an Ongoing operational strength of the business through Operating Profit decline of 14.5%.
the execution of our Workwear Quality We believe that implementation of our Quality agenda, we are anticipating further profit initiative is the best approach to mitigate these declines in France.
% 12 Our Workwear Quality Plan involves: best-in-class processing delivering the highest standards in washing and repair quality, and use of new higher quality detergents: greater responsiveness to customer needs delivering a shorter lead time between Three-year Ongoing Revenue contract and deployment: decline smarter selling selling a service rather than a product: 358.4m creation of a product and service innovation 347.1m 342.7m action group: and operational efficiency improvements in supply chain, R&D, processing, sales and marketing.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 27 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategy in Action Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
