8 Chief Executives Q&A | Our Big Five Challenges Q&A Our Big Five Challenges Overall, 2016 has been a good year for the Company with many positive Q. M&A has once again been a key feature of 2016. achievements.
However, we have five big challenges which we must Canyou update us on progress?
2016 has been very successful for M&A.
This year we have acquired 41 businesses 35 in Pest Control, five in Hygiene and one in Other with 1.
Accelerate Organic Revenue growth combined annual revenues of 124m for 107m.
In North America we When we announced our RIGHT WAY plan in early 2014 we set have continued to reinforce our presence as the number three player ourselves a financial target of mid-single-digit Ongoing Revenue growth in the worlds largest pest control market through the acquisition of 17 comprising 2-3% Organic Revenue growth and 2-3% growth through businesses, including the July acquisition of Residex.
In 2016 we delivered total Organic Revenue growth of have acquired businesses in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, Chile, 3.0% and growth from acquisitions of 9.6%.
Further, Pest Control grew China, Denmark, French Guyana, Germany, Guatemala, Honduras, Hong organically by 5.7% and Hygiene by 3.1%.
Our challenge now is to Kong, Malaysia, New Zealand, Republic of Ireland, Spain, Switzerland, grow organically in excess of 3% per annum.
We aim to achieve this by UK and the US.
The integration of acquisitions is progressing well and focusing on product and service innovation, digital marketing, maximising Steritech our largest pest control acquisition to date exited 2016 the opportunity from global accounts and driving growth in our Emerging with profits at the top end of expectations at c. $30m.
We have also sold and Growth markets, specifically India, China and North America.
More four small, non-core businesses.
In the coming year we will continue details on these initiatives can be found on pages 18, 21, 24 and 25. to acquire businesses to infill locally, build further density and grow margins, particularly in Emerging and Growth markets and our pipeline 2.
Improve margins, particularly in Hygiene of prospects is particularly strong going into 2017.
While our Hygiene business delivered Organic Revenue growth of 3.1% in 2016, gross margin declined by 60 basis points in 2016, due Q.
What hasnt gone so well this year?
What are your key principally to the costs associated with introducing our new product challenges and opportunities?
While this will work its way through A.
As I described above, our Hygiene business has grown well this year over time, there are additional steps we can take to grow margins further but gross margins declined by 60 basis points primarily reflecting the and these are shown on page 24 of this report under the heading of our costs associated with new product roll-outs and therefore our challenge Execute Now programme.
going forward will be to improve profitability and yield management 3.
Ongoing execution of M&A through our Execute Now programme see page 24 for more details on In the last three years we have acquired 93 businesses with combined how we plan to achieve this.
All except one representing We are also keen to improve service productivity across the Group and 0.7% of total spend have performed in line with or above their expected we exited 2016 slightly behind expectations, including in North America IRRs.
The success of our M&A programme has contributed strongly and to push for even higher levels of customer retention across our to our growth in Pest Control, particularly in our key North American businesses.
The challenge ahead is to sustain momentum by continuing to build the pipeline, drive performance to meet or exceed target While our overall health and safety performance statistics show strong hurdle rates and set ourselves the highest standards of integration and improvements see page 33, we have identified a rise in some categories control to ensure ongoing success and to avoid the risk of adding to the of accidents, particularly those involving driving and working at height.
complexity of our business or distracting existing operations.
Safety is our number one priority and we are rolling out additional training programmes for frontline colleagues and first level managers to 4.
Enhance capability in digital, innovation and the address this.
We also want to move faster to raise safety standards in the InternetofThings businesses we acquire to match levels in our existing operations.
Over the last three years we have developed market-leading digital Finally, while we are delighted with our proposed joint venture with platforms across the customer lifecycle from sales and service through Haniel to transfer our Benelux, Sweden and CEE Workwear and to account management and billing.
We have also developed product Hygiene operations into CWS-boco, our Workwear operations in France and service innovations and in 2016 launched a collaboration with will remain an important and substantial part of the Group going forward.
Google which will lead to the global deployment of innovative digital Conditions have been challenging in France in recent years and this pest control products and, in the future, to the development of next reflects the combination of a challenging economy, intense competition generation services to offer customers new levels of proactive risk and significant pricing pressure which have resulted in reduced management against the threat of pest infestation.
Our challenge is to profitability and heightened tensions with our industrial relations there.
roll-out these developments across all of our key markets in a timely and In 2017 we will focus on further implementation of our Quality agenda cost effective manner, while at the same time sustaining the pipeline of designed to differentiate Initial Workwear as the quality player in the new digital technologies and innovations.
French market and this is already delivering improvements in service, 5.
Improve operational and financial performance in customer satisfaction and retention.
FranceWorkwear In summary therefore, and based on the issues described above, our Our French Workwear business is profitable and highly cash-generative priorities for the coming year will be focused on margin enhancement with good overall market share.
However the market within which it across all our businesses, service productivity, maintaining and funding operates is highly competitive and pricing pressure has been significant.
our successful performance in M&A, making further progress with our We also operate in a complex industrial relations environment which digital capability and innovation and finally delivering revenue growth presents additional challenges.
We believe implementation of our our focus remains very strongly on accelerating levels of organic growth Quality initiative is the best approach to mitigate these challenges and across the Group.
A more in-depth look at what we call our Big Five return the business to profitable growth.
We changed the Managing challenges can be reviewed opposite.
Director of the business in 2016 and while we are making steady improvements in service quality, customer satisfaction and retention, the business continues to decline.
On page 26 of this report, we outline the further steps we are taking to improve operational and financial performance and show our progress to date.
Andy Ransom Chief Executive 22 February 2017 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 9 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 2016 Progress Towards Financial Targets Target and key activities Progress in Year Three Target: Mid-single-digit Ongoing Revenue growth Ongoing Revenue growth of 12.6% Organic Revenue growth of 3.0% Revenue growth from acquisitions of 9.6% Accelerating Ongoing Revenue growth in Pest Control of 25.9% 5.7% Organic Revenue growth Encouraging Ongoing Revenue growth in Hygiene of 4.8% 3.1% Organic Revenue growth Disappointing Ongoing Revenue decline in France Workwear 41 companies acquired adding 124m of combined annualised revenues, principally in Pest Control in Emerging and Growthmarkets Strong performance from North American business, Ongoing Revenue up 38.5% 4.4% Organic Revenue growth Customer retention of 85.8% 2015: 85.2% 49 Group websites upgraded by year end 21 in 2015.
Rentokil Pest Control organic traffic up 21% and enquiries up 17% year todate Further deployment of customer extranet portals myRentokil deployment complete by end of 2018, myInitial and myAmbius portals launched in 2016 PestConnect deployed to first markets.
Google partnership announced Innovation pipeline remains strong including Lumnia fly killers, RapidPro and AutoGate Target: High-single-digit Ongoing Profit growth Ongoing Operating Profit growth of 11.5% Central and regional overheads up 5.6m on the prior year reflecting the impact of increased long-term incentive plan costs as aresult of the recent share price performance of the Company Gross margins lower across all three core businesses focus on Hygiene in particular Restructuring costs of 7.1m, down on the prior year Productivity measures in Asia and Europe leading to productivity gains locally: e-billing being rolled out across the Group: e-pay trial in Singapore: and collaboration tools across the Group e. g. Project Speed France Workwear Ongoing Operating Profit decline in 2016 operationally stable but financial performance remains weak.
Focus on Quality initiative, cost savings and improved pricing control in 2017 Target: Free Cash Flow of 110m per annum Free Cash Flow of 156.4m from continuing operations, considerably in excess of target 110m.
Balance sheet remains robust Capex held in line with revenue growth Overall increase in net debt of 212.1m largely due to exchange movements in line with hedging strategy Pension scheme now in surplus on a technical provisions basis: 9m of cash held in escrow returned to the Company in February2017 S&P BBB maintained Stable Outlook reinstated reflecting progress with Steritech integration Very strong progress Strong progress Good progress Further work required Disappointing progress Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
