Strategic report | What makes us excited The power of data Rightmove has been described as a restless innovator and during the course of this year we made over 4,000 changes to our platforms both large and small.
During 2016 we were delighted to be ranked as the worlds most innovative growth company by Forbes.
Our innovation is focused on the core business and as we successfully innovate we find even more reasons to believe in the wealth of opportunities ahead.
The power of data Data driving market efficiencies and transparency Rightmoves research shows that when selling their homes most vendors want to be updated on the progress of the sale at least once a week.
The Marketing Report T ool delivers this update to vendors by showing not only the interest their property has received on the UKs largest property marketplace, but also by comparing that interest to similar A properties nearby.
The tool also enables agents to clearly demonstrate their marketing efforts and expertise B B to a vendor.
It is especially powerful for highlighting when a property is over-priced or would benefit C from a higher profile by purchasing an advertising product on Rightmove.
This tool is already being used on 100,000 A Property first listed B Featured Property C Average interest of properties each month.
product applied similar properties 6 6 rightmove.
co. uk o. uk S Str trat ategic r egic repor eport t Governance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Rightmoves Data Services business provides insight, analysis and risk assessment tools to businesses which are making decisions around property, particularly in relation to valuation and investment.
Our property comparison and background check toolset is now the fide facto standard for valuers in the surveying industry.
All our tools and services are based on the bedrock of our uniquely powerful property dataset, providing our customers with constantly updated property insight and information across the UK.
Our Best Price Guide Report helps an agent justify their valuation to a potential vendor.
Using our software agents can access our unrivalled database of current property listings advertised on Rightmove together with our archive of over 35 million properties and build a co-branded report to support their valuation.
In 2016 agents generated an average of 620,000 Best Price Guide Reports per month.
By providing customers with an increasingly powerful online marketplace at the same time as building closer relationships with them, we can help customers to innovate and empower their business models to ultimately make home moving easier.
We are enabling our agents to be more efficient and lower their overheads and adapt in a digital marketplace.
A property is 40% more likely to be sold by the agent who first marketed it if it is priced in line with our Automated Valuation Model.
Rightmove plc annual r Rightmove plc annual report 2016 eport 2016 7 7 Strategic report | What makes us excited The power of data The power of data to predict The data generated from our whole of market view allied to artificial intelligence techniques enables us to identify patterns and trends in consumer behaviour.
Winning the right to sell a properties may come to market.
Trials of the product have property is the lifeblood of an The Outside View machine produced encouraging results estate agents business.
Less learning algorithm assesses and we expect to launch a full than 2% of saleable properties nearly 400 features of each of version in the second half of are on the market at any time the properties in the outcode to 2017.
In the medium term making it very difficult for agents determine which are the most we believe this will be as to target their marketing at likely to come to market in the successful as our popular those homeowners who might next six-month period.
Targeting those addresses that This challenge leads to big are most likely to inefficiencies in an agents come to the marketing spend.
market, the platform then In May 2016 we acquired the generates and Outside View, a predictive 10,000 sends a series of Properties in analytics business which had an outcode co-branded 400 Features on developed an algorithm that each property personalised identifies the properties most emails on behalf likely to come to market in a local of an agent, area.
Using our combined inviting the knowhow together with owner to contact Rightmoves whole of market the agent for a view we have developed the Machine property algorithm into a product to help Learning valuation.
Using agents market more efficiently Algorithm this method we by targeting their efforts at enable our those potential vendors.
customers to In a typical outcode the first market to Potential portion of a postcode there potential vendors are around 10,000 properties, emailed vendors as and in a six-month period, efficiently as approximately 150 of those possible.
150 Properties go on to sell Our data enables us to see recurring patterns in house buying and selling habits to help make the marketplace more efficient.
co. uk o. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Weve only just begun Weve helped the UKs property marketplace become more efficient and transparent by aggregating nearly every property for sale and to rent in the UK, engaging nearly every UK home mover and by providing our customers with innovative advertising products and productivity tools.
Our relentless focus is to build on our market leading position, help our customers compete and succeed and keep innovating to make home moving easier for consumers and customers alike.
A B B A We have doubled the number of independent Agent customers spending 1,500 a month over the last two years from 5% to 10% B Impact of adoption of highest value Optimiser package 1 Average revenue per advertiser substantial product inventory 2,500 per month compared ARPA growth will continue to and our culture and track record to our 2016 ARPA of 842 per be driven by increased product of innovation.
month and this is before we penetration, pricing and consider further growth in T o put the immediate innovation and is underpinned marketing spend and the advertising opportunity by the value of our unrivalled business efficiencies that into context, the ARPA for audience and data, our customers gain from using newspapers in 2007 was circa Rightmove.
1 Source: Advertising Association Warc Report December 2015.
Rightmove plc annual r Rightmove plc annual report 2016 eport 2016 9 9
