Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | The EU referendum The result of the UKs EU referendum has increased the level A reduction in housing market activity increases the of macroeconomic uncertainty and could increase the propensity for advertisers to evaluate their marketing spend likelihood of the housing market macroeconomic risks set both offline and on other portals and we remain confident in out on page 21. the strength of the Rightmove value proposition.
In considering the potential implications of the referendum The directors believe that our strong market position and result on the business the directors considered the following: relationships with our customers, and the value embedded The Rightmove business is largely subscription based and in our membership continue to position us well providing is therefore less susceptible to short-term shocks or that housing transaction volumes do not take a sharp variations in the property market or wider economy: downward turn.
around two-thirds of our estate agency customers also provide lettings services which may mitigate the impact of any downturn in the property market on their business: and Strategic report | Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the Code, the directors assumptions about Agency and New Homes customer have assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year numbers, ARPA growth and other ancillary revenue streams period, taking into account the Groups current position and and considers the Groups profitability, cash flows and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties dividend cover over the period.
Based upon the robust The plan is subject to robust downside sensitivity analysis assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions those that would threaten its business model, future underlying the plan.
Where appropriate, analysis is carried performance, solvency or liquidity, the directors have a out to evaluate the potential financial impact over the period reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company will of the Groups principal risks actually occurring.
Furthermore be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they our business model is structured so that the Group is not fall due over the three-year period to 31 December 2019. overly reliant on a small customer base with no single The directors have determined that a three-year period to customer constituting more than 3% of Group sales.
31 December 2019 constitutes an appropriate period over Also given our significant free cash flow, our ability to which to provide its viability statement, as the Group adjust our discretionary share buyback programme provides operates within the online digital marketplace, and long-term comfort around viability in the face of adverse projections looking out further than three years become economic or competitive conditions.
significantly less meaningful in the context of the fast moving nature of the market.
Three years is also the period Whilst this review does not consider all the risks that the considered under the Groups current three-year strategic Group may face, the directors consider that this stressplan.
The three-year plan is reviewed by the directors at least testing based assessment of the Groups prospects annually and is developed on a segment by segment basis is reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent using a bottom up model.
The three-year plan makes certain uncertainty involved.
