Governance | Directors and officers Scott Forbes Nick McKittrick Peter Brooks-Johnson Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 13 July 2005 5 March 2004 10 January 2011 Committee membership Current external commitments Current external commitments Nomination Chairman None None Current external commitments Previous roles and relevant experience Previous roles and relevant experience Chairman of Ascential plc Nick is one of the co-founding executives of Peter joined Rightmove in 2006 and became Non-executive director of T ravelport Worldwide Ltd Rightmove and became Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer in April 2013 having Chairman of Innasol Group Ltd in April 2013 having been Chief Operating been Managing Director of rightmove.
co. uk Officer since 2005 and additionally Finance since 2011 and head of the Agency business Previous roles and relevant experience Director since 2009.
His prior experience is in since 2008.
Prior to joining Rightmove, Peter Chairman of Orbitz Worldwide until September technology consulting with Accenture.
was a management consultant with Accenture 2015 and a director of NetJets Management Ltd, and the Berkeley Partnership.
a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway until October 2009.
Scott has over 35 years experience in operations, finance and mergers and acquisitions including 15 years at Cendant Corporation which was formerly the largest worldwide provider of residential property services.
Scott established Cendants international headquarters in London in 1999 and led this division as Group Managing Director until he joined Rightmove.
Colin Kemp Rakhi Goss-Custard Jacqueline fide Rojas Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 3 July 2007 28 July 2014 30 December 2016 Committee membership Committee membership Current external commitments Remuneration, Nomination Audit, Remuneration Managing Director UKI Northern Europe of The Sage Group plc Current external commitments Current external commitments President of techUK Non-executive director of Ellis Whittam Non-executive director of Kingfisher plc Holdings Limited Non-executive director of Schroders plc Previous roles and relevant experience Non-executive director of Intu Properties plc Jacqueline has been employed throughout Previous roles and relevant experience Non-executive director of Be Heard Group plc her career by global blue-chip software With over 30 years experience in high street companies.
Before joining Sage in 2016, she retail banking, Colin worked for Lloyds Banking Previous roles and relevant experience held senior positions at Citrix, CA Technologies, Group companies since 1979 including two Rakhi was previously Director of UK Media at McAfee and Ascential Software.
She was a and a half years on the banks Retail Executive Amazon to June 2014.
She held various other non-executive director of Home Retail Group Committee, before retiring in July 2016.
Between senior positions during her 11-year tenure at plc from 2012 to 2016.
Jacqueline is an advisor January 2005 and December 2007, he was Amazon including Media, Entertainment, to the Digital Leaders Technology Group and Managing Director of Halifax Estate Agencies General Merchandise and Book divisions as well a passionate advocate for diversity in the Limited.
Colin is a Cranfield MBA, an Associate as Product Development.
of the Chartered Institute of Marketing and a Rakhi previously advised Zappos and held Visiting Fellow at Cranfield University.
strategy roles at TomTom and Oliver Wyman.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Robyn Perriss Peter Williams Ashley Martin Finance Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board 30 April 2013 Appointment to the Board 11 June 2009 3 February 2014 Current external commitments Committee membership None Committee membership Audit Chairman, Nomination Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination Previous roles and relevant experience Current external commitments Robyn joined Rightmove in 2007 as Financial Current external commitments Non-executive director of Zegona Controller with responsibility for day to day Chairman of boohoo.
com plc Communications plc financial operations and was promoted to the Chairman of Mister Spex GmbH Previous roles and relevant experience Board as Finance Director in April 2013.
She was Non-executive director of U and I plc Ashley qualified as a chartered accountant also Company Secretary from April 2012 to July Previous roles and relevant experience in 1981 and has a career in finance spanning 2014 and from June to October 2016.
Robyn Peter was previously senior independent 35 years.
He was previously Global Chief qualified as a chartered accountant in South director of ASOS plc and Sportech plc, Financial Officer of Engine Holding LLC and Africa with KPMG and worked in both audit and Chairman of Jaeger, held non-executive Group Finance Director of Rok plc, the building transaction services.
Prior to joining Rightmove, director roles in Cineworld Group plc, the EMI services group, and Group Finance Director of Robyn was Group Financial Controller at the group, Blacks Leisure Group plc, JJB Sports plc, the media services company, Tempus plc.
online media business, Auto Trader.
GCap Media plc and Capital Radio Group plc.
In his executive career, Peter was Chief Executive at Alpha Group plc and prior to that, Chief Executive of Selfridges plc where he also acted as Chief Financial Officer for over ten years.
Sandra Odell Company Secretary Appointment as officer to the Board 1 November 2016 Current external commitments None Previous roles and relevant experience Sandra is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Prior to joining Rightmove, Sandra was Company Secretary of Quintain, the London property developer, and before that held various senior company secretarial positions in listed financial services companies.
