Strategic report Governance Financial statements E c i e n c y e c i Strategic report | Business model Our customers Rightmoves customers are primarily estate agents, lettings agents and new homes developers advertising properties for sale and to rent in the UK.
Our business model Rightmove is the UKs number one property portal and the UKs best in class software, delivering data, market insight and tools largest property marketplace.
On one side we have the UKs that inform their decisions and help drive business efficiencies.
largest and most engaged property audience and on the other Our principal sources of revenue are the monthly subscription side we have the largest inventory of properties.
We benefit from fees paid by customers to advertise all of their properties and strong network effects as our property audience and the the fees paid for our additional advertising products and properties our customers advertise create a virtuous circle packages.
Our additional advertising products increase a enhancing the Rightmove value proposition.
customers share of voice and competitiveness.
These are Rightmove is free to the consumer and is where home buyers critical factors for our customers and particularly for an agent to and renters turn to first as they can see almost the entire UK help to win the instruction opportunity to sell or rent a home, property market in one place.
It is equally compelling to home which remains the lifeblood of their business.
sellers and landlords to ensure their properties are advertised on As the property industry becomes more digital, Rightmoves Rightmove, as it is where nearly all home buyers and renters are market leading audience and best in class software is becoming searching and researching the market.
even more valuable to customers.
We expect that the majority Our customers are primarily estate agents, lettings agents and of our growth will continue to come through product new homes developers advertising properties for sale and to rent penetration, pricing and innovation.
We also continue to in the UK.
We help to drive their businesses by offering the most develop a number of smaller adjacent businesses such as significant and effective exposure for their brand and properties advertising overseas and commercial properties and providing resulting in the largest source of high quality leads.
We also provide property related data and valuation services.
The Rightmove network effect We benefit from strong network effects as our property audience and the properties our customers advertise creates a virtuous circle enhancing the Rightmove value proposition.
TURN TO FIRST MOST EXPOSURE Buyers The place Largest source of Sellers BETTER Agents consumers search high quality leads, Renters Developers MARKETPLACE and research high value products Landlords property and packages Rightmove plc annual report 2016 3 o h C T r a n s p a r e n c y
