Business model Howwecreatevalue Rio Tinto owns a global and diversified To optimise the value of our portfolio over commercial excellence achieved by our excellent teams.
portfolio of world-class assets: the result of time, we pursue opportunities for productivity  improvements, cost reductions and focused Coupled with our framework for managing longstanding strategy see page 8. growth.
We are committed to running and risk effectively, these provide strength across growing our business in ways that are the cycle, and through the challenges that the We create value through the way we find, increasingly safer, smarter and external environment presents.
develop and operate these assets, how we more sustainable.
market the minerals and metals they Our approach is described in our business life produce, and the legacy we leave at the end Our competitive advantages stem from our cycle below, along with examples showing of their lives.
portfolio of world-class assets, our strong .
balance sheet, and the operating and Explore and evaluate Develop Mine and process Our approach is to develop orebodies so that We create value by operating our assets Our in-house exploration team has a they deliver value over the long term.
We safely and efficiently, and by building on our multi-decade track record of discovery of apply rigorous assessment and review leadership position in low-cost operations.
orebodies in both greenfield and brownfield processes that aim to ensure we only approve With a global operating model, we can apply settings.
To maintain our focus on targets investments that offer attractive returns well standard processes and systems across the that are important to Rio Tinto, we run most above our cost of capital.
We assess the Group in areas such as health, safety, exploration programmes ourselves, but we spectrum of risk and how we will manage it environment and communities, procurement, will partner with others if it gives us access to see page 14. operations and maintenance.
This extends skills or opportunities that we do not the life of our equipment and optimises the possess in-house.
Once we have confirmed the value of a extraction of ore, meaning higher production, resource and received internal and external Our exploration teams are often the first lower costs and maximised value.
Our contact with communities we may work approvals to develop it, the project moves operations bring benefit to local economies by into the implementation phase.
The product alongside for decades, so we explore providing employment opportunities,  groups work in partnership with Rio Tinto procurement, and the transparent payment of Projects part of the Growth & Innovation them from an early stage.
Using our orebody knowledge, we develop our Our commitment to technology and As we develop an operation, we plan the most resources and position our products in the innovation also sets Rio Tinto apart.
It enables efficient configuration for mining the orebody  us to take advantage of opportunities that .
Wework support the Groups investment may not be available to others, improves our closely with our customers to create demand decision-making.
Our geological expertise productivity and helps us tailor our products that maximises the value of the deposit over gives us the confidence to keep looking for to customer needs.
We can use our network its lifetime.
We also work in partnership with the most elusive discoveries.
of partnerships with academia, technology host governments and communities, suppliers and other experts to tap into We have a strong tradition of developing identifying ways in which we can deliver knowledge and technical prowess that innovative technologies to resolve specific mutual benefits from the development of augment our own capabilities.
We apply these our operations.
technologies, together with our tried and tested exploration techniques, to drive future discovery success.
Differentiation in action Differentiation in action Differentiation in action Our Resistate Indicator Minerals technology World-class capability in underground mining It has been 50 years since our first export of  is critical for our successful, safe and iron ore from our Pilbara operations in exploration and related commercial productive growth.
The combination of our Western Australia.
Our integrated network of opportunities.
At our facility in Bundoora, copper and diamonds businesses in 2016 is mines, rail, ports and related infrastructure is Australia, we have the capacity to generate giving us the opportunity to transfer best fully owned or managed by Rio Tinto for our high quality trace element analyses of practices in underground mining and block exclusive use, providing unique optionality, mineral grains, using high levels of caving.
Growth & Innovations new and we are supported by strong joint venture automation.
There is no equivalent underground centre of excellence will support partners.
We are optimising our entire Pilbara commercial facility able to generate these our future mine developments, including the system to deliver the best value, through types of data at this quality and at the rate or Oyu Tolgoi underground project in Mongolia.
focusing on revenue, operating cost and cost we can.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Market and deliver Close down and rehabilitate Delivering value for all of our stakeholders To be successful, we must continue to build strong partnerships at all stages of our business model.
Through our global footprint and diverse portfolio, we are able to create value for our stakeholders in a variety of ways.
Customers We supply our customers with the right products at the right time, so they can add value by turning them into the end products that society needs to sustain and enhance modern life.
Our business is based on the supply of Closure planning is part of every assets life Shareholders high-quality products that have been cycle.
We start planning for closure from the Our primary objective is on delivering developed to meet our customers needs.
The earliest stages of development to help superior shareholder returns through the minerals and metals we supply mostly to optimise outcomes and minimise risk.
We do this by balancing disciplined industrial companies that process them We aim progressively to rehabilitate where we investment with prudent management of our further are the building blocks of can, before closure.
When a resource reaches balance sheet and shareholder returns as value-added goods.
Our diverse portfolio the end of its life, we seek to minimise its shown in our approach to capital allocation allows us to respond to demand throughout financial, social and environmental impact by see page 8. countries economic development cycles, finding sustainable and beneficial future including in infrastructure, transport, Communities land uses.
machinery, energy and consumer goods.
 We identify post-closure options that take into communities and can open up new markets Rio Tintos marketing teams work with our account stakeholders concerns whilst fulfilling for local suppliers.
Communities often benefit operations to align our resource management regulatory requirements.
 with market needs and to make sure we once our operations are closed, we restore improve our products and services in a way the sites for instance for community use, that maximises value to customers.
We are new industry, or back to native vegetation.
strengthening our commercial capabilities, including through creating a commercial Our people centre of excellence in Singapore, supported We invest in our people throughout their by strong sales presence in each of the careers, offering diverse employment marketsweserve.
prospects, opportunities for development, and competitive rewards and benefits that What we learn from our markets and have a clear link to performance.
customers helps us to refine our investment decisions.
In many cases we deliver products Governments ourselves, with logistics capabilities that We are often a major economic and social include our own networks of rail, ports contributor to the local, state and national and ships.
jurisdictions in which we operate.
Our tax and sovereign equity contributions enable governments to develop and maintain public works, services and institutions.
We help Differentiation in action Differentiation in action create growth that endures far beyond the active life of our operations.
With the launch of our RenewAl brand, Open-cut mining was completed at Energy Rio Tinto became the first producer to market Resources of Australia in 2012, but closure Suppliers certified low carbon footprint aluminium.
Our planning began soon after the Ranger mine By seeking the right balance of global, advanced AP Technology for aluminium started producing uranium in 1981.
In 2016, national and local supply capability, and smelting, and our largely carbon-free energy Pit 1 which has been backfilled with tailings supporting local supplier development profile afforded by our hydropower portfolio, lie was capped with laterite, a type of clay wherever possible, we drive value for our at the heart of RenewAl.
A custom-built, 27-metre dredge shareholders and deliver economic benefits RenewAl has a carbon dioxide footprint three also completed commissioning and is now for the communities in which we operate.
times lower than the industry average.
