Aluminium Financial performance At the end of 2016, the Aluminium product Greenhouse gas emissions group was carrying out some 1,200 value 2016 2015 Rio Tintos Aluminium group has one of the improvement initiatives across its operations.
US$ million US$ million lowest carbon footprints in the aluminium These are designed to strengthen margins Gross revenue 9,458 10,117 industry.
Since2008, thegrouphasreduced further through production and procurement greenhouse gas GHG emissions by Net cash generated efficiencies and reduced support costs.
45 per cent in absolute terms and 36 per cent from operating All three of the Aluminium groups product in intensity.
GHG emissions intensity of the activities 2,074 2,413 segments demonstrated strong operational groups primary aluminium production reduced Underlying earnings 947 1,118 performance and delivered strong year-on-year by 39 per cent in 2016 compared with 2008, Capital expenditure 916 1,682 production increases.
In 2016, the Aluminium due to portfolio management and the ramp-up product group delivered more than 29 million of the modernised Kitimat smelter in 2016.
Net operating assets 15,782 15,949 tonnes of bauxite to third parties.
This Compared with the global aluminium industry, Underlying EBITDA 2,472 2,742 represented a ten per cent increase on 2015 Rio Tinto offers a metal with one of the lowest levels and reinforced Rio Tintos position as the GHG footprints based on a life cycle analysis Strategy and priorities a largest single seaborne bauxite supplier in the approach.
 Rio Tintos Aluminium product group world.
Record production achieved at the lower than the global industry average, thanks continues to focus on delivering Weipa and Gove mines in Australia contributed to low-carbon sources of electricity and industry-leading performance and value to a nine per cent increase in Rio Tintos global world-leading technology.
Almost 80 per cent creation throughout the cycle.
Alumina production of the Aluminium groups total power needs group benefits from a sector-leading bauxite increased by five per cent in 2016 due primarily are supplied by low-carbon sources, with position, large-scale alumina refineries and a to operational improvements driving record 55 per cent coming from self-generated low first-quartile average cost smelter production at Yarwun up 11 per cent.
hydropower, compared with 35 per cent for the portfolio.
Aluminiums strategy focuses on: Production records were also realised at the industry.
This unique combination enables the Jonquire and So Luis refineries.
Aluminium group to respond to increasing Safety as the number one priority.
market demand for responsible metal Rio Tintos aluminium production for 2016 was Prioritising value over volume.
produced with a low carbon dioxide footprint ten per cent higher than in 2015, reflecting the through Rio Tintos globally available Each of the three areas of the business successful ramp-up of the modernised and RenewAl brand.
bauxite, alumina and primary metal has its expanded Kitimat smelter.
This delivered its own targets and strategies, summarised below: full nameplate capacity of 420,000 tonnes from Review of operations the second quarter, while ongoing production In bauxite, the emphasis is on capturing The quality of its assets combined with a creep through productivity improvements value from expanding seaborne demand.
robust, highly disciplined performance helped to deliver annual production records at This involves continuing to enhance management system enabled the Aluminium ten smelters.
performance and output at current group to reinforce its position as a sectoroperations while developing Tier 1 growth In2016,  leading business in 2016 and to deliver opportunities such as the Amrun project.
Carbone Savoie cathode blocks business in superior results, despite the ongoing In alumina, providing security of supply to France, and its Lochaber smelter and market challenges.
the groups smelter portfolio is essential.
hydropower facilities in the UK.
The The product group achieved underlying The focus is on aggressively driving down divestments reflect the Aluminium groups earnings of US$947 million 2015: US$1,118 costs to improve the refineries positioning determination to continue refining its portfolio million.
This performance was driven by the on the industry cost curve.
to ensure the most effective use of capital.
ongoing strength of the groups operational In primary metal, the Aluminium group performance and the continued delivery of focuses on leveraging its low-cost, strong cash cost savings.
This helped largely to low-carbon power position a significant offset the ten per cent reduction in Rio Tintos and sustainable competitive advantage.
average realised price for primary metal The three product areas are supported by a products including regional and product single global commercial organisation that premia US$1,849 per tonne in 2016 compared focuses on maximising value from mine to with US$2,058 per tonne in 2015.
Cash cost market, while providing customers with improvements of US$481 million pre-tax, a higher-margin, value-added products 48 per cent increase compared with 2015 and services.
savings, are evidence of the efficiency momentum within the Aluminium group.
Safety Savings realised over the past four years now In 2016, Aluminium achieved a second total more than US$1.6 billion, further consecutive fatality-free year.
The product entrenching the groups superior integrated groups all injury frequency rate continued its EBITDA margins.
The resilience of the groups downward trend, ending the year at underlying EBITDA, combined with further 0.46 compared with the 0.48 rate recorded at reductions in working capital levels, resulted in the end of 2015.
The group is striving to net cash generated from operating activities of improve its overall safety performance further, US$2,074 million.
To that end, it has deployed a comprehensive systems-based approach, including the roll-out of the critical risk a Life cycle analysis approach takes into account the entire management fatality elimination programme production process, electricity generation, and the products use and end-of-life.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Development projects Outlook The Aluminium groups development pipeline The long-term outlook for aluminium remains focuses on its competitive advantages in strong.
The consensus view foresees a steady energy and bauxite.
increase in demand, averaging two to three per .
This In 2016, construction commenced on the translates into additional consumption of Amrun bauxite project, south of the Embley 25.8 Mt around 1.7 Mt a compared with a River in Cape York, Queensland, Australia.
mining costs projected to be in the first quartile of the cost curve, Amrun is an exceptional This outlook is driven mainly by rising project: long life, low cost and expandable: and utilisation intensity and more diverse end-use strategically placed to satisfy increasing applications.
In the automotive sector, for demand for seaborne bauxite.
With an example, manufacturers are planning to use approved capital cost of US$1.9 billion, the significantly more aluminium in the future to project includes a mine plus port facilities and make lighter vehicles that consume less fuel infrastructure that could be leveraged for and produce fewer emissions.
At the end of 2016, the Developing economies, where current project was 25 per cent complete and consumption is low, also provide solid growth proceeding on time and on budget, having met potential for aluminium.
In India, for example, all major project milestones for the year.
consumption is less than two kilograms of Planned initial output for Amrun is 22.8 million aluminium per capita compared with tonnes per annum beginning in 2019.
The 20 kilograms in more developed economies.
project will partly replace the depleting East Weipa mine with lower-cost production, while , 2016was also delivering additional volumes of another difficult year for the aluminium around 10 Mt a. industry, with London Metal Exchange LME prices remaining at levels last seen during the A US$0.7 billion expansion currently under way global financial crisis.
by the joint-venture Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine will further enhance Rio Tintos Looking forward, while China continues to add strong bauxite position.
smelting capacity, the global market is moving back towards balance after eight years of The Kitimat Modernisation Project was working through excess inventory and capacity successfully completed at the end of Q1 2016, overhang.
At year-end 2016, stocks were down  to 11 weeks of supply, compared with a high of reached full nameplate capacity in April 2016.
16 weeks in 2009, and the downward trend Output at the smelter, which uses the appears set to continue.
Aluminium groups wholly owned Kemano hydropower resource and high-efficiency AP Prospects for bauxite a sector where smelting technology, has been increased by Rio Tinto maintains a very strong competitive 48 per cent while overall environmental position are positive.
The projected growth emissions have been reduced by nearly 50 per rate, driven mostly by seaborne bauxite traded cent.
Energy efficiency has also increased by into the China market, is outpacing that of 33 per cent.
Kitimat is already positioned in the aluminium.
This is due to both a desire by lowest decile of the industry cost curve.
China to be self-sufficient in alumina, and the continuing depletion and reduction in quality of Chinas bauxite resource position.
