Group strategy Improved market conditions, but A clear strategy to deliver value through the cycle uncertainty remains By comparison with recent periods, the Superior cash generation mining sector enjoyed a relatively buoyant year in 2016, with equity valuations improving considerably across large parts of the sector.
Prices for a number of commodities improved during 2016, aided by a combination of fiscal stimulus in China, policy-driven capacity reductions and new supply entering the market at a slower rate.
World-class assets Operating excellence Capabilities This supportive environment allowed us to Performance People and partners Portfolio generate strong cash flow and further strengthen our financial position.
We continued to focus on productivity, cost Capital allocation discipline reductions and capital discipline in 2016, in order to maximise our cash generation and .
Similar Balance sheet strength Superior shareholder returns Compelling growth strategic approaches played out across large parts of the mining sector allowing many companies facing financial distress at the A clear and effective strategy is critical for us to perform strongly under a range of industry beginning of 2016 to pay down debt and conditions.
Our goal is to deliver superior value for our shareholders through the cycle, and we regain some financial stability.
However, our : portfolio, performance, people and early and consistent action in these areas has partners.
Thisensuresthatevery positioned us favourably, and allowed us to dollar we generate is applied to the highest-returning opportunity whether that be for continue investing in our most attractive maintaining our balance sheet strength, investing in compelling growth opportunities or delivering organic growth opportunities where others superior shareholder returns.
have not been able to do so.
Beyond this, we continue to increase the Superior cash generation productivity of our existing assets, as a Despite some renewed optimism for the 1.
Portfolio substantial and low-risk source of sector during 2016, we remain cautious.
At the heart of our approach is a portfolio of Recent commodity price rises have been world-class assets from our Pilbara iron ore We have established a leading position in the helped by discrete fiscal policy decisions that business, to our Queensland bauxite ore development and use of technology and could quickly be unwound.
In addition, the reserves, our Canadian aluminium smelters and innovation allowing us to deliver more tonnes geopolitical landscape remains uncertain, and our global suite of copper mines.
These are more cheaply and with less risk.
As the industry major political transitions could impact our multi-decade assets that deliver attractive faces increasingly complex geological, markets and operating environments during returns throughout the cycle, while providing environmental and cost pressures, our 2017.
Elsewhere, we are seeing an increased material opportunities for growth over the long technology advantage will be an increasingly threat of rent-seeking, resource nationalism term.
We use a clear strategic framework to important value driver.
assess our existing assets and new and the adverse application of regulatory Our commercial activities ensure we reap the opportunities taking into account the industry laws to previously settled practices.
These maximum value from each of our businesses.
attractiveness and the competitive advantage include Indonesias proposed revision to its Our marketing teams work hand-in-hand with of each asset, and its capacity to deliver strong mining legislation, a mooted production tax our operations, so that our resource and stable returns.
increase in Western Australia and the management is fully aligned to the market.
In 2016, we:  Over the years we have leveraged our Invested US$1.3 billion in compelling competitiveness.
Accordingly, wewill understanding of customer needs to create growth opportunities.
continue to adopt a conservative approach to new markets for our products, including Announced an increase to our Pilbara iron our financial management and capital high-temperature Weipa bauxite, and ore reserves in Western Australia.
We deploy Agreed the sale of our aluminium smelter industry-leading capabilities in supply chain and hydroelectric facilities at Lochaber optimisation and a variety of logistics solutions in Scotland.
across the Group and have in-house centres Signed a non-binding agreement to sell our of excellence for value-in-use analysis, pricing interest in the Simandou project in Guinea.
Together, these Completed the sales of our Mount Pleasant activities allow us to manage risk and capture thermal coal assets and of our interest in value in all market conditions.
the Bengalla coal joint venture.
Performance Completed more than 1.3 million safety critical control verifications in our critical Safety is our number one priority and is core to risk management programme.
A well-run operation is a Committed to generating US$5.0 billion of safe operation.
additional free cash flow over the next We seek to generate value at all stages of the five years from mine-to-market .
prioritise value over volume in all of our Achieved a further US$1.6 billion of operating and investment decisions.
We have operating cash cost reductions, as part of delivered substantial cost savings over recent our target of US$2.0 billion over 2016 years and this remains a key focus area.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Strengthened our organisational structure, by In 2016, we adhered to our disciplined capital Our 2017 strategic priorities adjusting our product groups to better align allocation framework, resulting in: sustaining Throughout 2017, we will continue to focus on our assets with the business strategy, help capital of US$1.7 billion, dividends of US$2.7 drive further efficiencies and billion, reduced net debt by US$4.2 billion and the four Ps and our value over volume optimise performance.
compelling growth capital of US$1.3 billion.
approach,  Appointed executives responsible for Health, maintain our balance sheet strength today Balance sheet strength Safety & Environment and Growth & and into the future.
Innovation to our Executive Committee.
In a cyclical and capital-intensive industry We will maintain our focus on safety as our such as mining, a strong balance sheet is 3.
People number one priority as measured both by essential in order to preserve optionality and As our industry evolves, new capabilities will be the elimination of fatalities and minimising generate shareholder value at all points in the required and we must attract, develop and retain cycle.
We have a guidance range for net our all injury frequency rate and lost time the right people to meet this challenge.
We are gearing of between 20 and 30 per cent.
Our strong focus on costs and strengthening our technical and commercial 31 December 2016, we were below the , aswework capabilities in particular, and establishing centres guidance range at 17 per cent and intend to towards delivering operating cash cost of excellence around these areas.
Beyond this, we retain a conservative stance given the savings of US$2.0 billion over 2016 and 2017. are committed to building a diverse and inclusive uncertain macroeconomic outlook.
Beyondthis, wewillseektoextract workforce at all levels of the organisation.
In 2016, we: productivity gains across our entire value In 2016, we: Reduced our net debt from US$13.8 billion chain, as part of our commitment to deliver Appointed a Human Resources Group to US$9.6 billion.
US$5.0 billion of incremental cash flow from executive to our Executive Committee.
Reduced our gearing ratio from mine-to-market productivity improvements Announced we would be doubling our annual 24 per cent to 17 per cent.
Reduced our gross debt by US$5.4 billion.
We will continue to shape our world-class 4.
Partners Quality growth portfolio of assets, ensuring that we focus only on the highest returning assets in our As a global company, the environment in which We have a high-quality pipeline of near-term we operate is becoming more complex.
In order preferred industry sectors and seeking to exit and longer dated projects across the portfolio.
to secure access to new resources, while By reinforcing capital discipline and reshaping assets that do not fit these criteria.
We will managing the unique risk profiles of our our projects, we have retained significant, progress our high returning growth projects, businesses across the globe, we must partner high-quality growth despite further reducing including the Amrun bauxite project, the with a range of external stakeholders.
Our project pipeline underground expansion at Oyu Tolgoi and our include our customers, suppliers, investors, has a compelling internal rate of return.
Weexpecttoinvest governments and local communities see In 2016, we: around US$5.0 billion in capital expenditure Delivering value for all of our stakeholders on Reduced capital expenditure from during 2017. page 11.
US$4.7 billion in 2015 to US$3.0 billion.
Investing in our people and our partnerships Partnerships are relevant at all stages of the Approved US$338 million to complete the  with external stakeholders will be a key focus development of the Silvergrass iron ore exploration, through to operations, marketing and during 2017.
We are investing more in mine in Western Australia.
Successful partnerships enable us developing employees at all levels of the Approved US$5.3 billion capital to secure and maintain our licence to operate and organisation from our graduate intake to our expenditure to develop the underground are a key long-term success factor for our copper and gold mine at Oyu Tolgoi.
This is fundamental as we seek to industry.
build the technical and commercial Superior shareholder returns In 2016, we: capabilities that will enable us to unlock Extended our Channar Mining joint venture in maximum value from our assets.
In addition, We are committed to delivering superior Australias Pilbara region and agreed to returns to shareholders over the long term, we will continue building and maintaining supply up to 70 million tonnes of iron ore to and the cash returns we pay out to strong partnerships across all stages of the Sinosteel Corporation over the next five years.
shareholders are a vital component of this.
In value chain, founded on trusted relationships Marked 50 years since our first contracted a cyclical industry such as mining, we believe and our reputation for doing things the right iron ore shipment left the Pilbara, destined for the most prudent way to deliver strong way.
Strong partnerships allow us to access a customer in Japan.
returns is to allow the overall level of returns and execute new opportunities, maximise Appointed a Corporate Relations Group tovarywiththecycle.
Accordingly, weaimto value from our existing assets and manage executive to our Executive Committee, deliver shareholders total cash returns of 40 licence-to-operate risks.
strengthening our focus on external & internal to 60 per cent of underlying earnings through stakeholder engagement.
 We enter 2017 with a sense of cautious cyclical lows, and allows shareholders to optimism.
The long-term outlook for our key Capital allocation discipline  commodities remains strong and our high points in the cycle.
We adopt a consistent and disciplined approach world-class assets, operating excellence and to capital allocation.
Our first allocation is to In 2016, we: commercial capabilities place us in a strong sustaining capital.
Secondly we fund dividends for Adopted a new shareholder returns policy, position relative to peers.
Finally, we assess the best use designed to deliver superior cash returns near-term environment is marked by of the remaining capital between compelling to shareholders over the long term.
uncertainty with geopolitical risk at both a growth, debt reduction and further cash returns Paid US$2.7 billion in dividends to macro level and a local level, and government toshareholders.
In February 2017 we stringent governance and assessment criteria to policies impacting supply and demand in a announced shareholder returns of ensure that every dollar is spent in the right way.
In this context, a US$3.6 billion with respect to 2016. conservative approach remains prudent and we will maintain our balance sheet strength and resilience to downside risks as core priorities.
