Growth & Innovation Growth & Innovation was formed in July 2016, major hazard risks across the Group.
US$206 million relates to centrally controlled bringing together Exploration and Technology exploration and evaluation activity.
It supports Rio Tintos assets in Rio Tintos 2016 exploration and evaluation achieving superior performance throughout activity covered eight commodities across a Exploration theirlifecycle, toensuretheGroupis range of greenfield and brownfield Exploration creates value for Rio Tinto by managing risk effectively and generating environments.
In recent years, Rio Tinto has discovering or acquiring well-located, maximum cash.
Growth & Innovation partners shifted the emphasis of Exploration high-grade Tier 1 resources.
Its work includes with the Rio Tinto product groups to optimise expenditure to projects in the OECD and Peru both greenfield exploration to identify value from the time of the initial exploration in line with the increasing focus on completely new business opportunities and concept through to closure of a mine or copper exploration.
brownfield exploration to sustain or grow processing facility.
Exploration also At the Roughrider uranium project in provides orebody knowledge and resource Saskatchewan, orebody knowledge continued Strategy and priorities evaluation support to a range of projects within to progress, with resource modelling, drilling Growth & Innovation is accountable for finding, .
activities and identification of new exploration evaluating, developing and optimising assets targets.
At the Sanxai bauxite project in Laos, Increasingly complex community, sustainability so they are safe, productive and profitable.
ongoing exploration improved understanding of and investment requirements mean it typically Centralised technical knowledge and resource quality, while infrastructure studies takes more than a decade to progress from experience enable Growth & Innovation to continued to assess options for moving future initial exploration through to discovery, deliver portfolio growth effectively, drive ore to a suitable port for export.
At the La evaluation and then to a final development innovative solutions to operational and Granja copper project in Peru ongoing orebody decision.
Explorations comprehensive business challenges and provide support for knowledge and brownfield exploration approach to stakeholder and community quality decision-making.
progressed with drill testing of new geophysical engagement contributes to the Groups social and geochemical targets within the orbit.
At Safety is the number one priority.
Rio Tinto has continued to the Tamarack nickel project in the US, drilling Innovation works with and through the product invest in exploration despite the difficult and exploration activities continued, providing groups to deliver results in line with the market conditions of the last few years.
greater confidence in resource quality.
Rio Tinto strategy in the following areas: Maintaining this core exploration capability and Brownfield projects again generated good applying a rigorous prioritisation process have Finding: exploring, discovering or acquiring drilling results at iron ore projects in the Pilbara consistently delivered Tier 1 discoveries, which new Tier 1 resources.
and for bauxite in the Weipa region in Australia.
: Evaluating: ensuring the right projects In 2016, the five year exploration partnership Year Discovery Commodity Location proceed with the optimal business case.
with Chinalco in China concluded.
Exploration 2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia Developing: delivering major capital retains a presence in the country to monitor projects safely and efficiently, on time, on 2008 Mutamba Titanium Mozambique exploration opportunities and options for budget and ready for a seamless handover future partnerships.
2009 Jadar Lithium Serbia to operations.
borates Evaluation Optimising: leading a step change in Group 2011 Amargosa Bauxite Brazil Discoveries that align to company strategy productivity as well as providing technical 2013 KP405 Potash Canada progress to evaluation to ensure the right services to operations, replicating best 2014 Yandi Braid Iron ore Australia project is undertaken.
Business objectives of practice, building technical capability, investment returns are balanced with technical 2015 Mount Coking coal Australia managing strategic technical risk and and resource certainty and stakeholder Thorley overseeing the Groups innovation and requirements to manage overall project risk.
The goal is to minimise uncertainty associated Hunter with the resource and to develop the optimal Safety Valley technical solutions using proven methods or In 2016, Growth & Innovation achieved a At the end of 2016, the Exploration group was new innovation to bring the project to market.
The all injury frequency rate active in 14 countries and continued to assess was 0.57 against 0.44 in 2015.
Exploration In collaboration with business units, Growth & opportunities across a range of commodities achieved excellent results with four months Innovation applies a range of strategic planning including copper, nickel, iron ore, bauxite, injury free from September.
However, Rio Tinto processes and expertise to identify, analyse coking coal, uranium, diamonds and mineral Projects reported a disappointing all injury and select the optimal configuration and timing sands.
During the year, Exploration increased frequency rate of 0.66 compared with 0.46 of greenfield and brownfield projects.
During its commercial activity, establishing joint in 2015. the year, this support was provided to projects ventures in the US, Chile, Serbia, Kazakhstan, in the Aluminium and Copper & Diamonds Canada, Mexico, Papua New Guinea and During 2016, the focus on fatality prevention product groups.
Divestment activities continued for continued in Growth & Innovation with further  implementation and embedding of the critical In 2016, extensive work was also done on a investment criteria, reinforcing the approach of risk management programme.
Exploration pilot process for the Jadar project to enable treating Exploration like a business.
In the past completed five successful pilots of critical risk production of both borates and lithium from the decade the Group has spent around management and the programme will be rolled newly discovered mineral jadarite.
At Oyu US$1.7 billion on greenfield exploration and in out across all of Exploration in 2017.
The Tolgoi,  turn generated US$2.2 billion from Projects team continued embedding the critical enabled more efficient mine design, to enhance divestments of exploration projects that the risk management fatality elimination productivity and safety.
company decided did not meet these criteria.
programme, reporting high levels of leader a An additional US$21 million gain on disposal of engagement and consistently identifying In 2016, the Group reduced its exploration and undeveloped evaluation projects was recorded separately opportunities to strengthen critical controls for in profit loss relating to interest in undeveloped projects a evaluation expenditure to US$497 million.
This represented a 14 per cent decrease compared with 2015 expenditure of Growth & Innovation continued to build US$576 million.
Of the 2016 spend, capability and improve the management of 40 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS To maximise value, Growth & Innovation looks The Yandicoogina Oxbow project progressed in All work in this space is underpinned by a beyond the technical solution, reviewing capital 2016.
Upon completion it will sustain technical excellence programme to ensure intensity and project timing to ensure all Yandicoogina fines production by opening improvements are sustainable.
aspects of each project are optimised.
The access to a new orebody.
Construction is more Rio Tinto continues to progress its Mine of the Amrun bauxite and Silvergrass iron ore projects than 50 per cent complete and three months Future automation and innovation in Australia benefited from these reviews ahead of the construction plan.
Construction of programme, leveraging a partnership with the in 2016. the Cape Lambert 80 megawatt gas-fired power University of Sydney to deliver innovative tools station is ahead of plan 70 per cent complete Engagement with a broad range of stakeholders to support Rio Tinto operations in the delivery of at the end of 2016 with planned completion in during evaluation protects and enhances our improved productivity.
The Mine Automation Q1 2018. licence to operate.
The enduring relationships System MAS and RTVis orebody visualisation  Following delays to the project schedule due to software is now implemented at 85 per cent of essential to future operational success.
software issues in early 2016, the AutoHaul surface mining sites, helping operators in the project regained stability in the second half of field make better real-time decisions as well as The Groups major evaluation projects in 2016 with improved reliability, and all relevant supporting longer-term work like 2016 were: parts of the rail network are now enabled for mine planning.
Project Commodity Country autonomous trains.
In 2017, the AutoHaul Outlook trains will operate extensively in automated La Granja Copper Peru mode, with a driver on board until all safety and In Exploration, challenges are expected to Resolution Copper US reliability systems are continue in relation to timely access to ground Pilbara Iron ore Australia thoroughly demonstrated.
and the decreasing grade and quality of Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia potential orebodies.
For 2017, exploration In 2016, the Holden Environmental Remediation Zulti South Mineral South projects at a more advanced stage are listed in project was completed and received the 2015 sands Africa .
Environmental Excellence Award from the Jadar Lithium Serbia American Exploration & Mining Association for In project evaluation and development, work borates cleaning up the historic site in Washington will continue to deliver priority Group projects Simandou Iron ore Guinea State in the US.
The East Waste Rock Extension on schedule and on budget including Amrun, Weipa Bauxite Australia project at Kennecott was also completed Silvergrass, the Oyu Tolgoi underground and in 2016.
AutoHaul projects as well as the progression Projects of studies for the Jadar project in Serbia.
Productivity and innovation Rio Tinto has a central major capital projects team that uses standardised project In 2016, Rio Tinto committed to a target of The productivity programme will gain management systems and processes to deliver US$5 billion of free cash flow from momentum in 2017 in pursuit of savings projects safely and efficiently, on time and on mine-to-market productivity improvements targets, driving improvements in key metrics budget and ready for a seamless handover to over the next five years.
Growth & Innovation like effective utilisation of plant and equipment, operations upon completion.
will lead this step change in productivity and payload, maintenance intervals and processing technical excellence across the Group, building rates.
The Groups approach to integrated In 2016, the US$1.9 billion Amrun bauxite upon the cost reduction and transformation operations will be advanced, to leverage a project in the Weipa region in Australia achievements of the businesses to deliver wealth of real-time data to enable quicker and advanced to schedule in both engineering and further sustainable gains.
better decision making across the whole value construction.
All major contracts have been chain.
Work will also continue to centralise committed as planned, and site establishment The productivity remit in Rio Tinto has multiple technical expertise to better support continued with the construction of the streams including mining, processing, operational performance and problem solving.
accommodation village progressing to plan.
The infrastructure and asset management.
In 2016, 40 kilometre main access road was completed the focus was on replication of leading practice, In 2017, a centre of excellence for underground in December and the river terminals are progressing integrated operations and mining will be progressed to support Oyu Tolgoi expected to be operational in Q1 2017. commencing redesign of the value chain.
as well as future Rio Tinto underground mine developments, such as Resolution in the US.
In 2016, the Oyu Tolgoi underground project ramped up significantly.
More than 2,800 personnel were mobilised, with 2017 exploration projects 87 per cent of these Mongolian nationals.
Works Project Commodity Country Type Stage on underground mine development, the accommodation camp, conveyor to surface Tamarack Nickel US Greenfield Project of Merit decline, sinking of shaft #2 and shaft #5, and Roughrider Uranium Canada Greenfield Order of Magnitude critical facilities continue to progress.
Sanxai Bauxite Laos Greenfield Project of Merit During the year, a range of projects were Stargrove Diamonds Canada Greenfield Project of Merit completed in the Pilbara for the Iron Ore La Granja orbit Copper Peru Greenfield Project of Merit business including Cape Lambert Port B, the Pilbara Iron ore Australia Brownfield Project of Merit Pilbara Fuel Infrastructure project, Yandi Billiard Weipa Bauxite Australia Brownfield Project of Merit South and phase two of the Nammuldi Incremental Tonnes project, which was delivered in October.
The Silvergrass project commenced and is on schedule to be completed in 2017, increasing the Nammuldi operation by ten million tonnes per annum by adding a primary crushing facility and nine kilometres of overland conveying system to integrate with the existing processing plant.
