Copper & Diamonds Financial performance Mined copper production in 2016 was Greenhouse gas emissions significantly higher than 2015 as mining 2016 2015 The Copper & Diamonds groups 2016 progressed through an area of higher grades.
US$ million US$ million greenhouse gas GHG emissions were Gross revenue 4,524 5,592 In addition, the operation maximised smelter 3.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent utilisation by receipt of 315 thousand tonnes of tCOe, which is 0.1 million tonnes COe less Net cash generated 2 2 third-party concentrate for tolling in 2016. than 2015.
The emissions intensity improved at from operating 1 Rio Tinto Kennecott and the Oyu Tolgoi copperactivities 987 1,575 Oyu Tolgoi gold mine while marginally deteriorating for Rio Tinto: 50.8 per cent interest in Turquoise Underlying loss Diamonds.
 Hill Resources earnings 18 370 at the Diavik Diamond Mine.
Located in Mongolias South Gobi Desert, Oyu Capital expenditure 924 806 Tolgoi is one of the worlds largest copper-gold Review of operations Net operating assets 11,531 11,552 mines.
In 2016, Oyu Tolgois open-pit mine Rio Tinto combined its copper and diamonds produced 201 thousand tonnes of copper, Underlying EBITDA 1,387 1,833 businesses in July.
At the end of 2016, the 300 thousand ounces of mined gold and 1 Net cash generated from operating activities excludes the integrated Copper & Diamonds group had four 1,420 thousand ounces of silver 100 per cent operating cash flows from equity accounted units mainly copper assets and two diamonds assets Escondida but includes dividends from equity basis.
Mined copper production for 2016 was accounted units.
in line with 2015, as the impact of lower grades was offset by higher throughput, a new record In 2016, both total mined copper and total Strategy and priorities for the mill.
diamonds production increased by four per The Copper & Diamonds product groups cent.
The product group produced Escondida strategy is to deliver sustainable value by: 523 thousand tonnes of mined copper Rio Tinto: 30 per cent interest Rio Tinto share, and 18 million carats of rough driving continuous improvements in safety, Located in Chiles Atacama Desert, Escondida diamonds Rio Tinto share in 2016.
Copper & the number one priority: is the worlds largest copper-producing mine.
In Diamonds also produced 294 thousand ounces focusing on value over volume at our 2016, Escondida produced 1,011 thousand of mined gold, 4,210 thousand ounces of mined existing operations: tonnes of mined copper 100 per cent basis.
silver and 2.8 thousand tonnes of molybdenum Mined copper production at Escondida in 2016 driving improvements in productivity and asbyproducts.
  commercial excellence: seventh largest copper supplier and remains grades and slightly reduced mill throughput.
developing copper brownfield growth one of the largest diamond producers.
options and new, world-class greenfield Grasberg The Copper & Diamonds groups underlying projects in low-risk jurisdictions: A joint operation that gives Rio Tinto a 40 per loss of US$18 million compared with focusing on cost control and cash cent share of production above specified levels underlying earnings of US$370 million in 2015 generation: and until the end of 2021 and 40 per cent of all .
Thisincludes production thereafter under the Participation , US$114 million of one-off non-cash asset Agreement.
This date is subject to extension capable, engaged, diverse and write-downs which concludes the asset under certain conditions including force collaborative workforce.
portfolio review at Rio Tinto Kennecott.
group generated pre-tax cash cost Safety Grasberg is owned and operated by PT improvements of US$278 million in 2016, Freeport Indonesia PTFI, a subsidiary of In 2016, there were zero fatalities in the delivering US$78 million in free cash flow.
Located in Copper & Diamonds groups managed Copper & Diamonds managed operations were the province of Papua, Indonesia, it is one of the operations, and the all injury frequency rate cash flow positive in challenging worlds largest copper mines.
Rio Tintos share was 0.38 compared with 0.45 in 2015. market conditions.
of mined copper production at Grasberg was nil Sadly, the Grasberg and Escondida mines, in in 2016 due to the minimum production The Bunder diamond project in India was which we are a joint venture partner, suffered threshold not being met.
closed down at the end of 2016 and project fatal incidents during 2016.
At Grasberg there assets have been approved to be gifted to the On 12 January 2017, the Government of were four fatalities.
Further details are included State Government of Madhya Pradesh in 2017.
Indonesia issued new mining regulations to on page 30. address exports of unrefined metals, including In June 2016, Rio Tinto transferred its Rio Tinto continues to support PT Freeport copper concentrates, and other matters related 53.8 per cent shareholding Bougainville Copper Indonesia, Grasbergs managing partner, in to the mining sector.
These regulations impact Limited BCL to an independent trustee.
developing and implementing safety PTFIs operating rights, including its right to programmes and initiatives.
Operating assets continue to export concentrate without restriction, and may have a significant impact Copper Copper & Diamonds continued to embed the on Rio Tintos share of production in 2017. companys critical risk management fatality Rio Tinto Kennecott elimination programme, which is aimed at Rio Tinto: 100 per cent identifying and mitigating the common dangers Kennecott supplies approximately that can lead to fatalities, into all its operations.
eight per cent of US refined copper requirements.
In 2016, Kennecott produced 156 thousand tonnes of refined copper, 135 thousand ounces of refined gold, and 2.8 thousand tonnes of molybdenum.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS PTFI continues to engage with Indonesian Development projects Outlook government officials and has advised that if it is Rio Tinto Kennecott Copper prohibited from exporting copper concentrate it Through improved utilisation and payload, After reaching multi-year lows in early 2016, would be required to reduce production to Kennecott will drive an approximately the copper market saw an improvement in the match domestic smelting capacity, resulting in five per cent improvement in truck productivity, fourth quarter of 2016 and this momentum has near-term actions to reduce its workforce, which equates to around 12 million tonnes of continued in the first months of 2017.
Rio Tinto significantly reduce costs and suspend future additional material moved in 2017. continues to expect near-term volatility in the investments on its underground development copper market before a structural deficit Kennecott is in the process of executing the projects and new smelter.
PTFI has indicated emerges going into the next decade.
The Group South Pushback project, which is key to that it will consider legal action to enforce its expects China to continue to be a key driver of unlocking the existing ore reserve and potential contractual rights should it fail to reach a commodity markets in the next decade, after growth options.
mutually satisfactory agreement with the which, demand from emerging markets, Indonesian government.
Grasberg including India, South East Asia, the Middle Work continues to develop the large-scale, Diamonds East, Latin America and Africa, will begin to high-grade underground orebodies located ramp up.
In the developed world, green Argyle Diamond Mine beneath and proximal to the Grasberg open pit.
technologies should drive increased demand Rio Tinto: 100 per cent The underground orebodies are expected to over time.
Meanwhile, supply growth will Located in the remote east Kimberley region of ramp up over several years following the continue to be constrained by lower grades and WesternAustralia,  anticipated transition from the Grasberg the depletion of mature mines and often higher largest producers of diamonds by volume.
cost and more challenging development Ramp-up of production from the underground options.
mine delivered a four per cent increase in carat Oyu Tolgoi production compared with 2015.
However, the Development of Oyu Tolgois underground Diamonds combination of lower-than-expected volumes mine was approved in May 2016, with first The diamond market outlook for 2017 is  production expected in 2020.
When the positive, although macro events, currency charge of US$241 million to property, plant and underground is fully ramped up in 2027, the movements, policy choices and short-term equipment and intangible assets being company expects it to produce more than supply availability will continue to impact recorded.
market confidence and trading conditions.
Diavik Diamond Mine Diavik However, medium to long-term fundamentals Rio Tinto: 60 per cent The development of the A21 kimberlite pipe at for the diamond industry remain positive.
Diavik is located in Canadas remote Diavik is advancing as planned, with first Support for future price growth can be Northwest Territories, 220km south of the production expected in 2018.
A21 will provide attributable to a declining global mineral Arctic Circle.
At Diavik, carats recovered in an important source of incremental production resource base, exacerbated by limited 2016 were four per cent higher than 2015 due to maintain current volumes through to the end exploration investment and success, resulting to higher ore throughput offsetting of mine life.
in reductions in supply over the medium to lower grades.
Demand in India and China is Resolution Copper expected to pick up as market conditions Rio Tinto: 55 per cent improve.
Demand in mature markets is The Resolution Copper project, located in expected to continue to grow in line with Arizona, US, is one of the worlds largest GDP growth.
Drilling, proposed development and engineering studies continue and in March 2016, the National Environmental Policy Act NEPA process formally began for the proposed development.
Operational & Technical Support In 2016, the Copper & Diamonds group formed an Operational & Technical Support team to improvethesafety, cashflowandlong-term value of its assets by delivering productivity improvements.
The team works across Copper & Diamonds managed and non-managed operations in four disciplines: resource strategy, surface mining, underground mining and ore processing.
