Energy & Minerals Financial performance Minerals faces health and safety challenges.
Mount Thorley Rio Tinto: 80 per cent and Managers use innovative strategies and visible Warkworth Rio Tinto: 55.57 per cent 2016 2015 US$ million US$ million safety leadership to address these and to train operations.
On 30 September 2015, Rio Tinto the workforce.
announced a restructure of Coal & Allied which Gross revenue 6,734 7,140 included changes in Rio Tintos interests in Net cash generated Greenhouse gas emissions Hunter Valley Operations and, indirectly, in from operating Warkworth.
The restructure completed on Overall greenhouse gas GHG emissions activities 1,431 1,482 3 February 2016 and resulted in Rio Tinto intensity across the product group was Underlying earnings 610 175 taking a 100 per cent stake in Coal & Allied.
marginally higher in 2016 compared with 2015 The ownership shown above reflects but still an improvement over 2008 base Capital expenditure 141 552 these changes.
Rio Tinto Coal Australias RTCA Net operating assets 7,283 7,621 emissions intensity increased to 0.066 tonnes Hard coking coal production of 8.1 million Underlying EBITDA 1,803 1,235 of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne of coal tonnes was four per cent higher than in 2015 produced, compared with 0.062 tonnes Iron Ore Company of Canada and Simandou are reported due to longwall and plant outperformance at in 2015. within Energy & Minerals, reflecting management Kestrel.
Semi-soft coking coal production of responsibility.
4.1 million tonnes was 12 per cent higher due Review of operations Strategy and priorities to mine production sequencing at Hunter The Energy & Minerals product groups Valley Operations and Mount Thorley The Energy & Minerals product group has an underlying earnings of US$610 million were Warkworth.
Thermal coal production of attractive portfolio of high-quality mining, US$435 million higher than 2015.
This 17.3 million tonnes was seven per cent lower refining and marketing operations and projects reflected further cash cost improvements and than in 2015 as increased production from Hail that connect customers and consumers around weaker exchange rates while volumes were Creek, Kestrel and Mount Thorley Warkworth the world with products that enhance their slightly higher overall.
Prices for coal and iron partially offset lower volumes which resulted quality of life.
Demand growth for industrial ore were volatile but increased significantly in from the restructure of Coal & Allied and the minerals typically comes mid-to-late in the the second half of the year.
This impact was divestment of Bengalla in early 2016.
Revenue economic development cycle, following peak offset by lower prices for uranium, titanium fell four per cent to US$2,634 million as the requirements for commodities such as iron ore dioxide feedstocks, zircon and borates.
Pre-tax impact of higher prices and sales volumes was and copper.
cash cost improvements in the product group offset by the impact of the Coal & Allied were US$342 million and the group has now The product groups strategy is focused on restructure.
However, earnings increased from delivered US$1.4 billion of cumulative savings operating low-cost, demand-led businesses.
US$48 million to US$382 million, driven by compared with the 2012 base.
Through its integrated marketing strategies higher prices, cash cost savings and favourable and insight, the product group creates and exchange rates.
Net cash generated from operating activities of grows global markets for its products to deliver US$1,431 million was three per cent lower than On 30 September 2015, Rio Tinto reached a value for Rio Tinto and its shareholders.
in 2015, as the benefit of cash cost savings and binding agreement for the sale of its interest in Energy & Minerals strategy focuses on: weaker exchange rates was offset by the the Bengalla Joint Venture to New Hope expensing of all Simandou study costs from the Safety as the number one priority.
The sale completed on start of 2016, and the absence of one-off Prioritising value over volume.
In January reductions in working capital achieved in 2015.
Operating demand-led, integrated 2016, Rio Tinto signed an agreement for the The decline in capital expenditure reflected operations that can respond quickly to the sale of its Mount Pleasant thermal coal assets continued capital discipline across the product changing external environment.
to MACH Energy Australia Pty Ltd for group and the net proceeds from the sale of Creating and growing global markets US$220.7 million plus royalties.
The sale Mount Pleasant thermal coal assets of through technical research and completed on 5 August 2016.
Free cash flow during the year development and market insight.
2016, Rio Tinto signed an agreement to sell its was US$1,294 million, 40 per cent higher than Improving operating performance by driving 74 per cent interest in Zululand Anthracite in 2015. productivity, reducing costs and Colliery ZAC, an anthracite coal mine in South Borates streamlining the organisation.
Thesalecompleted Rio Tinto Borates Rio Tinto: 100 per cent on 2 September 2016.
On 24 January 2017, Strengthening its position in traditional supplies over 30 per cent of the worlds refined RTCA declared a significant increase segments and entering attractive borates from its world-class deposit in Boron, 561 million tonnes in its managed mineral new markets.
It also has borates refineries and or resources at Mount Thorley Warkworth.
This Safety shipping facilities in China, France, Malaysia, raises total mineral resources, exclusive of run the Netherlands, Spain and the US together of mine ROM reserves, to a total of In its pursuit of zero harm, Energy & Minerals with the Jadar lithium-borate project Rio Tinto: 6,608 million tonnes.
After depletion due to continues to focus on fostering a culture of 100 per cent in Serbia.
Rio Tinto Borates mining, total ROM reserves remain relatively accountability and awareness among production of 503,000 tonnes boric oxide stable at 1,566 million tonnes.
employees and improving contractor safety.
equivalent was six per cent higher than in The product groups health and safety target On 24 January 2017, Rio Tinto announced that 2015, driven primarily by higher market continues to be on fatality elimination.
This has it had reached a binding agreement for the sale demand.
Gross revenue of US$620 million was resulted in an emphasis on critical controls and of its wholly owned subsidiary Coal & Allied essentially flat with 2015, and earnings of robust process safety, including rolling out and Industries Limited to Yancoal Australia Limited US$117 million were 14 per cent higher due to implementing the critical risk management for up to US$2.45 billion.
The transaction is lower costs.
fatality elimination programme across the subject to certain conditions precedent being business.
In2016,  Coal satisfied, including approvals from the the product group and a significant reduction in In Queensland, Rio Tinto Coal Australia RTCA Australian Government, Chinese regulatory potential fatal incidents.
However, the all injury manages the Hail Creek Rio Tinto: 82 per cent agencies, the New South Wales Government frequency rate rose to 0.47 in 2016 from 0.46 and Kestrel Rio Tinto: 80 per cent coal mines.
In New South Wales, RTCA manages Coal & approvals and other conditions precedent being With a workforce spanning multiple Allieds coal mines, Hunter Valley Operations satisfied, it is expected that the transaction will geographies, languages and cultures, Energy & Rio Tinto: 67.6 per cent and the combined complete in the second half of 2017.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Iron Ore Company of Canada IOC Uranium Outlook IOC operates a mine, concentrator and The Uranium business comprises Energy Whilst markets remain volatile, the medium to pelletising plant in the Canadian province of Resources of Australia Ltd ERA, Rio Tinto: long term outlook continues to be positive Newfoundland and Labrador, together with rail 68.4 per cent, which operates the Ranger Mine across all products as urbanisation and rising and port facilities in Sept-les, Quebec.
IOC in the Northern Territory of Australia and standards of living, particularly in China, drive continued as a supplier of high-quality, Rssing Uranium Limited Rio Tinto: 68.6 per higher levels of demand.
premium pellets and high-quality, low cent in Namibia, together with the Roughrider contaminant concentrate.
The company project Rio Tinto: 100 per cent in Canadas Last year saw dramatic changes in the supply remains focused on increasing production to Athabasca Basin.
and demand balance driving spot prices for nameplate capacity following completion of the both thermal and metallurgical coal from very Uranium production of 6.3 million pounds Concentrate Expansion Project in 2014 and low levels early in 2016, to short-term record Rio Tinto share was 29 per cent higher than in further increasing productivity.
IOC achieved highs in November.
The changing market 2015 due to increased mill throughput, grade full year production of 10.7 million tonnes of dynamics were primarily driven by Chinese and recovery.
Revenues fell four per cent due saleable production concentrate and pellets policies which are likely to continue to affect to lower prices, however, earnings of Rio Tinto share, an increase of three per cent coal markets in the short to medium term.
US$10 million were US$52 million more over 2015.
Revenues were two per cent lower Even though market prices are at higher levels favourable than 2015, including the effect of than 2015, however, earnings increased from for both thermal and metallurgical coal, cash cost savings and lower depreciation at US$12 million to US$64 million, reflecting cash producers remain wary as potential exists for ERA following the impairment recognised cost savings and favourable exchange rates.
pricing to revert to levels seen in late 2015 and in 2015. early 2016.
Iron & Titanium Development projects Uranium prices fell through the latter half of Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT is the worlds 2016, due to lacklustre demand growth and largest producer of high-grade titanium dioxide The Jadar project in Serbia is a lithium-borate oversupply.
Demand outlook was muted as feedstocks.
It mines ilmenite at its wholly deposit that was discovered by Rio Tinto in  owned Rio Tinto Fer et Titane RTFT operation 2004.
If developed, it could supply a significant reactors, additional reactor closures were in Canada, its managed Richards Bay Minerals proportion of global demand for lithium and announced in the US, and no new Chinese RBM operation in South Africa Rio Tinto: borates.
Findings so far are encouraging and reactors were approved in 2016.
Strong 74 per cent, and its QIT Madagascar Minerals prefeasibility assessments are ongoing to uranium production and surplus secondary operation Rio Tinto: 80 per cent.
RTIT confirm the economic business case and material have exacerbated the price weakness produces high-grade titanium dioxide advance the environmental and  feedstocks at its world-class metallurgical economic impact assessments for the project.
to rebalance and prices to recover.
 Work continued on the feasibility study for the valuable co-products that include high-purity Even though titanium dioxide market Zulti South mine expansion at RBM, which will ductile iron, steel billets, metal powders and conditions remained challenging in 2016, there maintain low-cost RBM smelting capacity.
At 1 million tonnes, titanium dioxide are signs of improving demand fundamentals group entered into a joint venture with slag production was four per cent lower in 2016 with excess titanium dioxide pigment and Savannah Resources Plc to conduct further than in 2015, as RTIT continues to optimise feedstock inventories across the supply chain evaluation work on its ilmenite tenements production to match demand.
Two of nine starting to normalise and pigment prices rising, in Mozambique.
furnaces at RTFT and one of four furnaces at albeit with ongoing latent capacity in the RBM are currently idled.
RTITs revenues Rio Tinto remains in discussion with North feedstock market.
In response to the reduced by ten per cent due to lower sales Atlantic Potash Inc. NAPI, a subsidiary of JSC challenging market, RTIT has taken action at a volumes and prices for titanium dioxide Acron, a world leader in fertiliser production, number of its operations, including flexing feedstocks, metallic products and zircon.
regarding the optimum development pathway production capacity to align with demand, Earnings fell by 26 per cent to US$86 million.
for their exploration joint venture in optimising working capital, and structural cost Saskatchewan, Canada.
In the medium to long term, Salt demand for titanium dioxide feedstock is Simfer owned 42.8 per cent indirectly by Dampier Salt Rio Tinto: 68 per cent, the expected to grow, in line with improving global Rio Tinto completed the integrated Bankable worlds largest solar salt exporter, produces economic conditions, urbanisation and demand Feasibility Studies for the mine, rail, port and industrial salt by solar evaporation of seawater growth in emerging markets, supported by infrastructure elements of the Simandou iron at Dampier and Port Hedland, and from rising per capita incomes.
ore project in May 2016 in accordance with its underground brine at Lake MacLeod, all in obligations under the Investment Framework.
Salt is sold principally to Long-term borate sector fundamentals remain On 28 October 2016, Rio Tinto and Chinalco base chemical industry markets in Asia.
Near-term demand is stable, with signed a non-binding agreement to sell production of 5.2 million tonnes Rio Tinto North American housing-related sectors and Rio Tintos entire stake in the Simandou project share was six per cent lower than in 2015 as a global glass and agricultural demand in Guinea to Chinalco.
The Heads of Agreement result of lower market demand.
Rio Tinto Borates is focused sets out the proposed principal terms of the in line with 2015 at US$25 million.
upon increasing refined borate capacity to sale with the aim of signing a binding meet above-GDP global demand growth while agreement within six months.
If the sale improving safety performance and its cost occurs, Rio Tinto expects to receive payments position.
of US$1.1-1.3 billion depending on the timing of the development of the project.
