Group overview Introduction to Rio Tinto Iron Ore Aluminium At Rio Tinto, as pioneers in mining and Rio Tinto operates a world-class iron ore Building on more than a century of experience metals, we produce materials essential to business, supplying the global seaborne iron and expertise, Rio Tinto is a global leader in the human progress.
Our business includes from continuing demand across China and the high-quality bauxite mines, large-scale alumina We have been in business for more than developing world.
The Iron Ore product groups refineries, and some of the worlds lowest-cost, 140 years and remain focused on the long operations are located in the Pilbara region of most  term.
Our approach is driven by a clear Western Australia, where it has aluminium smelters.
strategy, with the goal of delivering superior industry-leading margins, and in 2016 marked value for our shareholders through the cycle Products 50 years since their first contracted shipment.
Our strategy plays to our Bauxite strengths: world-class assets, talented Products Bauxite is the ore used to make aluminium.
It is employees, a strong balance sheet and Iron ore refined into alumina which is smelted into operating excellence.
Iron ore is the key ingredient in the production aluminium metal.
Our wholly and partly owned of steel, one of the most fundamental and bauxite mines are located in Australia, Brazil Our approach is underpinned by our values of durable products for modern-day living, with and Guinea.
safety, teamwork, respect, integrity and uses from railways to paperclips.
Combined with the strength Alumina provided by our people and our assets, our Strategic advantages Alumina aluminium oxide is extracted from values help form the foundations of our bauxite via a refining process.
Approximately Strong presence in key markets.
four tonnes of bauxite are required to produce Proximity to key Asian markets.
two tonnes of alumina, which in turn makes We have a 51,000-strong workforce in around World-class assets, comprising an one tonne of aluminium metal.
We seek to foster a culture exclusive, integrated supply chain with partly owned alumina refineries are located in where our people keep their safety, and that extensive optionality.
of their workmates, contractors and A premium product suite, which drives communities, at the top of their minds: where strong customer relationships, supported Aluminium every person understands how they can by technical and commercial Aluminium is a versatile modern metal.
Light, create and preserve value for the business: marketing expertise.
strong, flexible, corrosion-resistant and where diversity and innovation are embraced: infinitely recyclable, aluminium is one of the Low cost position with a Pilbara cash unit and where our values guide everything we do.
most widely used metals in the world.
Its cost of US$13.7 in 2016. largest markets are transportation, machinery We find, mine, process and market mineral Strong mineral resources provide multiple and construction.
Our smelters are mainly resources, producing a diverse suite of high-quality, low-cost options to sustain concentratedinCanada.
Wealsohavesmelters minerals and metals that enable the world to and grow our Pilbara operations.
in France, Australia, New Zealand, Iceland grow and develop.
These products give us Employees driving sustainable productivity and Oman.
exposure to markets around the world, and improvements: costs, quality and revenue.
across the economic development spectrum, Strategic advantages Industry leader in supply chain from basic infrastructure needs, through management, responsible mining and Access to the largest and best-quality industrial growth, to consumer-led demand.
bauxite ore reserves in the industry, strategically located to serve growing Under our Group-wide organisational Key production locations Key sales destinations Chinese bauxite demand.
structure, our four product groups Australia China Aluminium, Copper & Diamonds, Energy & One of the lowest-cost bauxite producers.
Japan Minerals and Iron Ore are complemented Outstanding hydropower position, which by our Growth & Innovation group.
SouthKorea delivers significant cost and other Supporting these are our central support advantages in an energy intensive industry Full operating review 32 functions, shared services, and and todays carbon-constrained world.
Rio Tinto has a low first-quartile average cost position for aluminium smelting, with Our contribution to sustainable development industry-leading smelting technology.
is integral to how we do business.
It is a fundamental consideration in how we Key production locations Key sales destinations manage the business, seeking long-term Canada Asia mutually beneficial outcomes for our Australia Americas business and our stakeholders.
Europe Europe Full operating review 34 2 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS a a Strategic advantages Copper & Diamonds Energy & Minerals Industry-leading businesses operating in Rio Tintos Copper & Diamonds product group Rio Tintos Energy & Minerals product group attractive markets.
has managed operations in Australia, Canada, comprises mining, refining and marketing Demand-led, integrated operations that are Mongolia and the US, and non-managed operations in 14 countries, across six sectors: responsive to the changing external operations in Chile and Indonesia.
By-products borates, coal, iron ore concentrate and pellets, environment.
of the groups copper production include gold, salt, titanium dioxide and uranium.
Energy & Minerals business poised to benefit from silver, molybdenum and others such as Minerals also includes the Jadar lithium-borate midto  demand sulphuric acid, rhenium, lead carbonate project in Serbia and the Simandou iron ore growth as consumption increases in and selenium.
Products Products A lean, scalable operating model running Borates Copper cash-focused businesses.
Refined borates are used in hundreds of Copper makes a positive impact on many of Key production locations Key sales destinations products and processes.
They are a vital societys challenges.
It is the primary conductor North NorthAmerica ingredient of many building materials and are in the worlds electrical infrastructure, and America China essential micro-nutrients for crops.
They are carries voices, data and vital information to all Australia Japan also commonly used in glass and ceramic corners of the world.
It is a key component of Africa SouthKorea applications including fibreglass, television green technologies, from wind energy and solar Europe screens, floor and wall tiles, and collection to high-efficiency buildings and heat-resistant glass.
Full operating review 38 Coal Diamonds Coal is a cost-effective and abundant energy Diamonds are an important component in both a Growth & Innovation source that plays an important role in the affordable and higher-end jewellery.
We are The Growth & Innovation group operates global energy mix.
Thermal coal is used for able to service all established and emerging through the entire life cycle of Rio Tintos electricity generation in power stations.
The  mines and assets, optimising value from the thermal coal from the Hunter Valley operations diamonds in terms of size, quality and time of the initial exploration concept through features the low ash and sulphur properties for colour distribution.
to when we close a mine or processing facility.
We Gold also produce high-value coking or metallurgical Growth & Innovation works in close partnership Gold is the ultimate store of value.
It is used in coal, which is mixed in furnaces with iron ore to with Rio Tintos product groups, and is jewellery, as a financial instrument, and produce steel.
accountable for finding, evaluating, developing supports the medical industry.
and delivering a portfolio of Tier 1 growth Salt options.
It also provides technical support to Silver Salt is one of the basic raw materials for the Rio Tinto operations to improve productivity, Also a precious metal, silver has the highest chemicals industry and is indispensable to a manage technical risk and drive innovation and electrical and thermal conductivity of any wide array of automotive, construction and automation initiatives.
metal and is used in many electronic devices.
It electronicproducts, aswellasforwater Full operating review 40 is also used in aerospace and medical treatment, food and healthcare.
applications, to make jewellery and as Titanium dioxide an investment.
, togetherwith Molybdenum titanium dioxide slag, can be transformed into a Molybdenum enhances toughness, white titanium dioxide pigment or titanium high-temperature strength and corrosion metal.
The white pigment is a key component resistance when combined with other metals.
It in paints, plastics, paper, inks, textiles, food, is frequently used to produce stainless steel sunscreen and cosmetics.
Titanium metal is and other metal alloys.
light weight, chemically inert and strong, making it ideal for use in medical applications Strategic advantages and in the aerospace industry.
A portfolio of high-quality copper assets.
Uranium Attractive copper growth opportunities.
Uranium is one of the most powerful energy Fully integrated global copper and diamond sources, and is used in the production of clean, exploration, mining, and sales and stable, base-load electricity.
After uranium is marketing business.
mined, it is processed into uranium oxide.
This A strong and trusted supplier of copper and product is sold for processing into fuel rods for diamonds in markets where we have an use in nuclear power stations.
established presence and in those where we are developing new opportunities.
Other products from the Energy & Minerals Leading technology and processes for product group include high-purity ductile iron, underground mining.
steel billets, metal powders and zircon.
Key production locations Key sales destinations Australia Australia Chile China Mongolia India North Japan America NorthAmerica a The Copper & Diamonds and Energy & Minerals product Indonesia Europe groups, and the Growth & Innovation group, were formed in July 2016 in a reorganisation of Rio Tintos Full operating review 36 company structure.
