Iron Ore Financial performance protections are in place before any job starts.
productivity improvement projects across most Critical control checklists were fully sites and minimal weather events.
2016 2015 implemented across all operations and US$ million US$ million Contestable iron ore demand in 2016 increased operational leaders and team members are a by around 80 million tonnes to 1.8 billion Gross revenue 14,605 13,952 actively verifying tasks to ensure that critical tonnes.
Rest-of-world contestable demand Net cash generated controls are in place.
recovered from a weak start to the year to be from operating slightly higher than 2015 levels.
Additional The all injury frequency rate stayed consistent activities 5,644 5,844 demand was met predominantly by expansions in 2016 at 0.45 compared with 0.45 in 2015.
A Underlying earnings 4,611 3,940 from the top six producers which netted around focus by frontline leaders on visible leadership a 55 million tonnes in 2016.
Notably, the Capital expenditure 868 1,608 in the field has been maintained and will help ramp-ups of Roy Hill and Minas Rio added drive the rate down.
Net operating assets 16,339 16,850 almost 30 million tonnes.
In 2016, Iron Ore continued to work to sustain Underlying EBITDA 8,526 7,675 In 2016, the iron ore price averaged around the employee wellbeing strategy through US$58.40 per dry metric tonne Platts 62 per Iron Ore Company of Canada and Simandou are reported training and educating leaders in how to within Energy & Minerals see page 38, reflecting cent Fe CFR, up from an average of around manage fitness for work, understand mental management responsibility.
US$55.50 per dry metric tonne in 2015.
This wellness and build resilience.
a Gross revenue and capital expenditure are defined on masks a significant range in iron ore prices page 202 under Notes to financial information by business The Yandicoogina team was named the winner unit.
Prices ranged from a low of of the 2016 Safety and Health Innovation US$39.25 per dry metric tonne in mid-January Strategy and priorities award by the Chamber of Minerals and Energy toapeakofUS$ of Western Australia for its breakthrough mid-December.
The Iron Ore product groups vision and project to reduce manual handling injuries.
strategy is focused on delivering optimal value Rio Tinto Marine shipped 281 million tonnes of from its integrated system of assets.
dry bulk cargo on behalf of the entire Rio Tinto Greenhouse gas emissions Group, an increase of six per cent on 2015.
By These strategic principles guide the business: Throughout 2016, Iron Ore continued to reduce volume, Rio Tinto is the largest dry bulk Safety is the number one priority.
its greenhouse gas emissions intensity across shipping business in the world, operating mine, rail and port operations compared with Focus on value over volume to ensure the 17 vessels of its own and contracting a fleet of the baseline target set in 2008.
Since 2008, the optimum outcome based on the around 200 vessels at any given time.
product groups greenhouse gas emissions combination of revenue, operating costs Average freight rates in 2016 tracked below intensity has improved by 2.2 per cent.
2015 and forward voyage rate curves are flat, Engaged employees are the key to success.
reflecting ongoing vessel oversupply and low Review of operations bunker fuel prices.
Mine-to-market productivity is an important InthePilbara,  driver of cash generation.
A strong pipeline of initiatives in 2016 resulted largest integrated portfolio of iron ore assets.
Making a lasting and positive contribution in pre-tax cash cost reductions of This system comprises 15 mines, four will build strong partnerships.
Iron Ore has now delivered independent port terminals, over 1,700km of US$1.4 billion of cumulative savings compared The groups strategic priorities are to: the largest privately owned heavy freight with the 2012 base, making a significant railway in Australia, and supporting Run safe and fatality-free operations.
contribution to the wider Rio Tinto Group infrastructure, all linked by the Operations Employ a workforce of fully pre-tax savings.
Further efficiency improvements reduced the In 2016, Rio Tinto celebrated 50 years since the Sustain the competitive advantage of Pilbara cash unit costs to US$13.7 per tonne in first shipment of iron ore from the Pilbara premium Pilbara Blend products.
2016, compared with US$14.9 per tonne in operations.
Events were held in regional 2015.
Cost savings initiatives included Realise the full potential of the system to Western Australia, Perth and internationally to optimising system maintenance shut intervals maximise cash flow and productivity from recognise and acknowledge the significant and alignment, and improving contracting the existing asset base.
contribution of past and present employees, arrangements such as the ten-year integrated Harness innovation and technology to help customers, suppliers, communities and other facilities management agreement signed in drive superior performance.
partners who helped shape the 2016 that is expected to deliver more than Follow a disciplined, value-accretive world-class business.
US$75 million in cash benefits during 2016 and approach to growth.
Productivity improvements included Rio Tinto Marine delivers shipping services to Engage with its highly valued partners and increasing effective utilisation across the the wider Rio Tinto Group, including Iron Ore. support sustainable local and Pilbara fleet, increasing payloads and reducing regional investment.
In 2016, Iron Ores underlying earnings ore car dumper cycle times.
This was achieved through record sales autonomous mining technologies.
The The tragic death of a colleague at the volumes, continued cash cost savings and Operations Centre controls and operates major Paraburdoo operations in June was a sobering higher iron ore prices.
assets including autonomous haul trucks and reminder of the critical risks in the business.
A Iron Ore shipments for 2016 met the guidance drills, processing plants, train loading and maintainer died following the unexpected at 327.6 million tonnes Rio Tinto share: unloading, and stockyard stacking and movement of a hydraulic arm while carrying 268.9 million tonnes, an increase of three per reclaiming machines.
out maintenance work on a drill rig.
The cent on 2015, attributable to the newly business is implementing the learnings from The automated truck fleet continues to provide expanded infrastructure and minimal this incident, so that the same or a similar advantages relating to safety, productivity and weather events.
accident can never happen again.
On average, each of the Production of 329.5 million tonnes Rio Tinto event strengthened the resolve of the business 72 autonomous haul trucks, which is 20 per share: 270.7 million tonnes in 2016 was to fully implement the critical risk management centofthefleet, operatedanadditional six per cent higher than in 2015.
The strong fatality elimination programme which was 1,000 hours and at 15 per cent lower cost in production performance in 2016 follows the rolled out in 2016.
This programme aims to 2016 than comparable conventional ramp up of expanded mines, operational ensure key risks are identified and the right haul trucks.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The performance of autonomous trucks and Iron Ore continues to support programmes and Yandicoogina Oxbow is being built as a increased utilisation of all trucks, together with initiatives across the Pilbara, and its fly-in, supporting mine for the Yandicoogina improvements in payload, has reduced fleet fly-out FIFO source communities in regional operations, assisting in sustaining current requirements, resulting in lower capital Western Australia and Perth.
Its award-winning production rates of 56 million tonnes per year.
Community Infrastructure and Services Yandicoogina Oxbow will use existing facilities Partnership with Pilbara local governments and will expand the Yandicoogina autonomous Iron Ore continues to consider the optimal size continued its success during 2016 with the truck fleet.
of its automated truck fleet, including new delivery of key community infrastructure purchases and evaluating The Iron Ore group continues to invest in projects.
The Partnerships with the City of manned-to-autonomous conversion for the community infrastructure in regional towns.
Karratha and the Shire of Ashburton work to existing fleet.
The A$18 million Dampier Community Hub was deliver real benefits to the community to officially opened in July while the A$4.6 million Autonomous drills at West Angelas also ensure the Pilbara is a great place to live Paraburdoo Childcare Centre opened in operated for an average 1,000 more hours per through a shared vision of improving town October.
The Red Earth Arts Precinct drill compared with conventional drills.
commenced construction in the fourth quarter Autonomous drills are now being deployed which will provide state of the art theatre and Development projects at Yandicoogina.
These projects were made Iron Ores mineral resources position continues Further progress was made with the possible through financial contributions from to support sustaining production and growth AutoHaul project in 2016, bringing it closer to Rio Tinto and the State Governments Royalties options in the Pilbara.
This will deliver a step change for Regions programme and local government.
efficiently forms the basis of creating a in the safety controls and productivity of rail Rio Tinto will contribute A$8 million towards development sequence which maximises the operations.
One hundred per cent of planned the construction and operation of the value of its assets and maintains the required territory track is now AutoHaul enabled.
Since A$14.5 million Paraburdoo Community Hub.
Ore reserves are testing began in 2014, more than The Shire of Ashburton secured remaining being maintained in line with mine production.
600,000 kilometres of track has been covered  Given their significance to the business and in AutoHaul mode with a driver in attendance.
Construction is expected to commence in customers, the focus continues on the The implementation of AutoHaul will 2017, with completion of the Paraburdoo premium Pilbara Blend products.
transition to the rail operations team in 2017 Community Hub in 2018.
Various other civic and its use is expected to progressively expand Iron Ore has invested over US$14 billion in projects were also unveiled during the year.
Full implementation is Pilbara mines and infrastructure growth, scheduled for the end of 2018. increasing production by more than 50 per cent Outlook and expanding port operations to 360 million Iron Ore maintained its focus on supporting Iron ore and steel, along with a number of other tonne capacity.
With the completion of the local communities, Aboriginal Traditional commodity prices, experienced strong price ports development the focus has shifted to Owners, businesses and people within its appreciation towards the end of 2016.
Several productivity-driven growth supported by operational footprint.
The product group factors have buoyed Chinas steel demand such low-capital-cost brownfield developments.
continued actively implementing participation as downstream restocking, higher inflation agreements with Traditional Owners in the Since 2012, Iron Ore has followed a disciplined, expectations and a supportive credit and Pilbara,  value-accretive, low-cost brownfield approach monetary environment.
In 2016, along with Pilbara to the expansion of Pilbara operations.
Most output has been supported by a considerable Traditional Owners, Iron Ore completed recently, efforts have been concentrated on the improvement in macroeconomic conditions five-year reviews of the Participation Nammuldi Incremental Tonnes NIT project across advanced economies in the fourth Agreements and Regional Framework Deed.
It which was fully commissioned in 2016 and quarter of 2016. also finalised the Participation Agreement with provides 10 million tonnes of high-grade, Chinas current high rates of steel production the Banjima people, its tenth agreement in the low-phosphorus ore annually.
are anticipated to unwind somewhat in 2017 in Pilbara.
Relationships with Pilbara Traditional The balance of the full Silvergrass mine part due to an expected gradual withdrawal in Owners are integral to Iron Ores privilege to comprises the installation of a satellite crusher stimulus.
Over the longer term, there is still operate and it has now signed agreements with and overland conveyor, increased autonomous room for Chinese steel production to grow all Native Title Claim groups who hold interests mining capacity and the expansion of driven by manufactured goods such as in areas of the Pilbara in which it operates.
It will automobiles and machinery, and increasing These agreements incorporate mutual add an extra 10 million tonne capacity to the replacement requirements.
Steel production in obligations to deliver outcomes in employment, NIT expansion with first ore expected in the the world ex-China will continue to grow with financial compensation, education and training, second half of 2017.
Following approval of the capacity expansions in India, the Middle East heritage surveys and practices, environmental final capital allocation for the full Silvergrass and ASEAN coming to fruition and stronger careandlanduse.
project in August 2016, the overall capital macroeconomic conditions in other key Iron Ore remains one of the largest intensity is around US$29 per tonne.
private-sector employers of Indigenous people the road trains being used at Nammuldi with a Over the next few years, Rio Tinto expects in Australia, with approximately 900 Indigenous conveyor will also significantly reduce further supply from low-cost producers and employees, including 380 Pilbara Aboriginal operating costs.
In addition, the Group expects to people.
In 2016, Rio Tinto launched its elevate A number of sustaining mine developments see further exits as the significant input cost Reconciliation Action Plan the first industry also progressed in 2016.
The West Angelas deflation experienced in 2015, particularly in oil group to launch a RAP at this level where it Deposit F project will use existing processing and exchange rates, begin to reverse.
publicly committed to meeting eight per cent and plant infrastructure to support total Indigenous employment across Australia by production of 35 million tonnes per year from the end of 2018.
7.8 per cent across Iron Ore as at December 2016.
