STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION BOARD OF DIRECTORS Executive Committee Bold Baatar Vera Kirikova Chris Salisbury MBA Business Administration, age 43 MA Inter-cultural Communications, MBA, BEng Metallurgical, FAICD, age 50 age 43 Chris was appointed chief executive of Bold was appointed chief executive, Energy & Vera was appointed Human Resources Group Rio Tintos Iron Ore group in July 2016.
Bold was executive in January 2017.
Vera joined became acting chief executive of the Copper & previously a member of the Rio Tinto Iron Ore Rio Tinto in 2015 as vice president, Human Coal group in March 2016, overseeing its executive committee, as managing director, Resources for the then Diamonds & Minerals operations and projects globally.
Chris was Iron Ore Sales and Marketing and head of  previously chief operating officer, Coal with Rio Tintos Marine business.
He joined Rio Tinto Human Resources for the Group in July 2016. accountability for strategy, project in May 2013 as president of Copper She has accountability for the Groups Human development, operations and logistics for International Operations.
Prior to joining the Resources function, including strategy and Rio Tintos coal mines in New South Wales, Group, Bold held executive positions with a execution.
Prior to joining Rio Tinto, Vera was Queensland and South Africa.
Chris joined diversified investment management business employed by Schlumberger, where she worked Rio Tinto in 1988, with experience spanning .
for over 20 years in human resources, bauxite, alumina refining, aluminium smelting, Until 2009, Bold spent 11 years as an operations, marketing and M&A positions in the coal, port logistics and uranium.
investment banker with JPMorgan in New York US, Canada, UK, Russia and France.
He has served as executive and non-executive Stephen McIntosh director of Energy Resources of Australia Ltd, He was the chairman of the Mongolian Stock chairman of Queensland Alumina Limited, Exchange from 2010 to 2012, chairman of the MSc Geology, age 53 president of the Namibian Uranium Mongolian Mining Association from 2012 to Stephen was appointed Group executive, Stewardship Committee, external chair for both 2014 and served as a non-executive director on Growth & Innovation in July 2016.
Stephen has the Northern Territory Minerals Council and the the board of Southgobi Resources Ltd from close to 30 years of service with the Group Australian Uranium Association.
2013 to 2014. after joining the business as an exploration Arnaud Soirat geologist.
Stephen has deep experience across Alfredo Barrios a wide range of commodities and geographies, PhD , age52 PhD Energy Economics, BSc Physics, having worked on projects in more than MSc Management, age 51 Arnaud Soirat was appointed chief executive, 45 countries.
In his previous role as Rio Tintos Copper & Diamonds in July 2016.
Arnaud has Alfredo was appointed chief executive, global head of Exploration, Stephen led teams almost 25 years experience in the metals and Aluminium in 2014.
He joined Rio Tinto after a  industry and a wealth of operational and wide-ranging career in leadership positions change in safety improvement whilst delivering commercial experience gained in various roles, with BP plc.
His most recent role was executive industry-leading discovery performance.
director and executive vice president Stephen has been actively involved in the Downstream at TNK-BP, based in Moscow, management, exploration, evaluation or Arnaud was previously Aluminium Primary where he was directly responsible for the discovery of a number of the Groups Metal president and chief executive officer, refining, trading, supply, logistics, and exploration discoveries.
responsible for managing and improving marketing businesses.
operations and businesses globally, with a Stephen is a fellow of the Australian Institute of particular focus on lean manufacturing and Alfredo has held board positions in a number of Mining and Metallurgy, a fellow of the Society operational excellence.
He joined Rio Tinto in companies, including CLH Spain from 2007 to of Economic Geology, a member of the 2010 as chief operating officer, Primary Metal, 2011 where he was chairman of the Audit Australian Society of Exploration Geophysics Europe, Middle-East & Africa.
Before joining Committee, and OAO NGK Slavneft Russia and a graduate of the Australian Institute of Rio Tinto, Arnaud spent 18 years in various from 2012 until 2013.
He was president of the Company Directors.
technical and operational positions with Alcoa Spanish National Oil Industry Association Simone Niven and Pechiney in both Australia and Europe.
BA Comms, age 46 Executive director members Joanne Farrell Simone was appointed Corporate Relations Jean-Sbastien Jacques and Chris Lynch were BSc Psychology and Economics, Graduate Group executive in January 2017.
Simone also members of the Executive Committee in Diploma Management, age 59 joined Rio Tinto in 2008 and has accountability 2016 through their positions as chief executive Joanne Farrell was appointed Group executive, for the Groups reputation and corporate and chief financial officer respectively.
Their relations areas external affairs, communities, biographies are shown on page 50.
Health, Safety & Environment in July 2016.
Joanne, who has more than 35 years media, reputation and employee communications.
She also has responsibility for experience in the mining sector, is also responsible for leading Rio Tintos interaction the leadership of the country and regional office teams including Africa, Australia, Canada, with key stakeholders in Australia as managing director, Australia.
Joanne has been with Rio China, the European Union, India, Japan, UK and the US.
Prior to joining Rio Tinto she spent Tinto for 29 years and brings a wealth of experience from roles across Organisational over 15 years working in senior roles at some of the worlds largest companies across many Resources, Government Affairs and Communities.
Joanne worked for BHP before continents, including Vodafone, the United Technologies group, Smiths Group plc and joining Rio Tinto and prior to that she was an economist in regional development with the Smith & Nephew plc in a range of corporate relations fields.
Joanne is a director and Chair of the Rio Tinto Staff Superannuation Fund, a director of the Perth Institute of Contemporary Art, a member of the Business Council and its Economics and Competition and its Citizenship and Governance Committee, a specialist advisor to the Male Champions of Change and a member of Chief Executive Women.
com 53 Executive Committee continued Greg Lilleyman Executive Committee members who BEng Construction, age 50 left the Group Greg was appointed Group executive, Hugo Bague Technology & Innovation in January 2014.
He MA Linguistics, age 56 joined the Group in 1990 and held a number of Hugo Bague was appointed Group executive, operational roles across the Pilbara, Hunter Organisational Resources in 2013 after joining Valley and Canada with both the Iron Ore and Rio Tinto as global head of Human Resources Energy businesses.
Previously he worked for appointed president, Pilbara Operations for Hewlett-Packard where he was the global vice Rio Tinto Iron Ore and in 2013 assumed the president, Human Resources for the role of head of Productivity Improvement with , basedintheUS.
Greg left Rio Tinto in Prior to this he worked for Compaq Computers, May 2016 after 25 years of service.
Nortel Networks and Abbott Laboratories Greg was a board member of the Australian based in Switzerland, France and Germany.
Institute of Management of Western Australia Hugo will leave the Group on 31 March 2017. from 2012 until 2013, a board member of the He has been a non-executive director and Energy & Minerals Institute from 2011 until member of the nominating and governance and 2013, and a director of the Chamber of compensation committees of Jones Lang Minerals and Energy of Western Australia from LaSalle Incorporated, a global real estate 2008 until 2013, holding the position of services firm, since 2011. president from 2011 until 2013, and a board member of the Curtin University Foundation Alan Davies from 2012 until 2015.
BBus Acctcy LLB, LLM, FCA, age46 Debra Valentine Alan was appointed chief executive, Energy & BA History, JD, age 63 Minerals in July 2016, having previously held Debra was appointed Group executive, Legal & the position of chief executive, Diamonds & Regulatory Affairs in 2009 having joined Minerals since 2012.
He joined the Group in Rio Tinto as global head of Legal in 2008.
She 1997 and has held management positions in previously worked at United Technologies Australia, London and the US for the Iron Ore Corporation in the US where she was vice and Energy businesses.
Previously, Alan was president, deputy general counsel and president, International Operations for corporatesecretary.
Beforethen, shewasa Rio Tintos Iron Ore business with global partner with the law firm OMelveny & Myers, in accountability for operations and projects in Washington DC.
Debra served as general Canada, India and Guinea, and was also counsel at the US Federal Trade Commission previously chief financial officer of the Iron Ore from 1997 to 2001.
Alan assumed responsibility for the non-executive director of Lamprell plc in 2015.
Alanisa Debra left Rio Tinto in November 2016, Fellow of the Institute of Chartered following the announcement made on Accountants in Australia.
Alan left Rio Tinto in 17 November 2016.
November 2016, following the announcement made on 17 November 2016.
Andrew Harding BEng Mining Engineering, MBA, age 50 Andrew Harding was appointed chief executive, Iron Ore in 2013.
Prior to his current role, Andrew spent three years as chief executive, Copper, where he was responsible for a range of mines and projects including the development of the world-class Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mine in Mongolia.
Andrew joined Rio Tinto in 1992 and spent seven years in Iron Ore.
He has also held a range of positions in Technology & Innovation, Energy and Aluminium and was president and chief executive officer of Kennecott Utah Copper.
Andrew left the Group in July 2016.
He was a director of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd between 2009 and 2010 and between 2011 and 2013.
