243514 RIT R&A pp019-pp023 27 02 2017 14:41 Page 20 Board of Directors Chairman Senior Independent Director Lord Rothschild OM GBE Jacob Rothschild has chaired RIT since its flotation in 1988.
Michael Marks joined the Board of the Company as a nonHe is also Chairman of the Nominations Committee, as well executive Director in September 2004 and became its Senior as Chairman of J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited Independent Director in July 2010.
He is a member of the and of its Investment Committee.
Conflicts, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Having left NM Rothschild & Sons in 1980, Jacob developed He is Chairman of MR Capital Consultants Limited and was RITs predecessor companies, co-founding companies in Chairman of NewSmith Capital Partners LLP, which he money management, insurance and investment, including founded in 2003.
He was formerly Co-Head of the Global Global Asset Management and St Jamess Place Capital plc.
Equities business of Merrill Lynch, which he joined in 1995 He served as Deputy Chairman of BSkyB Plc for five years, and where he subsequently held positions as Chief to 2008.
He is Chairman of Windmill Hill Asset Management Operating Officer of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Limited WHAM, which manages the philanthropic Africa.
He was subsequently named Executive Chairman.
He foundations connected with his family, as well as chairing his was also Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. own familys office and the Rothschild Foundation.
Jacob is Michael began his career at Smith Bros. in 1958, where he also the Honorary Vice Chairman of Edmond fide Rothschild became a director in 1975 and Chief Executive of Smith Group S. A.
He was a non-executive director of In addition to his career in finance he has been involved in Old Mutual plc from February 2004 to May 2007 and a public service including the arts, heritage and philanthropy non-executive director of London Stock Exchange plc until 2004. having chaired The National Gallery, The National Heritage Memorial Fund and The Heritage Lottery Fund.
Non-Executive Directors Independent Amy Stirling John Cornish Amy Stirling joined the Board of the Company as a nonJohn Cornish joined the Board of the Company as a executive Director in February 2015 and is a member of the non-executive Director in January 2008.
He is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and Valuation Committee.
Audit and Risk Committee and the Valuation Committee and a member of both the Remuneration and Conflicts Committees.
She is a chartered accountant and is Chief Financial Officer of John is also Chairman of the Trustees of the RITCP Pension and the Virgin Group.
She also serves as a director and Chair of Life Assurance Scheme.
the Audit Committee of Pets at Home Group Plc.
He is a chartered accountant and was formerly a partner at Amy served as the Chief Financial Officer of TalkTalk Telecom Deloitte LLP where he led the firms services to the investment Group Plc until 2013, having been with the business since its trust industry.
Subsequently, John served as Chairman of start up as part of the Carphone Warehouse Group, which Framlington Innovative Growth Trust plc and as a director of a she joined in 2000. number of other investment trust companies.
Currently he is a director of Henderson EuroTrust plc.
20 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc Michael Marks CBE 243514 RIT R&A pp019-pp023 27 02 2017 14:41 Page 21 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Independent Mike Power The Duke of Wellington Mike Power joined the Board of the Company as a non-executive The Duke of Wellington formerly Lord Douro joined the Director in January 2014 and is a member of the Audit and Risk Board of the Company as a non-executive Director in July Committee and the Valuation Committee.
He is Chairman of the Conflicts and Remuneration Committees and a member of the Nominations Committee.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in He has broad experience in banking and finance, having England and Wales and Professor of Accounting at the London served as Chairman of Sun Life and Provincial Holdings from School of Economics and Political Science, where he is a 1995 to 2000 and of the Framlington Group from 1994 to Governor and has written extensively on risk and corporate 2005.
He is currently a director of Compagnie Financire governance issues.
He was a non-executive director of St. Richemont.
He served on the Board of Sanofi until May 2014 Jamess Place plc from 2005 to 2013 where he chaired the Risk and was until 2011 a director of Pernod Ricard and Abengoa Committee and was a member of the Audit Committee.
remains on the board of St Jamess Place International plc, which he joined in September 2012 and was appointed as its Chairman The Duke of Wellington is Chairman of Richemont Holdings in 2014.
He is a member of the House of Lords and was Mike has held a number of other advisory positions, including a member of the European Parliament from 1979 to 1989. the Financial Reporting Lab Advisory Committee at the From 2007 to 2016 he was Chairman of Kings College Financial Reporting Council, and the Technical Development London and since 2014 he has been a governor of Wellington Committee of the Institute of Risk Management.
honorary doctorates from the Universities of Uppsala, Sweden: St Gallen, Switzerland: and Turku, Finland.
In 2016 he was elected as a Fellow of the British Academy.
Mike Wilson CBE Mike Wilson joined the Board of the Company as a nonexecutive Director in October 2013 and is a member of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
He is Joint Founder and Life President of St Jamess Place plc and Chairman of the St Jamess Place Foundation.
He has worked in the financial services industry over many years and was a director of Allied Dunbar and BAT Industries before jointly founding J. Rothschild Assurance now St. James's Place in 1991.
Following 13 years as Chief Executive of St James's Place he was appointed Chairman, a role he held until the end of 2011.
Mike was a non-executive director of Vendme Luxury Group plc and Chairman of the Mental Health Association for many years.
In 2010 Mike became a director of the newly formed research charity MQ: Transforming Mental Health.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 21 243514 RIT R&A pp019-pp023 27 02 2017 14:41 Page 22 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Non-Independent Jean Laurent-Bellue Hannah Rothschild Hannah Rothschild joined the Board of the Company as a Jean Laurent-Bellue joined the Board of the Company as a non-executive Director in August 2013. non-executive Director in March 2012.
He is Group Secretary General of Edmond fide Rothschild Hannah has been involved with media for the past twenty Holdings in Geneva and Board member of the Banque Prive years.
An award-winning documentary film maker, she also Edmond fide Rothschild.
He joined LCF Edmond fide Rothschild writes articles, screenplays and books.
Group in 2004 as a member of the Executive Board of La In addition, she is a non-executive director of WHAM, a Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Rothschild Banque.
He director of Five Arrows Limited and serves as a Trustee of was Chairman of the Executive Board of Edmond fide the Rothschild Foundation.
Rothschild Corporate Finance from 2004 until 2009 when he became General Secretary at Compagnie Financire Saint As well as her career in media, she has been involved in Honor.
public service, including acting as a Trustee of the National Gallery and of the Tate.
She became Chair of the Board of Previously, he was a member of the Executive Board of Trustees of the National Gallery in August 2015.
Clinvest the Investment Banking arm of the Crdit Lyonnais.
The Board has determined that he is not independent due to his senior role with the Edmond fide Rothschild Group, with which the Company has a joint venture.
Honorary Vice Chair Baroness Ariane fide Rothschild Ariane fide Rothschild was appointed as Honorary Vice Chair of RIT in March 2012.
She is the Chairwoman of the Executive Committee of the Edmond fide Rothschild Group.
She holds other various board positions across the group, including Edmond fide Rothschild Suisse, Edmond fide Rothschild France and Barons & Baronne Associs.
Ariane started her career as a trader in foreign exchange and metals with Socit Gnrale in Australia and in New York.
She then joined US insurance corporation AIG and successfully developed the groups trading operations in Europe.
The Honorary Vice Chair is not a Director of the Company.
22 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc 243514 RIT R&A pp019-pp023 27 02 2017 14:41 Page 23 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | J. Rothschild Capital Management JRCM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of RIT and acts as RITs manager.
Directors of JRCM are listed below: Chairman Chief Executive Officer Lord Rothschild Francesco Goedhuis Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Andrew Jones Chief Financial Officer Roberto Ruhman Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer Rick Sopher Ron Tabbouche Chief Investment Officer Day-to-day management of the business is delegated to an Executive Committee led by Francesco Goedhuis.
The biographies of the Executive Committee members can be found below: Francesco Goedhuis Andrew Jones Francesco Goedhuis is the Chief Executive Officer.
He joined Andrew Jones is the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk JRCM as the Principal in the Chairmans Office in 2010.
Prior to joining JRCM in 2008, he spent three years in Previously, he was in New York working for the Economics venture capital and four years at Nomura, advising on its Nobel Laureate Robert Merton and the former Vice Chairman private equity investments as well as risk, global corporate of J. P. Morgan, Roberto Mendoza at IFL, commercialising development and strategy.
He qualified as a chartered financial academic theory on both the buy and sell sides.
accountant with Deloitte LLP where he specialised in valuation advice.
Jonathan Kestenbaum Ron Tabbouche Jonathan Kestenbaum is the Chief Operating Officer.
Until Ron Tabbouche is the Chief Investment Officer.
He joined 2011 he was Chief Executive of Five Arrows Limited.
He is JRCM in 2012 having previously been the Head of also an adviser to philanthropic foundations connected to Investments for Managed Portfolios at GAM.
At the age of Lord Rothschild and a non-executive director of WHAM.
He 26, he joined GAMs Investment Committee, working with was previously Chief Executive of NESTA the National Gilbert fide Botton, its co-founder.
Subsequently, he led the Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts.
Prior to overall investment strategy of multi-billion Dollar funds that he was Chief of Staff to the Chairman of Apax Partners, across a broad range of asset classes.
In January 2011 Jonathan was appointed to The House of Lords and became Lord Kestenbaum of Foxcote.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 23
