243514 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 27 02 2017 14:40 Page 5 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Our Strategy & Business Model Introduction This section aims to provide a clear and succinct ver the last three years shareholders overview of our strategy and business model, in Ohave benefited from a total return of particular: 59% compared to 34% from the market.
what we are trying to achieve Strategic Aims : We believe that our active management of equity how we go about it Investment Approach : exposure, combined with early identification of opportunities and themes across multiple asset classes, how well we have done Measuring Performance is more likely to lead to long-term outperformance.
We and KPIs : would hope to display healthy participation in up markets, and reasonable protection in down markets.
Over time, how we structure our remuneration Incentive this should allow us to compound ahead of markets Structure : and throughout the cycles.
our Governance and Group Structure.
Indeed, since your Companys listing in 1988, we have participated in 75% of the market upside but only 39% of Strategic Aims the market declines.
This has resulted in our NAV per Our strategic aims are best illustrated by our Corporate share total return compounding at 11.5% per annum, a Objective: meaningful outperformance of global equity markets.
Over the same period the total return to shareholders to deliver long-term capital growth, while preserving was 12.9% per annum.
shareholders capital: to invest without the constraints of a formal benchmark, but to deliver for shareholders Investment Approach increases in capital value in excess of the relevant The strategic aims are expressed in more practical terms indices over time.
in our Investment Policy: We believe this accurately reflects our long-term aims.
to invest in a widely diversified, international portfolio However, a degree of clarification may assist across a range of asset classes, both quoted and shareholders in understanding what we are trying to unquoted: to allocate part of the portfolio to exceptional achieve for them over time in particular because we managers in order to ensure access to the best external differ from many other large trusts who always aim to be talent available.
fully invested in quoted equities.
It is this policy which guides us as we manage your The most important objective is long-term capital growth portfolio.
So, while we retain at our core an equity bias, while preserving shareholders capital.
The essence of we nonetheless have the freedom to invest your portfolio our investing DNA is about protecting and enhancing across multiple asset classes, geographies, industries shareholders wealth.
This has been the basis of our style over There may be times when we will deliberately place many years combining thematic investing with protection of shareholders funds ahead of growth as individual securities, and private investments with public happened during the latter stages of the dot-com era and stocks.
The long-term success of your Company has also in the run up to the most recent financial crisis.
been drawn from a distinctive blend of individual stocks, However, we recognise that such market timing is private investments, equity funds and currency unlikely to be sustainable in the long term.
positioning, all overlaid with macro exposure management.
We believe the extent of our global reach and network of ince your Companys listing in 1988, we contacts allows us to maximise our ability to deploy Shave participated in 75% of the market capital effectively.
We seek to capitalise on an in-house investment team working closely with our core external upside but only 39% of the market declines.
managers, the majority of whom are closed to new This has resulted in our NAV per share total investors.
return compounding at 11.5% per annum, a meaningful outperformance of global equity markets.
Over the same period the total return to shareholders was 12.9% per annum.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 5 243514 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 27 02 2017 14:40 Page 6 Our Strategy & Business Model Above all, our approach is long term.
For example, in relation to private investments, we are not constrained by e believe the extent of our global reach the typical industry model of a limited life partnership.
Wand network of contacts allows us to This means we can hold such investments over an maximise our ability to deploy capital extended period and choose to realise at an optimum effectively.
We seek to capitalise on an time.
On quoted investments, we aim to avoid being optimal blend of an in-house investment forced sellers of stocks if we are comfortable with their team working closely with our core external underlying fundamentals, even if it means incurring shortterm losses.
managers, the majority of whom are closed to new investors.
Measuring Performance and KPIs While we believe our success can only really be 2016 Performance measured over the long term, we also recognise that I was pleased with our performance in 2016, in particular providing shareholders with a comparator against which against the background of the uncertain and volatile to measure our performance over shorter periods is environment.
The NAV total return for the year was 12.1%.
This The strategic aims highlighted on the previous page, compared to our first KPI RPI plus 3% at 5.5%, an reflect the desire to produce real capital growth and to outperformance of 6.6% points.
The relative KPI the exceed markets over time.
These are reflected in the ACWI, returned 18.9% over the year.
following targets or Key Performance Indicators KPIs : At the same time, our premium increased from 6.9%, to 1.
Absolute Outperformance: NAV total return in excess end the year at 9.0%.
As a result, the TSR over the year of RPI plus 3% per annum: our third KPI reached 14.2%.
Relative Outperformance: NAV total return in excess If I look back over the last three years, I am gratified that, of the ACWI: and notwithstanding our somewhat cautious stance, we have 3.
Share price total return or Total Shareholder Return broadly kept pace with markets.
On an annualised basis, TSR.
our NAV total return over that period was 9.9% compared to the ACWI at 10.2%.
Shareholders have benefited from The first of these KPIs reflects the desire to produce a total return of 59% compared to 34% from the market.
strong absolute returns with a meaningful premium While our Chairman has continued to provide the benefit above inflation.
of his extensive experience, due credit must also be given to our CIO, Ron Tabbouche, who has taken a The second reflects our unconstrained global investment carefully structured approach to the portfolio, while also approach and the desire to outperform markets.
bringing enhanced focus and conviction.
Consistent with many investment companies, we use the ACWI which we believe is an appropriate comparator for As ever, it is a team effort and I would like to put on our global, unconstrained approach.
On currency, we use record my continuing thanks to our CFO, Andrew Jones a blended index consisting of 50% of the ACWI and COO, Jonathan Kestenbaum for their unfailing efforts measured in Sterling and 50% of the ACWI measured in on your behalf.
Equally important, our business only local currencies.
However, we also retain the flexibility to functions efficiently and effectively thanks to all of our take an unconstrained approach to our currency employees across each and every function.
positioning: for example, in early 2008 we had no exposure to Sterling ahead of its significant fall in value Incentive Structure later that year.
Following a careful review of the remuneration policy for Directors of the Company the Remuneration Policy by Our wholly-owned subsidiary, J. Rothschild Capital the Remuneration Committee, including consultation with Management Limited JRCM, is tasked with managing major shareholders, the Board has concluded that it will the portfolio to deliver a NAV return.
Ultimately however, not propose any changes to the Remuneration Policy.
the return to our shareholders is through share price This will be submitted to shareholders for the next growth and dividends.
We therefore also consider the triennial binding vote at our 2017 Annual General Meeting.
6 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc 243514 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 27 02 2017 14:40 Page 7 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Our Strategy & Business Model Our Remuneration Committee believes the JRCM is also chaired by Lord Rothschild, with the day-toRemuneration Policy continues to provide an appropriate day running of the business under the management of an incentive structure to attract, motivate and retain the Executive Committee led by myself as CEO.
JRCM high-quality individuals we need to deliver our long-term executives represent RIT's interests on the SHL and GVQ strategic aims.
The Remuneration Policy is designed to subsidiary boards.
align with, and reinforce, these strategic aims.
Full details of the RIT Board and the JRCM Executive The Chairman of RIT, as well as management and key Committee are provided on pages 20 to 23. staff of JRCM, participate in two principal plans: The RIT Group employs 70 people, with 46 working for 1.
The Annual Incentive Scheme AIS : and JRCM, our investment management subsidiary.
Our Real Assets portfolio includes Spencer House as well as other 2.
properties in St Jamess, London.
These are maintained by SHL which employs 14 people.
In addition to premises The AIS is designed to incentivise staff through a share in management, this subsidiary also operates a profitable the total NAV outperformance against the Absolute events business.
The remaining 10 people are employed Outperformance hurdle and the Relative Outperformance by our third-party investment management subsidiary, hurdle.
This is measured annually and includes longer GVQ.
A breakdown of the gender balance of the term features such as a three-year high water mark as Directors of the Company and also the senior managers well as significant deferral into RIT shares.
In addition to and employees of the Group is set out on page 44. this formulaic pool, AIS awards are also made for individual performance against qualitative measures.
The As RIT is characterised under accounting standards as an Remuneration Committee retains the ability to clawback investment entity, its consolidated income statement elements of previous awards if necessary.
Payments includes the full income and expenses of both JRCM and under this scheme are capped at 0.75% of NAV or 0.25% GVQ.
Further information on the results of the respective if the NAV has declined.
businesses is set out in note 6 on page 59.
The second main aspect of the remuneration approach is We continue to focus on costs, whether our own direct an LTIP which provides a longer term incentive of up to costs or the fees charged directly or indirectly by external 10 years using Share Appreciation Rights SARs, which fund managers.
In order to provide investors with vest if RITs TSR is above the hurdle of RPI plus 3.0% per information on the costs of RITs own investment annum over three years.
business, we calculate an Ongoing Charges % OC% based on AIC recommendations.
The OC% assumes no Our other operational subsidiaries GVQ Investment change in the composition or value of the portfolio and Management Limited GVQ and Spencer House Limited excludes annual fees for external managers and SHL have incentive schemes tailored to their performance-related amounts whether external fees, or respective businesses.
For 2016, this amounted to 0.68%, a modest reduction from the 0.74% In reviewing the overall incentive structure and practice, for 2015.
Further information is provided on page 89. the Remuneration Committee determines the appropriate balance between short-term and long-term aims, as well The managers fee structure is a key consideration in our as the need for robust risk management.
investment diligence, with the decision made on expected returns net of fees.
To assist shareholders, we Further details of remuneration are provided in the estimate that the average annual fees for external Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 42. managers represent approximately 1.17% of average net assets.
Further information on fees is provided on Governance and Group Structure page 43.
Our Chairman, Lord Rothschild, is responsible for the leadership of the Board and the Company.
RIT is a selfmanaged investment company and the management of the investment portfolio has been delegated to JRCM, a subsidiary.
JRCM is also responsible for the administration of the portfolio as well as acting as corporate company secretary.
Francesco Goedhuis Chief Executive Officer J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 7
