INVESTMENT POLICY Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Asset Allocation REL invests exclusively in the The Company acquires its interests in each Qualifying global energy industry, with a Investment at the same time or as near as practicable thereto as, and on substantially the same economic and particular focus on the exploration financial terms as, the relevant Private Riverstone Funds.
and production, and midstream The Company and the current Private Riverstone Funds, Fund V and Fund VI invest in each Qualifying Investment sectors.
The Company may also in which the Private Riverstone Funds participate in a ratio make investments in other energy of one-third to REL to two-thirds to the Private Riverstone Funds.
This investment ratio is subject to adjustment on a sub-sectors including energy case-by-case basis a to take account of the liquid assets available to each of the Company and the Private Riverstone services and power and coal.
Funds for investment at the relevant time and any other investment limitations applicable to either of them or REL is well positioned to take otherwise and b if both i a majority of the Companys advantage of, and benefit from, independent Directors and ii the Investment Manager agree that the investment ratio should be adjusted for the large number of investment specific Qualifying Investments.
opportunities being driven by For each Private Riverstone Fund subsequent to Fund V and Fund VI which is of a similar size and has a similar the current commodity price investment policy to the Company, Riverstone will seek to ensure that, subject to the investment capacity of the environment, as well as continued Company at the time, the Company and the Private Riverstone Fund invest in Qualifying Investments in an investment ratio growth in global energy demand, of one-third to REL to two-thirds to the Private Riverstone the North American energy Fund or in such other ratio as the Companys independent Directors and the Investment Manager agree at or prior to revolution, asset rationalisation the first closing of such Private Riverstone Fund.
by larger companies, and growing Such investment ratio may be adjusted by agreement between the Companys independent Directors and the deepwater exploration success rates.
Investment Manager on subsequent closings of a Private Riverstone Fund having regard to the total capital commitments raised by that Private Riverstone Fund during Since REL, through the Partnership, invests alongside the its commitment period, the liquid assets available to the Private Riverstone Funds in all Qualifying Investments in Company at that time and any other investment limitations which the Private Riverstone Funds participate, REL presents applicable to either of them.
a unique opportunity for public market investors to gain The Investment Manager typically seeks to ensure that exposure to Riverstones investments in the very attractive the Company and the Private Riverstone Funds dispose of global energy sector.
their interests in Qualifying Investments at The Investment Manager intends to manage the same time, on substantially the same terms, and in the investments for the benefit of all of its investors.
If any case of partial disposals, in the same ratio as the relevant matter arises that the Investment Manager determines Qualifying Investment was acquired, but this may not in its good faith judgment constitutes an actual conflict of always be the case.
interest, the Investment Manager may take such actions In addition, the Company may at any time make as may be necessary or appropriate, having regard to all investments consistent with its investment policy relevant terms of the Investment Management Agreement, independent from Private Riverstone Funds, which may to manage the conflict and upon taking such actions the include investments alongside Riverstone employee Investment Manager will be considered to have discharged co-investment vehicles or other Riverstone managed or responsibility for managing such conflict.
The Directors advised co-investment vehicles.
In such cases, approval by are required by the Registered Collective Investment the Board is required.
Schemes Rules 2015 issued by the GFSC to take all reasonable steps to ensure that there is no breach of the conflicts of interest requirements of those rules.
