14 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Our business model Our business model seeks to programmes to deliver market-leading deliver exceptional standards of service, products together with the manufacturing including high levels of product operational capture value from markets for capability to produce them.
This provides significant value high-performance power.
We do this to customers and, in return, we achieve by developing advanced, integrated long-term predictable revenues.
Outputs power and propulsion systems and Our long-term competitive position also relies providing long-term aftermarket The outputs from the operation of this on having a full lifecycle design, sourcing support and delivery of outstanding business model are: long-term value and manufacturing platform which is capable creation for our customers: a sustainable customer services.
We seek to recoup of developing products which incorporate and competitive market position: and the our investment through developing advanced materials often operating close to generation of returns for our shareholders.
the limits of their capabilities.
Our operational superior products, many of which Our long-life products typically operate focus is on ensuring we can deliver these are selected for use on major in challenging environments where they on-time and in increasing scale.
are expected to deliver sustained levels levels rise, we will benefit from increasingly of performance, such as fuel efficiency cost-efficient manufacturing and lower Value creation and reliability.
For our customers, they unit costs.
deliver value through enhancing the By growing our installed base of power Our highly-skilled people create value competitiveness of their own product or systems and leveraging our aftermarket through a combination of a deep research service, whether airframe or other transport service activities, we enhance our revenue, and product development capability, or industrial application.
Cash flow is then world-class technology and engineering invested to support future product expertise, and a substantial and experienced The product offering is often combined with development and technology programmes, supply chain with many relationships and flexible service options to best suit each driving growth while providing collaborations going back over 25 years.
markets we further strengthen our We make significant investments in customer relationships through long-term advanced technology and engineering service agreements where we commit to How we create value Inputs Value creation People and expertise Customers: Differentiated products R&D capability aligned to their Engineering Supply chain collaboration excellence operating requirements Advanced manufacturing Corporate: Customer relationships Operational Strong market position excellence Financial investment World-class development and production facilities Capturing aftermarket value Shareholders: Long-term cash flow generation STRATEGIC REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 BUSINESS MODEL 15 Design, make and service world-class products Wewin and retain customers by developing and delivering products and services that provide more capability and offer better through-life value than Invest in R&D Manufacturing capability those ofour competitors.
and skilled people We manufacture Developing and protecting cost-efficiently through leading-edge technology a combination and deploying it across our ofeconomies of scale, businesses allows us developing alean to compete on a global enterprise and integrated basis and creates high management of our Engineering excellence barriers toentry.
Industry-leading R&D 1 Proven product reliability Exceptional long-life products Differentiated products and services Operational excellence Develop technology Grow market share Strong supply chain partnerships that anticipates andinstalled base 2 customer needs Our substantial order Sustained cost reduction Our deep understanding book for both original Transforming to world-class production ofcustomer needs drives equipment and services thedevelopment of new provides good visibility capability technologies and products.
of future revenues and Cost-focused lean enterprise provides a firm foundation to invest withconfidence.
High performance culture Capturing aftermarket value Long-term relationships with civiland 3 defence customers Decades of in-service experience Flexible range of service offerings Growing installed base and global aftermarket footprint Disciplined capital Secure and maximise allocation aftermarket opportunity We allocate our capital Our equipment is in toachieve abalance of service for decades.
financial strength Our deep design andliquidity to deliver knowledge and in-service commercial advantage and Investment in future experience ensures that sustainable long-term programmedevelopment weare best placed shareholder returns.
We make significant investment to optimise product indevelopment programmes performance which we believe will deliver and availability.
cost-efficient and competitive next-generation products and services.
