INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Low-Cost Portfolio Well Positioned to Benefit from Market Recovery By establishing investment platforms early in the cycle, The oil market is shifting closer and backing experienced and focussed management teams with significant line of equity commitments, REL to equilibrium following two years has been well positioned to move quickly as attractive of sharp declines in upstream assets became available.
Examples of this include Rock Oil, Three Rivers III, Carrier II and Centennial, investment and an agreement by where the management teams identified strategic assets in the Permian basin, and built up positions OPEC to reduce production.
through a series of asset and corporate level acquisitions over a 12-24 month period.
In the case of Rock Oil, these However, the nascent recovery acquisitions resulted in sufficient scale to allow REL to has not benefited all energy capitalise upon corporate interest in the region, and sell the company at an attractive valuation, resulting in a companies equally.
Low prices strong return to investors.
have driven a focus on low The build-up approach highlighted above is a key component of Riverstones investment strategy.
production costs, and capital has Riverstone and its investment professionals have years of experience successfully investing in, and operating, owed disproportionally to the energy businesses through multiple commodity price cycles.
The firm applies a disciplined approach to premium basins with the best maintain maximum operational and financial flexibility economics, several of which through any commodity price environment.
While energy prices have been particularly volatile since RELs IPO feature prominently in the in October 2013, when prices hovered around $100 per barrel, Riverstones investment strategy has helped REL portfolio.
mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on portfolio valuation.
As a result, the REL portfolio has deployed capital at a weighted average oil price of The uneven distribution of the market recovery is evident approximately $55 per barrel.
Over the same time in drilling activity, measured by oil rigs, which peaked period, NAV per share has increased by 25 per cent.
with over 1,600 rigs deployed across the United States and the share price by 34 per cent.
The ensuing collapse in oil prices and a negative 38 per cent.
total shareholder return for reductions in capital expenditure resulted in the rig count the U. S. E&P Index.
from peak to trough, in May 2016.
While we are confident that the outlook for the Producers have slowly resumed drilling activity, but are sector remains favourable following successive years focusing primarily on locations where they can apply of under-investment, we expect the energy market advances in horizontal drilling techniques to extract to continue to be volatile in the short term given hydrocarbons at the lowest cost.
For this reason, areas uncertainties over global economic growth and the such as the Permian Basin of Texas with its multiple velocity at which North American oil production returns layers of oil-bearing shale are seeing significantly to the market.
We continue to manage risk through increased rig activity and growing production, while diversifying across geographies and energy segments, activity in higher-cost regions remains muted.
while consistently focusing on build-up strategies, Energy producers have unsurprisingly targeted partnering with experienced,  acquisitions in these prolific regions as they seek to grow management teams, hedging cash flows from producing production at the lowest cost.
Approximately one-third assets, using moderate levels of debt with flexible of all U. S. onshore oil and gas transactions last year covenant structures, and maintaining sufficiently high occurred in the Permian, where REL is particularly levels of liquidity to take advantage of attractive acquisition active and benefits from Riverstones extensive opportunities.
With 15 management teams and experience and industry relationships developed substantial positions in North Americas most attractive through seventeen years of investing in energy.
basins, REL is well positioned for continued value growth.
International & Credit Gulf of Mexico Western Canada Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 The Company aims to capitalise on the opportunities Investment Strategy presented by Riverstones pipeline of investments.
The Investment Managers objective is to achieve The Investment Manager, having made over superior risk adjusted after tax returns by making 125 investments globally in the energy sector over the privately negotiated control investments primarily in past 17 years, utilises its extensive industry expertise the exploration and production and midstream energy and relationships to thoroughly evaluate investment sectors, which is a significant component of virtually all opportunities and uses its significant experience in major economies.
Long-term market drivers of economic conducting due diligence, valuing assets and all other expansion, population growth, development of markets, aspects of deal execution, including financial and legal deregulation, and privatisation allied to near-term structuring, accounting and compensation design.
commodity price volatility are expected to continue to The Investment Manager also draws upon its extensive create opportunities globally for Riverstone.
network of relationships with industry-focussed Key Drivers: professional advisory firms to assist with due diligence in other areas such as accounting, tax, legal, employee Capital constraints among companies with high levels benefits, environmental, engineering and insurance.
of leverage: Industry distress and pressures to rationalise assets: Investment Portfolio Summary Increases in ability to extract hydrocarbons from oil As of 31 December 2016, fifteen exploration and and gas-rich shale formations: and production investments, one midstream investment Historical under-investment in energy infrastructure.
and one credit investment have been completed as further discussed below.
The Investment Manager, through its affiliates, has a strong track record of building businesses with exceptional management teams and of delivering consistently attractive returns and significant outperformance Europe against both crude oil and natural gas benchmarks.
Committed: $524m 27% Invested: CNOR L. P. $336m 27% CANADIAN NON-OPERATED RESOURCES I LTD.
Committed: $229m 13% Invested: Committed: $97m 8% $208m 11% Invested: $176m 14% Committed: $568m 29% Invested: Committed: $448m 35% $399m 21% Invested: $210m 17% Permian & Eagle Ford Other Onshore U. S. INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 CIOC As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $232 million of its $307 million commitment to CIOC.
CIOC is a private E&P company focussed on liquids-rich unconventional resources in Western Canada.
Since its establishment in 2010, CIOC has aggregated one of the largest and most advantaged land positions in the emerging Montney and Duvernay formations of Western Canadas Deep Basin.
The company controls and operates 100 per cent.
of this asset base, which comprises of just under 400,000 net acres in the Montney and Duvernay.
CIOC has more than quadrupled production to over 13,000 boepd since time of entry.
In 2016, REL increased its commitment to CIOC by $75 million and sold a second lien loan interest in CIOC, resulting in $21 million in proceeds.
Both measures were taken to support the exercise of warrants in CIOC held by REL, which once exercised, will be used to fund drilling for continued development and delineation of its asset base.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in CIOC, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 2.0x Gross MOIC or $471 million Realised: $23 million, Unrealised: $448 million.
CENTENNIAL As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested in full its $268 million commitment to Centennial.
Centennial is an E&P company focussed on the acquisition and development of oil and liquids-rich natural gas resources in the Permian Delaware Basin, West Texas.
The company, led by former EOG chief executive Mark Papa, has completed two acquisitions which have resulted in an approximately 77,500 net acre position, 2,000 identified drilling locations and 8,900 boepd net production.
REL, through the Partnership, owns approximately 23.9 million shares, which are publicly traded NASDAQ:CDEV, at a weighted average share price of $11.21.
REL, through the Partnership, has financed $93 million of its investment through a bank loan secured by RELs investment in Centennial.
In addition, REL has interests in approximately $6 million of sponsor warrants.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in Centennial, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.8x Gross MOIC or $477 million.
1 Gross MOIC is Gross Multiple of Invested Capital before transaction costs, taxes, 20 per cent.
carried interest on gross profit, management fees of 1.5 per cent.
of net assets per annum and other expenses.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 ROCKOIL Rock Oil was formed in March 2014 with the strategy of applying Rock Oils land and technical expertise to the acquisition and development of assets in top-tier North American plays.
Since formation, Rock Oil has entered into a series of acquisitions to establish a position of approximately 24,783 net acres in the Midland Basin of the Permian, producing approximately 4,900 boepd.
In the third quarter, Rock Oil agreed to the sale of 100 per cent.
of its membership interests to SM Energy Company NYSE: SM, a U. S. based E&P company.
The transaction subsequently closed on 4 October 2016, resulting in gross proceeds to REL of approximately $230 million.
This implies a gross multiple of invested capital of 2.0x, a gross IRR of 78 per cent.
and a gain of $116 million on the Companys investment, through the Partnership, of $114 million.
The MOIC and IRR, net of performance allocation and estimated taxes, are approximately 1.6x and 44 per cent.
The Investment Manager, through RELCP, subsequently invested the net proceeds of its performance allocation, resulting in the purchase of approximately 590,000 shares.
Approximately $24 million of value is unrealised consisting of escrow payments, balance of cash and mineral acre reserves not included in the sale.
As of 31 December 2016, 1 RELs total interest in Rock Oil, through the Partnership, was valued at 2.1x Gross MOIC or $240 million Realised $216 million, Unrealised $24 million.
THREERIVERSIII As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $76 million of its $167 million commitment to Three Rivers III.
Similar to Riverstones two prior successful partnerships with this management team, Three Rivers III focuses on oil and gas acquisition and development opportunities in the Permian Basin.
Through a series of acquisitions in 2015 and first half 2016, Three Rivers III has built a position of over 55,000 net acres in the Permian Delaware basin, primarily in Culberson & Reeves counties.
The company began its drilling programme in the fourth quarter with the successful completion of one well and two additional wells awaiting completion.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in Three Rivers III, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 2.5x Gross MOIC or $190 million.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 CARRIER II As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $104 million of its $133 million commitment to Carrier II.
Carrier II is focussed on the acquisition and exploitation of upstream oil and gas assets by partnering with select operators that are developing both unconventional and conventional reservoirs in North America.
Shortly after its establishment in May 2015, Carrier II entered into a joint venture agreement with a highly experienced operator group made up of Henry Resources and PT Petroleum targeting 19,131 net acres for development in the southern Midland Basin.
Subsequently through three separate acquisitions the company has acquired 3,489 net acres in Karnes County in the Eagle Ford basin, targeting the Sugarloaf Project and the Chisholm Project, both operated by Marathon Oil Corp. As of year end, Carrier II was producing approximately 7,000 boepd net.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in Carrier II, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.3x Gross MOIC or $132 million.
LIBERTY II As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $120 million of its $142 million commitment to Liberty II.
Since formation in January 2014, Liberty has established a c. 61,000 net acre position in the Williston and Powder River Basins through a series of acquisitions, which benefit from Libertys sophisticated and proprietary well completion technology.
Liberty has an inventory of over 150 gross drilling locations, and is currently producing approximately 5,200 boepd.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in Liberty II, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $120 million.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 RCO As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $87 million of its $125 million commitment to RCO, of which $70 million has been realised to result in $17 million of remaining unrealised invested capital.
RCO was formed in January 2015 to take advantage of the dislocation in the leveraged capital markets for energy companies.
Since its inception, RCO has made a total of 32 investments, 25 of which have already been fully exited.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in RCO, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.3x Gross MOIC or $112 million Realised: $70 million, Unrealised: $42 million.
ILX III As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $67 million of its $200 million commitment to ILX III.
ILX III, based in Houston, Texas, is a repeat joint-venture with Ridgewood Energy Corporation.
The new entity maintains the same strategy of acquiring non-operated working interests in oil-focussed exploration projects in the shallow Gulf of Mexico.
ILX III acquired offshore leases with 15 defined deepwater prospects at inception, but has since opportunistically farmed into two additional prospects and added 12 additional prospects through the 2016 central Gulf of Mexico Lease Sale.
ILX III drilled five wells in 2016, of which four were discoveries.
The company has an 80 per cent.
success rate on its eight wells drilled to date and is currently progressing plans to develop its discoveries.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in ILX III, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.3x Gross MOIC or $88 million.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 CNOR As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $73 million of its $90 million commitment to CNOR.
CNOR is a Calgary-based oil and gas company focussed on the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin.
CNOR is currently investing actively in new wells through its joint venture with Tourmaline Oil in the Peace River High area, which ended 2016 with approximately 13,600 boepd of gross production.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in CNOR, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $73 million.
FIELDWOOD As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $58 million of its $82 million commitment to Fieldwood.
Riverstone formed Fieldwood in partnership with CEO Matt McCarroll and his team in December 2012 with a commitment from Fund V. Fieldwood has made two material acquisitions Apache and SandRidge, with three further bolt-on acquisitions, and now has an interest in approximately 500 leases covering over two million gross acres and over 1,000 wells in the Gulf of Mexico, making it the largest oil and gas producer in the shallow Gulf of Mexico.
In the first half of 2016, Fieldwood completed a debt restructuring, resulting in the elimination of borrowing base re-determinations until May 2018.
Fieldwood continued to make strong operational progress, with 51 recompletions and 93 workovers in 2016, which maintained and replaced production throughout the year.
The company produced an average of approximately 85,000 boepd in 2016.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in Fieldwood, through 1 the Partnership, was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $58 million Realised: $2 million, Unrealised: $56 million.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 EAGLE II As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $56 million of its $67 million commitment to Eagle II.
The company owns approximately 15,000 net acres in the SCOOP and approximately 14,500 net acres in the Mississippi Lime, and is currently producing approximately 2,300 boepd.
Eagles commitment was increased by $17 million in 2016 to fund a delineation drilling program.
The initial results are favourable following the drilling and completion of two wells in the companys SCOOP position, with two additional wells awaiting completion at year end.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in Eagle II, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $56 million.
CASTEX 2014 As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $36 million of its $67 million commitment to Castex 2014.
Castex 2014 is a Houston-based oil and gas company focussed on testing and developing the current and future portfolio of exploration opportunities in the U. S. Gulf Coast Region, in partnership with Castex 2005.
Castex 2014 has achieved a 100 per cent.
success rate on the five exploration prospects drilled since inception and is drilling additional prospects in 2017.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in Castex 2014, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $36 million.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 MERITAGE III As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $29 million of its $67 million commitment to Meritage III.
RELs investment to date is related to construction of gas gathering, gas processing, and oil gathering infrastructure in support of CIOCs drilling program in Western Canada.
In April 2016, Meritages Patterson Creek plant entered service.
REL, through the Partnership, increased its commitment in Meritage III by $33 million in 2016 as it seeks to develop additional infrastructure for CIOC and third parties in Western Canada.
In December, Meritage III executed a 10-year gas gathering and processing agreement with a third party, which should result in additional volumes flowing through Meritages system.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in Meritage III, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.1x Gross MOIC or $32 million.
CASTEX 2005 As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $48 million of its $50 million commitment to Castex 2005.
Castex 2005 is a partnership focussed on a portfolio of properties in Southern Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico Shelf which produce approximately 75 mmcfepd, as well as a seismic-driven exploration program.
Castex is managed by Castex Energy Inc. which has a 27 year operating history in exploration and development in the region.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in Castex 2005, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 0.1x Gross MOIC or $5 million, reflecting its balance sheet and the challenging environment for gas-focussed producers in the Gulf Coast and Gulf of Mexico shelf.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 ORIGO As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $8 million of its $67 million commitment to Origo.
Origo is a Norway-based oil and gas company focussed on exploration on the Norwegian and UK continental shelves.
Since inception, Origo has reviewed over 250 potential farm-in opportunities, and completed seven farm-in transactions, and made three discoveries from seven exploration wells drilled.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in Origo, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 0.5x Gross MOIC or $4 million, reflecting the challenging environment for North Sea E&P.
SIERRA As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $1 million of its $38 million commitment to Sierra.
Sierra is an independent Mexican energy company established to pursue select upstream and midstream opportunities in Mexico.
Sierras consortiums have won four offshore blocks to date in the first and fourth tenders of round 1.
These awards make Sierra the third-largest non-state owned E&P company in Mexico by net acreage, with approximately 507,000 net acres.
In the third quarter, REL, through the Partnership, transferred 50 per cent.
of its funded and unfunded commitment in Sierra to a separate investment vehicle managed by Riverstone and funded primarily by Mexican pension funds.
This transfer is in line with RELs stated strategy of periodically reviewing its unfunded commitment levels.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in Sierra, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.1x Gross MOIC or $2 million.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 CANERA III As of 31 December 2016, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $1 million of its $60 million commitment to CanEra III.
CanEra III is a private Calgary-based oil and gas company formed to pursue oil and gas exploration and production opportunities in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin.
CanEra III focuses on the acquisition, exploitation and exploration of large hydrocarbon deposits in the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin.
Due to the lack of attractive opportunities for this strategy at the current time, REL intends to release its commitment to CanEra III.
As of 31 December 2016, RELs interest in CanEra III, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $1 million.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Valuation Uninvested Cash The Investment Manager is charged with proposing As of 31 December 2016, REL, including the Partnership, the valuation of the assets held by REL through the had uninvested funds of over $270 million held as cash Partnership.
The Partnership has directed that securities and money market fixed deposits.
The Partnership and instruments be valued at their fair value.
RELs maintains deposit accounts with several leading valuation policy follows IFRS and IPEV Valuation international banks.
In addition, the Partnership invests Guidelines.
The Investment Manager values each a portion of its cash deposits in short-term money underlying investment in accordance with the Riverstone market fixed deposits.
RELs treasury policy seeks to valuation policy, the IFRS accounting standards and protect the principal value of cash deposits utilising low IPEV Valuation Guidelines.
The Investment Manager has risk investments with top tier counterparts.
Uninvested applied Riverstones valuation policy consistently quarter cash earned approximately 82 basis points during the to quarter since inception.
The value of RELs portion of year ended 31 December 2016. that investment is derived by multiplying its ownership In connection with the listing of REL on the London percentage by the value of the underlying investment.
Stock Exchange, all proceeds of the offering were If there is any divergence between the Riverstone valuation converted to U. S. dollars at an average rate of 1.606 policy and RELs valuation policy, the Partnerships at inception.
All cash deposits referred to above are proportion of the total holding will follow RELs valuation denominated in U. S. dollars.
There were no valuation adjustments recorded by functional currency and Financial Statements are all REL as a result of differences in IFRS and U. S. Generally presented in U. S. dollars.
The Partnerships commitments Accepted Accounting Policies for the year ended are denominated in U. S. dollars, except CIOC, CNOR and 31 December 2016 or in any period to date.
Valuations CanEra III which are denominated in Canadian dollars.
of RELs investments through the Partnership are determined by the Investment Manager and disclosed quarterly to investors, subject to Board approval.
Riverstone values its investments using common Riverstone International Limited industry valuation techniques, including comparable 28 February 2017 public market valuation, comparable merger and acquisition transaction valuation, and discounted cash flow valuation.
For development-type investments, Riverstone also considers the recognition of appreciation or depreciation of subsequent financing rounds, if any.
For those early stage privately held companies where there are other indicators of a decline in the value of the investment, Riverstone will value the investment accordingly even in the absence of a subsequent financing round.
Riverstone reviews the valuations on a quarterly basis with the assistance of the Riverstone valuation committee as part of the valuation process.
The Audit Committee reviews the valuations of the Companys investments held through the Partnership, and makes a recommendation to the Board for formal consideration and acceptance.
