54 DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Board of Directors NG Ian Davis Warren East CBE Colin Smith CBE David Smith Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Group President Appointed to the Board in March Appointed as an independent Appointed in November 2014 Appointed in July 2005 2013 and as Chairman in May 2013 Non-executive Director in January Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience 2014, Warren became Chief Career, skills and experience David has extensive industrial Colin joined Rolls-Royce in 1974.
He Executive in July 2015 Ian is senior partner emeritus of experience having worked for over has held a variety of key positions McKinsey & Company.
He was a Career, skills and experience 25 years with Ford and Jaguar Land within the Group including Director partner at McKinsey for 31 years until Warren is an engineer by training Rover and latterly with Edwards Research & Technology, Director of 2010 and served as chairman and and had an outstanding record at Group Limited, a major manufacturer Engineering & Technology Civil worldwide managing director of ARM Holdings plc which he joined in of industrial vacuum products.
He Aerospace, and Group Director McKinsey between 2003 and 2009.
1994 and where he was CEO from joined Rolls-Royce as Chief Financial Engineering & Technology before 2001 until 2013.
He has a deep Officer for the Aerospace Division in being appointed as Group President He brings significant financial and understanding of technology and of January 2014 before being appointed in January 2016.
Colin is a fellow of strategic experience to the Board.
developing long-term partnerships as CFO to the Group.
Davids skills in the Royal Society, the Royal Academy and has proven strategic and developing systems have particular of Engineering, the Royal Aeronautical He has worked with and advised leadership skills in a global business benefit to Rolls-Royce where he has Society and the Institute of global organisations and companies with a strong record of value creation introduced a new management Mechanical Engineers.
In June 2012, in a wide variety of sectors as well as all of which are relevant to information and forecasting system.
he was awarded a CBE for services to in the public sector, enabling him to Rolls-Royce particularly as it He is a member of the Chartered UK engineering.
draw on knowledge of diverse issues undergoes a period of transformation.
Institute of Management and outcomes to assist the Board.
Colin will step down from the Board Accountants Advisory Panel.
He is a fellow of the The Institution of at the 2017 AGM.
His role in the Cabinet Office, from David has resigned from Rolls-Royce Engineering and Technology, a fellow which he stepped down in March and will leave the Group following of the Royal Academy of Engineering 2016, gives him a unique perspective Other current principal roles the appointment of Stephen Daintith, and a distinguished fellow of BCS, the on government affairs.
Council for Science and whose biography is shown on page 57.
He was Technology, member awarded a CBE in 2014 for services to Other current principal roles Other current principal roles the technology industry.
BP p. l. c. non-executive director Motability Operations Group plc, Johnson & Johnson Inc. director non-executive director Composition of Board Other current principal roles Teach for All Inc. director committees Dyson James Group Limited, Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC, NG R A SE ST director director Ian Davis C The Institution of Engineering McKinsey & Company, senior C Lewis Booth and Technology, trustee partner emeritus C Ruth Cairnie C Sir Frank Chapman Irene Dorner Lee Hsien Yang Committee membership John McAdam Nominations & Safety & Ethics NG SE Governance Committee Committee Bradley Singer Remuneration Science & Technology C Sir Kevin Smith R ST Committee Committee Jasmin Staiblin Audit Denotes chairman A C Denotes chairman of committee Committee of committee DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 55 A R SE NG Lewis Booth CBE Ruth Cairnie Sir Frank Chapman Irene Dorner Independent Independent Independent Independent NG NG NG A Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director ST ST R SE Appointed in May 2011 Appointed in September 2014 Appointed in November 2011 Appointed in July 2015 Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Lewis has considerable financial A physicist by background, Ruth has Sir Frank has significant industrial Irene has a strong background in risk expertise and experience, having strong strategic and commercial and safety experience, having worked management and is very familiar been the former executive vice experience gained at Royal Dutch in the oil & gas industry for 38 years with regulatory requirements.
president and chief financial officer Shell Plc where she held a number of including appointments within Royal She was chief executive officer and for Ford Motor Company.
He brings senior international roles, most Dutch Shell plc and BP p. l. c. He has a president of HSBC, US, until December an international perspective, having recently as executive vice president life-long passion for engineering and 2014.
Her background in risk worked in Europe, Asia, Africa and the strategy and planning, before her innovation and a deep understanding management played a key role in US during his 34-year career in the retirement in 2014. of technology, together with an strengthening the financial motor industry.
After gaining a outstanding record of business institutions risk processes and she Ruth also has significant bachelor of engineering degree with achievement.
He was chief executive brings this insight as part of her role remuneration committee experience honours in mechanical engineering, of BG Group plc for 12 years until on our Audit Committee.
During a having chaired the remuneration Lewis began his career with British 2012 and chairman of Golar LNG Ltd 29-year career at HSBC, she held a committee at Keller Group plc since Leyland before joining Ford in 1978. from 2014 to 2015.
Sir Frank is a fellow number of international roles April 2012 and as a member of the He was awarded a CBE in 2012 for of the Royal Academy of Engineering, including leading HSBC in Malaysia remuneration committee at services to the UK automotive and the Institute of Mechanical Engineers and launching its Islamic banking Associated British Foods plc.
Irene is a passionate advocate chairs the POWERful Women knighted in 2011 for services to the of diversity and inclusion and an initiative, supporting the progression oil & gas industry.
active supporter of our employee Other current principal roles of women to senior positions in the resource groups.
Mondelez International, Inc. energy sector, and is a strong director Other current principal roles supporter of our diversity and Irene was a consultant at Gentherm Inc. director Myeloma UK, vice chairman inclusion initiatives.
She is also an honorary fellow of St Annes College, Oxford.
Other current principal roles Associated British Foods plc, non-executive director Other current principal roles Keller Group plc, non-executive AXA SA, director director Control Risks International POWERful Women, chairman Limited, non-executive director OUTLeadership Advisory Board, member 56 DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 NG NG ST ST Lee Hsien Yang John McAdam Bradley Singer Sir Kevin Smith CBE Independent Independent Non-independent Senior Independent A R NG Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director SE SE R Appointed in January 2014 Appointed in February 2008 Appointed in March 2016 Appointed in November 2015 Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience A Singaporean, Hsien Yang was John has extensive international and Brad has an outstanding record as a Sir Kevin has extensive industrial formerly a member of our industrial experience.
He was business leader in the US.
He brings leadership experience and a deep International Advisory Board and appointed to the board of ICI plc in with him experience of public knowledge of global engineering and combines a strong background in 1999 and became chief executive in companies during periods of change, manufacturing businesses, as well as engineering with extensive 2003, a position he held until 2008. growth and significant financial the aerospace industry.
He was chief international business experience in He held a number of senior positions outperformance, particularly in the executive officer of GKN plc for nine our most important growth markets.
at Unilever, within its Birds Eye Walls, US where Rolls-Royce has important years until 31 December 2011.
Before He was chief executive of Singapore Quest International and Unichema business interests and a significant joining GKN, he spent nearly 20 years Telecommunications Limited for International businesses.
He has been senior with BAE Systems where he held a 12 years until 2007.
He served as former non-executive director of executive vice president and chief number of senior executive positions.
chairman and non-executive director Severn Trent plc and Sara Lee financial officer of Discovery He joined Unitas Capital in 2012 and of Fraser and Neave Limited from 2007 Corporation and stepped down as Communications, Inc. and chief served as partner and chairman of its to February 2013.
He has significant senior independent director of financial officer and treasurer of operating advisor group until industrial and financial skills.
American Tower Corp. Before these October 2015, based in Hong Kong.
appointments, he worked as an His private equity experience in investment banker at Goldman Sachs.
operationintensive businesses Other current principal roles Other current principal roles He is a former director of Martha with Unitas is extremely valuable Civil Aviation Authority of Rentokil Initial plc, chairman Stewart Living, Omnimedia, Inc. to Rolls-Royce.
He served as a Singapore, chairman United Utilities Group PLC, Citizens Communications Corp and non-executive director of SSE plc The Islamic Bank of Asia Private chairman Motorola Solutions Inc. between June 2004 and July 2008.
Limited, chairman Electra Private Equity PLC, director He has an honorary fellowship The Australian and New Zealand doctorate from Cranfield University, Banking Group Limited, director Other current principal roles is an honorary fellow of the University General Atlantic LLC and associated ValueAct Capital Master Fund P. L. of Central Lancashire and a fellow of funds, special adviser partner and chief operating officer the Royal Aeronautical Society.
Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Posse Foundation, director He was awarded a CBE in 1997 and Policy, member of the board of McIntire School Foundation, was knighted in 2006 for services governors University of Virginia, trustee to industry.
INSEAD SE Asia Council, president Other current principal roles Unitas Capital, senior adviser LEK Consulting, European advisory board member University of Central Lancashire, industry steering group member BOARD MEMBERS BY GENDER BALANCE OF THE BOARD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TENURE NATIONALITIES OF DIRECTORS Female 3 Executive Directors 3 03 years 4 British 10 Male 10 Non-executive Directors 10 36 years 5 German 1 69 years 1 Singaporean 1 US 1 A ccording to the Companys Articles of Association, at least 50% of its Directors must be British citizens.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 57 NG Jasmin Staiblin Pamela Coles Stephen Daintith Independent Company Secretary ST Non-executive Director Appointed in May 2012 Appointed in October 2014 Expected to be appointed as Chief Financial Officer in Spring 2017 Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience A German national, Jasmin combines Pamela is an expert in corporate Stephen will join Rolls-Royce from Daily Mail and General Trust plc where a strong background in advanced governance and company law.
She he has served on its board of directors since 2011.
He was a member of the engineering and deep technology has been a fellow of the ICSA: The Euromoney Institutional Investor plc audit committee, and a non-executive knowledge with extensive Governance Institute since 1997.
She director of Zoopla Property Group plc, both of which are associated international business experience, has held a variety of company companies of Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
Stephen is a chartered having worked in Switzerland, secretary roles throughout her accountant and has held a number of senior positions at News Corporation, Sweden and Australia.
She joined Rolls-Royce from British American Tobacco, Forte, the Civil Aviation Authority and the chief executive officer of Alpiq Centrica plc, where she was head of .
He is currently a non-executive director of Holding AG since 2013.
number of senior positions in the ABB also include group company Stephen has extensive experience of strategic financial management and he Group becoming chief executive secretary and a member of the has a deep understanding of international business.
His record of achievement officer of ABB Switzerland from 2006 executive committee at The Rank in change management is particularly relevant to Rolls-Royce.
Group plc and company secretary & head of legal at RAC plc.
Other current principal roles Alpiq Holding AG, Other current principal roles International Advisory Board IAB chief executive officer None Georg Fischer AG, board member The IAB meets annually with the Board in order to provide perspective and to guide strategy development through discussions on the geo-political and global economic landscape.
The members of the IAB during the year were as follows: Lord Powell of Bayswater Brazil, Mills Engenharia, adirector Chairman of the IAB of Thomson Reuters Founders Former Foreign Affairs and Share Company and amember of Defence Adviser to Prime the Temasek international panel.
Ministers Baroness Thatcher Akio Mimura and Sir John Major.
Senior advisor, honorary chairman Vladimr Dlouh Nippon Steel & Sumitomo International advisor to Goldman MetalCorporation, Japan, and Sachs for Central and Eastern chairman of The Japan Chamber Europe, European deputy chairman of Commerce and Industry.
of the Trilateral Commission, Lubna Olayan president, Czech Chamber CEO and deputy chairperson ofCommerce and a former ofthe Olayan Financing Company, member of the Czech Government.
BOARD SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE Sir Rod Eddington Ratan Tata Chairman of JP Morgan Interim chairman of Tata Australia &New Zealand Sons Limited, India.
andformer chief executive Ambassador Robert B Zoellick ofBritish AirwaysPlc.
Chairman of Goldman Sachs Dr Fan Gang International Advisors, senior Professor at Chinas Academy fellow at the Belfer Center at ofSocial Sciences and director Harvard University, former of National Economic Research president of World Bank Group, Institute, China.
C hairman, CEO or 10 US Trade Representative and CFO experience Dr Pedro Sampaio Malan USDeputy Secretary of State.
Engineering technology 4 Chairman of Ita Unibancos Murad Bayar international advisory board and Related industry operational 4 Board member and CEO of CCN a member of the boards ofEDP Safety regulatory risk 3 Investment Holdings.
Energias do Brasil, SouzaCruz, Financial 2 Remuneration HR 2
