Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 The Company invests in public or private securities, INVESTMENT RESTRICTIONS may hold controlling or non-controlling positions in its investments and may make investments in the form of equity, equity-related instruments, indebtedness or derivatives or a combination of any of them.
The Company The Company is subject to the following investment does not permit any investments to be the subject of restrictions: stock lending or sale and repurchase of shares.
for so long as required by the Listing Rules, it will at all times seek to ensure that the Investment Manager invests and manages the Companys and the Diversification Partnerships assets in a way which is consistent Save for the Companys investment in CIOC, which may with the Companys objective of spreading risk and represent up to 35 per cent.
of the Companys gross in accordance with the Companys investment policy: assets, including cash holdings, measured at the time for so long as required by the Listing Rules, it must the investment is made, no one investment made by the not conduct a trading activity which is significant Company, through the Partnership, may at the time of in the context of the Company and its Investment the relevant investment represent more than 25 per cent.
Undertakings: of the Companys gross assets, including cash holdings, measured at the time the investment is made.
The for so long as required by the Listing Rules, not more Company utilises the Partnership and its subsidiary than 10 per cent.
of the value of its total assets will be undertakings or other similar investment holding invested in other UK-listed closed-ended investment structures to make investments and this limitation does funds, except for those which themselves have not apply to its ownership interest in any such subsidiary published investment policies to invest not more than undertaking nor, for the avoidance of doubt, to the 15 per cent.
of their total assets in other UK-listed Companys interest in the Partnership.
closed-ended investment funds: and any investment restrictions that may be imposed Gearing by Guernsey law although no such restrictions currently exist.
The Company can, but is not required to, incur indebtedness for investment purposes, to the extent that Currency and interest rate hedging transactions such indebtedness is a precursor to an ultimate equity will only be undertaken for the purpose of efficient investment, working capital requirements and to fund portfolio management and these transactions will not own-share purchases or retentions up to a maximum be undertaken for speculative purposes.
of the last published NAV as at the time of the borrowing unless approved by the Company by an ordinary resolution.
This limitation does not apply to The Company invests in portfolio level entities in respect of which the Company is invested but it does apply to all subsidiary undertakings utilised by the Company or the Partnership for the the global energy sector, purposes of making investments.
The consent of a majority of the Companys Directors shall be required which is undergoing for the Company or the Partnership to enter into any credit or other borrowing facility.
significant transformation The Company must at all times comply with its published investment policy.
For so long as the Ordinary driven in large part Shares are listed on the Official List, no material change may be made to the Companys investment policy other than with the prior approval of both the Companys by a revolution in Shareholders and a majority of the independent Directors of the Company, and otherwise in accordance with the horizontal drilling and Listing Rules.
