BOARD OF DIRECTORS Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Richard Hayden 71, Peter Barker 68, Chairman and Non-Executive Non-executive Independent Director Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in Appointment: Appointed to the Board in September 2013 May 2013 and appointed as Chairman Experience: Mr Barker was California in May 2016 Chairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Experience: Mr Hayden serves as a global financial services firm, from Non-executive Chairman of Haymarket September 2009 until his retirement on Financial LLP.
Prior to joining Haymarket 31 January 2013, and a member of its Financial LLP in 2009, Mr Hayden was Vice Chairman of GSC Group Inc Executive Committee in New York.
Mr Barker was also an Advisory and Global Head of the CLO and Mezzanine Debt business.
Previously, Director of Goldman, Sachs & Co. from December 1998 until his Mr Hayden was with Goldman Sachs from 1969 to 1999, became a retirement in May 2002, and a Partner of Goldman, Sachs & Co. from Partner in 1980, and was Chairman prior to joining GSC Group Inc in 1982 to 1998, heading up Investment Banking on the West Coast, 2000.
Mr Hayden held a variety of senior positions during his time having joined Goldman, Sachs & Co. in 1971.
Mr Barker is President at Goldman Sachs, including Deputy Chairman of Goldman Sachs of the Fletcher Jones Foundation and has held numerous directorships.
International Ltd and Chairman of the Global Credit Committee.
He is currently on the board of Fluor Corporation, Avery Dennison Mr Hayden has served on a number of corporate and advisory boards Corporation, the W. M. Keck Foundation, the Irvine Company, Franklin and is currently a Non-executive Director of CQS LLP and Chairman of Resources, Inc. and the Automobile Club of Southern California.
the TowerBrook Capital Partners Advisory Board.
Mr Hayden is a UK Mr Barker is also a Trustee of Claremont McKenna College, having resident.
Mr Hayden is also on the Finance and Investment Committee formerly been its Chairman, and was previously Chair of the Los Angeles of the Childrens Fund Foundation.
Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America.
Mr Barker is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination Committee Chairman: Management Engagement Committee Member Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Member Patrick Firth 55, Pierre F. Lapeyre 54, Non-executive Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 and appointed as Senior in May 2013 Independent Director in May 2016 Experience: Mr Lapeyre is a Founder and Experience: Mr Firth qualified as a Senior Managing Director of Riverstone.
Chartered Accountant with KPMG Guernsey He is based in New York.
Prior to founding in 1991 and is also a member of the Riverstone, Mr Lapeyre was a Managing Chartered Institute for Securities and Director of Goldman Sachs in its Global Investment.
He has worked in the fund industry in Guernsey since joining Energy and Power Group.
Mr Lapeyre joined Goldman Sachs in 1986 Rothschild Asset Management CI Limited in 1992 before moving to and spent his 14-year investment banking career focussed on energy become Managing Director at Butterfield Fund Services Guernsey and power, particularly the midstream, upstream and energy service Limited subsequently Butterfield Fulcrum Group Guernsey Limited, sectors.
Mr Lapeyres responsibilities at Goldman Sachs included client a company providing third party fund administration services, where he coverage and leading the execution of a wide variety of mergers and worked from April 2002 until June 2009.
He is a Non-executive Director acquisitions, IPO, strategic advisory and capital markets financings for of a number of investment funds and management companies, clients across all sectors of the industry.
including DW Catalyst Fund Limited formerly BH Credit Catalysts Fund While at Goldman Sachs, Mr Lapeyre served as sector captain for the Limited, ICG Longbow Senior Secured UK Property Debt Investments midstream and energy services segments, led the groups coverage of Limited, JZ Capital Partners Limited and NextEnergy Solar Fund Asian energy companies and was extensively involved in the origination Limited.
Mr Firth is a resident of Guernsey.
and execution of energy private equity investments on behalf of the firm.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee Chairman: Nomination Mr Lapeyre was responsible for managing Goldman Sachs leading Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Member franchise in master limited partnerships.
He was also asked to lead the groups agency and principal investment effort in energy power technology.
At Goldman Sachs Mr Lapeyre had relationship and deal execution responsibilities for a broad range of energy clients.
Mr Lapeyre serves on the boards of directors or equivalent bodies of a number of portfolio companies in which Other Riverstone Funds have investment interests.
Mr Lapeyre is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: None Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 David M. Leuschen 65, Ken Ryan 44, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 in May 2016 Experience: Mr Leuschen is a Founder and Experience: Mr Ryan is a Partner of Senior Managing Director of Riverstone.
Riverstone and is responsible for corporate He is based in New York.
Riverstone, Mr Leuschen was a Partner Prior to joining Riverstone in 2011, he and Managing Director at Goldman Sachs worked for Gleacher & Company Gleacher and founder and head of the Goldman Sachs Global Energy and Power Partners in both London and New York, most recently as Managing Group.
Mr Leuschen joined Goldman Sachs in 1977, became head of Director and Co-head of Investment Banking.
Prior to Gleacher, he the Global Energy and Power Group in 1985, became a Partner of that worked for Goldman Sachs in the European Financial Institutions firm in 1986 and remained with Goldman Sachs until leaving to found Group in London, the U. S. Financial Institutions Group in New York, Riverstone.
Mr Leuschen has extensive mergers and acquisitions, and the European Advisory Group.
He serves on the investment financing and investing experience in the energy and power industry.
committee of Riverstone Credit Partners and on the Board of Directors of TrailStone and HES International.
He received a law degree from Mr Leuschen was responsible for building the Goldman Sachs energy University of Dublin, Trinity College.
and power investment banking practice into one of the leading franchises in the global energy and power industry.
During this period, Committee Membership: None Mr Leuschen and his team participated in a large number of the major energy and power mergers and acquisitions transactions worldwide.
Mr Leuschen also was a founder of Goldman Sachs leading master limited partnership franchise.
Mr Leuschen also served as Chairman of the Goldman Sachs Energy Investment Committee, where he was responsible for screening potential capital commitments by Goldman Sachs in the energy and power industry and was responsible for establishing and managing the firms relationships with senior executives from leading companies in all segments of the energy and power industry.
Mr Leuschen also serves on the boards of directors or equivalent bodies of a number of portfolio companies in which Other Riverstone Funds have investment interests.
Mr Leuschen is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: None Jeremy Thompson 61, Claire Whittet 61, Non-executive Independent Director Non-executive Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2016 in May 2015 Experience: Mr Thompson has sector Experience: Mrs Whittet has nearly 40 years experience in Finance, Telecoms, Engineering of experience in the financial services and Oil & Gas.
He acts as an independent industry.
After obtaining a MA Hons in Non-executive directorship for both listed Geography from the University of Edinburgh, and PE funds.
Between 2005 and 2009, she joined the Bank of Scotland for 19 years he was a director of multiple businesses within a UK based private and undertook a wide variety of roles including running two city centre equity group.
This entailed board participation on both private, listed offices.
She moved to Guernsey in 1996 and was Global Head of Private and SPV companies with highly successful exits.
Prior to that, he was Client Credit for Bank of Bermuda before joining the Board of Rothschild CEO of four autonomous global businesses within Cable & Wireless Plc Bank International Limited in 2003, initially as Director of Lending and operating in both regulated and unregulated markets, and earlier held latterly as Managing Director and Co-Head until May 2016 when she CEO roles within the Dowty Group.
He currently serves as chairman of became a Non-Executive Director.
Mrs Whittet is an ACIB member of the States of Guernsey Renewable Energy Team and is a commissioner the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland, a Chartered Banker, of the Alderney Gambling Control Commission.
He is also an independent a member of the Chartered Insurance Institute and holds an IoD Diploma member of the Guernsey Tax Tribunal panel.
He is a graduate of Brunel in Company Direction.
She is a Non-Executive Director of four other B. Sc and Cranfield MBA Universities and was an invited member listed funds.
Mrs Whittet is a Guernsey resident.
to the UKs senior defence course Royal College of Defence Studies.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination He was awarded the IoDs Certificate and Diploma in Company Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Chairman Direction and is an associate of the Chartered Institute of Arbitration.
He has recently completed an M. Sc in Corporate Governance 2016.
Mr Thompson is a resident of Guernsey and has previously lived and worked in the UK, USA and Germany.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Member
