186 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Other statutory information On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of CShares shall Share capital be entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary On 31 December 2016 1,838,796,763 ordinary shares of 20p each, shares, to the repayment of the nominal capital paid-up or credited 28,124,943,825 C Shares of 0.1p each and one Special Share of 1 as paid-up on the C Shares held by them, together with a sum equal were in issue.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock to the outstanding preferential dividend which will have been Exchange.
accrued but not been paid until the date of return of capital.
The holders of C Shares are only entitled to attend, speak and vote Payment to shareholders ata general meeting if a resolution to wind up the Company is to be considered, in which case they may vote only on that resolution.
The Company issues non-cumulative redeemable preference shares SPECIAL SHARE C Shares as an alternative to paying a cash dividend.
Certain rights attach to the special rights non-voting share Shareholders can choose to: SpecialShare issued to HM Government Special Shareholder.
These rights are set out in the Articles.
Subject to the provisions Redeem all C Shares for cash.
ofthe Companies Act 2006, the Treasury Solicitor may redeem the Redeem all C Shares for cash and reinvest the proceeds in the Special Share at par at any time.
The Special Share confers no rights CShare Reinvestment Plan CRIP.
to dividends but in the event of a winding-up it shall be repaid at itsnominal value in priority to any other shares.
Certain Articles in particular those relating to the foreign The CRIP is operated by Computershare Investor Services PLC shareholding limit, disposals and the nationality of the Companys theRegistrar.
The Registrar will purchase ordinary shares in the Directors that relate to the rights attached to the Special Share may market for shareholders electing to reinvest their C Share proceeds.
only be altered with the consent of the Special Shareholder.
The Shareholders wishing to participate in the CRIP or redeem their Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting CShares in July 2017 must ensure that their instructions are lodged orany other meeting of any class of shareholders.
with the Registrar no later than 5.00pm BST on 1 June 2017 CREST holders must submit their election in CREST before 3.00pm BST RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES AND LIMITATIONS on 1June2017.
Redemption will take place on 5 July 2017.
ONHOLDINGS There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding At the 2017 AGM, the Directors will recommend an issue of 71 ofthe ordinary shares or C Shares other than under the Articles CShares with a total nominal value of 7.1p for each ordinary share.
asdescribed here, under restrictions imposed by law or regulation TheCShares will be issued on 3 July 2017 to shareholders on the for example, insider trading laws or pursuant to the Companys register on 28 April 2017 and the final day of trading with share dealing code.
The Articles provide that the Company should entitlement toCShares is 26 April 2017.
Together with the interim beand remain under UK control.
As such, an individual foreign issue on4January 2017 of 46 C Shares for each ordinary share with shareholding limit is set at 15% of the aggregate votes attaching atotal nominal value of 4.6p, this is the equivalent of a total annual tothe share capital of all classes taken as a whole and capable payment to ordinary shareholders of 11.7p for each ordinaryshare.
ofbeing cast on a poll and to all other shares that the Directors Further information for shareholders is on pages 190 and 191. determine are to be included in the calculation of that holding.
TheSpecial Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred Share class rights tothe Special Shareholder or his successor or nominee.
The full share class rights are set out in the Companys Articles SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENTS AND CONSENT REQUIREMENTS ofAssociation Articles, which are available on the Groups website There are no known arrangements under which financial rights at www.
com, and are summarised below.
carried by any of the shares in the Company are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements ORDINARY SHARES between the holders of shares with restrictions on the transfer of Each member has one vote for each ordinary share held.
Holders shares or exercise of voting rights.
No disposal may be made to a ofordinary shares are entitled to: receive the Companys Annual non-Group member which, alone or when aggregated with Report: attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: thesame or a connected transaction, constitutes a disposal of the appoint one or more proxies or, if they are corporations, corporate whole or a material part ofeither the Nuclear propulsion business representatives: and exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary or the assets of the Group as a whole, without the consent of the shares may receive a bonus issue of C Shares or a dividend and on Special Shareholder.
liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
C SHARES C Shares have limited voting rights and attract a dividend of 75% ofLIBOR on the 0.1p nominal value of each share, paid on a twice-yearly basis.
The Company has the option to redeem the CShares compulsorily, at any time, if the aggregate number of CShares inissue is less than 10% of the aggregate number of all CShares issued, or on the acquisition or capital restructuring of theCompany.
OTHER INFORMATION Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION 187 Authority to issue shares Change of control At the AGM in 2016, authority was given to the Directors to allot CONTRACTS AND JOINT VENTURE AGREEMENTS new C Shares up to a nominal value of 500m as an alternative to a There are a number of contracts and joint venture agreements cash dividend.
which would allow the counterparties to terminate or alter those arrangements in the event of a change of control of the Company.
In addition, a special resolution was passed authorising the These arrangements are commercially confidential and their Directors to allot new ordinary shares up to a nominal value of disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
122,579,775 equivalent to one-third of the issued share capital of the Company.
This resolution also authorised the Directors to allot BORROWINGS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS up to two thirds of the total issued share capital of the Company, The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various but only in the case of a rights issue.
These facilities generally include provisions which may require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the alteration or A further special resolution was passed to effect a disapplication of termination of the facility upon the occurrence of a change of pre-emption rights for a maximum of 5% of the issued share capital control of the Company.
At 31 December 2016, these facilities were of the Company.
These authorities are valid until the AGM in 2017, and the Directors The Group has entered into a series of financial instruments to propose to renew each of them at that AGM.
The Board believes that hedge its currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.
These these authorities will allow the Company to retain flexibility to contracts provide for termination or alteration in the event that a respond to circumstances and opportunities as they arise.
change of control of the Company materially weakens the creditworthiness of the Group.
Authority to purchase own shares EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS At the AGM in 2016, the Company was authorised by shareholders In the event of a change of control of the Company, the effect to purchase up to 183,869,662 of its own ordinary shares on the employee share plans would be as follows: representing 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
PSP awards would vest pro rata to service in the performance period, subject to Remuneration Committee judgement of The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires Group performance.
at the conclusion of the AGM in 2017 or 18 months from 5 May 2016 whichever is the earlier.
A resolution to renew it will be proposed at APRA deferred shares the shares would be released from the 2017 meeting.
ShareSave options would become exercisable immediately.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights The new company might offer an equivalent option in exchange for cancellation of the existing option.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments, and voting instructions, must be received by the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours Share Incentive Plan SIP consideration received as shares would before a general meeting.
be held within the SIP, if possible, otherwise the consideration would be treated as a disposal from the SIP.
Voting rights for employee share plan shares New LTIP subject to shareholder approval awards would vest on the change of control, subject to the Remuneration Committee's Shares are held in various employee benefit trusts for the purpose judgement of performance and may be reduced pro rata to of satisfying awards made under the various employee share plans.
service in the vesting period.
Any applicable holding period will For shares held in a nominee capacity or if plan trust rules provide cease in the event of a change in control.
the participant with the right to vote in respect of specifically allocated shares, the trustee votes in line with the participants instructions.
For shares that are not held absolutely on behalf of specific individuals, the general policy of the trustees, in accordance with investor protection guidelines, is to abstain from voting in respect of those shares.
188 OTHER INFORMATION OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Other statutory information continued Major shareholdings Greenhouse gas emissions At 13 February 2017 the following shareholders had notified an In 2016, our total greenhouse gas GHG emissions from our interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in facilities and processes, including product test and development, accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA's Disclosure was 587kilotonnes carbon dioxide equivalent ktCO e. This 2 Guidance and Transparency Rules.
represents adecrease of 3%compared with 602 ktCO e in 2015.
2 We have introduced reporting of fugitive emissions of % of issued ordinary Shareholder Date notified share capital hydroflurocarbons HFCs, associated with air conditioning BlackRock, Inc. 23 November 2016 5.00 equipment, into our GHG emissions figures for 2016.
These include The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 6 January 2017 4.69 emissions from our facilities in the UK, US, Canada and France only.
ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. 27 January 2017 11.01 We do not anticipate that emissions from other facilities will have a Harbor International Fund 2 February 2017 3.98 material impact.
Figures from prior years 2012 to 2015 exclude emissions associated with HFCs.
Directors Total GHG emissions ktCO2e 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Direct emissions facilities, The names of the Directors who held office during the year are processes, product test and set out on page 61. development Scope 1 219 241 301 242 240 Indirect emissions facilities, processes, product test and Disclosures in the Strategic report development Scope 2 313 313 382 360 347 Total for facilities, processes, The Board has taken advantage of Section 414C 11 of the product test and development 532 554 683 602 587 Companies Act 2006 to include disclosures in the Strategic Direct emissions power report including: generation to grid Scope 1 153 155 132 132 Employee involvement.
Indirect emissions power generation to grid Scope 2 12 14 15 11 The future development, performance and position oftheGroup.
Total for facilities, processes, The financial position of the Group.
product test and development, R&D activities.
and power generation to grid 719 852 749 730 The principal risks and uncertainties.
Intensity ratio total emissions normalised by revenue for facilities, processes, product test Political donations and development, and power generation to grid ktCO e m 0.048 0.062 0.055 0.052 2 The Groups policy is not to make political donations and therefore did not donate any money to any political party during the year.
2 014 data has been restated to reflect the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions data from Power Systems.
Figures for prior years 2012 to 2013 do not include data from Power Systems and therefore are not directly comparable.
However, it is possible that certain activities undertaken by theGroup may unintentionally fall within the broad scope We engaged Bureau Veritas to undertake a limited assurance engagement, reporting to Rolls-Royce Holdings plc, using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 over oftheprovisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
the energy, GHG, TRI rate and STEM data that has been highlighted with and as set out Theresolution to be proposed at the AGM is to ensure that the on pages 41 to 44 and in the table above.
The sustainability assurance statement is included on page 183.
Group does not commit any technical breach of the Act.
With the exceptions noted above, we have reported on all of During the year, expenses incurred by Rolls-Royce North America theemission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Inc. in providing administrative support for the Rolls-Royce StrategicReport and Directors' Report Regulations 2013.
NorthAmerica political action committee PAC was US$42,742 Thesesources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
PACs are a common feature of the USpolitical Wedo nothave responsibility for any emission sources that are system and are governed by the Federal Election CampaignAct.
notincluded in our consolidated financial statements.
The PAC is independent of the Group and independent of any We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and political party.
The PAC funds are contributed voluntarily by Reporting Standard revised edition as of 31 December 2014, data employees and the Group cannot affect how they are applied, gathered to fulfil our requirements under the Carbon Reduction although under US Law, the business expenses are paid by the Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, and emission factors employee's company.
Such contributions do not require from the UK governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company authorisation by shareholders under the Act and therefore do not Reporting 2016. count towards the limits for political donations and expenditure forwhich shareholder approval will be sought at this years AGM Further details on our methodology for reporting and the criteria torenew the authority given at the 2016 AGM.
used can be found within our basis of reporting, available to download from our website at www.
OTHER INFORMATION Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION 189 Branches Management report Rolls-Royce is a global company and our activities and interests The Strategic report and the Directors report together are the are operated through subsidiaries, branches of subsidiaries, management report for the purposes of Rule 4.1.
8R of the FCAs joint ventures and associates which are subject to the laws and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
regulations of many different jurisdictions.
Our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are listed on pages 170 to 175.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Post balance sheet events report confirms that: In January 2017, the Group entered into Deferred Prosecution So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Agreements with the UK Serious Fraud Office and the US information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Department of Justice, and a leniency agreement with the Brazilian authority, MPF.
These agreements require that the Group pays The Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken financial penalties, the details of which are set out on page 8. as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys There have been no other events affecting the Group since auditor is aware of that information.
31 December 2016 which need to be reflected in the 2016 Consolidated financial statements.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Financial instruments Details of the Groups financial instruments are set out in note17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Related party transactions Related party transactions are set out in note 24 to the Consolidated financialstatements.
Information required by UK Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4 There are no disclosures to be made under LR 9.8.
