REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 The Directors hereby submit the Annual Report and Audited Results and Dividend Financial Statements for the Company for the year ended The results of the Company for the year are shown in the 31 December 2016.
This Report of the Directors should audited Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 48. be read together with the Corporate Governance Report on pages 31 to 38.
The Net Asset Value of the Company as at 31 December 2016 was $1,699 million 31 December 2015: $1,347 million.
General Information The Directors do not recommend the payment of a Riverstone Energy Limited is a company limited by shares, dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 which was incorporated on 23 May 2013 in Guernsey with 31 December 2015: $Nil.
an unlimited life and registered with the Commission as a Registered Closed-ended Collective Investment Scheme pursuant to the POI Law.
It has been listed on the London Share Capital Stock Exchange since 29 October 2013.
The registered office At incorporation on 23 May 2013, the Company issued one of the Company is Heritage Hall, PO Box 225, Le Marchant founder Ordinary Share of no par value.
On 29 October 2013, Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4HY, Channel Islands.
the Company issued 71,032,057 Ordinary Shares of no par value at 10 per Ordinary Share in an initial public offering Principal Activities raising a total of $1,138 million.
The principal activity of the Company is to act as an investment KFI, one of the Cornerstone Investors in the Company, entity through the Partnership and make privately negotiated paid for and acquired 10 million Ordinary Shares in two equity investments in the energy sector.
The first tranche was paid on Admission and the second tranche was paid on The Companys investment objective is to generate long- 26 September 2014. term capital growth by investing in the global energy sector, with a particular focus on opportunities in the global On 11 December 2015, the Company raised 67.6 million 1 exploration and production and midstream $102.3 million through the issuance of 8,448,006 new energy sub-sectors.
Ordinary Shares at 8.00 per Ordinary Share.
Following admission of the new Ordinary Shares, the share capital of the Company is 84,480,064 Ordinary Business Review Shares in aggregate.
A review of the Companys business and its likely future The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares.
development is provided in the Chairmans Statement and The issued nominal value of the Ordinary Shares represents in the Investment Managers Report on pages 8 to 19.
of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
Under the Companys Articles of Incorporation, on Listing Requirements a show of hands, each Shareholder present in person or by proxy has the right to one vote at general meetings.
On a poll, Since being admitted on 29 October 2013 to the Official List each Shareholder is entitled to one vote for every share held.
of the UK Listing Authority, maintained by the FCA, the Company has complied with the applicable Listing Rules.
Shareholders are entitled to all dividends paid by the Company and, on a winding up, provided the Company has satisfied all of its liabilities, the Shareholders are entitled to all of the surplus assets of the Company.
The Ordinary Shares have no right to fixed income.
1 Gross of share issuance costs of $3.6 million Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Shareholdings of the Directors Directors Authority to The Directors with beneficial interests in the shares of the Buy Back Shares Company as at 31 December 2016 and 2015 are detailed below: At the AGM on 19 May 2016 in St Peter Port, Guernsey, the Ordinary Per cent.
Company renewed the authority to make market purchases Shares held Holding at Shares held Holding at of up to a maximum of 14.99 per cent.
of the issued share 31 31 31 31 capital of the Company.
Any buy back of the Companys December December December December Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Companies Law 2016 2016 2015 2015 and within any guidelines established from time to time by 1 Richard Hayden 10,000 0.012 10,000 0.012 the Board.
The making and timing of any buy backs will be 1 2 Peter Barker 5,000 0.006 5,000 0.006 at the absolute discretion of the Board and not at the option 2 3 Patrick Firth 4,000 0.005 4,000 0.005 of the Shareholders.
Purchases of the Companys Ordinary 4 Pierre Lapeyre 50,000 0.059 Shares will only be made through the market for cash at 4 David Leuschen prices below the prevailing Net Asset Value of the Companys 4 5 Ken Ryan Ordinary Shares as last calculated where the Directors 5 Jeremy Thompson believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
1 Claire Whittet Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with 6 Sir Robert Wilson 20,000 0.024 20,000 0.024 the Listing Rules which provide that the price to be paid 6 James Hackett must not be more than 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market quotations for the Companys Ordinary Shares 1 for the five business days before the shares are purchased Non-executive Independent Director unless previously advised to Shareholders.
2 Ordinary Shares held jointly with spouses In accordance with the Companys Articles of 3 Senior Independent Director Incorporation and Companies Law, up to 10 per cent.
of the 4 Mr Lapeyre, Mr Leuschen and Mr Ryan, as well as other Companys Ordinary Shares may be held as treasury shares.
Riverstone senior management, have a beneficial interest in REL The Company did not purchase any shares for treasury or Coinvestment, LP, which as at the year end held 5,000,000 Ordinary cancellation up to the date of this report.
Shares, and Riverstone Energy Limited Capital Partners LP, which as at the year end held 504,298 Ordinary Shares 5 Appointed to the Board on 19 May 2016 Directors and Officers Liability 6 Stepped down from his duties on the Board on 19 May 2016 Insurance The Company maintains insurance in respect of directors In addition, the Company also provides the same and officers liability in relation to their acts on behalf information as at 24 February 2017, being the most of the Company.
Shares held Holding at Substantial Shareholdings 24 February 24 February Director 2017 2017 As at 31 December 2016, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and 1 Richard Hayden 10,000 0.012 Transparency Rules, of the following substantial voting rights 1 2 Peter Barker 5,000 0.006 as Shareholders of the Company.
Nature of 4 Shareholder Shareholding Holding Holding David Leuschen 4 Ken Ryan AKRC Investments Jeremy Thompson 3,751 0.004 1 LLC 23,974,368 28.4% Indirect 1 2 Claire Whittet 2,250 0.003 Kendall Family 1 Investments LLC 10,000,000 11.8% Direct 1 Non-executive Independent Director REL Coinvestment, LP 5,000,000 5.9% Direct 2 Ordinary Shares held jointly with spouses 1 Held by a Cornerstone Investor 3 Senior Independent Director 4 Mr Lapeyre, Mr Leuschen and Mr Ryan, as well as other Riverstone senior management, have a beneficial interest in REL In addition, the Company also provides the same Coinvestment, LP, which as 24 February 2017 held 5,000,000 information as at 24 February 2017, being the most Ordinary Shares and Riverstone Energy Limited Capital Partners LP, current information available.
which as at 24 February 2017 held 591,031 Ordinary Shares REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Per cent.
Nature of AIFMD Shareholder Shareholding Holding Holding REL is regarded as an externally managed non-EEA AIF AKRC Investments under the AIFM Directive.
RIL is the Investment Manager 1 LLC 23,974,368 28.4% Indirect of the Company as its non-EEA AIFM.
The AIFMD outlines Kendall Family the required information which has to be made available to 1 Investments LLC 10,000,000 11.8% Direct investors in an AIF and directs that material changes to this REL Coinvestment, LP 5,000,000 5.9% Direct information be disclosed in the Annual Report of the AIF.
All information required to be disclosed under the AIFMD 1 Held by a Cornerstone Investor is either disclosed in this Annual Report or is detailed in the Appendix entitled AIFMD Disclosures on page 178 in RELs latest Prospectus which can be obtained through the The Directors confirm that there are no securities in issue Companys website www.
The AIFM has that carry special rights with regards to the control of no remuneration within the current or prior year that falls the Company.
within the scope of Article 22 of the Directive.
The Companys issued share capital consists of RIL provides AIFMD compliant management services 84,480,064 Ordinary Shares.
Under the Companys Articles to REL.
The AIFM acting on behalf of the AIF, has appointed of Incorporation, on a show of hands, each Shareholder Heritage Depositary Company UK Limited to provide present in person or by proxy has the right to one vote at depositary services to the AIF.
The appointment of the general meetings.
On a poll, each Shareholder is entitled Depositary is intended to adhere to, and meet the conditions to one vote for every share held.
placed on the Depositary and the AIFM under Article 21 and other related articles of the AIFMD.
The Depositary shall only provide depositary services to the AIF should it admit one or Independent External Auditor more German and or Danish investors following marketing Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys external auditor activity towards them.
At that time, the Depositary shall since incorporation.
The Audit Committee reviews the observe and comply with the Danish and German regulations appointment of the external auditor, its effectiveness and its applying to the provision of depositary services to a non-EEA relationship with the Company, which includes monitoring AIF marketed in Denmark or Germany, as the case may be, the use of the external auditor for non-audit services and the by a non-EEA AIFM.
balance of audit and non-audit fees paid.
Following a review of the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, a resolution will be proposed at the 2017 Annual UCITS Eligibility General Meeting to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP.
Each The Investment Manager is a relying adviser of Riverstone Director believes that there is no relevant information of Investment Group LLC.
Riverstone Investment Group LLC which the external auditor is unaware.
Each has taken all is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC under steps necessary, as a Director, to be aware of any relevant the US Investment Advisers Act.
As such, the Investment audit information and to establish that Ernst & Young LLP is Manager is subject to Riverstone Investment Group LLCs made aware of any pertinent information.
This confirmation supervision and control, the advisory activities of the is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the Investment Manager are subject to the US Investment provisions of Section 249 of the Companies Law.
Further Advisers Act and the rules thereunder and the Investment information on the work of the external auditor is set out Manager is subject to examination by the SEC.
"Accordingly in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 39 to 42. the Company has been advised that its Ordinary Shares should be ""transferable securities"" and, therefore, should be eligible for investment by authorised funds in accordance Articles of Incorporation with the UCITS Directive or NURS on the basis that: The Companys Articles of Incorporation may only be amended by special resolution of the Shareholders."
the Company is a closed end investment company: the Ordinary Shares are admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange: and Non-mainstream Pooled Investments the Ordinary Shares have equal voting rights.
The Board has concluded that the Companys Ordinary Shares are not non-mainstream pooled investments for However, the manager of the relevant UCITS or NURS the purposes of the FCA rules regarding the restrictions on should satisfy itself that the Ordinary Shares are eligible the promotion to retail investors of unregulated collective for investment by the relevant UCITS or NURS.
investment schemes and close substitutes, meaning that the restrictions on promotion imposed by the FCA rules do not apply.
It is the Boards intention that the Company AEOI Rules conducts its affairs so that these restrictions will continue Under AEOI Rules the Company continues to comply with to remain inapplicable.
both FATCA and CRS requirements to the extent relevant to the Company.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 In accordance with section 4.1 a of the Partnership General Partners Performance Agreement, in the event of the Company requiring additional Allocation and Management Fees funds for working capital, it is entitled to receive another distribution from the Partnership.
The General Partners Performance Allocation is equal to 20 per cent.
of all realised pre-tax profits without regard to As at 31 December 2016, the Partnership had $268 million of uninvested funds held as cash and money market fixed realised losses as disclosed in the Companys Prospectuses.
In particular, taxes on realised gains from ECI investments, deposits 31 December 2015: $554 million, and has no material going concern risk.
Although the Companys as shown in the Investment Managers Report, can be substantial at rates up to 40 per cent.
The Company is not commitments, through the Partnership, exceed its available liquid resources, it is not expected that all commitments an umbrella collective investment undertaking and therefore has no gross liability.
will be drawn due to a variety of factors, such as a portfolio company being sold earlier than anticipated or a targeted The General Partners Performance Allocation is investment opportunity changing or disappearing.
In calculated under the terms of the Partnership Agreement addition, the board of each underlying portfolio company, and as described in the Prospectuses.
more often than not controlled by Riverstone, has discretion over whether or not that capital is ultimately invested.
The Performance Allocation is calculated on a quarterly Moreover, RELs arrangements with Riverstone allow excess basis, which is taken into account when calculating the fair commitments to be amended by the Investment Manager value of the Companys investment in the Partnership, with consideration from the Board.
The fair value of the Companys investment in the Partnership is after the calculation of In light of the above facts, the Directors are satisfied Management Fees, as described in Note 10. that it is appropriate to apply the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
In reaching this The financial effect of the General Partners conclusion, the Board has considered budgeted and Performance Allocation, Management Fees and any taxes projected results of the business, projected cash flow and on ECI investments is shown in Note 6. risks that could impact the Companys liquidity over the next twelve months.
Change of Control There are no agreements that the Company considers Viability Statement significant and to which the Company is party that would As required by the AIC Code, the Directors have assessed the take effect, alter or terminate upon change of control prospects of the Company over a longer period than required of the Company following a takeover bid.
by the going concern provision.
The Board chose to conduct a review for a period of three years to 31 December 2019 as Going Concern it was determined to be an appropriate timeframe based on the historical investment cycle of the Companys investments The Companys Financial Statements are prepared in through the Partnership and its financial planning processes.
accordance with the AIC Code and presented on a going On a rolling basis, the Directors evaluate the outcome of the concern basis.
As further disclosed in the Corporate investments and the Companys financial position as a whole.
Governance Report on pages 31 to 38, the Company is a member of the AIC and complies with the AIC Code.
In support of this statement, the Directors have taken The Directors have assessed the financial prospects of the into account all of the principal risks and their mitigation Company for the next twelve months from the date of approval as identified in the Principal Risk and Uncertainties section of the Financial Statements and made an assessment of the Corporate Governance Report, the nature of the of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Companys business: including the cash reserves and money The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the market deposits at the Partnership, the potential of its Company has adequate resources to continue in operational portfolio of investments to generate future income and existence for the next twelve months, as explained below.
capital proceeds, and the ability of the Directors to minimise the level of cash outflows, if necessary.
The most relevant The Company retained $11.5 million of cash in the IPO and potential impacts of the identified Principal Risks and Placing and Open Offer, and received a $5.5 million distribution Uncertainties on viability were determined to be: from the Partnership in Q1 2016, of which $3.2 million remains at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: $2.5 million.
An investments capital requirements may exceed the This cash balance is sufficient to cover the Companys existing Companys ability to provide capital: and liabilities at 31 December 2016 of $0.6 million, but the Company The Company may not have sufficient dry powder to will require a distribution of $1.1 million to cover its forecast participate in all investment opportunities presented.
annual expenses for 2017 of approximately $3.7 million.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Each quarter, Directors review threats to the Companys Financial Risk Management Policies viability utilising the risk matrix and update as required due to recent developments and or changes in the global market.
and Objectives The Board relies on periodic reports provided by the Financial Risk Management Policies and Objectives are Investment Manager and Administrator regarding risks disclosed in Note 11 and the Investment Managers Report faced by the Company.
When required, experts are utilised on pages 8 to 19. to gather relevant and necessary information, regarding tax, legal, and other factors.
Principal Risk and Uncertainties The Investment Manager made financial commitments to each portfolio company.
However, the Company evaluates Principal Risk and Uncertainties are discussed in the the ongoing suitability of each investment prior to funding Corporate Governance Report on pages 31 to 38. and may or may not agree to fund an investment.
In the event the Company is unable, or elects, not to fund an existing investment, Riverstone may seek other funding alternatives.
Subsequent Events The Investment Manager considers the future cash Subsequent Events are disclosed in Note 15 on page 67. requirements of the Company before funding portfolio companies.
Furthermore, the Board receives regular Annual General Meetings updates from the Investment Manager on the Companys cash position, which allows the Board to maintain their The AGM of the Company will be held at 10.30 am GMT fiduciary responsibility to the Shareholders and, if required, on 23 May 2017 at The Old Government House Hotel, limit funding for existing commitments.
St Anns Place, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, The Board considered the Companys viability over the three year period, based on a working capital model together with explanations, will appear in the notices of meetings to be distributed to Shareholders listed on the prepared by the Investment Manager.
The working capital model forecasts key cash flow drivers such as capital register as at 31 December 2016 together with this Annual Report.
deployment rate, investment returns, Management Fees and operating expenses.
In connection with the preparation of Members of the Board, including the Chairman and the the working capital model, capital raises, realisations and Chairperson of each Committee, will be in attendance at the dividend payments were assumed to not occur during the AGM and will be available to answer Shareholder questions.
three year period, unless already predetermined.
By order of the Board If factors apart from capital deployment rate remain constant, accelerating the capital deployment rate by 20 per cent.
from 36 months to 30 months, would result in the Company being directed by the Board, and the Investment Manager recommending, to preserve working capital and postpone future investments after 12 months, rather than Richard Hayden 18 months: unless a financing or capital raise was completed.
Chairman In both scenarios, the Company is forecasted to maintain 28 February 2017 sufficient working capital for the three year period.
While an unprecedented and long-term decline in global oil and gas consumption would threaten the Companys performance, it would not necessarily threaten its viability.
Based on the aforementioned procedures and the existing internal controls of the Company and Investment Manager, the Board has concluded there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of the assessment.
