STRATEGIC REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 PRIORITIES FOR 2017 13 Priorities For 2017 1 Strengthen our focus to drive long-term profitable growth Engineering Operational Capturing excellence excellence aftermarket value Investing in and developing the Transforming our manufacturing Leveraging our installed base, excellence of our engineering andsupply chain to embed a lean product knowledge and capabilities toproduce high-performance approach across our facilities to provide outstanding services to powersystems.
2 Sustain the strong start to our transformation programme.
3 Continue to rebuild trust and confidence in our long-term growth prospects.
4 Develop our long-term vision and strategy.
Underpinned by a commitment to developing our people and our culture in a safe and ethical environment.
are targeting free cash flow to be similar to The successful roll-out of new engines, Outlook for 2017 that achieved in 2016.
Individual outlooks led in particular by the Trent XWB, Trent are provided in the Business review starting 1000 and Trent 7000, together with After a better than expected 2016, on page 18. agrowing aftermarket, is expected to drive year-on-year incremental progress will be significant revenue growth over the coming modest.
Our medium-term trajectory for ten years as we build towards a 50% plus revenue, profit and free cash flow remains Looking further ahead: long-term share of the installed widebody passenger unchanged.
On a constant currency basis, outlook remains strong market.
As a result, we remain confident Group revenue for 2017 should be that the important investments we are marginally higher than that achieved in We continue to see value in the underlying making to modernise our production will 2016, despite expected further weakening strengths of our business: the underlying create a strong platform to drive customer in offshore oil & gas markets in Marine.
growth of our long-term markets: the service and strong cash flows, together with Underlying improvements in performance quality of our mission-critical technology the current investments in new products should be driven largely by transformation and services: and the strength of customer and the streamlining of our existing product savings and free cash flow should benefit demand for these which is reflected in our portfolios to ensure we are providing from increased aftermarket cash revenues strong order book.
While we have near-term high-value, cost-competitive products into in Civil Aerospace, further improvements challenges and some core execution our target end markets.
in working capital efficiency and cost priorities, these constants provide us with savings.
As a result, we expect a modest confidence in a strong, profitable and performance improvement overall and we cash-generative future.
