Our approach Our Colleagues Engaging our colleagues is critical to delivering on our strategy and ambition as a bank.
Being better for our colleagues means we are better for our customers, and this makes us a better bank.
Creating a Healthy Culture survey and our regular comments to deliver the best possible service, Building a healthy culture that embodies boards.
When colleagues wish to report every time.
Since October over 34,000 Our Values is one of our core priorities.
concerns relating to wrong doing or colleagues have completed this module.
Our Values guide the way we identify misconduct they can raise concerns via the right people to serve our customers Speak Up, the banks whistleblowing We work closely with the Chartered well, and how we manage, engage and service.
In 2016 213 cases were raised Banker Institute CBI and Chartered reward our colleagues.
Our Values are compared to 142 in 2015.
Banker Professional Standards at the heart of both Our Standards, the Board CB:PSB to professionalise our bank-wide behavioural framework Performance and Reward colleagues.
In 2016 we achieved an and Our Code, the bankwide Code of Our approach to performance Excel rating in the CB:PSB Foundation Conduct.
management provides clarity for our Standard review, one of only two colleagues about how their contribution CB:PSB member firms to have secured Our values are integral to the way links to our ambition and all our Earned Autonomy.
we behave and do business and we colleagues have goals set across a continue to reinforce them in our balanced scorecard of measures.
In We also offer a wide range of learning systems, our policies and processes, our 2016 we refreshed our behavioural opportunities which can be mandatory, communications and our training and framework to create one framework for role specific or related to personal leadership role modelling.
all our colleagues Our Standards.
Our mandatory learning is focused on keeping our customers, We monitor our progress against our We strive to pay the right wage to our colleagues and the bank safe.
goals and gather feedback from our colleagues and continue to exceed the colleagues.
Through metrics and key Living Wage Foundation Benchmarks.
Health and Wellbeing performance indicators we are able We have removed sales incentives Wellbeing is a fundamental part to assess our progress and respond for front line colleagues so they can of creating a great place to work.
We measure our progress concentrate on great customer We offer a wide range of wellbeing through internal reporting and report service.
For 2017, we have simplified initiatives and benefits to help maintain on progress quarterly.
We participate how we pay our clerical colleagues, physical and mental health and in external benchmarking excercises consolidating bonuses, making pay support our colleagues if they become and fully support the Banking Standards fairer and easier to understand.
More information on our remuneration In 2016, we focused on physical, mental Our most recent survey, in which almost policies can be found on pages 87 to 111 health and social wellbeing.
More than 63,000 colleagues took part, showed of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
50,000 colleagues took part in the that we are changing the culture of Global Corporate Challenge GCC, RBS for the better.
We remain above Learning helping us to win the GCC World Most the Global Financial Services Norm for We continue to embed Determined Active Organisation Gold Award.
wellbeing, our inclusion scores continue to lead Dtl, our core leadership to improve and there is a strong sense programme across the bank.
Dtl To support our colleagues through that managers act consistently with provides consistent tools to lead change we continue to promote our Our Values.
However, the choices weve and engage our colleagues and is Employee Assistance Programme, had to make as we move RBS forward transforming the way we operate.
In where we have continued to see a high have taken a toll on our colleagues.
The 2016 almost 16,000 leaders participated utilisation rate.
We have supported scaling down of RBS and the impact in the programme.
Time to Change the UKs biggest of dealing with some difficult legacy programme to challenge mental health issues have contributed to a decline in In October, we launched Service stigma since 2014 and launched a the improvements in engagement, pride Excellence training, our new customer number of mindfulness support tools and leadership that we saw in 2015. service programme.
The first module this year.
introduces our Core Service Behaviours We encourage colleagues to tell us what and provides an awareness of the they think via the annual colleague tools and techniques that will help us 28 Platinum ranking Gold ranking Times Top 50 Top Ten Global Silver Status from Top 10 Employer from Opportunity for Race for Employers for Employer in the Business by Working Now gender Opportunity race Women Stonewalls Global Disability Forum Families.
Equality Index LGBT 29 Our approach Inclusion Our disability plan will support Building a more inclusive RBS is essential us becoming a disability smart for our customers and colleagues.
It addresses Our inclusion policy applies to all our areas for improvement including colleagues globally to make sure everyone branch access, accessible services, feels included and valued, regardless of improving colleague adjustment their background.
processes and inserting disability checkpoints into our key processes As at 31 December 2016, our and practices.
We continue to focus on building an ethnically diverse RBS.
Our We continue to work towards our goal plan focuses on positive action and of having at least 30% senior women in includes reciprocal mentoring, our top three leadership layers across targeted development workshops and each business by 2020 and to be fully leadership programmes and ensuring gender balanced by 2030.
We have we have a Black, Asian and Minority a positive action approach in place, Ethnic BAME focus on recruitment, tailored by business, according to the talent identification and promotion.
Our LGBT agenda continues to deliver During 2016, we continued to roll out a better experience for our LGBT unconscious bias learning to all our colleagues and customers.
We have colleagues to create a solid platform processes in place to support updating for the wider inclusion agenda.
Almost gender and title on customers banking 30,000 colleagues participated in records and to support colleagues unconscious bias training in 2016. undergoing gender transition.
And, we continue to support our 16,000-strong colleague networks.
Historically we have reported by grade, which has enabled us to track trend year on year, however as the structure of our business has changed, we have evolved our approach to reflect our organisational CEO levels.
This method more accurately describes our gender balance at leadership pipeline levels and is reflective of how work gets done across the bank.
Grade #Women #Men %Women CEO 1 3 10 23 CEO 2 33 73 31 CEO 3 232 443 34 CEO 4 1512 1891 44 Target population CEO 3 and above 268 526 34 Male Female Executive Employees 113 78% 32 22% Directors of Subsidiaries 481 84% 90 16% There were 716 senior managers in accordance with the definition contained within the relevant Companies Act legislation, which comprises our executive population and individuals who are directors of our subsidiaries.
The RBS Board of directors has twelve members, consisting of nine male and three female directors.
