Viability statement Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Directors the Board of RBSG the bank have assessed the viability of the bank taking into account the current position of the bank, the Boards assessment of the banks prospects, and the banks principal risks, as detailed in the Strategic report on pages 38 and 39.
The Boards assessment is further Assessments of the risks of the informed by the application of greatest concern are captured through regulatory standards of capital and the banks processes for continuously liquidity adequacy and stress test identifying and effectively managing thresholds under extreme conditions.
the principal top and emerging risks, as detailed on page 39 of the Strategic The Board consider a period of three report.
These assessments provide years to be an appropriate period for a view on the impact of the top risks the assessment to be made.
This period crystallising, both individually and in is within the banks strategic plan and combination.
These risks are outlined regulatory and internal stress testing in the Risk Overview and further periods.
discussed in the Risk Factors, both contained in the 2016 Annual Report The banks business and strategic and Accounts on pages 164 to 169 plans provide long term direction and and 432 and 463, respectively, are reviewed on, at least, an annual and include political, legal, basis, including multi-year forecasts macroeconomic, regulatory, showing the expected financial position operational and execution risks.
The base case plan indicates that On the basis of this robust assessment the bank has sufficient capital and of the principal risks facing the bank, liquidity resources over the three year the Boards review of the business assessment period.
and strategic plans and other matters considered and reviewed during the The banks base case plan is also year, and the results of the stress tested in a series of extreme stress tests undertaken, the Board has a scenarios as part of internal and reasonable expectation that the bank external stress testing.
Results will be able to continue in operation from the stress scenarios, including and meet its liabilities as they fall due managements response, are used as over the period of the assessment.
part of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP.
These are summarised in the Capital and Risk Management section of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts on pages 179 and 188.
55 Free to dream Through our partnership with Entrepreneurial Spark, were helping entrepreneurs realise their dreams of owning and running their own business.
We provide free facilities: free Wi-Fi, access to the banks networks and suppliers, and free business advice.
They dont need to bank with us and we take no equity: we simply believe its right to support entrepreneurs and in turn help the economy grow.
Lawyer Sharon Amesu joined our Manchester hub in February 2016.
There was a real buzz and an immediate sense that I could be part of something quite special and significant she says.
Its been instrumental in helping me grow my mentoring business and also a fantastically creative space to get to know, and network with, other aspirational and passionate people.
Across 12 accelerators throughout the UK, we have supported 1,736 companies with an aggregate turnover of more than 176 million.
Weve helped secure more than 151 million worth of investment for entrepreneurs in the Entrepreneurial Spark programme, and they in turn have created 3,152 jobs.
More than 80% of the participating companies are still operating.
