Business model and strategy Our brands Our brands are our main connection with customers.
Each takes a clear and differentiated position that will help us strengthen our relationships with our customers, stand out in the market, and build the value of our brands.
NatWest serves over 14 million customers in Royal Bank of Scotland is committed to Ulster Bank operates both in the England and Wales, supporting them with serving Scottish communities.
Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
their banking needs, at all stages in their lives.
Exceptional service sits at the heart of Lombard is the UKs largest provider of Adam & Company provides progressive Coutts, a business that has been built on asset finance, helping to take businesses private banking, tailoring its services and understanding the needs of their private to the next level with a forward-looking solutions to match each client and their and commercial clients.
Child & Co is one of the oldest private banks Drummonds has served private banking As the bank of the British Armed Forces, in the UK, providing bespoke banking customers for over 300 years, providing Holts prides itself on understanding the services from the legal heart of London.
complexities of serving in the military and providing a personalised service.
Isle of Man Bank is the community bank RBS International is one of the worlds Focusing on our core markets in the UK and and the islands oldest native bank, offering leading offshore banks, operating under Western Europe, NatWest Markets provides retail, private and business banking services three distinct brands RBS International, financing and risk management to our UK to local customers.
NatWest and Isle of Man Bank.
and Western Europe corporate customers and global financial institutions.
22 Flying high Sarah-Jane Anthony saw her first falconry display aged seven and was hooked.
Twenty years later, she decided to follow her dream and start her own business.
Now she runs her own award-winning falconry centre in Essex.
Ive banked with NatWest all my life and when I needed a business account, Khaled, the local NatWest Women in Business specialist, was really supportive.
Without his help and advice, I dont think Id be here today.
Through our Chartered Banker accreditation programme in association with Everywoman, weve trained 400 Women in Business specialists across the bank.
Their knowledge makes them ideally placed to help female business owners and budding entrepreneurs with their banking needs.
23 Business model and strategy Building a more sustainable bank Our goal is to be No.
1 for customer service, trust and advocacy.
We are changing our culture and priorities for the better.
We are committed to building a bank that works for all stakeholders.
By delivering the best possible service the society we serve and operate in.
It is for customers to meet their needs, only by supporting our customers and we aim to achieve a return for our communities to succeed that we will be shareholders.
At the same time, we become a more sustainable bank.
recognise our responsibility towards Our key resources and relationships RBS provides financial services to individuals and businesses, primarily in the UK and Ireland.
We rely on financial, human, intellectual, social, infrastructure and natural capital to do so.
We leverage these forms of capital through our expertise, technology and customer focus across our different brands.
This helps to improve customer service quality, personalised through our brands.
We also seek to create sustainable value for our shareholders and other stakeholders, including customers, employees, and civil society.
Social and Financial Infrastructure Natural relationship We make use of shareholder 18.9 million customers We continue to provide 754 GWh of energy capital and other forms of in the UK and Republic multiple physical channels consumed and 9,965 tonnes 4 financial capital, including of Ireland.
In 2016, we for serving customers, of paper used in 2016.
353.5 billion in customer opened 40,860 Foundation including access to a 1 2 deposits.
Accounts, helping network of c. 12,500 customers who may Post Office and An Post 3 otherwise face difficulties branches and 41 mobile when opening a bank banking vans alongside our account.
existing network of 1,425 branches and 4,646 ATMs.
24 How we create value for customers and society Our activities generate outcomes across all parts of the economy: Keeping money safe and Offering lending, advice Enabling individuals and Providing working capital accessible for our depositors, and services to individuals.
businesses to make payments and lending to help businesses including preventing 498,000 Supporting customers with effectively and efficiently, meet their goals, including 7 cases of attempted fraud financial life events, including including more than doubling 30.5 billion in lending to amounting to 303 million in 33.7 billion of gross new the number of products sold small and medium-sized 5 6 the UK.
mortgage lending to help through our mobile channel enterprises across England, our customers buy homes.
Scotland and Wales, and c. 1.0 billion in lending to infrastructure projects.
10 Supporting local Supporting entrepreneurs to Investing in our people Payment of 1.32 billion communities, including 2.5 start up in business, including and partners to develop in tax to the UK Government, 8 9 million of grants made by 1,736 businesses helped a skilled workforce, which supports central our Skills & Opportunities through Entrepreneurial Spark including the delivery of government and local Fund to 125 organisations, powered by NatWest.
leadership training to almost authority spending.
who support people from 16,000 leaders through a disadvantaged communities comprehensive Determined start-up in business or get to Lead programme.
Notes: 1 Customer deposits excluding repurchase agreements 7 SME lending balances in over 9960 postcode sectors across England, and stock lending.
2 Number of new Foundation Accounts opened across NatWest Plc, 8 Data is compiled by Project North East PNE on and is based on the Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC.
total spend allocated by each Regional Board.
3 C omprises c. 11, 500 Post Office branches in the UK and c. 1000 9 Data is compiled by Entrepreneurial Spark.
The data includes all An Post branches in the Republic of Ireland.
businesses which have been part of the programme since launch in 2012.
4 For further details refer to page 35.
10 C omprises 174 million corporate tax, 660 million irrecoverable VAT, 5 D ata relates to reported attempted fraud cases and prevented third 208 million bank levies and 279 million employer payroll taxes.
party losses in the UK not including policy declines for debit cards.
6 Gross new mortgage lending across UK PBB, Ulster Bank RoI and RBSI.
Our business model Our purpose is to serve our customers well: we earn income by providing lending and deposit services to our customers.
We incur operating expenses in providing these services, and accept risk: including credit risk, liquidity risk and currency risk.
The operating profit generated by the bank is targeted to compensate shareholders for the cost of these risks.
Building a safe and customer-focused bank is central to our ability to create value.
The main source of our income is the interest income earned from loans and advances to our personal, business and commercial Human and customers.
We also earn fees from transactions and other services Intellectual provided to our customers.
We pay interest to customers and other investors who have placed deposits with us and bought our debt securities.
The difference A capable, caring and between these is our net interest income.
We also pay benefits to our motivated workforce customers, through loyalty products such as our Reward Account.
In 2016, we recruited 254 graduates NatWest Markets puts its customers at the centre of the way it and 283 apprentices.
does business, making working with the bank easy and rewarding.
The bank is organised around providing the right solution to meet its customers needs.
It anticipates emerging issues and provides depth of insight and innovative ideas.
