Business model and strategy Our priorities Strength and sustainability lowers our operating costs, and We remain focused on building a makes our customer interactions strong and stable bank.
continued to improve the fundamentals, by increasing our capital strength, Supporting sustainable growth building a robust liquidity position and A strong sustainable business grows balancing our loan to deposit ratio.
We continue to support our customers through offering Customer experience products and services which meet We are investing in our people, service, their needs.
and product proposition to ensure we provide market leading technology Employee engagement and signature customer experiences, Engaged colleagues lead to engaged through a wide variety of channels.
At RBS we are committed to investing in our colleagues and Simplifying the bank creating leaders who inspire and Streamlining of processes and empower their teams.
removing unnecessary complexity Our structure We have three customer franchises, and each is underpinned by a range of distinct brands, which are the route through which we engage with our customers.
Our franchises share operational Commercial Banking supports and control functions, deriving our corporate clients by providing economies of scale and diversification comprehensive commercial banking benefits.
Our brands are personalised and financing services with sector and each reflects a particular targeted expertise.
This includes specialist customer segment.
finance such as invoice finance, asset finance and leasing.
Personal and Business Banking PBB With a branch network and mobile, Our Private Banking business offers telephone and online banking high net worth clients private banking, propositions, PBB services our retail wealth planning and investment banking, mass affluent and small management services.
business customers in both the UK and Republic of Ireland.
RBS International RBSI continues to focus on supporting retail, commercial, PBB provides a simple range of corporate and financial institution products, including current accounts, customers in Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of loans and mortgages, to meet all core Man, Gibraltar and Luxembourg.
NatWest Markets Commercial and Private Focusing on our core markets in the Banking CPB UK and Western Europe, NatWest CPB serves our commercial and our Markets provides financing and risk high net worth customers in the UK management to our UK and Western and Western Europe.
Europe corporate customers and global financial institutions.
20 Franchises Services Functions Our franchises bring together customers Services provide business-aligned These teams define functional strategy determined by the scale and complexity technology, operations and property and the financial plan to support the of their financial needs.
This groups our services across the bank.
business units that have the greatest economies of scale and synergies.
Operations are centralised to provide Most functions are a mix of control, cost-efficient and consistently strong expertise and advisory.
All common Teams define and deliver the customer customer service, through simple support activities across the organisation proposition, and are accountable for processes and economies of scale.
end-to-end customer processes and products.
The teams partner with It is also accountable for technology risk, functions and services to develop payments, data, change management cost-effective propositions that meet and the banks fraud and security customer needs.
Customer Our brands UK PBB Ulster Bank Commercial Private RBS NatWest Markets Our businesses RoI Banking Banking International Personal & Business Commercial & Private NatWest Our franchises Banking PBB Banking CPB Markets Our service teams Services Human Communications Conduct & Finance Risk Restructuring Legal Our functions Resources & Marketing Regulatory Affairs Corporate Governance & Secretariat Internal Audit Product and services Our products and services are designed to ensure that we can create sustainable value for both our shareholders and our customers.
We believe that keeping our product range simple and accessible is crucial to our success.
Banking & Risk Personal Commercial Deposits Investments Capital Markets Management Lending Lending Payments Secured Current Portfolio Business lending Rates accounts management Insurance Personal Invoice financing Currencies loans Savings Unitised funds Liquidity Asset-backed Financing accounts management Credit cards Financial lending planning 21 Williams & Glyn Capital Resolution
