Royal Mail plc | Who we are We have made significant investments in our core business and to develop our ITcapability.
Who we are In the mediumterm, the faster areas of growth in the parcels market are expected 7 7 to be: clothing and footwear : returns 8 and sameday'.
We are changing our UK operations so we can handle, where 2016 marks 500 years of postal services in the UK.
Froma few appropriate, larger parcels.
We are royal messengers in Tudor times to more than 120,000 postmen becoming more flexible to accommodate the developing needs of eretailers and online and women today, connecting people, communities and businesses shoppers.
This includes later acceptance is part of who we are.
Royal Mail is the UKs pre-eminent letters times and adding more products to our weekend collections at Mail Centres and and parcels carrier.
As the UKs sole designated Universal Service Regional Distribution Centres RDCs, and 1 Provider, we are proud to deliver a  making customer pickup and returns easier service on a range of letters and parcels to more than 29million with our Local Collect network.
addresses, across the UK, six-days-a-week.
We are demonstrating the value of letters to our customers through product and Through UK Parcels, International & service innovations, such as Mailmark.
This Our position Letters UKPIL, we make a very significant investment has helped us to achieve more Letters continue to be a very important part contribution to the wider UK economy.
Campaigns like MAILMEN, of our business.
They account for almost In201516, our impact, including key which features 22 leading executives in the 60 per cent of our UK revenue.
We expect activities like employment and procurement, advertising industry, help demonstrate the continued declines in addressed letter totalled 10.8 billion in terms of value added.
effectiveness of mail as part of a targeted and volumes excluding elections of around We made the fifth largest contribution to the integrated advertisingcampaign.
46per cent per annum in the mediumterm.
2 UK economy of all UK corporations.
Through This means that delivering letters and parcels our panEuropean parcels delivery business, Against a backdrop of innovation and together is a key driver of efficiency and General Logistics Systems GLS, we are one investment, we currently have around productivity in our Universal Service network.
of the largest, groundbased deferred parcel 70projects that focus on cost avoidance delivery service providers in Europe.
Becoming more efficient and Royal Mail is the largest parcel delivery productive allows us to be more competitive.
Home delivery is Our people This, in turn, helps us to grow our existing expected to remain customers preferred We employ around 156,000 people customer relationships and win new 4 delivery option.
This is a significant across our Group.
It helps to fund further investment opportunity for Royal Mail, as we are well 139,000people and approximately 3,000 in our growth and to maintain our fair terms positioned to deliver to every doorstep in people work in our UK partiallyowned and conditions for our people.
On average, one in 175 employed people in the UK works for Royal Changing relationships between retailers 3 Mail.
and delivery operators, growing segments such as sameday delivery and disruptive Our shareholders technologies reflect an industry which is In 201516, HM Government sold its undergoing profound change.
Volume growth remaining shareholding in Royal Mail.
To date, 5,6 in our UK addressable parcel market is 11 per cent of Royal Mail shares have been dependent on the expansion of Amazon given to eligible employees, for free.
In addition, there is continued one per cent will be allocated in due course.
These factors are putting This is one of the largest free employee pressure on prices across the industry.
stakes of any major UK privatisation.
We are proud to continue to have a large and diverse Our transformation shareholder base, including a significant We are changing from a letters company that proportion of retail shareholders.
delivers parcels, to a parcels company that delivers letters.
In an environment of rapid change, we need to become more agile and respond quickly to changing customer needs.
4 IMRG Consumer Delivery Report, 2015 1 5 Under the Postal Services Act 2011 the Act, Ofcom Internal estimate based on Triangle Management is the regulator for postal services in the UK.
Ofcoms Services RMG Fulfilment Market Measure 2014 : primary regulatory duty for postal services is to defined as individually addressed parcels and secure the provision of the Universal Postal Service.
packets, generated and delivered in the UK, weighing Ofcom has designated Royal Mail as the Universal up to 30kg, that do not require special handling.
Subject to the special Includes access fulfilment large letters & parcels and 7 Verdict research.
UK eretail parcel market administration regime, and as set out in the Act, excludes click and collect, sameday, small local growth20152020 thisdesignation is not timelimited operators and all international traffic 8 Triangle Management Services and RMG 2 6 Comprising direct and indirect contributions Excludes Amazon Logistics and other retailers estimate2014 3 Cebr research, conducted for Royal Mail in May 2016 owndelivery networks 02 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Our operations and networks The Group operates through UKPIL and GLS.
UKPIL UKPIL comprises Royal Mails core UK and UKPIL GLS international parcels and letters delivery businesses under the Royal Mail and c. 139,000 c. 14,000 Parcelforce Worldwide brands.
Royal Mails Employees Employees network is unparalleled in the UK in its scale and scope.
It supports the provision of services for the collection, sorting and 6 41 delivery of parcels and letters by Royal Mail.
This includes those services Royal Mail Regional Distribution Centres European hubs provides as the UKs designated Universal 9 Service Provider.
Parcelforce Worldwide is a 39 c. 700 leading provider of express parcel services.
Mail Centres Depots See page 22 for details of UKPILs c. 1,400 c. 14,000 performance.
Delivery Offices Parcel shops GLS GLS is the Groups European parcels c. 11,700 c. 20,000 business.
It operates one of the largest groundbased, parcel delivery networks Local Collect locations Sub-contractor vehicles in Europe.
The GLS network covers 41European countries and nation states 54 through a combination of whollyowned Parcelforce Worldwide depots and partner companies.
As our gateway to Europe, GLS is a strategically important part 10 of the Royal Mail Group.
c. 47,000 Vehicles See page 24 for detailsofGLS performance.
Key UKPIL GLS GL S Network Partners 9 Portsmouth Mail Centre closed April 2016 10 Includes around 2,500 trailers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 03
