RPC Group Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS 8 1 2 6 7 9 4 5 3 1 2 3 DRS PIM VERVAAT SIMON KESTERTON JAMIE PIKE RC ACMA CGMA MBA MA MIMechE Chief Executive Group Finance Director Nonexecutive Chairman Committees: None Committees: None Committees: Nomination Chairman Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Joined RPC as Finance Director on 1 November 2007 Joined RPC on 1 April 2013 and was appointed Group Appointed as non-executive Chairman on 23 July 2008. and was appointed Chief Executive with effect from Finance Director with effect from 1 May 2013.
Experience: Jamie joined Burmah Castrol in 1991 and rose to Chief Experience: Simons career in finance began in the engineering and Executive of Burmah Castrol Chemicals before leading Pim joined Dutch metals producer, Hoogovens Groep manufacturing industry in the 1990s and developed the buy-out of Foseco in 2001 and its subsequent in 1987 and held various finance positions in the into leading financial roles in British Federal and the flotation in 2005.
He was Chief Executive of Foseco plc Netherlands, Germany and Belgium before working European business of automotive supplier Collins until it was acquired in April 2008.
Previously a nonfor Dutch ship propulsion producer Lips Group as & Aikman Inc.
In 2006 he was appointed Chief executive director of RMC Group plc, Kelda Group plc Chief Financial Officer in 1996.
In 1999 he returned Financial Officer of IAC Group Europe headquartered and the Defence Support Group.
He was also Chairman to Hoogovens Groep acquired by Corus and in 2004 in Dsseldorf, and in 2011 as Chief Strategic Officer, of a US plastics recycling business, MBA Polymers Inc became Finance Director of the 3bn turnover Corus European CFO and director of IAC Group Global until and Lafarge Tarmac Holdings Limited.
Currently nonDistribution and Building Systems Division.
IAC Group is an international, multi-billion executive Chairman of Tyman plc, he is also Senior time Pim also chaired the Supervisory Board of a dollar, leading tier 1 supplier of automotive components Independent Director of Spirax Sarco Engineering plc Norwegian joint venture, Norsk Stal.
He was appointed and systems.
following his appointment in May 2014.
Most recently as a non-executive director of Avon Rubber Plc.
he was appointed as Chairman of Ibstock plc upon its on 1 March 2015. admission to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange in October 2015.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 4 5 6 MARTIN TOWERS LYNN DRUMMOND PROF. GODWIN WONG BA FCA BSc PhD FRSC FRSE BSc MSc PhD Senior Independent Director Independent nonexecutive director Nonexecutive director Committees: Audit Chairman, Remuneration, Committees: Remuneration Chair, Nomination, Audit Committees: Nomination Nomination Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Appointed as an independent non-executive director Appointed as a non-executive director with effect from Appointed as an independent non-executive director with effect from 16 July 2014, Lynn is Chair of the 16 July 2014. on 1 April 2009 and Senior Independent Director with Remuneration Committee.
Martin is Chairman of the Experience: Godwin is a Business professor on MBA programmes Audit Committee.
A Managing Director at NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd until at various universities including Mannheim Business Experience: 2010, having joined the investment banking division School, Germany and the University of California, Appointed Group Finance Director of McCarthy & Stone in 1994, establishing and growing the advisory M&A Berkeley.
He has lectured internationally in Executive plc in 1990 and subsequently, Group Finance Director practice in the pharmaceutical and life sciences sector.
MBA and other executive training programmes and of The Spring Ram Corporation plc, Allied Textile Lynn previously worked in the Cabinet Office as Private was appointed Chief Expert Adviser for economic Companies plc and Yorkshire Group plc.
Martin was Secretary to the Chief Scientific Adviser as well as being development, strategies and management by the also Group Finance Director of Kelda Group plc from a non-executive director and member of the Audit and Beijing City Government.
Godwin has also been adviser 2003 until its takeover in February 2008.
He was a nonNomination Committees at healthcare company, Consort to various companies, government organisations and executive director of Homestyle Group Plc from 2004 to Medical plc from 2011 to 2014 and a non-executive institutional entities in the USA, Germany, Hong Kong, 2006 becoming Audit Committee Chairman and Senior director of Allocate Software plc from 2012 to 2014.
China, Asia, Russia and Ukraine.
He has served on the Independent Director as well as non-executive director She is currently the non-executive chair of consumer Board of Directors of a number of US banks and other of Spice plc in June 2009 becoming Chief Executive until healthcare companies, Venture Life plc and InFirst companies and was a director of Ace Corporation the business was sold in December 2010.
Holdings Ltd until its acquisition by RPC Group Plc.
as Chairman of the Audit Committee of KCOM Group PLC on 31 July 2015.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director of Tyman plc and Chairman of Norcros plc.
7 8 HEIKE VAN fide KERKHOF NICK GILES MBA EUBS MA FCIS Independent nonexecutive director Company Secretary Committees: Remuneration, Nomination, Audit Term of office: Joined RPC following the retirement of Term of office: 9 REBECCAJOYCE on 31 March 2016.
Appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 24 November 2015.
Experience: Experience: Before joining RPC, Nick was Corporate Services Director and Company Secretary at Dialight plc, and was Currently Managing Director of the European previously Company Secretary at Charter International business of Chemours Titanium Technologies based plc, Corporate Secretariat Manager at Allied Domecq in Geneva, Switzerland, a subsidiary of Chemours Inc plc and Assistant Company Secretary at Emap plc.
He is formed from a demerger of the DuPont Performance Secretary to the Board and its principal committees.
Chemicals businesses and floated on the New York Stock Exchange in July 2015.
Her career with DuPont began in 1989 through to 2015 when Chemours was established.
During this time she held various positions including strategic sales and marketing management positions in the automotive and telecommunications markets for DuPonts Safety and Protection business and subsequently in the Cosmetics and Personal Care business.
From 2008 to 2012 Heike was Managing Director of DuPont Packaging and Industrial Polymers, Europe, a diverse business in food, cosmetics and personal care packaging, industrial polymers and glass laminates.
