Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Future developments Possible future developments are described Directors report in our strategy on pages 1617 and Principal risks on pages 3235 of the Strategic report.
Share capital As at 27 March 2016, the Companys issued The Directors present their report together with audited financial share capital comprised 1,000,000,000 statements for the year ended 27 March 2016. ordinary shares of one penny each as set out in note 23 to the accounts on page 132.
A block listing of 5,000,000 shares was Strategic report Rules, the Directors having consulted with undertaken in November 2014, to date no To enable the assessment of how the the Management on such matters.
new shares have been issued.
Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company, Corporate governance statement Rights and obligations attaching to shares the Companies Act 2006 requires the The Disclosure and Transparency Rules Voting Directors to set out in this report a fair require certain information to be included Subject to the provisions of the Articles and review of the business of the Group during in a corporate governance statement in to any special rights or restrictions as to the year, the position of the Group at the the Directors Report.
This information can voting attached to any class of shares in the end of the year and a description of the be found in the Statement of corporate Company of which there is none, members principal risks and uncertainties facing the governance on pages 4980 and is will be entitled to vote at a general meeting Group.
This information can be found in the incorporated into this Directors Report as follows: following sections of the Annual Report and by reference.
On a show of hands, every member Financial Statements and are incorporated present in person has one vote and by reference.
Dividends every proxy present who has been duly Final dividend appointed by one or more members will The information required to be disclosed in The Board recommends a final dividend have one vote, except that a proxy has the Annual Report under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R of 15.1 pence per ordinary share, giving a one vote for and one vote against if the is marked with an asterisk below.
total dividend for the year of 22.1 pence per proxy has been duly appointed by more ordinary share.
The final dividend will be than one member and the proxy has been payable on 29 July 2016 to shareholders Index Page instructed by one or more members whose names appear on the register of to vote for and by one or more other Business model 14 members on 1 July 2016. members to vote against: Strategy for delivering objectives 16 Dividends and distribution For this purpose, the Articles provide that, Results 4 The Company may by ordinary resolution where a proxy is given discretion as to from time to time declare dividends not Financial assets and liabilities 91 how to vote on a show of hands, this will exceeding the amount recommended by the be treated as an instruction by the relevant Principal risks 32 Board.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, member to vote in the way that the proxy the Board may pay interim dividends, and Corporate responsibility 37 decides to exercise that discretion: and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the Greenhouse gas emissions 40 On a poll, every member has one vote per opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
share held by him, her or it and he, she or Disabled employees 39 If the Board acts in good faith, it is not it may vote in person or by one or more liable to holders of shares with preferred Our people 37 proxies.
Where he, she or it appoints more or pari passu rights for losses arising from than one proxy, the proxies appointed Going concern 95 the payment of interim or fixed dividends by him, her or it taken together shall not on other shares.
All dividends shall be Viability Statement 35 have more extensive voting rights than the apportioned and paid pro rata according to member could exercise in person.
LongTerm Incentive Plans 115 the amounts paid up on the shares.
Statement of the amount of 111 and In the case of joint holders of a share, the Dividend waivers interest capitalised 112 vote of the senior holder who tenders a The trustee of the Royal Mail Share Incentive vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall Dividend waiver 81 Plan will not receive any dividends other be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of than any special dividend declared by the the other joint holders and, for this purpose, Board on Free Shares which it has not been seniority shall be determined by the order possible to award to, or which have been Disclosure and in which the names stand in the register in forfeited by, participants in the plan.
respect of the joint holding.
TransparencyRules Political donations The Strategic report and the Directors report No political donations were made during the No member shall be entitled to vote at any together include the management report year and the Company intends to continue its general meeting or class meeting in respect required by the Disclosure and Transparency policy of not making such donations for the of any share held by him, her or it if any call Rules DTR4.1 of the UK Financial Conduct foreseeable future.
or other sum then payable by him, her or it Authority Disclosure and Transparency in respect of that share remains unpaid or if Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 81 Royal Mail plc | Directors report a member has been served with a restriction set out in the uncertificated securities rules Substantial shareholdings notice as defined in the Articles after failure as defined in the Articles and where, As at 27 March 2016, the Company had been to provide the Company with information in the case of a transfer to joint holders, notified, in accordance with the Disclosure concerning interests in those shares required the number of joint holders to whom the and Transparency Rules, of the following to be provided under the Companies Act uncertificated share is to be transferred interests amounting to three per cent or 2006.
Currently, all issued shares are exceeds four.
more of the voting rights in the issued fully paid.
ordinary share capital of the Company: Authority of the Directors to allot shares % of Voting instructions may be submitted By a resolution passed by shareholders on Number of Shareholder voting shares electronically at www.
co. uk by 23 July 2015, at the AGM, the Directors were rights following the online instructions.
authorised subject to certain limitations to BlackRock, Inc 55,076,360 5.50% allot shares in the Company and to grant Employees allocated Free Shares under the rights to subscribe for or to convert any Employee Free Shares Offer, which are held security into shares in the Company: As at 18 May 2016, the Company had been in trust by the Trustee of the Royal Mail Share notified, in accordance with the Disclosure a. up to a nominal amount of Incentive Plan, are entitled to exercise any and Transparency Rules, of the following 3,333,333: and voting rights in respect of such Free Shares interests amounting to three per cent or by instructing the Trustee how to vote on b. comprising equity securities up to a more of the voting rights in the issued their behalf.
nominal amount of 6,666,666 such ordinary share capital of the Company: amount to be reduced by any allotments % of Deadline for voting rights made under paragraph a above in Number of Shareholder voting shares Full details of the deadlines for exercising connection with an offer by way of a rights voting rights in respect of the resolutions rights issue: 55,076,360 BlackRock, Inc 5.50% to be considered at the AGM to be held on The authorities conferred on the Directors to 21 July 2016 will be set out in the Notice of allot securities under paragraph a and b Annual General Meeting.
Amendment to the Companys will expire on the date of the 2016 AGM or Articles of Association Special rights on 31 July 2016, whichever is sooner, the There are no persons holding securities that Expiry Date.
The Directors will be seeking a Any amendments to the Companys Articles carry special rights with regard to the control new authority for the Directors to allot shares may be made in accordance with the of the Group.
and to grant subscription and conversion provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way rights to ensure that the Directors continue to of special resolution.
Transfer of shares have the flexibility to act in the best interests Subject to the Articles, any member may of shareholders when opportunities arise by Indemnity of Directors transfer all or any of his or her certificated issuing new shares or granting such rights.
To the extent permitted by the Companies shares by an instrument of transfer in any Acts, the Company may indemnify any usual form or in any other form which the The Board was also given authority to allot Director or former Director of the Company Board may approve.
The instrument of equity securities for cash or to sell Ordinary or any associated company against any transfer must be signed by or on behalf of the Shares as treasury shares for cash subject liability and may purchase and maintain transferor and in the case of a partlypaid to certain limitations, such authority to apply for any Director or former Director of the share the transferee.
Company or any associated company The transferor of a share is deemed to remain insurance against any liability.
the holder until the transferees name is Purchase of own shares by the Company entered in the register.
By a resolution passed by shareholders on These types of indemnity are qualifying 23 July 2015, at the AGM, the Company was thirdparty indemnities as defined by section The Board can decline to register any transfer authorised to purchase up to a maximum 243 of the Companys Act 2006.
No amount of any share which is not a fully paid share.
number of 100,000,000 of its Ordinary Shares was paid under this provision during the year.
The Board may also decline to register a pursuant to certain limitations, such power transfer of a certificated share unless the to apply until the Expiry Date.
The Company Appointment and replacement of instrument of transfer: did not repurchase any of its Ordinary Shares Directors i. is duly stamped or certified or otherwise during the year ended 27 March 2016.
Unless otherwise determined by ordinary shown to the satisfaction of the Board resolution of the Company, the Directors to be exempt from stamp duty and is The Directors require express authorisation shall be no fewer than two and no more than accompanied by the relevant share from shareholders to purchase our own 15 in number.
certificate and such other evidence of shares.
Accordingly, at the 2016 AGM, the the right to transfer as the Board may Directors will seek authority to make market Following privatisation, Directors may now reasonably require: purchases of up to a maximum of ten per be appointed by the Company by ordinary cent of issued share capital.
is in respect of only one class of share: and resolution or by the Board.
time the Company has no plans to exercise iii.
if to joint transferees, is in favour of not this authority.
In accordance with the Code, all more than four such transferees.
Directors of the Company are subject to Employee Benefit Trust Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated annualreelection.
As at 27 March 2016 a total of 27,042 share may be refused in the circumstances 201415 40,935 shares were held by the EBT on behalf of the Company.
82 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information A Director appointed by the Board holds Events after the reporting period rating downgrade in certain circumstances, office only until the next AGM and is then On 31 March 2016, Royal Mail Group Limited the noteholders may require the Company to eligible for election by the shareholders.
RMG, the main operating subsidiary of Royal redeem or, at the Companys option, purchase TheCompanys Articles provide that, at each Mail plc, acquired the 49 per cent of shares the notes for their principal amount, together AGM, all those Directors who have been in in Romec that it did not already own, from with interest accrued to but excluding the date office at the time of the two preceding AGMs ENGIE formerly Cofely Workplace Limited, of redemption or repurchase.
and who did not retire at either of them, or making RMG the sole shareholder of Romec.
who have held office with the Company, other The financial terms of the acquisition are not Branches than employment or executive office, for a considered by Management to be material in As a global group, our interests and continuous period of nine years or more at the context of the Group as awhole.
activities are held or operated through the date of the AGM, shall retire from office subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements and may offer themselves for reappointment Please see Note 27 on page 135 for further or associates which are established in, and by shareholders.
The Board has, however, detail about the payment of the fine levied by subject to the laws and regulations of, many decided to follow the Code as referred to the French Competition Authority Autorit fide different jurisdictions.
above so that all Directors are subject to la Concurrence.
New products and services Financial risk management In the ordinary course of business the Group In addition to any power of removal conferred The Groups financial risk management develops new products and services in each by the Companies Act, the Company may by objectives and policies and the main risks of its business units.
special resolution remove any Director before arising from the Groups financial assets and the expiration of his or her period of office.
liabilities are summarised in note 21 to the Environmental social and accounts on page 120.
See the financial risks governance risks Directors and their interests and related hedging contained on page 29 of The Strategic Report, together with The Directors of the Company during the the Financial Review in the Strategic Report.
greenhouse gas GHG emissions which year are given on pages 4345.
Details of are located on page 40, set out key the interest of the Directors and, where Change of control environmental, social and governance ESG applicable, their Connected Persons in The following agreements contain provisions risks faced by the business.
the Ordinary Shares of the Company and permitting exercise of termination or other of LongTerm Incentive Plan Awards over rights in the event of a change of control: The Board identifies and assesses Ordinary Shares of the Company are set out significant risks, including those relating in the Directors remuneration report on The Mails Distribution Agreement with Post to ESG matters, through the maintenance pages6080.
Office Limited provides for the supply of and review of the Group Risk Profile.
This certain services to the Group and allows for contains significant current risks, including There are procedures in place to deal with a request for renegotiation of terms in the ESG risks, which are identified at an early any conflicts of interest and these have event of a change of control of either party stage of becoming known as part of the operated effectively.
where such change of control is likely to have longterm business perspective.
Emerging a material adverse effect on the party not risk identification is conducted by experts Powers of the Directors undergoing the change of control.
in the business and risk management is The business of the Company will be owned and managed at the operational managed by the Board who may exercise all The Outsourcing Agreement with CSC level, supported centrally.
An independent the powers of the Company, subject to the Computer Sciences Limited covers the effectiveness review by an independent provisions of the Articles, the Companies provision of a wide range of IT goods and external auditor confirmed good links Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of services and allows for termination of the between the strategy of the Company and the Company.
agreement by either party on a change of currently identified risks and that appropriate control of the other in certain circumstances.
importance is placed on risk management by Directors annual bonus and executives within the Group.
The Company The Services Agreement with British LongTerm Incentive Plan awards maintains a range of policies and procedures Telecommunications plc BT allows upon a change in the control for managing business risks, which include BT to terminate the agreement on a ofthe Company ESGrelated matters.
change of control of Royal Mail to one of Upon a change of control of the Company, BTs competitors.
The Board annually reviews the Companys share awards under the annual bonus and Corporate Responsibility report, which covers vesting under the 2014 LTIP arrangements The Syndicated Loan Facility with various in detail the Groups nonfinancial ESG could pay out on a prorated basis if the financial institutions provides the Group performance.
The report is prepared in performance conditions have been met.
with a revolving credit facility for general alignment with the reporting framework of The performancetesting period would corporate and working capital purposes.
The the Global Reporting Initiative Index and the automatically end on the date of the agreement contains provision on a change Companys performance is assessed against change in control.
Under the 2011 LTIP of control of the Group for negotiation of the international sustainability indices.
arrangements, awards granted more than continuation of the agreement or cancellation TheCompany reports progress against 12 months prior to a change in control by a lender.
corporate responsibility objectives under five would not be prorated.
Awards granted less areas: Customer, People, Community, than 12 months prior to a change in control The 500 million bond issued by the Company Suppliers andEnvironment.
See also would typically be prorated, unless the in July 2014 contains provisions such that, on a pages3741 forasummary of key corporate Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
change of control that is combined with a credit responsibility aspects.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 83 Royal Mail plc | Directors report Going concern knowledge and information available at the for the parent Company financial These consolidated financial statements have date of preparation of this Annual Report statements, state whether applicable UK been prepared on a going concern basis.
and financial statements and the Company Accounting Standards have been followed, The financial performance and position of undertakes no obligation to update these subject to any material departures the Group, its cash flows and its approach forwardlooking statements.
Nothing in disclosed and explained in the parent to capital management are set out in the this Annual Report and financial statements Company financial statements: and Financial review on pages 2531.
The Board should be construed as a profit forecast.
has reviewed the Groups projections for the prepare the financial statements on next 12 months and the Directors have a By Order of the Board the going concern basis unless it is reasonable expectation that the Group has inappropriate to presume that the Group adequate resources to continue in operational and the parent Company will continue existence for at least 12 months.
Viability Statement The Directors are responsible for keeping The Viability Statement can be viewed on Kulbinder Dosanjh adequate accounting records that are page 35 of the Strategic Report.
Company Secretary sufficient to show and explain the parent 18 May 2016 Companys transactions and disclose Audit information with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Directors confirm that, so far as Royal Mail plc financial position of the parent Company they are aware, there is no relevant audit 100 Victoria Embankment and enable them to ensure that its financial information as defined in section 418 of the London statements comply with the Companies Companies Act 2006 of which the Auditor EC4Y OHQ Act 2006.
They have general responsibility is unaware and that each Director has taken for taking such steps as are reasonably all reasonable steps to make themselves Company number 08680755 open to them to safeguard the assets of the aware of any relevant audit information Group and to prevent and detect fraud and and to establish that the auditor is aware of Statement of Directors otherirregularities.
responsibilities in respect of the Under applicable law and regulations, the Annual Report and Financial The Directors confirm full compliance with Directors are also responsible for preparing Statements the Competition and Markets Authoritys a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Statutory Audit Services Order.
A full The Directors are responsible for preparing Directors remuneration report and Corporate competitive audit tender was undertaken the Annual Report and the Group and parent Governance Statement that complies with in 2014, which resulted in KPMG LLP being Company financial statements in accordance that law and those regulations.
appointed in place of Ernst & Young LLP.
with applicable law and regulations.
Further information about the audit transition The Directors are responsible for the can be found on page 52 of the Audit and Risk Company law requires the Directors to maintenance and integrity of the corporate Committee Report.
prepare Group and parent Company financial and financial information included on the statements for each financial year.
Legislation in the UK This confirmation is given and should be law they are required to prepare the Group governing the preparation and dissemination interpreted in accordance with the provisions financial statements in accordance with of financial statements may differ from of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable legislation in other jurisdictions.
law and have elected to prepare the parent Disclaimer Company financial statements in accordance Each of the Directors, whose names and The purpose of this Annual Report with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS function are set out on pages 4345 confirm and financial statements is to provide 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
that, to the best of their knowledge: informationto the members of the Company.
The Annual Report and financial statements Under company law the Directors must not the financial statements, which have been have been prepared for, and only for, the approve the financial statements unless they prepared in accordance with the applicable members of the Company, as a body, and no are satisfied that they give a true and fair set of accounting standards, give a true other persons.
The Company, its Directors view of the state of affairs of the Group and and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and employees, agents or advisers, do parent Company and of their profit or loss for financial position and profit or loss of the not accept or assume responsibility to any that period.
In preparing each of the Group Company and the undertakings included in other person to whom this document is and parent Company financial statements, the consolidation taken as a whole: and shown or into whose hands it may come the Directors are required to: and any such responsibility or liability is the Strategic report includes a fair review expressly disclaimed.
select suitable accounting policies and of the development and performance then apply them consistently: of the business and the position of the The Annual Report and financial statements Company and the undertakings included contain certain forwardlooking statements make judgements and estimates that are in the consolidation taken as a whole, with respect to the operations, performance reasonable and prudent: together with a description of the principal and financial condition of the Group.
By their risks and uncertainties that they face.
nature, these statements involve uncertainty, for the Group financial statements, state since future events and circumstances whether they have been prepared in can cause results and developments to accordance with IFRS as adopted by theEU: differ materially from those anticipated.
The forwardlooking statements reflect 84 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Royal Mail plc 86 Consolidated income statement 89 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 90 Consolidated balance sheet 91 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 92 Consolidated statement of cash flows 93 Core notes to the financial statements 1.
Retirement benefit plans 105 Other notes to the financial statements 11.
Investments in associates and joint venture 113 15.
Assets and liabilities held for sale 116 17.
Current trade and other receivables 117 18.
Current trade and other payables 118 20.
Financial assets and liabilities and risk management 120 22.
Events after the reporting year 135 28.
Related undertakings of Royal Mail plc 136 Significant accounting policies 138 Royal Mail plc parent Company financial statements 148 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 85
