RPC Group Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report MARKETPLACE The total global packaging market was worth an wastage, or adding convenience to the end user Lightweighting reducing the weight of plastic estimated $839bn in 2015 and the wide variety of whilst standing out on the shelf.
applications while maintaining the same packaging requirements has led to many different technical performance: RPCs packaging solutions make an important solutions.
Multiple applications for packaging contribution to preserving products and reducing Incorporating post-consumer recycled material and end uses, together with a need for regional waste.
By using innovative multilayer packaging, PCR into PP, HDPE and PET containers which tailoring, drive a high level of variation.
It therefore we ensure that products have a prolonged shelf diverts used plastic from landfill or incineration: follows that there is no single driver of the trends life.
This helps to reduce the energy demands on observed in the market place which is expected Material substitution the lightweight nature of refrigeration in retail and home environments due togrow by 3.5% to $998bn by 2020. plastics provides a low carbon, robust, reliable to the product being able to be stored under and safe alternative to some traditional materials: RPC serves the market with innovative products ambient conditions.
It also ensures food remains manufactured from rigid plastic.
Rigid plastic fresh on the shelf reducing spoilage and the high Developing solutions for product protection in accounts for 21% of the packaging market and environmental impact associated with food waste.
both the food and non-food markets such as over the last five years this market has grown by extending shelf life, portion control and reducing Aside from barrier solutions for food products, 4.2% to $174bn in 2015.
This growth is expected product waste.
theGroup is also active in developments to reduce to increase to 4.4% resulting in a market size of product loss in other markets such as innovations We also continue to seek ways to further reduce $225bn in 2020, the higher growth rate driven by in the way paint is packaged to reduce product loss the environmental impact of our manufacturing market share gains by rigid plastic from glass, paper during use and storage.
Our technical prowess also operations through greater efficiencies at this stage and metal products.
extends to advanced decoration techniques through of the product lifecycle.
We look at increasing our which customers can create the most effective efficiency of manufacturing inputs such as energy DEMOGRAPHY AND brand image and product differentiation, and and water and reducing outputs such as CO and 2 LIFESTYLE TRENDS maximise consumer appeal.
We ensure that nearly As countries in emerging markets grow their all our input materials are used and the small Because of its robustness and longevity, plastic is economies and urbanise, demand is created for amount we cannot use is recycled.
the material of choice for the creation of reliable basic packaging predominantly fresh, chilled and long-lasting transport and storage solutions.
RPC has developed a number of packs which provide baked goods, as distances between producers a lighter weight and safer alternative to heavier and consumers grow and products require both SUSTAINABILITY AND materials for applications such as sauces, baby protection and longer shelf lives from the shift in ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES food and catering ingredients.
More than 50% of consumption towards a developing retail sector.
all products manufactured in Europe are packed One of the key drivers of change has been the The rise of smaller households in the developed in plastics.
According to weight, however, plastics increasing importance attached to the environment world is driving demand for smaller, re-sealable account for only 17% of the total of packaging and sustainability.
This has led to consumers and convenient packaging, including prepared materials used.
The use of plastic for packaging demanding that products can not only be food which is ready to eat.
The aging population can reduce the environmental impacts by reducing recycled, but that legislation requires that they is fuelling demand for easier to open packaging resource consumption, reducing carbon footprint should be.
It also ensures optimisation of the as well as that with a traditional look and feel.
in comparison to heavier packaging and improving products carbon footprint across the whole supply Not only are consumers demanding convenient transport impacts.
Packaging is key to lowering a products products, but healthy products too.
This has led environmental impact by: increasing shelf life thus to innovative solutions being required to increase EFFICIENCY IN SUPPLY reducing waste, presenting products in portion product life and reduce the usage of preservatives.
CHAINS sizes or resealable packaging also reducing waste, Legislation on the use of additives is also driving lightweighting of packaging reducing transportation Cost optimisation is increasingly important, further innovation as consumers still demand long shelf costs, recyclability of packaging and use of recycled driving the lightweighting of packaging and reducing lives.
Retailers and consumers in mature markets materials in new packaging achieving lower the amount of packaging required by combining are also becoming more sophisticated in their emissions and waste.
This requires demands resulting in the design of a products the packaging to both be stronger and to be shelf packaging becoming an increasingly important Our response display ready.
At RPC we are committed to incorporating Retailing is changing as online sales take share sustainability into our overall business strategy Our response from traditional bricks-and-mortar propositions.
and to helping our customers achieve their Key to RPCs customer proposition is design This shift necessitates packaging to be more environmental goals.
Our 24 design and engineering robust for transportation and reusable for any innovation centres are experienced in understanding Since our inception we have been constantly returns.
Products are sent in smaller, often customers needs and fashioning them into finished developing innovative solutions that provide individual, packaging rather than bulk packaged products.
Since 2012 over 50 of our products have sustainability benefits for our own direct operations, to sales outlets.
Online penetration also results in either won awards or been finalists and many our customers and our supply chain.
Some of our products reaching a more international audience.
of the new products we have developed such as initiatives include: Producers are therefore expecting packaging to TM SuperLock, LongLife, AirFree and Slidissime be consistent across all geographies they serve, are aimed at either prolonging product life, reducing reducing regional differences.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 These changes include: Our response TECHNICAL COMPONENTS The Groups strategy to increase its scale demand for packaging that is consistent across The key driver for growth in technical components through organic growth and acquisitions has many markets: is innovation and the provision of our product resulted in polymer purchases growing from and process engineering skills to selected niche the cost of investment for innovation: 300kt to 610kt per annum since the launch of markets.
It draws on our design and engineering Vision 2020, further extending opportunities for capabilities in the packaging marketplace, but constant pressures to optimise costs resulting procurement optimisation.
focuses on products and markets requiring higher from a competitive retail environment: added value.
Having in-house mould making RPC has managed to reduce the weight of its input material cost volatility and supply issues enables our packaging and non-packaging products across all manufacturing processes favouring larger companies with power to hedge: businesses to control technically challenging through significant innovation investments in customer projects with strict product specifications lower growth rates in the developed world: tooling, process changes and machinery alongside and maintains cutting-edge knowledge within developments in materials.
This has been achieved an ability to follow customers globally as the Group.
By increasing the range of products whilst maintaining the technical capability customers themselves consolidate and globalise: manufactured from polymer, scale advantage from delivering enhanced sustainability benefits while and increased purchases can be achieved.
ensuring our products are still fit for purpose.
increasingly sophisticated packaging solutions Our response Our footprint of over 130 operations across 29 requiring several manufacturing processes.
countries allows us to provide global solutions to The purchase of Ace in 2014 provided the Group It follows that the opportunities for consolidation all customers whether they serve global, regional with an award winning, industry leading, mould are significant.
manufacturer as its preferred in-house mould supplier.
It allows the Group to undertake more The acquisition of Promens extended the Groups Our response complex, technically demanding projects combined geographical reach outside Europe with operations Since the launch of the Vision 2020: Focused with reduced time to market for customers.
It also in Canada, Russia, Tunisia, and China and the Growth Strategy in 2013 RPC has completed enhances our competitive price offering due to the addition of GCS further extends this to Mexico, 9 transactions ranging in size from bolt-on reduced reliance on third party mould manufacture Thailand and the Philippines.
This has resulted in businesses with one manufacturing site to and the associated costs.
the Group now having the capability outside of transformational acquisitions of groups with 40 Following the acquisitions of Promens and Strata, Europe to extend production to new geographies sites and global coverage.
These acquisitions have RPC has increased its technical components when requested and we are currently constructing added 76 manufacturing sites across 13 countries offering with leading positions in certain niche two new greenfield manufacturing sites in Brazil increasing employees by over 12,000.
The synergies technologies such as rotational moulding, and China for customers.
The rigid plastic packaging arising from these deals have added over 13p reaction injection moulding and vacuum forming.
market is forecast to grow by 5.2% outside Europe.
of EPS to the results of the Group.
RPC remains Rotational moulding is for the manufacture of In this area RPCs sales have increased from 158m disciplined in its allocation of capital with over 100 hollow items and largely serves the materials to 218m through the effect of acquisitions such as potential deals having been rejected as not fulfilling handling and agricultural markets.
It is ideal for Promens and Ace combined with the strong organic the strict acquisition criteria we have in place.
large, strong containers with hygienic applications growth from our US platform.
We maintain a good pipeline of opportunities, or handling hazardous materials, often in both large and small, and expect further growth intermediate bulk containers.
RPC has leading COMPETITIVE through acquisitions.
positions in the niche fish handling market based ENVIRONMENT RPCs increased scale allows expansion to new in northern Europe and North America, around The top 7 global rigid plastic suppliers represent markets through greenfield opportunities as the north Atlantic fishing fleets.
Reaction injection only 10% of the global market due to the industry well as through acquisition.
We are currently moulding and vacuum forming are used in the being immature in most parts of the world, largely undertaking the construction of two greenfield specialty vehicles business, supplying parts ranging founded and developed during the 1960s and opportunities both originated by existing customers from complex interior & exterior plastic components 1970s.
These companies typically concentrated entering into new geographical markets.
Thanks to for the heavy truck industry to body panels for heavy on serving a particular geography and market with our knowledge and expertise in the four main construction machinery to fuel tanks.
a specific conversion technology resulting in a processing technologies we can offer a conceptfragmented supply chain with many small, local Our Asia precision engineering platform allows to-production solution that combines whichever and regional packaging producers.
As they seek to us to supply high value, co-engineered products technologies best suit the customers needs.
pass their business to the next generation the new which draw on our mould-making capability.
managers have to decide whether to invest to cope It allows the Group to supply high quality metallised with changes in the market or divest.
finishes, required for premium products, and reduces our reliance on third party purchases ofelectroplated parts.
