Royal Mail plc | Our business model Our business model Our business model leverages our resources and relationships e. g. our networks, people and brand to deliver high-quality, value for money services for customers wanting to send and receive letters and parcels.
In our core network, we benefit when we deliver letters and parcels together making themost of the Universal Service network and providing services at the lowest possible cost.
ParcelforceWorldwide provides more parcel fulfilment options particularly for business customers.
OurEuropean business, GLS, provides geographical diversification of our earnings and exposure to markets where revenues are growing above GDP.
GLS' experience and focus on parcel delivery means it is a core component of Royal Mails vision of being recognised as the best delivery company in the UK and across Europe.
Through this, we generate cash flow to pay dividends to our shareholders, and reinvest in our business to generate sustainable growth over time.
Resources and relationships We focus on delivering our customers expectations in the most efficient way possible, maximising the funds available to reinvest in the business and to pay progressive dividends to shareholders.
Our networks As the Universal Service Provider, Royal Mail has the capability to visit every address in the UK, delivering letters and parcels.
Through our longterm relationship with the Post Office, we have the largest retail network for parcels and letters.
We are using our footprint to increase collection and delivery options for our customers.
For example, we are making returns easier with Local Collect, the largest UK click and collect network.
Parcelforce Worldwide, our express delivery business, provides additional fulfilment options and is a leading provider of express parcel services.
GLS, one of the largest European groundbased delivery networks, offers reliable, highquality parcel services across Europe, complemented by logistics and express services.
Our people We are proud to be a responsible employer, with a total workforce of around 156,000.
One in 175 working people in the 1 UK is employed by Royal Mail.
This number increases when we look at disadvantaged regions where jobs are scarce.
Weare also committed to ensuring that our workforce reflects the communities we serve.
We were pleased to have been named in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women 2015 for our commitment to gender equality in the workplace.
We have been named as the global sustainability leader of the Transportation and Transportation Infrastructure Industry in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the second year running.
Our customers and our brand We have a very broad customer base.
In the UK, our role as the Universal Service provider means we are able to deliver to more than 29 million businesses and consumers.
GLS, our European business, has more than 220,000 customers across 41 European countries and nation states.
Our brand helps define our culture: it shapes the experiences our customers have with us and it is a unique reflection of who we 2 are.
We are the UKs most trusted delivery company.
The trust that our stakeholders place in our people to deliver the Universal Service is down to the continuous dedication of our postmen and women across the UK.
At the 2015 World Branding Awards, 3 wewere named as a national brand of the year.
Investment in our business In 201516, we invested a net 656 million, of which 253 million was in areas to support growth.
We also spent 18 million on targeted investments mainly to enhance our IT capability.
1 Cebr research, conducted for Royal Mail in May 2016 2 Delivery Matters, 2015 3 Royal Mail winner in LogisticsPostal Services category: https: awards.
org brands royalmail 14 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Inputs Continually improving our efficiency and productivity allows us to be more competitive.
This helps us to meet changing customer needs, which means we can grow our existing customer relationships and win new business.
This in turn allows us to maintain financial flexibility to fund investment in our growth and maintain our fair terms and conditions to ensure we continue to employ engaged and motivated people.
Outputs Continuing to deliver a highquality, Continually improving efficiency Maintaining financial flexibility  Continuing to deliver efficiency improvements Since 201213, we have invested Universal Service, and and meet our productivity targets.
approximately 1.3 billion designed to grow therefore maintaining our and make the business more effective.
Rolling out parcel sorting machines to gather better management information and identify Over the same time period, net debt has Delivering a consistently efficiency opportunities.
reduced by around 700 million, providing highquality, flexible theheadroom to invest further as service to grow existing Getting paid fairly for what we do through opportunities arise.
relationships, win new using new technologies, like Mailmark and business and make sure 2D barcodes.
Over 70 scoped and resourced projects across we are fairly paid for UKPIL are targeted to avoid around 500 Nationwide review of national and regional ourservices.
routes to help us reduce mileage.
Driving the generation Targeted cost reduction through streamlined of cash to support delivery process and network optimisation progressivedividends for in GLS.
Continuing to invest in our business and our people, through effective management of our Meeting changing customer needs Engaged, motivated people financial resources, Offering later acceptance times and Increasing employee engagement and including a strategic focus openingup our network for longer, alignment through initiatives like our Together on costs.
Over 6,000 managers and union representatives have taken part.
Demonstrating the value of letters through our MarketReach business and campaigns.
Continuing to provide marketleading rewards and fair terms and conditions to our people.
Investment in innovative B2C delivery solutions in GLS.
In total, each eligible fulltime employee has received a maximum of 832 Free Shares in ourCompany.
Investing in our business and our people Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 15
