Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016.
This Annual Report 2016 has been prepared solely for RPC Group Plcs shareholders.
The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept responsibility to any other person and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report contains forward-looking statements, which have been made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them up to the time of its approval: and should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, underlying such forward-looking information.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements and nothing in the Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Information on acquisitions and disposals is given in the Strategic Report and in notes 26 and 27 to the financial statements.
SHARE CAPITAL The Company had 303,612,870 ordinary 5p shares in issue at 31 March 2016.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
On 20 January 2016, the Company issued 50,582,528 ordinary shares by way of a 1 for 5 rights issue at a price of 460p per share under an authority given to the directors at a general meeting of shareholders held on 4 January 2016.
The proceeds of the rights issue were 227.5m net of costs of 5.2m and used to partly fund the acquisition of Global Closure Systems.
The shares issued under the rights issue rank pari passu with the other shares in issue.
Full details of the Companys issued share capital together with the rights, obligations and restrictions attaching to the shares are set out in note 25 to the financial statements.
DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of 5.2p 4.8p restated per ordinary share was paid on 26 January 2016.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 12.3p per ordinary share to be paid on 2 September 2016, subject to approval at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, to shareholders on the register on 12 August 2016 making the total dividend for the year 17.1p restated 2015 restated: 14.3p per share.
Full details of dividends in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016 are given in note 8 to the financial statements.
FINANCING The Groups policy is to finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits, equity and borrowings.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
The main risks arising from the Groups borrowings are market risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks.
The policies, which have been applied throughout the year, are set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS Details of those directors of the Company who served during the financial year and at the date of this Annual Report can be found in the corporate governance report on pages 46 to 53.
Ilona Haaijer and Stephan Rojahn left the Board on 13 May and 15 July 2015 respectively whilst Heike van fide Kerkhof was appointed to the Board on 24 November 2015.
There have been no further changes to the Board since 31 March 2016 up to the date of this Annual report.
Biographical details of the directors are given on page 44 to 45 and the Boards recommendations for their re-election are given in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM.
A performance evaluation is conducted for all directors prior to recommendation for re-appointment or re-election.
Further information on the appointment, re-election and performance evaluation of directors is given in the Corporate Governance Report.
None of the directors had any interest in any contracts of significance, other than their service contracts, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Full details of the interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company of those directors holding office on 31 March 2016, including any interest of a connected person, are set out in the directors remuneration report.
POWERS OF DIRECTORS The powers of the directors are contained in the Articles which may only be amended by resolution passed by the shareholders at a general meeting in accordance with the relevant legislation.
The Articles give powers to the directors to authorise the issue of shares and for the Company to buy back its shares, subject to authority being given to the directors by the shareholders in general meeting and the relevant legislation.
Resolutions to authorise the directors to exercise these powers are put to shareholders at each AGM.
RPC Group Plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT continued DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Board has provided qualifying third-party indemnities to the Companys directors and agreed to provide funds to meet costs incurred defending civil or criminal proceedings in accordance with legislation and the Articles.
The directors are not indemnified against damages awarded to the Company itself, defence costs where the defence is unsuccessful in the case of liabilities owed to the Company, criminal fines, fines by regulators or the legal costs of successful criminal proceedings against the directors.
Defence costs arising from actions brought by third parties, may, subject to certain exclusions, be paid by the Company even if judgement goes against the director.
The indemnities provided to the directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 31 March 2016 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the DTR of the FCA, of notifiable voting rights in its issued share capital or had received disclosures pursuant to the CA 2006 of shareholding interest in excess of 3% of its share capital as follows.
With the exception of AXA Investment Managers SA all notifications were received before the rights issue on 20 January 2016 and those marked prior to the rights issue on 8 January 2015, the placing of 12,500,000 shares on 7 May 2014 and the issue of 8,509,841 Consideration Shares on 2 June 2014: Date of Number % of issued Update notification of shares share capital AXA Investment Managers SA 22 January 2016 28,361,991 9.35 Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 11 June 2015 15,394,142 7.42 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 29 May 2015 12,574,347 4.99 Ameriprise Financial Inc 10 June 2015 12,451,726 4.94 Aberforth Partners LLP 16 May 2014 8,232,273 4.94 SVG Investment Managers Ltd 14 April 2011 7,375,919 4.57 Legal & General Group PLC 1 May 2013 6,013,470 3.62 Aviva plc 20 November 2015 5,738,999 3.46 SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Some commercial agreements with customers and suppliers allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the agreement in these circumstances.
The Companys 770m multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement RCF contains a change of control clause whereby a participating bank may cancel its commitment and require the Company to prepay outstanding loans and interest.
The same change of control terms apply to the 60m bilateral term loan.
In addition, a holder of the US$216m or 60m seven year or 10 year notes issued in the US Private Placement market under the terms of the note purchase agreement has the option to redeem any note at 100% of its principal amount together with interest accrued in the event of a change of control.
There are no change of control provisions in directors service contracts.
There are provisions for the vesting of share options and awards in certain circumstances in the event of a change in control under the rules of the Companys employee share-based payment schemes.
QUALIFYING PENSION SCHEME INDEMNITY An associated company, RPC Containers Limited, has granted a qualifying pension scheme indemnity in a form permitted by the 2006 Act to the directors of RPC Containers Pension Trustees Limited, which is the Trustee of the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme.
The indemnity was in force during the financial year and up to the date of this report.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Groups research and development activities ensure that it stays at the forefront of rigid plastic packaging technology and innovation with regards to design, functionality, aesthetics and specification with particular attention to weight reduction and the incorporation of recycled materials.
Expenditure on research and development for the year ended 31 March 2016 can be found in note 3 to the financial statements.
EMPLOYEES The Group continues to recognise the benefit of both effective communication with employees and achieving a common awareness on the part of employees of the financial performance and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Both individual site and Group wide meetings are held at which employees and management are present and at which key aspects of the Groups activities, performance and other matters of interest to employees are reviewed.
Employee participation is further encouraged through share ownership and share option schemes which provide employees with a direct stake in the growth and prosperity of the business.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 The Group aims to provide clear and fair terms and conditions of employment and remuneration wherever it operates.
The Board does not tolerate any sexual, physical or mental harassment of its employees.
It promotes equal opportunities for all present and potential employees and does not discriminate on grounds of colour, ethnic origin, age, gender, race, religion, political or other opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
Information on gender diversity within the Group can be found in the Strategic report on page 43.
The Groups policy is to recruit disabled workers for those vacancies they are able to fill.
When existing employees suffer disablement, every effort is made to retain them in the workforce wherever reasonable and practicable.
Disabled staff have the same opportunities as other employees so far as training, career development and promotion are concerned.
Further information on ethics, communication, training and development in respect of the Groups employees is included in the Corporate responsibility report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The corporate governance statement on compliance with the Code, and information on how RPC has applied the Main Principles of the Code in accordance with the Listing Rules and sections 7.1 and 7.2 of the DTR of the FCA and other corporate governance matters, can be found in the corporate governance report on pages 46 to 53 which is incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
STRATEGIC REPORT AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Information concerning likely future developments, greenhouse gas emissions, environmental matters, business ethics, health and safety, employees, customers, suppliers and the community is contained in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 31 and the Corporate responsibility report on pages 36 to 43.
DISCLOSURE REQUIRED UNDER LISTING RULE 9.8.
4R The following table is included to meet the requirements of LR 9.8.
The information required to be disclosed by that section, where applicable to the Company, can be located in the Annual Report at the references set out below: Arrangements under which a shareholder LR 9.8.
DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Operating Review on pages 26 to 31 and the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 24 to 25.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 32 to 35.
In addition, note 22 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing commercial arrangements with a number of customers, suppliers and funding providers across different geographical regions and industry sectors.
The Groups forecasts and projections show that it is able to operate within the level of its current banking and private placement facilities.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period at least 12 months from the date of approval of this Annual report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual report and financial statements.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the directors have assessed the Groups prospects and viability.
As part of its deliberations the Board undertook a review of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties facing the Group, how they are managed and the actions that could be taken to mitigate their effect or avoid them altogether.
The resulting disclosures, which include those risks that could threaten the Groups business model, performance, solvency and liquidity are shown on pages 24 to 25 of the Annual report.
The Board believes the Group is well placed to manage those risks successfully and has determined that the three years to 31 March 2019 is an appropriate time frame for the viability statement as this is aligned with the time frame currently adopted in the Groups strategic plan.
This alignment enables management and the Board to have sufficient, realistic visibility on the commercial and financial assumptions required to undertake this assessment, as it is considered an appropriate period over which to consider customer, consumer and product trends and in which time the Group could react to any changes in current business assumptions.
RPC Group Plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT continued The strategic plan reflects the directors best estimate of the future prospects of the business.
The plan has been flexed by overlaying the potential financial impact of a number of scenarios over and above those included in the plan.
These scenarios are based on aspects of some of the key Principal Risks and Uncertainties, namely lack of market growth, loss of major customers, pricing pressures, polymer price increases, failure to realise synergies on acquisitions, foreign exchange risks and lack of access to funding.
The scenarios were tested against these risks individually and in likely combinations, such as an economic crisis or in specific adverse market conditions.
In some cases the results took into account the availability and likely effectiveness of mitigating actions, including flexing the cost base and reducing planned capital expenditure and dividends where the realisation of these risk events would likely permit these actions.
The scenarios tested represented severe but plausible circumstances that the Group could experience.
The results of this stress testing showed that the Group would be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios without affecting the Groups ability to continue trading within its current borrowing facilities.
Based upon the assessment undertaken, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 March 2019. INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING Both the Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES A statement by the directors on their responsibilities in respect of the Annual report and the financial statements is given on page 81 and a statement by the auditor on their responsibilities is given on pages 82 to 87.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES The CA 2006 and the Articles permit shareholders to give authority to the Company to purchase its own shares.
The current authority, approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, permits the Company to purchase 25.2m of its own shares 10% of the then issued share capital.
No shares have been purchased or contracts made to purchase shares by the Company during the year or since 31 March 2016 up to the date of this report.
The directors are seeking to renew this authority to purchase up to 30.4m of the Companys own shares 10% of the issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The 2016 AGM will be held on Wednesday 13th July 2016 at 11.00am.
The Notice of the Companys AGM and related explanatory notes are included after the financial statements.
In accordance with the Code, all the directors are submitting themselves for election or re-election.
Further information is given under the Directors heading in this report.
Authority to Issue Shares The Board is recommending proposals to renew the directors authority to allot shares up to one-third of issued share capital and for authority to allot an additional one third of issued share capital in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of rights issue to existing shareholders.
Following the publication of the Pre-Emption Group 2015 Statement of Principles for the disapplication of pre-emption rights, the Board is also recommending a special resolution to grant the directors the power to disapply pre-emption rights up to a maximum of 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
Prior to the publication of the new Statement of Principles shareholders had granted the directors the power to disapply pre-emption rights up to a maximum of 5% of issued share capital.
With regards to the additional 5%, the directors confirm that they intend to use this power only in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment within the meaning of the Statement of Principles.
The Board is also recommending a special resolution to renew the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
The Board is proposing a special resolution to continue to enable the directors to call a general meeting that is not an annual general meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Further information on these resolutions is given in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM.
AUDITOR In accordance with section 489 of the CA 2006 and the recommendation of the Audit Committee a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the re-appointment of  LLP as auditor of the Company.
By order of the Board N Giles Company Secretary 2 June 2016
