RPC Group Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report ACQUISITIONS IN THE YEAR The Group has continued to build on its strong Having attractive market leading positions in Extending our materials handling and automotive market positions and leading product and complementary products: customer propositions: and process innovation capabilities by completing five Continuing our selective consolidation Providing platforms for future growth acquisitions during the year.
These acquisitions within Europe: and consolidation extend the Group capabilities by: Geographical extension in Eastern Europe, Americas and Asia: Innocan was acquired in May 2015 and is a Belgian based innovative supplier of PET containers for the 2 industrial and food markets.
Based in Antwerp the Locations business sells into mainland Europe with PET products which complement our existing market positions.
With sales of 8m in the year, RPC provides the business with the funding and support to grow its 8m innovative range of industrial and food containers.
Turnover Innovative and stackable PET containers for the industrial and food markets Complements our existing market positions 13 Employees Strata Products was acquired in November 2015 and is a market leading manufacturer of innovative materials 1 handling products in its chosen markets including the Location Ward and Sankey brands for the horticultural market.
Its single site in Nottinghamshire has manufacturing capabilities in injection, blow and rotational moulding combined with in-house product development 29m facilities.
It complements existing Group propositions Turnover and forms a platform for consolidation in both the storage container and garden products markets.
164 Employees DEPICTON In June 2015 certain trade and assets of Depicton, based in Market Drayton, were acquired by the Group.
These assets included the trade, stock and machinery which have been transferred and incorporated into our Beccles manufacturing site within M&H Plastics.
It specialises in flexible polyethylene tubes for personal care products such as serums, shampoos and sun screens, complementing the existing production at that site.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 Added to the Group in March 2016 and operating from two manufacturing plants, one in the Czech Republic Kyjov and one in Slovakia Prievidza, 2 JPPlast is engaged in the manufacture and Locations sale of blow moulded and injection moulded products for non-food packaging and selected non-packaging markets, largely automotive and technical components.
It is the local market 14m leader in the Czech Republic and its addition to Turnover the Group extends our presence into Eastern Europe led by its strong management team who remain with the business.
Historically it made no 300 concerted attempt to extend sales outside of the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which presents a Employees significant opportunity for RPC.
In March 2016 the Group completed the acquisition of GCS, a leading innovative global manufacturer of plastic closures and dispensing 23 systems supplying a wide range of end markets.
Locations Originally headquartered in Paris it operates 21 manufacturing sites and 2 mould-making shops across 13 countries in Europe, the Americas and Asia.
The acquisition combines two of Europes 600m leading design and engineering companies in Turnover plastic products.
It extends the Groups product reach and capabilities, enhancing its presence in the closures and dispensing systems market, where historically RPC has had a limited presence 3,000 and are highly complementary to RPCs existing Employees product offering.
Strengthens position as leading European consolidator in rigid plastic Extends global reach to a further fivecountries as well as increasing manufacturing capabilities in USA and China The enlarged platform should generate both purchasing and efficiency savings
