Strategic report RSA insights Our strategic response to a changing environment.
Response: RSAs performance gains Low growth now produce underwriting profits What: We operate in mature and stable Economic in excess of investment income markets where GDP is expected to for the first time in its history.
show modest to low growth.
Our strategy is highly Impact: This creates a competitive pricing Market volatility environment, making profitable growth influenced by economic What: Political uncertainty impacts more challenging.
financial markets, making them context, which directly significantly more volatile.
Response: RSA is focused in areas where impacts both the insurance we have strong customer franchises, Impact: Recent political developments and financial markets, with a balanced business model.
such as the UKs EU referendum and in which we operate.
We aim for quality over quantity US presidential elections have led to and seek to achieve selective significant financial market reactions, growth with cost discipline and particularly impacting foreign exchange underwriting excellence.
rates, credit spreads and interest rates.
Response: With balance sheet strength Low interest rates restored and capital optimisation in What: As a result of low inflation and progress, we have set the foundations slow economic growth, interest rates for a resilient RSA.
With over two-thirds remain at record lows.
of RSAs operating profit in non-Sterling Impact: Low interest rates means lower currencies, we are net beneficiaries investment returns putting greater of Sterling depreciation.
Digital evolution Digital disruption What: Technology is a key enabler to all What: The evolution of the Internet Digital areas of business, from product design has taken a huge advance in its ability to and customer engagement to operating gather, analyse and distribute data that we models.
Digital is transforming consumer can turn into information and knowledge.
We are responding to behaviour enabling customers to be Impact: Connectivity and sensing digital trends, ensuring more in control.
technology has been discussed for we keep customers at Impact: Our world is evolving rapidly over a decade but now the enablers are the heart of what we do.
with the advancement of technology.
in place to pave the way for disruption.
Main areas of insurance innovation Response: RSA has started to explore include data analytics, digitisation and these opportunities, particularly in the UK strengthening of customer service levels.
where it is a leading provider of telematics Response: We are focusing on being insurance products to young drivers.
proactive and digitally enabled, and This helps customers drive responsibly providing tailored products that meet and affordably, and enables us to capture evolving customer requirements.
value, through more accurate underwriting, Our plans are focused on investments and in learnings to the rest of the Group.
to simplify our business and technology environment and to strengthen our delivery capability.
RSA is improving quote and buy capability, pricing sophistication and online servicing with targeted investment in improving operational efficiency.
6 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Response: Responding to major events Climate change, extreme Natural and protecting our customers when weather and resource scarcity they need us most is what we do.
What: Climate change poses risks to environment As extreme weather events have become both people and the natural environment.
more frequent we have expanded our According to PwCs megatrends report, Our business relies on energy resources and capabilities to manage by 2030, the world will need 50 percent them.
We constantly monitor weather and resources provided by more energy and 35 percent more food patterns and predictions to ensure we are than it does today.
This will increase the natural environment.
prepared when the worst happens, and pressure on finite natural resources.
Its our duty to ensure that our claims teams have developed Event Impact: Climate change is already we operate in a way that Plans to ensure the business is ready to having an impact on our environment, respond when our customers need us.
preserves the sustainability The frequency of catastrophic weather of our business, our As well as responding to specific events, events is on the rise, and related insured RSA is also committed to doing its bit communities and the losses have increased fourfold over the to reduce carbon emissions, having met past 30 years.
With growing pressure natural environment.
our carbon reduction target to reduce on resources, people are having emissions by 12 percent per person by to do more with less.
Also, RSA is a leading insurer of renewable energy, having been involved in coverage of 90 percent of operational offshore wind farms.
Response: At RSA we believe in equal Population growth and urban living opportunities and value diversity.
What: The UN predicts that population Social Females represented 55 percent 7,391 growth and urbanisation will add a further 1 of employees overall male 45 percent 2.5bn to the worlds population by 2050.
We seek greater female As an insurer we must Impact: The increased demand on representation at a senior level but base all infrastructure, such as roads, housing anticipate and adapt our hiring and promotion decisions on merit.
and natural resources will lead to For more information see page 36. products and services greater risks to safety and security.
We also support our communities.
In the to reflect social trends.
Response: RSA continues to proactively UK, employability workshops with local As a business we must also educate on the risks presented by urban schools share the skills of our people with be conscious of, and meet, living and helping our customers avoid students helping them to be work-ready risks.
For example, we run road safety societys expectations of us.
and our partnership with the School for campaigns across the Group.
We also Social Entrepreneurs encourages small innovate, creating products that reflect businesses in the community to grow.
new ways of living, such as telematics, our data-driven car insurance product.
Trust in business What: Public trust in businesses remains Inequality, unemployment low since the financial crisis.
Eldermans and underemployment trust barometer shows financial services What: Inequality based on age, gender, businesses are among the least trusted.
ethnicity or background remains a Impact: Trust is crucial to success.
significant social issue in the workplace.
Our customers trust us to be there when Impact: According to the OECD, things go wrong and shareholders trust inequality harms economic growth.
us to deliver against our stated targets.
A lack of investment in education Response: We dont take trust for granted.
is a major contributor to inequality We earn it, by placing customers at the and underemployment.
heart of our business, constantly improving our products and services to meet their needs, and by providing open and honest communication with stakeholders.
Based on total Group permanent headcount.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7
