Directors and Corporate Governance Report Board Committee Reports Group Investment Committee Report Introduction Group invest committee Total assets as at 31 December 2016: 13.64bn I am pleased to present the Group Investment Committee Total Assets page 65 Report for 2016. a.
Fixed Income 85% The Committee is authorised by the Board to manage all e a d c. Property Investment 2% c aspects of investment policy and strategy for the Group and d. Equities 1% provide oversight of the operation of the Groups investment e. Alternatives and other 5% portfolios within established strategy and risk frameworks.
The Group Investments Director attends all meetings of the Committee to provide an update on the economic and market background and outlook affecting the Group, the investment activities carried out since the Committee last met, an overview b of performance and proposed changes to investment strategy, which require the Committees approval.
The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the outcome Details of the Groups investments are contained in notes 2427 of Committee meetings and the Board also receives the on pages 145 to 153. minutes of Committee meetings.
The Committee members and their attendance at meetings are shown on page 49.
Key activities during 2016 The global investment environment remained challenging in 2016.
Although there was evidence of recovery in some areas, Joseph Streppel the combination of weak growth expectations and limited Non-Executive Director and inflation pressure saw bond yields fall back to historical lows Chairman of the Group Investment in the Groups key markets.
This has placed further pressure Committee on investment income for the Group as maturing bonds are 22 February 2017 reinvested at the prevailing low yield level.
Despite these pressures the Group maintained its core commitment to a high-quality investment portfolio.
Asset allocation continues to be dominated by bond and cash instruments, representing 92 percent of assets at year end.
The bond portfolios also remained high quality with 70 percent rated AA or above and only 1 percent rated lower than BBB.
Exposure to the more volatile equity and property asset classes remains modest being just 3 percent of the Groups total investments.
In line with 2015, the Group has continued to make measured allocations to less liquid bond and loan instruments.
These investments have been targeted to take advantage of the additional yield offered for illiquidity relative to traditional quoted bonds whilst maintaining a strong underlying credit quality and have included loans backed by property and trade receivables.
In total the Group now has intended investment allocations to these assets approaching 1.2bn with around 1.1bn of this invested at the year end.
Allocation to illiquid credit assets has been built gradually over several years, ensuring diversification of exposure with each investment being subject to extensive due diligence.
The Committee has reviewed and agreed limits for the illiquid credit allocation and continues to review progress on implementation as well as performance.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Board Committee Reports continued Breakdown of topics discussed at Group Nomination Committee meetings held during 2016 a.
Succession Planning and Recruitment 23% c. Other 33% Committee Report c a Introduction I am pleased to present the Group Nomination and Governance Committee Report for 2016. b The Committee plays an important role in ensuring that the composition of the Board and its committees have the balance and diversity of experience and skills to operate effectively, and in the best interests of the Companys stakeholders.
The Committee also ensures that the Company is operating together with relevant board experience as an executive and with high standards of governance and measures compliance non-executive director on a number of listed companies.
against the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Zygos Partnership were engaged to conduct the search for independent non-executive directors, and has no other The Committee has four main areas of responsibility: connection with the Group.
Zygos are accredited by the Davies Board composition: managing the process to identify Board Review under the Enhanced Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms as they have a strong track record in assisting candidates and advising and making recommendations on Board membership, Committee membership and related boards to enhance their gender diversity.
appointments Johanna Waterous has informed the Board that she will retire Succession planning: ensuring appropriate succession plans as a director with effect from the Companys AGM on 5 May are in place for members of the Board and senior executive 2017.
With effect from 5 May 2017, Isabel Hudson will succeed roles Johanna Waterous as Senior Independent Director.
Governance: monitoring the Groups compliance with the UK The Committee continually monitors the balance of skills, Corporate Governance Code experience, independence and knowledge on the Board as well Effectiveness: evaluating Board and committee performance.
The Board currently comprises 73 percent male and 27 percent female directors.
We remain committed to The Committee members and their attendance at meetings are Lord Davies target for female board composition although all shown on page 49. appointments are made on merit against the agreed selection criteria.
Further information relating to diversity is included Key activities during 2016 on page 47.
This year the Committees responsibilities expanded to include consideration of succession planning and the Boards Succession planning commitment to diversity and these changes have been included During the year, the Committee undertook a detailed review in the Committees terms of reference.
of the current composition of the Board and committees, from both a short and long-term succession planning perspective.
Board Composition The Committee ensures that the Board is comprised of Kath Cates was re-appointed for her second three-year term individuals with a diverse yet relevant set of skills, knowledge during the year.
The Committee considered her independent and experience who will work well together to lead the Group.
contribution to the Board and Committees and the balance of her skills, knowledge and experience with those of the other At the 2015 AGM, we confirmed our intention to recruit two directors.
The Committee concluded that Kath continued to new Independent Non-Executive Directors with a proven track add value to the Board, remained independent and therefore record in insurance, particularly in the Groups core markets and recommended that she be re-appointed for a further threein transformation.
During the year, the Committee considered year term commencing September 2016.
Kath absented herself candidates for these roles and was pleased to recommend the during discussions on her re-appointment.
appointment of Martin Strobel and Isabel Hudson to the Board.
Martin Strobel joined the Board on 1 May 2016 bringing over The Committee has also reviewed succession plans for 23 years insurance and financial services experience, most Executive Committee members, noting that the simplification recently as Chief Executive Officer of Baloise Group.
Isabel of the Group and spans of control could lead to greater gaps Hudson joined the Board on 1 August 2016 bringing significant in succession planning.
To address this, tailored development experience in general insurance and wide-ranging commercial, plans are created for those individuals that are identified as corporate finance and business development experience 66 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report being possible candidates to join the Executive Committee The 2016 Board evaluation was carried out using an in the future.
The aim of the succession plans is to develop independent external provider, Boardroom Review who a pipeline of talented individuals in each region in which the reviewed information provided to the Board and its Group operates.
The succession plans were utilised during committees, conducted individual Board and senior the year when Charlotte Heiss, Group Chief Legal Officer and management interviews, and attended meetings as an Company Secretary: Nathan Williams, Group Underwriting observer.
The Group Nomination and Governance Committee Director: and Martin Thompson, President and CEO RSA will track the actions identified and will build on these through Canada, all internal candidates, were each appointed to 2017 and 2018 to support the Chairman through the internal succeed members of the Executive Committee.
Korn Ferry Hay Group are regularly engaged by the Group to provide executive search services for roles across the Group and assisted with the appointment of Cathy Lewis, Group HR Director.
Governance Martin A. Scicluna The Committee monitors the Groups compliance with the Chairman and Chairman of Group UK Corporate Governance Code ensuring that there are clear Nomination and Governance Committee governance processes in place to aid effective, efficient 22 February 2017 and risk-aware decision-making at a Group level.
A formal assessment of compliance against the Code is carried out by the Company Secretary twice a year and reviewed by the Committee.
Any non-compliance is discussed and it is agreed whether action is required to remedy the non-compliance, or if there are circumstances which justify the non-compliance.
The Company has complied with the Principles and Provisions of the Code throughout the year.
The Committee is in the process of undertaking a review of subsidiary board governance to ensure overall alignment to Group objectives and that good levels of governance apply.
The Committee considers that each non-executive director devotes sufficient time to discharging his her duties and that he she remain independent.
The Committee considers new external appointments to ensure that they do not give rise to conflicts of interests and do not impact the directors time commitment to the Company.
In each case considered in the year, the Committee was satisfied that external appointments could be authorised.
The Committee undertakes an assessment for appointments and re-elections against the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It is against this assessment that each of the non-executive directors are recommended for election or re-election to the Board.
Further, the Committee recommended the Chairman and executive directors for re-election to the Board.
Based upon these recommendations from the Committee, the Board are proposing the elections and re-elections as set out in the 2017 Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Board and committee evaluation During the year, the Committee has reviewed progress against the actions identified as part of the annual evaluations over the period 2013-16.
Details of the Groups three-year journey setting out the focus are set out in the Board evaluation pages on 53 to 55.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Board Committee Reports continued Breakdown of topics discussed at Board Risk Committee meetings held during 2016 a.
Risk and Compliance Updates 15% Committee Report b.
Capital and Solvency II 27% e c. Specic Risk Deep Dives 41% a d. Regional Deep Dives 6% d e. Governance 11% Introduction b I am pleased to present the Board Risk Committee Report c for 2016.
During 2016, the Committee fulfilled a key purpose in providing advice to the Board on risk management issues, overseeing the risk management arrangements of the Group and the Group framework of risk limits and risk appetite.
The Committee members, their attendance at meetings The Committee has looked in detail at the IT risk appetite and regular meeting attendees are shown on page 49. framework, both against internal and external standards, focusing on the key deliverables and any risks to these.
This year, the Committees effectiveness has been assessed The monitoring of IT risk and controls, including data security through an externally facilitated evaluation, more details will remain an area of key focus, particularly given increasing of which can be found on page 53.
The evaluation concluded external threats and the extensive level of transformational that the Committee was effective.
change being rolled-out across the Group.
Role and responsibilities The Committee has also maintained a focus on capital The Committees main duties are to: sensitivities and buffers, and how capital levels have responded in the first year of Solvency II during a period of heightened Ensure that the material risks facing the Group have financial market volatility.
been identified and understood, including emerging and potential risks, and, where appropriate, actions have been Risk Management System implemented to mitigate and maintain risks within appetite The Risk Management System is designed to identify, measure, Review and challenge the results of quarterly risk appetite manage, monitor and report risk and is underpinned by the assessments, which include capital adequacy assessments, three lines of defence model.
The Committee oversees the and any actions necessary to maintain or bring capital Groups Risk Management System to ensure it is robust and within appetite operating effectively throughout the year.
Consider and approve the Group risk appetite framework The overarching Risk Management Policy, approved annually and risk limits for recommendation to the Board by the Board on the Committees recommendation, provides On behalf of the Board, review the Groups Own Risk and the framework of risk management processes which Solvency Assessment ORSA approach and report, including are embedded throughout the Group.
It also defines the the selection of appropriate stress and scenario tests dependencies and interactions with the Groups ORSA and Review and challenge the outputs and key assumptions from the Groups approach to stress and scenario testing.
There the Internal Model, any changes and the validation process are further policies setting out risk assessment standards and risk appetite and detailed procedures which set minimum Review Solvency II compliance requirements, internal controls and details of controls testing.
Undertake an annual review of the Groups System of Members of the Group Executive own different policies and Governance and recommend it to the Board for approval are responsible for ensuring they are embedded through Work with the Group Remuneration Committee to ensure regional, local and functional owners who are responsible for risk is properly considered in setting the remuneration identifying and reporting any non-compliance through rigorous policy for the Group.
The results of these assessments are reviewed and challenged by local and Group risk teams, the responsible Private meetings are held ahead of each Committee meeting senior Group executives, regional risk committees and to discuss any concerns and areas on which to concentrate the Committee.
The Committee has held four private meetings without management being present Further information on the Groups risk strategy and appetite as well as a private meeting with the Group Chief Risk Officer.
can be found in the Risk Management section of the Strategic Report on pages 38 to 41.
Key activities during 2016 Regional Focus and Deep Dives Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA The Committee has met with representatives from the Group Throughout the year, as in previous years, the Committee Corporate Centre, Scandinavia, the UK and International considered a range of activities in order to assess the risks regions.
The Board visited Canada in the year, spending time and solvency needs of the Group which constitutes the with the Chief Risk Officer in-region, all of which allowed the ORSA process.
A summary of these activities and associated Committee to better understand the detail of the risks present decisions taken during the ORSA assessment were reviewed in each region and how to use and communicate best practice by the Committee.
on a cross-regional basis to aid the management and mitigation of these risks.
68 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Business Risk review The Group Chief Risk Officer provides a quarterly update to the Committee on the key risks and risk themes impacting the Group, including an assessment of whether risks are within appetite and any actions necessary to maintain or achieve this.
This review is supplemented by subject matter expert assessments of the risks impacting the business including insurance risk, financial risk, operational risk, reinsurance risk and strategy.
As an example with respect to insurance risk, the Committee discussed specific themes, such as special high risk business, analysis of large losses, pension and financial risk and reserving risk.
The Committee also focused on remediation progress on specific risk portfolios and considered the reinsurance options available.
In addition, key emerging risks and trends were considered with a focus on inflation risk, Brexit, and the potential for, and impact of, a major breach of flood defences.
The Committee reviewed the Groups risk strategy and appetite where updates were made to maintain effectiveness during the first year of Solvency II.
Kath Cates Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 22 February 2017 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Board Committee Reports continued Committee composition, skills and experience Details of membership and attendance at Committee meetings Group Audit are shown on page 49.
Committee Report The Committee comprises five independent Non-Executive Directors and the Board is satisfied that the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The members bring diverse experience, knowledge and skills to the Committee, which enables the members collectively to act as an effective Committee.
In particular, Introduction Jos Streppel brings financial, governance and industry I am pleased to present the Group Audit Committee Report experience through his former roles as CFO of Aegon and 2016.
The Committee plays a key role in overseeing the integrity as Chairman of the Dutch Corporate Governance Monitoring of the Companys financial statements and robustness of the Committee.
Kath Cates has in-depth knowledge of controls, Groups systems of internal control and financial and regulatory governance and risk management through roles including risk management systems.
Chief Operating Officer, Wholesale Banking at Standard During the year the Committee has closely monitored the Chartered.
Johanna Waterous brings expertise in sales and Groups control environment, particularly in relation to IT marketing as well as her experience as a chairman and and Information Security and ongoing transformation activity, non-executive director.
Martin Stobel joined the Committee to ensure that the control environment remains sound.
on 1 May 2016 and brings knowledge of financial services from A joint meeting of the Committee and the Board Risk his recent role as CEO of Baloise Holding AG and a background Committee was held to focus on the Groups ongoing in IT consulting for financial services.
Alastair Barbour brings work to improve the management of IT risk, the Groups audit experience and knowledge of financial reporting preparedness and controls for the management of cyber requirements through his former career at KPMG LLP KPMG.
risk, and of customer data, with a focus on line one ownership In addition, Kath Cates and Alastair Barbour are members of controls and actions to mitigate and minimise the impact of the Board Risk Committee, ensuring that risk is taken into of a cyber event.
account in the Committees decisions and that information flows appropriately between the two Committees.
There have been further regulatory and corporate governance changes impacting the role and work of the Committee during The Committee held six scheduled meetings during the year the year, with revised FRC Guidance for Audit Committees and has held private meetings with the Group Chief Auditor, published, changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Group & UK Regulatory Compliance Director, the Group the Code which will come into force during 2017, the Financial Officer, the external auditor and the Group Chief implementation of the EU Audit Directive 2014 into UK Actuary without other members of management being Regulations and changes to International Financial Reporting present.
The Committee members regularly met privately Standards IFRS.
The Committee has received appropriate to discuss issues on which to concentrate with management training on these areas and is able to continue to challenge and advisers in the subsequent audit committee meeting.
management effectively and fulfil our duties to shareholders Ad hoc meetings were organised to cover topics in more and other stakeholders.
detail, including IT and cyber risk, a training session on corporate governance and IFRS changes and with Group This year, the Committees effectiveness has been assessed Internal Audits leadership team to discuss and review through an externally facilitated evaluation, more details their proposed plans for 2017. of which can be found on page 53.
The evaluation concluded that the Committee was effective.
The Group Chief Financial Officer, the Group Chief Auditor, the Group & UK Regulatory Compliance Director, the Group Role and responsibilities Chief Risk Officer, the Group Chief Legal Officer and Company The purpose of the Committee is to: Secretary and representatives of the external auditor, KPMG, are regular attendees at Committee meetings.
The Chairman Coordinate and oversee the integrity of the financial reporting process is invited to attend the meetings where the interim and final results are considered.
Other members of management and Monitor compliance with relevant regulations, industry external advisers may attend at the invitation of the Committee.
codes and legal requirements Oversee the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the outcome of Committee meetings and the Board also receives the and external auditors minutes of Committee meetings.
Monitor the effectiveness of the systems of internal controls Provide assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the Groups financial and regulatory risk management arrangements.
The Committee has unrestricted access to management, information and external advisers as required in order to fulfil its duties, and is satisfied that it has received sufficient, reliable and timely information during 2016 in order to discharge those duties.
70 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial reporting and significant financial issues Breakdown of topics discussed at The Committee attaches considerable importance to the Committee meetings held during 2016 work, opinions and findings of the external auditor, KPMG, who participates in all Committee meetings and who met a.
Accounting policies, methodologies and with the Committee in private on two occasions during the k a practices 5% j year.
The principal interactions with KPMG during the year b b.
Reserves 10% i in relation to financial reporting were: c. Other balance sheet valuations 10% c Consideration of the strategy and plan for the audit of the d. Pension assumptions 5% h financial statements including discussion and challenge in e. Financial results 10% d relation to materiality levels set: the scope of the proposed f. Internal Controls 15% g. Governance and coverage by business unit: determination and approach to e g compliance 15% the audit of key areas of risk: understanding the oversight h. IT Matters 10% f by the group audit team of subsidiary business unit audit i. Solvency II 10% teams and visits by the group team to business units j.
External Audit 5% k. Internal Audit 5% At the half year and year end, detailed discussion and consideration of their findings and opinions in relation to the Key activities during the year key risk areas, judgements made, any changes to the plan In addition to the significant issues in relation to the Annual and to materiality and discussion of the underlying reasons Report and Accounts set out below, the Committee considered Consideration of KPMGs wider comments on governance, the following issues during the year: financial reporting processes and efficiencies as well as Monitored compliance with the Groups reserving policy information systems and controls by each business to ensure that the Groups reserve margin Consideration of their observations on controls and remained adequate and that the uncertainty considerations processes as reported to management and follow up with were appropriate relevant management to be satisfied that the observations Reviewed the Solvency II opening balance sheet alongside are being appropriately actioned the basis of preparation and provided appropriate challenge Reporting on the Solvency II opening balance sheet and of the key judgements in relation to Solvency II.
The reviewing key areas of judgement in relation to Solvency II.
Committee also reviewed the quarterly Solvency II Balance The main matters and primary areas of judgement addressed Sheets produced by management and monitored the and concluded on by the Committee were as follows: Groups ongoing development of the Solvency and Financial Condition Report Valuation of insurance liabilities Monitored the Groups compliance with anti-money The Committee has ensured that management exercised laundering requirements and anti-bribery and corruption appropriate judgement and control in estimating insurance laws, including the progress in implementing new screening contract liabilities including assessing the impact of claims software across the Group.
The Committee also approved trends and other influencing factors consistent with a new Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions policy and previous years.
This year the Committee again examined Fraud Risk policy the appropriateness of discount rates on certain long-tail Monitored the sustainability of control improvements, liabilities and assumptions on indexation, particularly in including the number of risk acceptances in place and light of fluctuating bond yields.
their cumulative impact on the Groups risk appetite, The Committee received and reviewed actuarial reserving and the Groups risk and control culture reports which described the basis for judgement in valuing Monitored the integrity of the control environment during insurance liabilities.
Particular areas of focus for the Committee transformation and considered the appropriateness of were trends emerging in parts of the Group Legacy portfolio, the design of key initiatives in relation to their impact trends observed in Canadian Auto and General Liability on the Groups control environment portfolios and reserve strengthening for Irish long-tail lines Considered whether it was appropriate to adopt the going in response to adverse experience.
The Committee satisfied concern method of accounting for the 2016 Annual Report itself that management reflected available and reliable and Accounts and the viability statement, recommending information when setting the reserves and that an to the Board that both are appropriate.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Board Committee Reports continued The results of independent internal reviews carried out in Valuation of deferred tax assets the year with respect to all long-tail lines in Ireland, Denmarks The Committee reviewed the key assumptions and financial Workers Compensation and Swedish Personal Accident were projections supporting the UK deferred tax asset.
The forecasts considered by the Committee.
The Committee also confirmed presented by management were assessed and, in particular, the completeness and appropriateness of the planned the longer-term projections of profitability in light of the programme of future reviews.
changes to business plans as a result of the strategic review, restructuring activities and other management actions in The Committee received and considered detailed written progress or contemplated.
After discussion and challenge, and verbal reporting from KPMG setting out their observations the Committee concluded that managements proposed and conclusions in respect of the recorded insurance contract assessment as to the recoverable deferred tax was reasonable.
liabilities and Solvency II Technical Provisions based on their audit procedures as further described in their report on Review of 2016 Annual Report and Accounts pages 104 to 108.
At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, IT Systems and controls balanced and understandable, and whether the disclosures The Groups IT infrastructure, including retained legacy were appropriate.
To ensure that new accounting standards systems, is complex and financial reporting is dependent on were understood and appropriately reflected in the financial the operational and financial IT systems operating correctly statements, the Committee received quarterly updates of all and the control environment in which they operate.
This is relevant accounting standards that could impact the financial a key area of focus for both Audit and Risk Committees and statements.
The Group has not made any significant changes during the year they received updates from management on to its accounting policies during 2016 and has complied with progress to enhance IT general controls, the oversight of updates to IFRSs as required during the year.
Taken as a whole, IT testing processes and improvements in documentation the Committee is satisfied that the 2016 Annual Report and and standards, together with regular reporting from internal Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and provide audit on the results of their reviews and testing.
In light of the information necessary for shareholders to assess the the ongoing transformation activity, the Committee closely Companys position and performance, business model monitored IT and information security to ensure the control and strategy.
With respect to financial reporting controls the Committee received detailed updates Financial Control Framework from KPMG on their assessment of general IT controls including The Financial Control Framework the Framework aims to information on areas where additional controls or substantive deliver a consistent approach to finance-related controls testing was required, the reasons therefore and the conclusions across the Group and embed a control culture that strengthens reached in support of the audit.
After consideration and the Groups finance environment by ensuring that financial discussion with management and KPMG, the Committee processes are managed effectively in order to mitigate the risk concluded that the financial results as prepared from the of financial misstatement.
The process involves documenting IT systems were appropriate and reliable.
and testing the operation of key financial controls, thereby providing an acceptable degree of assurance around the Pension and post-retirement obligations financial control environment.
The primary focus of the During 2016, the Committee received reports on the valuation Framework is the production of information for the Group of the pension schemes.
As the pension schemes are sensitive Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition, the Framework to changes in key assumptions, management completed an mitigates material risks at the local operational level.
Local assessment as to the appropriateness of the assumptions used, teams carry out control validation work and a Group including benchmark data, where appropriate, and reported Controllership Team provides assurance over this work and their findings to the Committee.
The Committee supported reports on findings and actions to the Committee quarterly.
the conclusion that the assumptions used were appropriate and within an acceptable range of other companies with During the year, the Committee received quarterly updates on similar schemes.
In addition, any non-standard changes in the assessment and testing of controls including any breaches assumptions and judgements are reviewed by the Committee and the action taken as a result.
and, following a review, a change to the method of valuation Due to the level of transformation taking place within the of the liability matching arrangements was approved, as the Groups finance function, the Committee commissioned KPMG Committee was satisfied that this resulted in a value that was to undertake a review of the financial control environment to compliant with the relevant standards and best represented assess whether greater reliance can be placed on key controls: the economics of the arrangement.
the extent of duplication of controls and dependence on The triennial funding review of the two largest UK pension manual controls that could be automated and whether the schemes was formally completed during 2016.
The Committee current level of governance is appropriate and commensurate discussed the key outcomes of this review, which included to the risk being managed.
As the Groups external auditor, a reduction to investment risk and a revised schedule of the Committee believes that KPMG is best placed to carry contributions payable by the Group into the schemes.
out this work as it already has a detailed understanding of the Framework and control environment.
In December, the Committee considered the results of this review and agreed actions to take advantage of opportunities for improvement.
72 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Internal control The aim of the policy is to provide employees with a The Board has overall responsibility for the effectiveness confidential forum to raise concerns in good faith where they of the Groups Internal Control System the System with either do not feel comfortable raising the matter with local the implementation and maintenance being delegated management or are not satisfied with the local management to the Executive Directors and senior management.
Concerns can be raised by contacting local or Group senior management, including the Group Chief Auditor, or via The Committee reviews the performance of the System an externally provided website and helpline.
quarterly, with an annual review undertaken by the Board.
The System comprises three key elements: All employees are required to complete online training to ensure they are aware of how and when to report concerns Internal Control Framework policies establish standard under the policy and the Committee has requested an analysis controls, which are implemented and operated by of cultural differences across the Group that may discourage the business some employees from reporting concerns to identify how Delegated Authority Framework authority is cascaded these could be addressed.
down from the Board to the business A summary of all whistleblowing incidents, underlying Regulatory Compliance Framework the Regulatory investigations and actions undertaken is provided to the Compliance Policy sets out the standard control processes Committee on an annual basis.
Any material incident would to minimise and or prevent the risk of material loss, be reported to the Committee immediately.
reputational damage or liability arising from the failure to comply with regulatory requirements.
The policys effectiveness during the year has been assessed and the Committee is satisfied that it is appropriate, fit for In addition, the Board, through the Board Risk Committee, purpose and effective and is sufficiently embedded across considers reports from risk specialists across the Group and the Group.
reviews Group level risk management information.
The System is designed to identify and mitigate, rather than eliminate, Regulatory risk and compliance the potential risk of failure to achieve business objectives The purpose of the Regulatory Risk and Compliance function is to and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance ensure that the Group meets all relevant regulatory requirements against material financial misstatement or loss.
in each jurisdiction in which it operates.
The function is an In February 2017, the Committee reviewed the System in influencer in ensuring a strong regulatory compliance culture operation during 2016 and concluded that it was appropriate and ensure mechanisms are in place to monitor the regulatory and operated effectively during the year.
environment, identify, report and resolve issues to avoid or minimise business impact and surprises.
The function is part The Committee received regular reports from the Group Chief of the Groups second line of defence which monitors and Auditor, external auditor and Group Chief Risk Officer on the validates first line activities.
The Group and UK Regulatory integrity of the control environment and also received regular Compliance Director provides regular reports to the Committee.
reports on the Regulatory Compliance Framework which is described in greater detail below.
These reports enable the The Group Regulatory team leads and develops the relationship Committee to continually assess the effectiveness of the between the PRA, Group and businesses to achieve a mutually Groups internal controls systems.
The Committee discussed beneficial relationship.
It also updates the FCA regarding findings and recommendations from these reports, together relevant Group level strategic matters.
with any control improvements recommended.
During the year, the Committee has monitored progress The Committee considers that an effective and appropriate towards full Solvency II reporting compliance: overseen ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the embedding of the new Financial Crime Framework and significant risks faced by the Group has been in place during implementation of new anti-money laundering screening 2016 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report software and received updates on regulatory issues.
For more information about the Groups Risk The functions annual Compliance Plan sets out the compliance Management Framework, see pages 38 to 41. work to be undertaken in the upcoming year to ensure compliance, maintain an open, constructive and cooperative Whistleblowing relationship with the Groups regulators, ensures the Board New rules on whistleblowing from the PRA and FCA are now and employees understand their regulatory responsibilities in force and the Groups whistleblowing policy and procedures and provides assurance, advice and guidance to the Board were revised to reflect these.
The Group takes whistleblowing and the business.
The Committee reviewed and approved extremely seriously and the Committee has taken responsibility the 2017 Compliance Plan in December 2016. for oversight of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
In addition, Alastair Barbour has nominated responsibility for oversight of whistleblowing arrangements in compliance with the PRAs Senior Insurance Managers Regime.
A senior manager within HR has also been appointed as the FCA Whistleblowing Champion.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Board Committee Reports continued Group Internal Audit External auditor Group Internal Audits GIA primary purpose is to keep RSA Appointment, tenure, independence and objectivity safe and improving.
Specifically, GIA helps the Board and KPMG was appointed as the Groups external auditor in 2013 Executive Management to protect the assets, reputation and following a formal competitive tender process and has been sustainability of the Group.
GIA does this by assessing whether reappointed at each subsequent AGM.
The external auditor all significant risks are identified and appropriately reported forms part of the third line of defence.
The current audit partner by management and the second line of defence to the Board is Stuart Crisp who has been the Groups audit engagement and Executive Management: assessing whether they partner since KPMGs appointment.
In line with Financial are adequately controlled and by challenging Executive Reporting Councils standards, KPMG will rotate the audit Management to improve the effectiveness of governance, engagement partner at least once every five years.
There are risks management and internal controls.
no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice GIA is an independent and objective function reporting to the of external auditor and there is no limitation of liability in the terms of the appointments of KPMG as auditor to the Company.
The Group Chief Auditor is a member of the Executive Committee and has a primary reporting line to the Chairman The Committee has provided clear guidance to KPMG on the of the Group Audit Committee, with a secondary reporting line Committees expectations of them as part of their role as to the Group Chief Executive.
Regional Chief Auditors report auditor: that the Committee, not management, is KPMGs client: directly to the Group Chief Auditor, whilst recognising local that they are expected to challenge appropriately: that they regulation.
are expected to raise issues and concerns with the Committee GIAs scope of activities is unrestricted and includes first line as soon as is appropriate and on material matters they are expected to indicate their agreement to the position taken of defence control validation and second line of defence assurance activities, as well as the risk and control culture by management, or to explain why they do not, and the implications.
The Committee has met with the external auditor of the Group.
twice during the year without management present to ensure GIAs planning process is risk based and takes into consideration that the external auditor has an opportunity to raise any the key strategic and emerging risks facing the Group.
GIA concerns they may have and to ensure they remain operates a six monthly rolling audit plan, allowing for a frequent independent and objective.
and dynamic risk assessment and the Committee may request The Company complies with the requirements of The Statutory additional audits throughout the year as required.
Rolling plans were approved by the Group Audit Committee in May Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit and December 2016.
Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, which relates to the On a semi-annual basis, the Group Chief Auditor provides frequency and governance of tenders for the appointment of the Group Audit Committee with an assessment of the the external auditor and the setting of a policy on the provision effectiveness of the governance, risk and control framework in of non-audit services.
It is the intention of the Committee that each Region.
Quarterly, GIA reports on the outcome of its work the Company will tender the external auditor appointment and managements progress in mitigating issues.
Its report at least every 10 years and in accordance with the Financial includes any thematic issues arising and root-causes identified.
Reporting Councils best practice notes concerning the conduct of such tenders.
Annually, the Group Chief Auditor provides the Group Audit Committee with an assessment of the skills and capabilities Fees and non-audit services required to conduct the work needed, and whether budget is The audit fee for the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts was sufficient to allow the function to recruit and retain staff with discussed between the Committee and the external auditor the expertise and experience necessary to provide effective and approved by the Committee on behalf of the Board.
challenge throughout the Group and to Executive Management.
The Group operates a non-audit services policy to assist with The results of the latest assessment were reviewed by the maintaining the independence of the external auditor and its Committee in December 2016 and the Committee was satisfied personnel.
All permitted activity must be authorised in advance that GIA was operating effectively, sufficiently resourced and by the Committee Chairman and subsequently ratified by that the risk to their independence and objectivity was low.
In addition, the total value of non-audit fees Compliance with professional standards is monitored within incurred by the external auditor is capped at 25% of total GIA through a quality assurance process, outsourced to Deloitte audit fees for the relevant financial year.
and operated on a continuous basis.
GIA is governed by an In exceptional circumstances the auditor will be considered for Internal Audit Charter which sets out the functions role, additional services where there is an overwhelming business mandate and authority, and includes independence and rationale, but only with full Board approval.
A summary of the objectivity criteria.
An updated Charter was approved by policy is available on the Companys website at www.
the Committee in August 2016. com termsofreference.
The Groups non-audit service policy will be reviewed against the requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils Revised Ethical Standard 2016 concerning the provision of non audit services and, if considered appropriate, updated in the first half of 2017.
74 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Each quarter, the Committee receives and reviews a report on non-audit services, together with information on fees agreed and billed by the other major accounting firms.
Details of KPMGs remuneration during 2017, including that for provision of non-audit services, are provided in the notes to the financial statements on page 138.
Effectiveness The Company undertakes a thorough review of the effectiveness of the external auditor on an annual basis, usually on completion of the audit process.
The review is compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code and was updated during 2016 to incorporate the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The review has covered the mind-set and culture, skills and knowledge, quality control and judgement of the external auditor through an assessment of their perceived quality, effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
The review was conducted by both a questionnaire distributed to and completed by the Committee, senior management and members of the Group financial reporting team, seeking opinions against set criteria and the performance of the external auditor against those criteria and through Audit Committee meetings with the external auditor whereby the Committee challenged the auditors planning, strategy, risk identification process and conclusions.
On the basis of the review, the Committee is satisfied with the work of KPMG and that they are objective and independent.
Accordingly the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution be put to the 2017 AGM for the reappointment of KPMG LLP as external auditor, and the Board has accepted this recommendation.
Alastair WS Barbour FCA Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Group Audit Committee 22 February 2017 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75
