Directors and Corporate Governance Report as detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 38 to 41.
This includes, but is not limited to, the Groups reinsurance Other Statutory programme which is structured to mitigate the impact of catastrophe and large loss events on earnings and capital, and the Groups underwriting strategy and portfolio management Information which is used to mitigate the impact of underwriting and claims risk.
The Groups three-year cashflow forecast demonstrates its ability to sustain positive cashflows in its businesses through targeted underwriting, portfolio and distribution actions, and Statement by directors to pay dividends as forecasted.
This is further supported by the Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 requires the directors Groups credit facilities and highly liquid investment portfolio to present a Strategic Report of the Company for the financial which provide further sources of short-term cash if needed.
The information that fulfils the As part of its operational planning process, the Group prepares requirements set out in section 414C can be found on pages annually a three-year operational plan and capital forecast 4 to 41, and is incorporated by reference into this Report.
along with sensitivity analysis based on the Groups approved So far as each director of the Board is aware, there is no Internal Model for Solvency II reporting which support the relevant audit information as defined in section 418 3 of the Groups strategy.
These forecasts are subject to review Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys external auditor and challenge by the directors on at least an annual basis.
is unaware, and each director has taken all reasonable steps In addition the Group, as part of its ORSA process, uses PRA to make himself herself aware of, and to establish that the set stress tests to assess the capital resilience of the Group external auditor is aware of, any relevant audit information.
to a range of severe but plausible scenarios including a reverse A balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups stress test which includes a combination of insurance, market position and prospects, and an explanation of its strategy and economic stresses.
These tests allow the Board to review for delivering the objectives of the Company are contained and challenge the Risk Management strategy and consider in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 41 which includes: potential mitigating actions.
Use of financial instruments by the Company and details Based on the results of this analysis, the directors have a of financial risk management objectives and policies of the reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue Company, including the policy for hedging each major type in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the of forecasted transaction for which hedge accounting is used three-year period of their assessment.
The Companys exposure to price risk, underwriting risk, reserving risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cashflow risk Going concern In considering the appropriateness of the going concern basis, An indication of likely future developments in the the Board has reviewed the Groups ongoing commitments for Companys business.
the next 12 months and beyond.
The Boards review included A full list of the Groups subsidiaries and related undertakings the Groups strategic plans and updated forecasts, capital is in Appendix B on pages 176 to 179. position, liquidity and credit facilities and investment portfolio.
Based on this review no material uncertainties that would Details of events which have occurred after the reporting require disclosure have been identified in relation to the ability period are set out on page 171, which is incorporated by of the Group to remain a going concern for at least the next reference into this Report.
12 months, from both the date of the balance sheet and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual the approval of the consolidated financial statements.
Report and Accounts and consider that the Annual Report It is therefore concluded that the going concern basis is and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and appropriate for the preparation of the 2016 full-year understandable and provides the information necessary consolidated financial statements.
for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Further explanation Conflicts of interest and related party transactions on the assurances undertaken by the Group Audit Committee In accordance with section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, on behalf of the Board are set out in the Group Audit Committee each director has a duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
Under Report found on pages 70 to 75.
A report from the external Articles 91 and 92 of the Companys Articles of Association, auditor can be found on pages 104 to 108. conflicts of interest may be authorised by the Board or a Board Committee.
Directors are required to notify the Company Viability statement Secretary when a potential conflict of interest arises.
Each In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, directors conflicts of interest are reviewed on an annual basis.
the directors have assessed the viability of the Group over Any director who has declared a conflict of interest shall not a three-year period.
The directors have determined that a count towards the quorum or vote on any resolution to three-year period is an appropriate period over which to authorise the conflict of interest and, at the Boards discretion, provide its viability statement as this is the period focused may be excluded from any meeting at which the conflict of on by the Board during the operational planning process and interest is under consideration.
Where a conflict of interest is also aligned to the short-tail nature of the business insurance is authorised, restrictions may be imposed on the conflicted contracts.
In assessing the viability of the Group, using the director, such as excluding the director from the discussion Groups Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA, the or restricting the receipt of information in connection with the directors have assessed the Groups principal risks and conflict of interest.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the uncertainties, and how these are managed and mitigated, RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance continued schedule of directors conflicts of interest during the year and Modern Slavery that the procedure in place operated effectively in 2016.
None In accordance with section 54 1 of the Modern Slavery Act of the directors had any interest in any contract of significance 2015, the Group will be publishing our Slavery and Human with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during 2016.
Trafficking Statement online by April 2017.
The statement covers the activities of RSA Insurance Group plc and its Essential contracts and change of control subsidiaries and details policies, processes and actions The Company does not consider that there are any significant we have taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, are not taking place in our supply chains or any part of our alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company own business.
following a takeover bid that are required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph 13 2 j of Schedule 7 of the Large and Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports The following table sets out where in the Annual Report and Regulations 2008 as amended.
Accounts the information required to be disclosed to meet the requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, where applicable The Company does not have agreements with any director to the Company, can be located: or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that Information required Location in Annual Report and Accounts provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may Dividend Waivers Page 61 cause some options and awards granted to employees under Long Term Incentive Pages 76-101 such schemes and plans to vest in such circumstances.
Schemes Directors Indemnity Article 140 of the Articles of Association provides that, among Directors responsibility statement other things and insofar as permitted by law, the Company The Directors Responsibility Statement appears on page 103 may indemnify its directors against any liability and may and is incorporated by reference into this Report.
purchase and maintain insurance against any liability.
By order of the Board The Company has granted an indemnity to each of the directors pursuant to the power conferred by Article 140 of the Articles of Association.
The indemnities granted constitute qualifying third-party indemnity provisions, as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and is in addition to appropriate insurance cover.
The Company believes that it promotes the success of the Company to provide this indemnity to its directors in order to Charlotte Heiss ensure that the Group attracts and retains high calibre directors Group Chief Legal Officer through competitive terms of employment in line with market and Company Secretary standards.
The directors and officers of the Company and its 22 February 2017 subsidiaries also have the benefit of insurance which provides suitable cover in respect of legal actions brought against them.
In addition, the Company has indemnified the directors of SAL Pension Fund Limited, a majority-owned subsidiary of the Group, in relation to its role as Trustee of an occupational pension scheme.
This indemnity constitutes a qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision under section 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys Ordinary Shareholders.
The current Articles of Association were amended at the 2016 AGM and are available on the Companys website at www.
Borrowing powers Article 98 of the Articles of Association sets out the restrictions on the borrowings of the Company.
The aggregate amount, for the time being, remaining borrowed by the Group must not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, be more than one-and-a-half-times the aggregate of: i t he amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company: and ii t he total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Group subject to certain adjustments.
64 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016
