Strategic report Strategic priorities Sustainable, high-quality performance improvement is our focus.
Strategic priorities Our ambition for RSA is to create a business capable Advance our Industry-leading of supporting best-in-class 1 customer offerings 2 underwriting performance levels in each of our key regions.
We are deploying transformation programmes in each region and at the Group head office, aimed at advancing customer service, improving underwriting capabilities and driving cost efficiency.
Drive cost Make technology 3 efficiency 4 a strength These are supported by the important underpins of strengthening our technology and instilling a reliable high-performance culture.
Instil reliable high- 5 performance culture 14 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Advance our customer offerings.
Good business starts with our Fort McMurray wildfires Our focus customers, and we strive to our response for customers Digital platforms for customer In May 2016, a severe wildfire engulfed keep customers at the heart convenience, flexibility and speed the town of Fort McMurray in Alberta, of what we do.
Over 2,000 homes and buildings High service standards providing consistent support were destroyed and 80,000 people Increase customer satisfaction evacuated from the town.
We are and retention focusing on being proactive The flexible and proactive response Sharpen customer acquisition tools.
of our Johnson business reassured and digitally enabled, and customers as well as provided advice Achievement providing tailored products and assistance in their moment of need.
that meet evolving customer Average retention across the Group We immediately called and emailed all requirements.
our customers to offer our support.
Advice, tips and FAQs were posted on 80% In many of our markets, customer our website and across social media.
experience is set to overtake price Customer satisfaction measures We listened to our customers needs, and product as the key differentiator.
providing service on their terms.
Our customers will compare us We were there for them, wherever to their best service experience there was: putting 50 claims adjusters Our progress regardless of industry.
on the ground at evacuation sites: 54 UK GSL net promotor score deploying mobile claims support on We are enhancing our customer 71 point turnaround since 2014 the ground at Fort McMurray: and capabilities in a number of areas.
Firstly, and 4.8 percentage points increase maintaining an active and 24-hour by deploying digital tools and platforms.
in retention rates from 2014 monitored presence on social media.
This means improving our web-based 45 Johnson net promotor score offering and enabling customer selfservice.
Examples include increasing Successful marketing campaign online quote completion, moving more Take a Look at us Now in Canada claims status enquiries to online, Broker Personal insurance resulting digitalising customer communication in new business growth and reducing reliance on paper-based New Live Online Chat functionality methods.
In short, our aim is to make it Johnson Property and Auto convenient and easy for our customers in Ontario to do business with us.
Re-positioning of Codan brand Secondly, we are improving service with launch of My Page in Norway standards.
Our aim is to offer simple Effortless new KPI in Scandinavia to think that my insurance company products and services in a way that is linked to customer loyalty which has taken the time to call me to make easy to use and understand: to listen to measures how easy it is to be sure my family and I are safe has lifted our customers and proactively address a customer of Trygg-Hansa my spirits on such a sad day Johnson their needs: and to provide a consistent Delivered customer digital solutions Insurance customer.
and predictable experience for our by focusing investment on customers at all interactions.
When it was time for our customers to improving quote and buy capability, return to the town, we provided them Through these, our ambition is to pricing sophistication and online with a Re-entry Handbook outlining improve customer satisfaction and servicing.
the precautions and safety measures retention, as well as sharpening our they should take as well as providing customer acquisition capabilities.
information on the claims process.
These measures are at the heart of sustainable business.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 Strategic report Strategic priorities continued Industry-leading underwriting.
Underwriting is our core Our focus discipline.
Elevate underwriting disciplines Wewant to be the best we Ongoing portfolio re-underwriting possibly can, and amongst Invest in tools and technology thevery best in our industry.
To do this we must elevate our underwriting disciplines.
Whilst weve Achievement already achieved a lot in this area, In UK motor weve been involved in Attritional loss ratio Core Group there is still more we can do.
This means telematics for some time now, and having a deep knowledge of market are now a leading provider with circumstances, and focusing only on over 500 million miles driven on 55.2% business we think can generate the our telematics products.
appropriate level of returns, even if Improvement of 1.4 points this means lower growth at times.
Upgrading our pricing tools We have been upgrading external rating Investing in tools and technology is a Our progress engines across the Group, principally key ingredient for future underwriting 380m record underwriting utilising Radar Live and Earnix.
This includes increased pricing profits in 2016 engines are our price-setting tools.
sophistication with improved price They enable the use of more complex 4 point improvement in attritional elasticity, retention and demand models, loss ratio since 2013 algorithms in rating and significantly together with a segmented approach increase speed in bringing prices to pricing customers and risks.
Better Rebuilt technical pricing models to market.
exposure modelling, for example in across the Group high flood-risk areas, is also key.
Taken Upgraded external pricing models We have already completed the upgrades together, these actions should further to Radar Live and Earnix to a number of portfolios in each of improve our agility, with faster speedour regions, and we are sequencing Improvements in organic new to-market and reduced quote times.
the roll-outs to remaining portfolios business growth and retention in 2017 and 2018.
Our ambition is to achieve consistent rates seen in provinces on market-leading loss ratios, which Radar Live compared to those In Canada in 2016, we moved our underpin the quality of RSAs provinces not yet on new Household books in Ontario, British earnings stream.
rating engine Canada Columbia and Alberta onto Radar Live.
Rate changes on new pricing We are already seeing some encouraging UK Telematics models incorporate better impacts in these portfolios with using product design to reduce price segmentation allowing us to improvements in new business, In the UK, we focus our telematics target growth in the segments retention and segmentation.
offer on the 17-25 year old young driver we want to grow in segment, and particularly on drivers First fully automated claims aged 17-19. process in motor Sweden.
Our offering centres around providing analytical feedback and education to our insured drivers.
In the majority of cases this leads to improvements in the insureds driving.
The starting price of a telematics policy is already significantly lower than a standard motor policy, and good driving behaviour can lower this further.
16 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Drive cost efficiency.
Managing our cost base Our focus isanother key lever.
To be Deploy Lean, robotics, competitive for customers, and redesign processes toinvest in better capabilities Efficient and cost-effective and to properly deliver for procurement shareholders, we need to Optimise spans and layers permanently reduce costs.
Simplify product offerings Technology change.
Robotics Part of this involves the deployment of improving our automation capabilities Lean methodologies and robotics in Robotic automation uses software to our processes see more detail below.
Achievement automate repeatable processes and Were also improving the efficiency and Controllable cost base Core Group simplify agent desktops.
We have cost effectiveness of our procurement.
run pilot programmes across the The biggest example of this is the Group with positive early results.
1.5bn transition we have made to new IT In the UK, one of the pilots looked at a infrastructure providers.
Contract 6% lower in 2016 household renewal enquiry, currently negotiations were concluded in 2015 a relatively complex process.
The results and transition completed during 2016.
Our progress were impressive, reducing the number of The new arrangements give us greater applications used by our call centre agent agility, market-leading terms, and c. 290m gross annualised from eight down to one, the number meaningful cost savings.
Weve also costs savings to date of screens navigated from 28 down renegotiated other major contracts, Cost savings target upgraded to one, and the number of user inputs upgrading terms and moving toward to 400m by 2018 from over 50 down to just five.
usage based structures to shift to Longer term ambition for a more variable cost base.
The potential benefits include increased 20 percent controllable cost ratio call centre productivity, increased Weve also rationalised our office 19 percent like-for-like reduction customer satisfaction due to reduction in footprint across our regions.
In particular, in headcount since start of 2014 call times, and a reduction in staff training in Canada weve reduced branch footprint Tellus initiative launched in Sweden times by around half.
from 65 to 36, generating occupancy to support expense challenge cost savings and a c. 40 percent reduction From paper to paperless in Denmark in occupancy cost per employee.
Controllable costs down in all E-Boks is a digital mail service in regions in 2016 Optimising management spans and Denmark enabling customers to access Use of robotics to drive operational layers by reducing middle management communications from companies and process automation in core regions numbers, and simplifying our product public authorities.
Codan is one of the e. g. Pet Servicing in UK.
offerings are also important contributors companies most requested by users to a more efficient cost base.
Finally, technology change is an In 2016, we began to digitise certain important enabler in reducing costs, standard customer documents, be that through robotics and improved sending them to e-Boks for customer IT infrastructure as set out above, access.
We expect to reduce printing or through other upgrades to policy and postage costs as well as modernise administration and claims systems, the customer experience.
all of which enable us to improve productivity and reduce headcount.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Strategic report Strategic priorities continued Make technology a strength.
Improving our technology Our focus andthe use of it is a key Improve operational technology underpin to our performance capabilities improvement ambitions Simplify core platform architecture in theareas of customer, Optimise IT infrastructure underwriting and costs.
RSAs technology history is Improve IT supplier performance and value.
one of fragmentation and Weve also renegotiated our contracts for IT infrastructure provision, giving relatively high running costs.
us greater agility, market-leading terms, Our progress and achievements We are investing in improving our and meaningful cost savings.
New IT infrastructure operational technology capabilities Digital investment is also important for together with improving the speed and arrangements successfully RSA and, in particular, we are focusing cost of change.
This includes investing rolled-out in 2016 that stabilise on improving our quote and buy in pricing sophistication, customer and and simplify our infrastructure functionality as well as online selfbroker management tools, and workflow Deployed new Personal Lines service for our customers and document management.
New external rating engines increasing pricing sophistication tools include the Guidewire automation rating engines Radar Live and Earnix, a new claims system in Canada which we have rolled-out across our New claims system being In Canada, customer and intermediary Personal Lines businesses.
implemented in Canada Guidewire expectations are evolving fast.
A modern We are also investing in the simplification claims system is crucial if we want to New policy platform rolled-out of our core platforms.
This includes the respond to this and create a compelling in Denmark Personal Lines TIA implementation of the Guidewire claims customer proposition while retaining system in Canada see below, and New policy administration system a competitive cost base.
new policy administration systems in in UK providing agility and selfHowever, RSAs existing claims Denmark and the UK.
In the UK, we will service Duck Creek technology in Canada comprises multiple deploy Duck Creek as our new policy disjointed systems with significant Focus on digital initiatives in quote administration system in Personal Lines, capability gaps, built on legacy and buy and online self-service rolling this out first in Motor in the technology platforms, some of first half of 2017 and then in our new Optimised claims process through a which are nearing end of life.
Nationwide Home book in the second cloud-based online claims platform half.
There is also the potential for our We have chosen to implement a single in Codan Denmark connects Commercial SME business to leverage modern platform, Guidewire, to support our claim handlers, suppliers and the platform.
multiple customer access channels, customers in one online universe.
enhanced customer segmentation, Duck Creek offers the simplification and and improved data analytics.
standardisation of processes, together with a componetised architecture.
Overall we should see the benefits This means that it is straightforward to of increased efficiency and improved plug in our new rating engine, and also customer service as processes are a new claims system when we come to streamlined and the claims life cycle upgrade to this.
The result is a scalable shortened.
We are expecting over model that reduces execution risk.
c. $150m of cumulative gross benefits over the first five years of live use.
18 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Instil a reliable high-performance culture.
The transformation journey Our focus ofthe past few years has Continuing our ambition beenchallenging, with foroutperformance manychanges seen across Enabling our people to understand the Group.
As a result we what is expected of them and how have a company that is they can outperform Focused, Stronger and Developing our people and Better.
With turnaround sustainable capabilities we need for our creating great careers.
This often means having done, we are now pursuing an outward-looking focus, spotting outperformance, still with Achievement any best practice that we can leverage a focus on winning where and adopt, helping us to continue in it counts.
delivering the best for our customers and 46% 65% creating an environment which attracts of participants of our senior Through a strong performance culture and retains our talent for the future.
of our talent leader roles that values personal relationships, programmes have been Were committed to making sure that we have developed leaders and have new roles filled by internal everyone at RSA has the opportunity empowered our people to outsmart within 12 months candidates.
to perform successfully and develop in the competition, while acting within of completion.
We believe and recognise our expectations of them.
that what each of us does every day Our recent journey has created an contributes to making this business a Our progress environment where our employees success.
We know that people are We are proud of growing talent from increasingly know how to succeed, motivated in different ways so we aim within: 27 percent of participants of where they are clear on what we expect to create an open, clear and authentic of them and how they can bring their our talent programmes have stepped environment to enable everyone to best to their role every day.
In turn, we into expanded roles resulting from have honest conversations about their are laying the foundations for a company opportunities created following performance and to seek opportunities where great careers can be made.
to grow, learn, outperform and fulfil their potential.
This is aligned with To help colleagues understand our our customer-centric ambition to performance ambitions, our people be best in class.
expectations are built into our performance management processes, The way we identify and develop our as well as our reward and 360 feedback people and the way they are performing tools.
This not only means measuring and delivering for customers, is what what is delivered, but also how differentiates us today and for our people deliver that output.
Great people create performance monitoring processes great results for our business, investment help to instil a culture of continuous return for our shareholders and feedback for individuals as well as undisputable positive experiences improving ways of working across teams.
Because we now have many of the right people in place, our leaders were able to focus more on developing our people during the second half of 2016.
We also started to explore our outperformance strategies, particularly around what RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19
