Strategic report Business model Our business model provides the framework for us to serve all of our stakeholders.
Our business model framework Where we create value What makes The resources The way RSA different we use we manage Best-in-class Insights Financial Relationships Our sustainability Strategy ambition We understand that 5bn of capital and partnerships priorities Our values and our business operates equity and debt Relationships across See more on our Focused culture support a in a broader market is employed within our value chain are corporate website A leading general high-performing context.
By adapting RSA to support a key resource for rsagroup.
com insurer, focused and inclusive RSA.
to our environment customers and RSA.
on the UK & The collective drive we ensure we generate shareholder relationships with International, Responsible business of everyone at RSA maintain a robust returns.
brokers and partner Canada and Acting responsibly in raises the Groups business model, organisations to Scandinavia.
everything that we do: Intellectual ambition and relevant to our distribute c. 70 percent helping to build trust Technical expertise Stronger potential to improve.
is crucial to gaining and marketplace.
Relationships with Operate with capital Brand quality competitive advantage strength and quality.
our supply chain Safe secure world With over 300 years Balance of in insurance.
Our enable us to provide Developing products of experience we have scale and focus intellectual capital Better an efficient claims and programmes that Improve business developed trusted Our unique mix is stored in the service.
give our customers and recognisable of scale and focus underwriting expertise performance and the confidence to capacity to sustain it.
brands in our markets, across three core of our people that Natural lead their lives.
supporting our strong regions enables has built up over We have three Our strategy is customer franchises.
us to achieve our history and is core regions in our Thriving communities executed within agility and intense enhanced through our business and operate Giving back to a robust risk performance technical academies.
Operating through education, People Technology see pages 38 to 41 in market-leading employability, and governance RSA is a peopleRSA is harnessing the positions, we enterprise and centred business, power of technology see pages 42 to 64 also benefit from entrepreneurship.
with over 13,000 through e-enabled diversification employees across distribution, increased in capital and returns.
Sustainable future our core business operational efficiency Supporting the ensuring that in policy and claims transition to a lowoperations administration and carbon economy run smoothly.
enhanced data and through our services pricing analytics.
and products and promoting sustainable business practices.
8 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report The way How we Our impact we manage create value in 2016 Best-in-class Insights Financial Relationships Our sustainability Strategy Understanding risk Effective product distribution ambition We understand that 5bn of capital and partnerships priorities 655m and pricing effectively Our values and our business operates equity and debt Relationships across See more on our Focused We distribute our products Operating profit culture support a in a broader market is employed within our value chain are corporate website A leading general We are in the business of risk through many different channels.
We strive hard to Efficient access to customers Financial value and inclusive RSA.
on the UK & understand the risks our customers is key if we are to continue 14.2% The collective drive we ensure we generate shareholder relationships with International, want us to insure and make sure that to develop our business.
Responsible business Underlying return of everyone at RSA maintain a robust returns.
brokers and partner Canada and Acting responsibly in we price our products appropriately.
on tangible equity raises the Groups business model, organisations to Scandinavia.
everything that we do: Intellectual ambition and relevant to our distribute c. 70 percent helping to build trust Technical expertise Stronger Global expertise and Prudent investments that protect potential to improve.
1.7m is crucial to gaining and marketplace.
Relationships with Operate with capital geographic diversification policyholders and capital Value of community Brand quality competitive advantage strength and quality.
our supply chain Safe secure world 1 As an international business we Our business generates significant contributions With over 300 years Balance of in insurance.
Our enable us to provide Developing products seek to maximise the benefits assets which are prudently Social value of experience we have scale and focus intellectual capital Better an efficient claims and programmes that of our reach without losing touch invested to be available to pay Improve business developed trusted Our unique mix is stored in the service.
give our customers with the differing needs of the claims when they are due.
6,081 and recognisable of scale and focus underwriting expertise performance and the confidence to markets we operate in.
Volunteer hours in brands in our markets, across three core of our people that Natural lead their lives.
supporting our strong regions enables has built up over We have three our local community Our strategy is customer franchises.
us to achieve our history and is core regions in our Thriving communities Serving customers well and executed within agility and intense enhanced through our business and operate Giving back to proactively managing claims a robust risk performance technical academies.
Operating Our customer expectations are Reduction in our carbon through education, People Technology see pages 38 to 41 in market-leading increasing.
We aim to constantly emissions per person employability, and governance RSA is a peopleRSA is harnessing the positions, we improve the service we offer, and Environmental enterprise and centred business, power of technology see pages 42 to 64 also benefit from pay claims quickly and efficiently.
Sustainable future our core business operational efficiency Supporting the c. 80% ensuring that in policy and claims transition to a lowCustomer retention operations administration and carbon economy run smoothly.
enhanced data and through our services Customer value pricing analytics.
and products and promoting sustainable Note: business practices.
Payments to charities, employee fundraising, value of volunteering and gifts in kind.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
