STRATEGIC REPORT Operations review | ASIA PACIFIC Where we operate Lager volumes Group NPR 70.3m hl US$3,650m 1 -1 % 3% Increased productivity for 1 13% 18,000 EBITA farmers significant business with production operations US$753m Associates Selling operations and major export markets In India, we have Drive superior topline growth through our brands: worked with more than Australia: Premium lager volume growth of 16% was led by Great Northern, together 18,000 farmers beyond with the sustained double digit growth of Peroni and Yak brand families: and our value chain to China: Snow Brave the World continued to grow by double digits and now represents reduce water use and over 20% of CR Snows total volume, and over 27% of NPR.
26 26 SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 16 6 STRATEGIC REPORT The beverage volume decline of 1% was offset by group NPR per hl growth of 4% reflecting a combination of price increases supported by positive mix.
In Asia Pacic, group NPR grew by 3% on operation to the regional results and reecting a constant currency basis down 6% on a the depreciation of the Australian dollar reported basis.
The beverage volume decline against the US dollar during the year.
of 1% was offset by group NPR per hl growth of 4% reecting a combination of price In Australia, group NPR growth of 4% on increases supported by positive mix.
a constant currency basis was driven by NPR per hl growth of 3% with price increases EBITA grew by 13% on a constant currency complemented by premiumisation as a result Ari Mervis basis down 2% on a reported basis.
EBITA of the shift into premium and contemporary Managing Director, margin expanded by 200 bps on a constant brands.
Volumes were marginally up on the SABMiller Asia Pacic currency basis, reecting topline growth and prior year, with improved momentum in the continued cost optimisation across the second half, up 3%.
On a reported basis, the EBITA margin was underpinned by improved customer expansion was reduced to 70 bps owing to relationships, excellent execution as well the relative weighting of the Australian as product innovation.
As a result, we outperformed our key competitors in a market where the rate of decline has been more muted.
Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2015 and disposals translation growth 2016 % % Group NPR including share of associates US$m 3,867 328 111 3,650 3 6 1 EBITA US$m 768 116 101 753 13 2 EBITA margin % 19.9 20.6 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 71,181 926 70,255 1 1 Other alcoholic beverages 93 5 88 6 6 Total beverages 71,274 931 70,343 1 1 1 In 2016 before net exceptional credits of US$29 million being integration and restructuring credits 2015: net exceptional charges of US$452 million being US$139 million of integration and restructuring costs and impairments of US$313 million.
SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 16 6 27 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Operations review Asia Pacific | | Building the worlds biggest beer Just over two decades ago, Snow was a small local brand in northern China: today it is the worlds biggest selling beer.
In building CR Snow, our partnership of 22 years with China Resources Beer Holdings Co Ltd, the joint venture followed a clear, long-term strategy.
It initially focused on creating regional strongholds, acquiring brewers and brands in high growth areas.
It then moved to establishing Snow as a national mainstream brand, becoming number one by sales volume in China in 2005 and globally in 2008.
On then turning its ambitions to premium sales, its extremely successful Snow premium variants such as Snow Golden Draft and Snow Brave The World have delivered strong growth and now account for 23% of Snows total volumes.
During the year we focused on rebalancing In China, on a constant currency and 1 the portfolio, leveraging the consumer switch underlying, like-for-like basis compared from classic to contemporary and premium with the prior year, group NPR grew by 4% segments.
Premium lager segment volume and group NPR per hl grew by 6%, which growth of 16% was led by strong momentum reected the continued roll out of one-way in Great Northern in our contemporary packaging and the continuing focus on portfolio, together with the sustained double premiumisation.
Growth in group NPR digit growth of the Peroni and Yak brand and group NPR per hl was 1% and 3%, families.
The successful relaunch of our respectively, on a constant currency basis.
premium brand Pure Blonde in June 2015 Volumes were down 2% primarily due supported our expansion of the category.
Our to tough industry and macroeconomic classic mainstream brands Victoria Bitter and headwinds, in a market that declined by mid Carlton Draught continued to decline, in line single digits for the second consecutive year.
with segment trends, although this was partially mitigated by the strong performance In the full year, we recognised our share of Carlton Dry.
of a nine month reclassication undertaken by our associate, CR Snow, of certain EBITA growth and EBITA margin expansion, discounts from selling expenses to group on a constant currency basis, reected the NPR in its results for the 12 months ended topline performance coupled with our 31 December 2015, without a prior period continued cost control discipline.
The reclassication was within on cost optimisation throughout the year the income statement and had no impact included improving production and logistic on profits.
efficiencies as well as the streamlining of back 1 Excluding the reclassication undertaken by our associate ofce processes.
Australia embraces the Great Northern taste Our Australian brand Great Northern has built on its outstanding regional performance with a successful national launch.
Great Northern became the fourth biggest lager in Queensland within five years of its 2010 state debut, taking significant share from the market leader.
We have successfully identied Great Northern with an authentic outdoor lifestyle that is off the map, off road and off shore.
Having developed the brands strong regional base and identity, in February 2015 we started the national rollout of Great Northern Super Crisp, a lower alcohol variant.
This year volumes of the Great Northern brand grew by 121%.
28 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CR Snow maintained national leadership as a result of being well represented in the growth segments of the on-premise channel, with good penetration of night outlets in targeted cities through a full portfolio of premium brands, particularly Snow Brave the World and Snow Draft.
CR Snow also grew strongly in the off-premise channel with notable growth in cans.
Snow Brave the World, which was In India, more than 90% of our sales are in returnable glass launched in 2008, continued to grow by bottles.
We previously used industry-standard bottles that double digits and now represents over were shared with other brewers and returned through a highly 20% of CR Snows total volume, and over informal system.
We have now introduced patented bottles 27% of NPR.
EBITA growth and margin that we have the sole right to use.
These are designed to use expansion were achieved through focused fewer, lighter materials and to last longer, so have enabled us management of sales costs together to increase re-use rates by 10%, reduce carbon emissions, with reduced overheads in the face of and create new incomes for bottle collectors, many of whom the industry downturn.
At the same time, this has helped to save costs and promote our brands.
In India, group NPR grew by 7% on a constant currency basis driven by group Millions of consumers enjoy our beers, but a minority drink NPR per hl growth of 6% due to price irresponsibly, posing risks to themselves and others.
In increases across several states along with Australia, we support DrinkWise, which aims to encourage strong growth in the premium segment.
a healthy and safe drinking culture.
In the year its groundCommercial initiatives, including the breaking How to Drink Properly campaign, aimed at 18 to 24 repositioning of core mainstream brands year-olds, reached more than seven million people.
and Fosters, supported volume growth of 1%.
profitability improved with growth in the Find out more at www.
com topline supported by tight cost control and improved efficiencies.
Read more about regional and country sustainability priorities and performance at www.
com sam Reducing water risk Managing water scarcity is a key priority across the region, particularly in India where demand exceeds supply and quality is declining.
The root of the problem is in agricultural Lazy Yak wakes up the market water use, so, with partners, we have worked with more than 18,000 farmers beyond our value chain to reduce water We have gained a larger slice of Australias expanding craft beer use while increasing productivity and income.
We aim to segment with the successful launch of Lazy Yak, an easy drinking demonstrate best farming and water management practices variant of our primary Australian craft brand, Fat Yak.
The July 2015 that can be replicated and scaled by others, including introduction of Lazy Yak reects our strategy to drive innovation within government, to make a meaningful impact on Indias water Australias craft beer segment.
In its first six months, Lazy Yak exceeded scarcity challenge.
all expectations to become our most successful craft launch in Australia.
Its gains did not affect the performance of Fat Yak, which continued to Read more about how we are tackling water risk in India at grow throughout the year in both the onand off-premise channels, with www.
