Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL The Saga Model 1 The Saga Difference A great brand: a trusted brand with Source of Trading Profit Saga exists to make the lives of retired 97% recognition amongst the UKs l Broked and other 77% people better.
At the heart of our over 50s, allowing us to provide added l Manufactured 23% business model, therefore, is our drive value, fairly priced products across to know more about our customers multiple categories.
wants and needs than anyone else 23% so we are best placed to serve them.
Differentiated products: we listen to our 2.7m customers and the 11.2m Based on our insight, we design the people on our database to gain insight products and services that our customers and tailor products and services want.
We then decide the best way to specifically for them.
77% produce them, either in-house or through Unique route to market: direct access a third party provider.
This decision is based upon a number of factors including: to 11.2m individuals through our database across multiple channels.
the best outcome for the customer, how 1 Manufactured is Trading Profit from AICL best to access specialist skills and Underwriting, Cruising, Healthcare, Media Outstanding service: our customers knowledge, and the best use of capital.
and Central Costs, broked and other is know what good service looks like, Trading Profit from all other operations.
Where third parties are used, our expect the best, and recognise it when 2 Trading Profit by Division they get it.
partners sign up to provide a Saga l Home insurance 27% product, designed and tailored l Motor insurance 50% Sagas flexible and capital efficient specifically for our customers and l Other insurance 13% model has a strong track record of delivered to Saga specified levels l Holidays 5% resilience and growth.
l Cruising 3% l Emerging businesses 2% It allows us to access the very best In a majority of cases, Saga uses third providers of products and services party providers, meaning we do not 2% 3% in any given market, to enter new have any capital at risk.
5% markets very quickly and, with no 27% capital at risk in the majority of cases, One of our core skills is the ability to 13% provides some protection against the manage our partners provision of impact of market conditions.
products and services to Saga customers.
We constantly monitor customer service The breadth of our offering also feedback and quality and will, where provides protection against product necessary, change providers to ensure 50% specific risks, allowing us to focus our customers receive the Saga experience resources on the areas of the business however they interact with us.
that have the most potential for growth.
These products and services are Our capital efficient business model also delivered, through The Saga Model, means we are highly cash generative, the things that define our business: with the majority of our profit after tax converted into cash.
This gives us the flexibility to continue to grow whilst paying down debt and growing longterm returns to shareholders via ourprogressive dividend policy.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 13
