Jan du Plessis Chairman Development for Europe and the Americas, Current appointments: He is a Company transaction.
He is also a member Director of the global corporate finance non-executive director of Tesco plc, and a of the advisory board of Metalmark Appointed to the board: and development team, Director, Group director of the Financial Reporting Council, Capital LLC.
He the UKs independent regulator responsible Previous appointments: He is the former Skills and experience: Jan has an has an in-depth understanding of the for promoting high quality corporate chairman and CEO of the Philip Morris excellent record as a chairman of major group and of the global brewing industry governance.
group of companies, the former chairman international groups with developing market and has led many of the groups major Previous appointments: He was of Altria and Kraft Foods Inc. and a past footprints and a wealth of experience of M&A transactions.
previously Chief Financial officer of Reed non-executive director of News international consumer businesses.
Current appointments: He does not Elsevier now RELX.
Prior to joining Reed Corporation Ltd, the New York Stock Current appointments: He is chairman have any external appointments.
Elsevier in 1995 he was a partner of Price Exchange and BSkyB plc.
of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Previous appointments: Prior to his Member of: Corporate accountability and Previous appointments: In his earlier appointment as Chief Financial officer, he Member of: Audit committee Chairman risk assurance committee CARAC career he was Group Finance Director held the position of Acting Chief Financial Remuneration committee Nomination committee of Compagnie Financire Richemont, the officer, and prior to that, he led the groups Swiss luxury goods group.
Dinyar Devitre Non-executive corporate finance and development and served as a non-executive director and director director strategy team.
subsequently chairman of British American Appointed to the board: 23 July 2015 Appointed to the board: 16 May 2007 Member of: Executive committee excom Tobacco plc, as a non-executive director Skills and experience: Dave has Skills and experience: Dinny brings both and chairman of the audit committee of 4.
Guy Elliott Deputy Chairman and considerable global business experience financial expertise and strategic counsel to Lloyds Banking Group plc and as a Senior Independent Director and an extensive knowledge of the fast the group.
He has extensive experience of non-executive director and senior Appointed to the board: 1 July 2013 moving consumer goods industry.
managing global fast-moving consumer independent director of Marks and Skills and experience: Guy has extensive goods corporations.
Current appointments: He is a nominee Spencer Group plc.
experience of operating in both developed of Altria.
He serves on the board of trustees Current appointments: A nominee of Member of: Corporate accountability and and developing markets, having previously for the Richmond Ballet.
Altria, he is a member of the board of Altria, risk assurance committee CARAC held a variety of finance, marketing, a special adviser at General Atlantic LLC, Previous appointments: He was, until Nomination committee Chairman strategy and general management and a director and chairman of the audit his retirement in March 2015, the President positions throughout his career.
Alan Clark Chief Executive and risk committee of Markit Group Ltd.
He and Chief Operating officer of Altria and Current appointments: He is a is also the Executive Chairman of Pratham Appointed to the board: 26 July 2012 was responsible for overseeing Philip non-executive director of Royal Dutch Shell USA, serves as a trustee of the Brooklyn Morris USA, U. S. Smokeless Tobacco Skills and experience: Alan has an plc.
He is a member of the UK Takeover Academy of Music and is a trustee Company, John Middleton, Nu Mark, extensive knowledge of the global Panel and chairman of the Panels Code emeritus of the Asia Society.
Altria Group Distribution Company and beverage industry, having held a number of Committee.
He joined the Previous appointments: His career management roles with the group, both in Previous appointments: He was Altria family of companies in 1976.
His with the Altria group of companies spans beer and soft drinks.
He became Managing previously Chief Financial officer of Rio previous positions at the company include a 36 year period in which he served in Director, SABMiller Europe, in 2003 and Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and also Vice Chairman for Altria Group: Executive a variety of senior positions.
Before his was appointed as an executive director and a non-executive director of Cadbury plc, Vice President and Chief Financial officer retirement in 2008, he served as the Senior Chief Operating officer of SABMiller plc in serving as chairman of its audit committee for Altria: Executive Vice President and Vice President and Chief Financial officer 2012, before becoming Chief Executive in and as Senior Independent Director.
Chief Financial officer for Philip Morris of Altria.
He was also a director and April 2013.
USA: and Executive Vice President of chairman of the Corporate Governance Member of: Audit committee Current appointments: He does not Finance, Planning & Information for Philip and Public Policy Committee at Western have any external appointments.
Member of: Corporate accountability and Nomination committee Member of: Audit committee 7.
Geoffrey Bible Non-executive risk assurance committee CARAC 5.
Javier Ferrn Non-executive Executive committee excom director Appointed to the board: 1 August 2002 director 3.
Domenic fide Lorenzo Chief Appointed to the board: 1 May 2010 Skills and experience: Geoff has held Appointed to the board: 23 July 2015 Financial officer Skills and experience: Mark brings senior roles in a number of multinational Javier will be stepping down from the board Appointed to the board: 23 July 2015 strategic and financial expertise to the companies and has a wealth of experience at the conclusion of the 2016 annual board and has significant experience Skills and experience: A chartered of global consumer products businesses.
of managing an international group.
accountant, Domenic has held a number of Current appointments: He is a nominee Skills and experience: Javier has senior positions in the group, including that of Altria and was appointed to the board in-depth knowledge of consumer brands of Director, Corporate Finance and following completion of the Miller Brewing on an international basis and of international nancing.
54 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE of the global alcohol beverage industry and 11.
Trevor Manuel Non-executive Member of: Corporate accountability Previous appointments: He was experience of operating in both mature and director and risk assurance committee CARAC employed at Violy, Byorum & Partners, emerging markets.
Chairman Investment Bankers where he was Appointed to the board: focused on mergers and acquisitions Current appointments: He is a 1 March 2015 13.
Carlos Prez Dvila in telecommunications, media and non-executive director of Associated British Skills and experience: Trevor is a former Non-executive director consumer goods.
Foods plc, and a member of its nomination minister in the South African Government.
Appointed to the board: 9 November and remuneration committees.
He is a Member of: Nomination committee He brings a wealth of experience in 2005 partner in Lion Capital LLP, a consumer advising multilateral organisations on 15.
Helen Weir Non-executive Skills and experience: Carlos has focused private equity rm, where he is emerging market development and director extensive experience of the global a member of its investment committee.
beverage industry and of operating in the Appointed to the board: 19 May 2011 He is also a director of Coca-Cola Current appointments: He is Deputy Latin America region.
Skills and experience: Helen has European Partners.
Chairman of Rothschild South Africa, Current appointments: He is a nominee extensive financial and retail expertise, Previous appointments: He completed serves on the International Advisory Board of the Santo Domingo Group and was with senior management experience in a a 20 year career with the Bacardi Group in of the Rothschild Group and is a director appointed to the board following number of UK and international companies.
2004, serving in a variety of key executive of Swiss Re AG and Old Mutual plc.
completion of the Bavaria transaction.
He is Current appointments: She is the Chief positions, including President and Chief Previous appointments: He was a Managing Director at Quadrant Capital Finance officer of Marks and Spencer Executive officer.
After leaving Bacardi he minister in the South African Government Advisors, Inc. chairman of the board of Group plc, a trustee of Marie Curie and an was appointed director and subsequently for more than 20 years, 13 of which he Caracol TV S. A. and serves on the board independent non-executive director of the vice chairman of William Grant & Sons, served as Finance Minister.
During his and executive committee of Valorem S. A. Rugby Football Union, the national body for a position he held until April 2014. ministerial career he assumed a number of He is also a director of Comunican S. A. rugby in England.
Member of: Remuneration committee ex ofcio positions at international bodies, Cine Colombia S. A. and the Queen Soa Previous appointments: She was including the United Nations Commission 10.
Lesley Knox Non-executive Spanish Institute.
Group Finance Director of the John Lewis for Trade and Development UNCTAD, the director Previous appointments: He began his Partnership and has previously held a World Bank, the International Monetary Appointed to the board: 19 May 2011 career in investment banking at Goldman, number of senior positions at the Lloyds Fund, the G20, the African Development Sachs & Company, subsequently working Skills and experience: Lesley brings a Banking Group and Kingsher plc.
She is Bank and the Southern African for SG Warburg & Co. where he served as wealth of strategic and financial experience also a former member of the Accounting Development Community.
the Director of Overseas Advisory Division across a range of businesses and is an Standards Board.
She spent her early Member of: Corporate accountability and Violy, Byorum & Partners, where he experienced remuneration committee career at Unilever and McKinsey & Co. and risk assurance committee CARAC was Senior Managing Director.
She qualied as a solicitor Member of: Audit committee in the UK and as an attorney in the USA.
Alejandro Santo Domingo Dvila Corporate accountability and risk director Current appointments: She is a Non-executive director assurance committee CARAC non-executive director of Centrica plc Appointed to the board: Appointed to the board: 9 November Nomination committee 1 June 2009 where she chairs the remuneration 2005 16.
Stephen Shapiro Group committee, a non-executive director of Skills and experience: Dambisa is a Skills and experience: Alejandro has a Company Secretary and Deputy Legal & General Group Plc and Thomas global economist and commentator on the deep knowledge of the global beverage General Counsel Cook Group plc and is a trustee of the macro-economy and global affairs.
She industry and of the Latin America region.
Appointed as Group Company Grosvenor Estates and chairman of has wide-ranging expertise in economic Current appointments: He is a nominee Grosvenor Group Limited.
She is involved Secretary: 1 November 2014 and business trends on the African of the Santo Domingo Group, appointed to with a number of arts and charitable continent, with a particular focus on Stephen joined SABMiller in 2002 and was the board following completion of the organisations.
appointed Group Company Secretary in Bavaria transaction.
He is Managing Previous appointments: She was November 2014.
He is also Deputy General Current appointments: She is a Director at Quadrant Capital Advisors, Inc.
Counsel, with responsibility for managing previously with British Linen Bank, non-executive director of Barclays PLC, and serves on the boards of Valorem S. A. becoming governor in 1999 and was the internal commercial legal function, Barrick Gold Corporation and Seagate Comunican S. A. Caracol Television S. A. managing material legal risk, and subsequently a founder director of British Technology plc.
Millicom International Cellular S. A. and D. E Linen Advisers.
She was chairman of developing group policy in key areas.
Previous appointments: She was an Master Blenders B. V. He is the treasurer of He is a member of the Council of the Alliance Trust plc, senior non-executive economist at Goldman Sachs, where she Aid for AIDS charity, a member of the board director of Hays Plc and spent 15 years International Chamber of Commerce UK.
worked for nearly a decade, and was a of trustees of The Metropolitan Museum of with Kleinwort Benson, first in corporate consultant to the World Bank in Art and is also a member of the board finance and then as chief executive of the Washington, D. C. of the US-based DKMS Americas institutional asset management business.
Foundation, WNET Channel Thirteen Member of: Audit committee and the Wildlife Conservation Society.
Remuneration committee Chairman Nomination committee 10.
