STRATEGIC REPORT Operations review | Where we Lager volumes operate 38.0m hl -1 % significant business with production operations Selling operations and major export markets Group NPR Zero US$4,675m landfill 1% EBITA US$865m 0% This year, MillerCoors achieved landfill-free Drive superior topline growth through our brands: operations at all major Miller Lite growth momentum improved in the second half reflecting the breweries.
Since 2009, continuing emphasis on the brands authenticity and originality: MillerCoors has reduced its In the above premium segment, the Redds brand family grew volumes by waste across the organisation high single digits for the year: and by 89%.
Both the Blue Moon brand family and the Leinenkugels portfolio grew volumes by low single digits for the year.
34 34 SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 16 6 STRATEGIC REPORT EBITA growth and EBITA margin expansion of 80 bps in MillerCoors was offset by increased marketing and fixed cost investment to support the expansion of our international operations in Brazil and Canada.
The North America segment includes MillerCoors our 58% share of MillerCoors and 100% of MillerCoors group NPR declined by 1% on Miller Brewing International and our North an organic basis as growth in group NPR American holding companies.
On a reported per hl of 1%, driven by net pricing and basis, total North America EBITA was up by supported by favourable sales mix, was offset Gavin Hattersley 1% and EBITA margin increased 20 bps.
by lower volumes, with domestic sales to Chief Executive officer, EBITA growth and EBITA margin expansion wholesalers STWs down by 2%.
Domestic MillerCoors of 80 bps in MillerCoors was offset by sales to retailers STRs were also down by increased marketing and xed cost 2%.
EBITA increased by 3% on an organic investment to support the expansion of basis as improved group NPR per hl and our international operations in Brazil and lower input costs more than offset higher Canada, following changes to our route marketing investment and cost ination.
to market in both countries.
Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2015 and disposals translation growth 2016 % % Group NPR including share of joint ventures US$m 4,682 1 1 7 4,675 1 EBITA US$m 858 16 865 11 EBITA margin % 18.3 18.5 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager excluding contract brewing 38,508 6 554 37,960 1 1 Soft drinks 40 1 39 3 3 Total beverages 38,548 6 555 37,999 1 1 MillerCoors volumes Lager excluding contract brewing 37,154 6 781 36,379 2 2 Sales to retailers STRs 36,967 n a n a 36,217 n a 2 In 2016 before exceptional charges of US$68 million, being the groups share of MillerCoors restructuring costs.
SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 16 6 35 35 STRATEGIC REPORT Operations review North America | | Putting the fizz into FMBs The impressive national launch of Henrys Hard Sodas has re-inforced MillerCoors lead in the fastest growing segment in the US beer market avoured malt beverages FMBs.
At the year-end, just three months after their introduction, Henrys Hard Sodas two launch avours, Hard Ginger Ale and Hard Orange Soda, already represented more than 7% of the FMB market in the USA.
Steel Reserve Alloy Series, the successful economy FMB brand, grew volume sales by 60% during the year.
Redds also continued to grow strongly, led by Redds Green Apple and the higher alcohol Redds Wicked range.
Premium light STRs declined by low single digits, although MillerCoors has gained share of the segment for the last four consecutive quarters.
Miller Lite growth momentum improved in the second half, to end the full year in line with the prior year.
This performance reected the continuing emphasis on the brands authenticity and originality, further evidenced through the success of the limited edition release of the Steinie bottle.
Coors Light declined by low single digits for the year, with improved performance in the fourth quarter supported Leinenkugels shandies continue to sparkle by a new marketing campaign.
Nine out of 10 US shandy-style beers sold are from MillerCoors Leinenkugels brand.
Leinie STRs in the above premium segment were shandies continued to perform strongly in the USA in the year, with volumes growing by 16%.
only marginally up, as the successful launch The advance was led by the brands seasonal Summer Shandy, which was the summers of Henrys Hard Soda in the fourth quarter fastest-selling national craft brand.
New Leinenkugel variants also had a significant impact, largely offset the double digit decline of Miller particularly the autumn launch Harvest Patch Shandy which was the years second-fastest Fortune, which has been deprioritised.
The selling seasonal craft brand in the USA.
Grapefruit Shandy, which was the previous years most Redds brand family increased by high single successful craft launch, continued to sell so well it will now be available all year round.
digits although volumes declined by low single digits in the fourth quarter as the brand family is now cycling strong comparatives.
Both the Blue Moon brand family and the Leinenkugels portfolio were up low single digits for the year.
The below premium portfolio declined by mid single digits with both Keystone Light and Milwaukees Best down high single digits and Miller High Life down by mid single digits.
This was partially offset by Steel Reserve which grew by low single digits owing to the continuing success of the Alloy Series, the brands line of avoured malt beverages.
36 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The lower cost of commodities and production process efficiencies resulted in a low single digit decrease in input costs per hl.
The business invested in additional marketing activities, particularly media, to support the growth of key brands and the launch of Henrys Hard Soda.
In September 2015, MillerCoors announced MillerCoors defines sustainability as making a positive plans to close the brewery in Eden, North and meaningful impact on the social, environmental, and Carolina with an effective closure date of economic issues that affect its business, employees and September 2016.
MillerCoors has a 2020 goal to encourage including accelerated depreciation and 20 million consumers to make a pledge against drink driving, severance costs, will continue to be and is actively encouraging people to take a safe ride home.
This includes a national partnership with the taxi app Uber, which has provided almost 23,000 rides to purchasers of MillerCoors beers.
com MillerCoors celebrates the diversity of its workforce and remains dedicated to fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace.
One of MillerCoors 2020 goals is for women to comprise 35% of management.
In 2015, 99% of MillerCoors leadership completed unconscious bias training, a bespoke programme developed and provided by the MillerCoors University the educational arm of the company.
Read more about regional and country sustainability priorities and performance at www.
com sam Reducing waste In the year MillerCoors achieved landll-free operations at all major breweries.
Since 2009 MillerCoors has reduced its waste across the organisation by 89%, equal to keeping The authentic Miller Lite more than 4,000 tonnes of waste out of local landlls.
Miller Lite stays true to itself just like those who drink it.
This During the year MillerCoors also launched the largest solar message of authenticity is core to the 40-year-old brands new US array installed at any US brewery.
This generates enough advertising campaign, which centres on a bodega or corner shop energy to brew approximately 600,000 hl of beer annually.
and its distinctive Miller Lite customers.
Authenticity was also central to MillerCoors successful turnaround of the brand, the original US light beer, after seven years of declining sales.
MillerCoors introduced a new Miller Lite visual identity inspired by its original packaging, put product quality at the core of communication, and made each consumer touchpoint, from packaging to sponsored concerts, a means of engagement.
