STRATEGIC REPORT Operations review | W Wh here w ere we e o op pera erat te e Lager volumes Soft drinks volumes 46.6m hl 20.6m hl 6% 4% Group NPR US$5,211m 1 significant business with production operations 7% Selling operations and major export markets EBITA 1 US$1,959m 8% 20,000 retailers Drive superior topline growth through our brands: supported NPR growth was supported by premium lager volume growth of 7% across the region: Above mainstream brands Aguila Light and the alcohol-free Since its launch, our 4e Path to Aguila Cero delivered double digit growth in Colombia: and Progress programme has provided Our affordability strategy in Honduras and El Salvador drove strong more than 20,000 small retailers volume and NPR growth in both countries.
across Latin America with training to improve their businesses and livelihoods.
18 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Lager volume growth of 6% was underpinned by our affordability strategy together with the successful targeting of new consumption occasions with innovations and effective marketing.
Latin America reported NPR growth of 8% manufacturing and distribution only partly on a constant currency basis down 10% on a compensated for the currency pressure on reported basis, with beverage volume growth imported raw materials.
Lager volume growth of 6% was margin decline of 100 bps reected the underpinned by our affordability strategy depreciation of our operating currencies Karl Lippert together with the successful targeting of new against the US dollar, which disproportionately President, consumption occasions with innovations and impacted our key Colombian operation.
SABMiller Latin America effective marketing.
Our NPR growth was further supported by momentum in our above In Colombia, group NPR grew by 11% on mainstream and premium brands, with a constant currency basis, with beverage premium lager segment volume growth of volume growth of 8%.
Lager volume growth 7%, together with lager pricing and soft drinks of 11% reected our bulk pack affordability volume growth of 4%.
EBITA growth of 7% on strategy and the success of our enhanced a constant currency basis down 12% on a sales service model.
Our lager volume reported basis was driven by the topline growth, which was further supported by performance while EBITA margin declined by shifts in consumer spending away from 20 bps on a constant currency basis as cost durable goods, and favourable weather, productivity and improved efficiencies in lifted our volume share of the alcohol market Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2015 and disposals translation growth 2016 % % Group NPR US$m 5,768 1,020 463 5,211 8 10 EBITA US$m 2,224 431 166 1,959 7 12 EBITA margin % 38.6 37.6 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 44,156 2,471 46,627 66 Soft drinks 19,865 747 20,612 44 Total beverages 64,021 3,218 67,239 55 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 19 STRATEGIC REPORT Operations review Latin America | | driven by our water brand San Mateo and by 220 bps.
NPR growth was boosted by sparkling soft drink Guarana.
Financial results selective price increases, trading up by also benefited from manufacturing and consumers and our continued focus on distribution efficiencies.
Our above mainstream brands Aguila Light and the alcohol-free In Ecuador, group NPR grew by 1% with Aguila Cero delivered double digit growth, beverage volumes down 2% as a result of with robust growth from our mainstream weaker economic conditions, increased brands.
Premium brands performed well, enforcement of trading restrictions and the particularly the Club Colombia brand family effect of heavy rains on both consumption which achieved double digit volume growth patterns and distribution.
Group NPR growth and exceeded one million hectolitres for the was aided by selective price increases year.
Volumes of our non-alcoholic malt together with positive brand and pack mix, beverage brand, Pony Malta, declined 13% as consumers continued to trade up from following an unfounded social media rumour.
Pilsener to the more profitable Pilsener Light Raw material costs came under pressure due packs.
Our volume share of the alcohol to the adverse impact of the exchange rate on market, down 270 bps, was driven by the our imported commodities as well as higher consumer shift to our lower alcohol content prices for local raw materials.
These impacts beers, but we outperformed the beer were partially mitigated by the December category with volume share growth of 70 bps.
price increases and xed cost productivity.
Higher duties on imported materials were mitigated by further cost productivity which In Peru, group NPR growth of 7% on a enhanced our margin.
Over 100 years old and still constant currency basis reected beverage going strong volume growth of 4% with lager volumes up In Panama, group NPR declined by 12% 2%.
NPR was further enhanced by selective owing to a rise in beer excise duties in April, Our century-old beer Aguila is one of price increases and positive brand mix a strike in July and intensied competition, Latin Americas top 10 brands, across all reecting the continued trade up by our which particularly impacted our premium sectors, and a national icon in its native consumers from Cristal to our above segment.
Lager volumes decreased by 16% Colombia.
During the year we continued to mainstream brand Pilsen Callao.
Our local with a decline across all segments, which build on Aguilas rich heritage: Aguila Cero premium brand Cusquea saw a return to 1 growth through increased distribution and resulted in a 330 bps gained more than 90% of the non-alcoholic decline in our volume rate of sale, and the success of its brand beer category in Colombia within one share of the alcohol market.
The expansion of our direct sales year of launch: Aguila Light, which we innovations targeted at the growing light and distribution model helped to offset the introduced in 2002, remained the fastest segment yielded encouraging growth.
Soft impact of heavy rains that affected parts of growing national beer brand in the country, drinks volumes were down 3% in a highly the country.
Our volume share of the alcohol and the original Aguila made a significant competitive market.
Cost discipline only market continued to grow, up 180 bps, growth rate recovery by strengthening its partially offset the impact of the softer as we expanded the category with gains ties with football.
Overall, in the year the topline performance.
captured mostly from informal alcohol.
Aguila brand franchise achieved double Soft drinks volumes grew by double digits digit growth in volume.
1 On an adjusted like for like basis.
Delivering affordable brands Our affordability strategy has helped deliver impressive returns in Latin America.
When we entered the region in 2005, beer consumption was limited by its high cost, relative to wages, and due to it generally being available in just one pack size.
Our innovative response, which has included introducing varied pack sizes and exible pricing, led to a 40% increase in the year in regional volumes of our affordable offerings.
In Colombia, for example, we successfully offered 750ml bottles and 473ml cans: in El Salvador our Tabernitas outlet development programme further increased sales of our 750ml products, and in Honduras a price reduction on bulk packs helped achieve significant increases in volume.
20 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Having completed water risk assessments at all our Latin American breweries, we now understand the main risks, and how they link to local watersheds.
As part of our response, we are working with The Nature Conservancy in Peru, Colombia and Ecuador to build AquaFunds, which source funding from water users to conserve ecosystems that regulate water supplies for all.
com nowaternobeer Road trafc accidents are the cause of a significant proportion of fatalities involving SABMiller employees.
Our Va Responsable campaign in Panama introduced a holistic Delivering on our sales strategy approach to road safety, dealing with topics such as texting while driving, speeding and drink driving.
Between 2010 and A transformation of our Latin American sales operation is yielding 2014 there has been a 15% reduction in trafc accidents with increased efficiency, cost savings and stronger customer injuries.
The programme is now being replicated across Latin relationships.
The establishment of a network of customer interaction America as Por un Buen Camino On the Right Track.
centres CICs serving Colombia, El Salvador and Ecuador has been central to the change.
The CICs provide centralised telesales, Read more at www.
com roadsafety customer service and collections and are a linchpin between the eld sales force and the rest of the business.
They have enabled Read more about regional and country sustainability the transition of our sales approach from one reliant on third party priorities and performance at www.
com sam distributors, wholesalers and manual ordering, to a sophisticated, digitally-enabled direct service model with automated ordering.
In Honduras, group NPR grew by 12% on a constant currency basis and beverage volumes increased by 11%.
Strong lager 1 volume growth of 21%, with a 600 bps gain in our volume share of the alcohol market, was underpinned by the execution of our affordability strategy, which reinvigorated the category, and by unusually hot weather.
Soft drinks volume growth of 9% also benefited from the good weather.
El Salvador delivered group NPR growth of 8% and beverage volume growth of 6%.
Lager volume growth of 9% was driven by the expansion of our direct sales and distribution model and supported a 110 bps increase in our volume share of the alcohol market.
Growth in our mainstream brands, Pilsener Supporting small-scale retailers and Golden Light, reected the consumer adoption of the bulk packs, and our local Since its launch three years ago, our 4e Path to Progress premium brand Suprema saw double digit programme in Latin America has provided over 20,000 small growth, which enhanced our brand mix.
Soft retailers tenderos with business and leadership training, drinks volumes grew by 5%, with particularly in partnership with the Inter-American Development Bank strong growth in still drinks.
Participating tenderos have reported a 13% average sales growth in the year post training.
During the year we broadened the programme to include access to 1 On an adjusted like for like basis.
