G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report to shareholders, Dividends together with the audited annual financial statements for the year An interim dividend of 28.25 US cents per share was paid to ended 31 March 2016. shareholders on 4 December 2015 in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
Details of the final dividend proposed by the board Much of the information previously provided as part of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2016 are set out below: report is required to be presented as part of the strategic report, which includes a description of the principal risks and uncertainties we face, Amount of final dividend proposed by the board: our development and performance during the year, our position at the end of the year, key performance indicators, and information relating to 93.75 US cents per share.
environmental matters, employee matters and social, community, and human rights issues.
Total proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016: The directors report includes information required under the 122 US cents per share.
Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
If approved, and the proposed acquisition of the company by a Belgian company formed for the purposes of the recommended transaction For the purposes of compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency by AB InBev has not become effective prior to 12 August 2016, the final Rules, the strategic report and this directors report, including those dividend will be payable to shareholders on either section of the register sections of the annual report incorporated by reference, constitute on 5 August 2016 in the following way: a management report.
Dividend payable on: Directors 12 August 2016.
The names and biographical details of the current directors are set out on pages 54 and 55.
All the current directors served throughout the Currency of payment: period, except Dave Beran and Javier Ferrn who were elected as South African rands to shareholders on the RSA section directors at the annual general meeting on 23 July 2015, and Domenic of the register: fide Lorenzo, who was appointed as a director immediately after the US dollars to shareholders shown as having an address annual general meeting.
John Manser, John Manzoni and Howard in the USA and recorded on the UK section of the register Willard served as directors until their retirement on 23 July 2015. unless mandated otherwise : and Javier Ferrn will retire from the conclusion of the 2016 annual general Pounds sterling to all other shareholders on the UK section meeting.
Details of the interests in shares and options of the directors of the register.
who held of ce during the year and any persons connected to them are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 92.
Ex-dividend dates: 3 August 2016 for shares traded on the JSE Limited, South Africa.
Corporate governance 4 August 2016 for shares traded on the London Stock Exchange The directors approach to corporate governance and statements of LSE.
our application of the UK Corporate Governance Code are set out in the corporate governance report, which forms part of this directors The rate of exchange for conversion from US dollars will be calculated report, on pages 58 to 69, in the audit committee report on pages 70 on 20 July 2016 and published on the RNS of the LSE and the SENS to 73 and in the directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 92. of the JSE Limited on 21 July 2015.
Share capital Shareholders registered on the RSA section of the register will, unless Details of the issued share capital and movement in it during the year a shareholder quali es for an exemption, be subject to a dividend are provided in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
withholding tax at a rate of 15%.
The dividend withholding tax is only of direct application to shareholders registered on the RSA section During the year 3,190,462 ordinary shares were purchased by the of the register, who should direct any questions about the application trustee of the SABMiller Employees Bene t Trust EBT at an average of the dividend withholding tax to Computershare Investor Services price of 30.89 per share which amounted to 0.19% of the issued Pty Limited, tel: 27 11 373 0004. ordinary shares of the company, in order to ensure that the trustee of EBT continued to hold suf cient ordinary shares to meet expected Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements discloses future obligations in respect of performance share awards under the dividends waived.
Purchase of own shares Annual general meeting At the last annual general meeting, shareholder authority was Our 2016 annual general meeting will be held at the InterContinental obtained for us to purchase our own shares up to a maximum of London Park Lane, One Hamilton Place, London W1V 7QY, UK at 10% of the number of ordinary shares in issue as at 1 June 2015.
Copies of the notice of this This authority is due to expire at the earlier of the next annual general meeting may be obtained from our website.
meeting or 23 October 2016, and remains exercisable provided that certain conditions relating to the purchase are met.
The notice of annual general meeting proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating and renewing the authority allowing us to purchase our own shares.
We did not repurchase any shares during the year for the purpose of cancellation, holding in treasury, or for any other purpose.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 93 GOVERNANCE Directors report | Directors report continued Political donations Substantial shareholdings It remains our policy not to make donations to political organisations As at 7 June 2016, we had received the following noti cations of in the European Union.
Other political donations are only made by interests in voting rights of the issued share capital of the company exception, and where permitted by local laws, and must be consistent pursuant to Rule 5.1.
2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: with the support of multi-party democracy.
Percentage Date of Number of issued 1 Our subsidiary in Mozambique made a donation totalling US$142,914 noti cation of shares share capital to Mozambiques Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as a contribution to the Altria Group, Inc. 29 June 2012 430,000,000 26.99 costs of the 2015 Presidential inauguration ceremony.
BevCo Ltd. 2 June 2014 225,000,000 13.99 Public Investment Corporation 11 March 2015 50,780,462 3.14 Employment, environmental and social policies Our aim is to be the employer of choice in each country in which our The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of persons with group companies operate.
To achieve this, each operating company signi cant direct or indirect holdings of securities as at the year end.
designs employment policies which attract, retain and motivate At the year-end we were aware of the following shareholdings of the highest quality of staff.
We are committed to an active equal 3.00% or more: opportunities policy, from recruitment and selection, through training and development, appraisal and promotion to retirement.
Within the Percentage constraints of local law, it is our policy to ensure that everyone is of issued 1 share capital treated equally, regardless of gender, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, Altria Group, Inc. 26.52 race, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or trade union BevCo Ltd 13.88 af liation.
We value the bene ts of employing people of different races, BlackRock Inc. 3.93 genders, creeds and backgrounds.
If employees become disabled, efforts are made to allow them to continue in their role, or a suitable 1 Excluding shares held in treasury.
alternative role, through making reasonable adjustments.
Full consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Directors indemnities The company has granted rolling indemnities to the directors, We are committed to regular communication and consultation with uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which our employees and we encourage employee involvement in our they may incur in the course of acting as directors of the company performance.
We have distribution of real time news through our or of one or more of its subsidiaries and associates.
The company intranet, which is available to businesses to help inform employees secretary has also been granted an indemnity, on similar terms, about what is happening in our global operations.
Further information covering his role as group company secretary of the company, and as is provided to employees at regional and country level by way of a mix a director or as company secretary of one or more of the companys of channels such as newsletters, employees boards, meetings and subsidiaries and associates.
The board believes that it is in the best electronic communication.
interests of the group to attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced directors and of cers by offering competitive Certain employees throughout the group are eligible to participate terms of engagement, including the granting of such indemnities.
in the groups share incentive plans.
These indemnities are categorised as qualifying third-party indemnity The sustainable development review on pages 48 to 51 gives an provisions as fide ned by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. overview of the progress of the implementation of our sustainable They will continue in force for the bene t of directors and of cers development ambition, Prosper, and of the impact of our business in respect of their periods of of ce.
More detailed information is provided in our 2016 sustainable development report, available on our website.
Financial instruments Information on our financial risk management objectives and Research and development policies and details of our exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity To ensure improved overall operational effectiveness, we place risk and cash ow risk are contained in note 21 to the consolidated considerable emphasis on research and development in our financial statements.
This enables us to develop new products, packaging, processes and manufacturing technologies.
Continued Future developments progress was made in our research in the key areas of raw materials, Details of likely future developments in the business of the group brewing, avour stability, packaging materials and energy and are included in the strategic report.
Other disclosures required by the Companies Act Greenhouse gas emissions andthe Disclosure and Transparency Rules Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by law We do not have any contractual or other arrangements that individually are included in the strategic report, on page 50. are essential to the business of the company or the group as a whole.
Overseas branches The structure of our share capital, including the rights and obligations SABMiller plc does not have any branches registered overseas.
attaching to each class of share and the percentage of the share capital that each class of share comprises, is set out in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
There are no securities of the company that grant the holder special control rights.
94 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E At 31 March 2016 our employees bene t trust EBT held 11,476,675 as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the ordinary shares in the company and our Employee Share Purchase transferor to make the transfer, is in respect of only one class of share Plan Trust ESPPT held 12,153 shares.
By agreement with the and is in favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
company, voting rights attached to the EBT are not exercised unless shares are bene cially owned by a participant and that participant has Transfers of shares in uncerti cated form must be made in instructed the Trustee to vote.
As at 31 March 2016 there were no accordance with, and subject to, the Uncerti cated Securities shares bene cially owned by a participant in our EBT.
All the shares in Regulations the Regulations, the facilities and requirements of the our ESPPT are eligible to vote except for 22 shares held by the trustee relevant CREST system and such arrangements as the board may which were unallocated and the trustee has agreed that the voting determine in relation to the transfer of certi cated shares subject rights attached to those shares will not be exercised.
The directors are responsible for the management of the business of Transfers of shares listed on the JSE in uncerti cated form must be the company and may exercise all the powers of the company subject made in accordance with, and subject to, the Securities Services to the articles of association and relevant statutes.
Powers of the Act 2004, the Rules and Directives of the JSE and STRATE Ltd. directors relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are set out Certi cated shares may be transferred prior to dematerialisation, in the articles of association.
These powers are subject to renewal by but share certi cates must be dematerialised prior to trading in the our shareholders each year at the annual general meeting.
Our articles of association give the board of directors power to appoint Pursuant to our code for securities transactions, directors and persons directors.
The articles of association may be amended by special discharging managerial responsibilities, and employees may, in certain resolution of the shareholders.
circumstances, require approval to deal in the companys shares.
Directors appointed by the board are required to submit themselves Unless the directors otherwise determine, no shareholder is entitled for election by the shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
in respect of any share held by them to vote either personally or Additionally, as disclosed in the corporate governance report on pages by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right 58 to 69, Altria Group, Inc. Altria and BevCo Ltd BevCo have power conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings if any under their respective relationship agreements with the company call or other sum presently payable by them to the company in respect to nominate directors for appointment to the board and certain of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no shareholder will be committees.
These relationship agreements also regulate orderly entitled to vote if they have been served with a notice after failing to marketing processes applicable in relation to any disposal of shares provide the company with information concerning interests in those by Altria and BevCo.
shares required to be provided under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
Restrictions on the rights of the holders of convertible A change of control of the company would give The Coca-Cola shares and deferred shares are set out in note 25 to the consolidated Company certain rights under its bottling agreements with various financial statements although there are no convertible shares currently subsidiaries of the company, and in certain limited circumstances may in issue.
give China Resources Beer Holdings Company Limited the ability to exercise certain rights under a shareholders agreement in relation to Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate our associate CR Snow.
A change of control may also give the Molson members, by a corporate representative.
The deadline for delivering Coors Brewing Company the ability to exercise certain rights under proxy forms is 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
the MillerCoors operating agreement, and would result in certain minority protection rights contained in our relationship agreement with Going concern the Anadolu Group and Anadolu Efes ceasing to apply.
The AnheuserThe directors have reviewed the groups performance for the year Busch InBev SA NV transaction, if completed, will trigger some of the and the principal risks it faces, together with the budget and cash various change of control provisions mentioned above.
We also have ow forecasts, in particular with reference to the period to the end a number of facility agreements with banks which contain provisions of September 2017, and the application of reasonably possible giving rights to the banks upon a change of control of the company.
sensitivities associated with these forecasts.
On the basis of this review, and in light of the current financial position and existing The company does not have any agreements with any director committed borrowing facilities, the directors are satis ed that the or of cer that would provide compensation for loss of of ce or group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence employment resulting from a takeover.
and therefore have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Our articles of association allow directors, in their absolute discretion, to refuse to register the transfer of a share in certi cated form which is Viability statement not fully paid or the transfer of a share in certi cated form on which The strategic report, set out on pages 2 to 53, includes information the company has a lien.
If that share has been admitted to the Of cial about SABMillers strategy, financial condition, cash ows and liquidity, List, the board may not refuse to register the transfer if this would as well as the factors, including the principal risks, likely to affect its prevent dealings in our shares from taking place on an open and future development.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certi cated form unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, The directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal duly stamped if stampable, at the address at which our register is risks, including those that would threaten its business model, future held or at such other place as the directors may appoint, and except performance, solvency or liquidity.
These risks and the ways they are in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where a certi cate being managed and mitigated are summarised on pages 16 and 17. has not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the certi cate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 95 GOVERNANCE Directors report continued | Directors report continued In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the directors have The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting assessed the prospects of the company over a period signi cantly records that are suf cient to show and explain the transactions of the longer than 12 months.
The directors believe that a three year company and group and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any assessment period is most appropriate as it aligns with our normal time the financial position of the company and group and enable them and well established three year business planning processes.
This to ensure that the company and consolidated financial statements and three year period balances the long-term nature of investments in the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act the brewing industry with an assessment of the variability of the key 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 drivers of near-term business performance as well as external factors of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the and regulation impacting the business.
assets of the company and group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors assessment included a review of the financial impact of severe but plausible scenarios that could lessen the viability of the A copy of the consolidated and company financial statements is company, and an assumed inability to access the capital markets placed on the companys website.
The directors are responsible for to re finance maturing term debt, and the likely effectiveness of the the maintenance and integrity of the statutory and audited information potential mitigations that management reasonably believes would on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom be available to the company over this period.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Based on this assessment, and taking into account the current position and principal risks, the directors have a reasonable The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three years.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
In assessing the prospects of the company, the directors noted that such assessment is subject to a degree of uncertainty that can be Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages expected to increase looking out over time and, accordingly, that 54 and 55 of this annual report, con rms that, to the best of his or future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
her knowledge: Directors responsibility statement the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Companies Act directors remuneration report and the financial statements in 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a true and fair view of accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the group: and the management report contained in this annual report includes a Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements fair review of the development and performance of the business and for each financial year.
The directors have prepared the consolidated the position of the group, together with a description of the principal financial statements in accordance with International Financial risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United The directors in of ce at the date of this report have each Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom con rmed that: Accounting Standards and applicable law.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Under company law the directors must not approve the consolidated of which the groups auditors are unaware: and financial statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken fair view of the state of affairs of the group and company and of the as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any pro t or loss of the group for that period.
relevant audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are aware of that information.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Post balance sheet events select suitable accounting policies and then apply them In May 2016 the South African Competition Tribunal approved, consistently: with agreed conditions, the formation of Coca-Cola Beverages Africa, make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Africas largest soft drinks operation.
The transaction is expected and prudent: to complete in early July 2016. state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Stephen Shapiro to any material departures disclosed and explained in the group Group Company Secretary and parent company financial statements respectively: and For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 10 June 2016 it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the company will continue in business.
96 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R the table below gives the location of information required by that Rule to be included in the annual report and accounts.
Listing Rule Information Location LR 9.8.
4 1 Amount of interest capitalised and amount and treatment Not applicable: no interest capitalised.
4 2 Information required by Listing Rule 9.2.
18 regarding the Not applicable: no relevant information published in prior publication of unaudited financial information.
advance of this annual report and accounts.
4 4 Long-term incentive schemes where the only participant Not applicable: no such arrangements exist.
is a director or prospective director of the company and the arrangement is established speci cally to facilitate the recruitment or retention of the director.
4 5 Arrangements under which a director has waived or In accordance with our agreement with Altria, Howard agreed to waive emoluments from the company or any Willard, as an executive director of Altria, did not receive subsidiary undertaking.
a directors fee from SABMiller see page 82.
4 6 Agreements with a director to waive future emoluments.
Not applicable: no such agreement exists.
4 7 Details of shares allotted during the period under review Not applicable: the only shares that have been allotted which have not been allotted to existing shareholders in during the period have been to satisfy the exercise of proportion to their shareholdings and which have not options under various share incentive plans as been speci cally authorised by the companys approved by the companys shareholders.
to the consolidated financial statements for further details of these allotments.
4 8 Shares allotted in major subsidiary undertakings during Not applicable: no individual subsidiary is a major the period under review which have not been allotted to subsidiary undertaking as fide ned by the Listing Rules.
existing shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
4 9 Details of any parent undertakings participation in any Not applicable: SABMiller does not have a parent placing during the period under review.
4 10 Details of any contract of signi cance as fide ned by the Not applicable: no such contract of signi cance exists.
Listing Rules existing between SABMiller, or any of its subsidiaries, in which either a director is materially interested or one of the parties is a controlling shareholder of SABMiller.
4 11 Details of any contract for the provision of services to Not applicable: SABMiller does not have a controlling SABMiller, or any of its subsidiaries, by a controlling shareholder.
4 12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder The trustees of two employees bene t trusts have has waived or agreed to waive any dividends.
elected to waive dividends, except in circumstances where they may be holding shares bene cially owned by participants.
See notes 9 and 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
4 13 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder As noted above the trustees of the employees bene t has agreed to waive future dividends.
trusts have elected to waive dividends, except in circumstances where they may be holding shares bene cially owned by participants.
4 14 Agreements with any controlling shareholder.
Not applicable: SABMiller does not have a controlling shareholder.
