STRATEGIC REPORT Market overview Beer accounts for almost one-third of global retail sales value in packaged beverages, with attractive industry margins.
The global soft drinks market is slightly larger than that for beer, accounting for approximately 40% of global retail sales value in packaged beverages.
Developing markets These dynamics are challenging, but they Developing markets offer significant also represent future growth opportunities underlying demand-led growth, with for the beer category.
For example, increased growth in beer consumption driven by: consumer demand for variety and new experiences has driven the higher growth affordability, with per capita consumption of different beer styles outside of core lager, increasing sharply as consumer disposable notably in the US craft beer segment but also income levels grow: across other developed markets.
beer being an aspirational and higher quality beverage compared with other Delivering topline growth in these markets competing alcoholic beverages in these is dependent on successful premiumisation markets, which are typically local spirits to drive revenue per hectolitre growth and on or informal illicit alcohol: and appealing to more consumers on more demographics and drinking occasions occasions, by: being skewed towards core beer improving core mainstream lager offers consumers, with mainstream lager critical to better meet the needs of a wider range to growth.
of consumers: innovating to evolve portfolios towards Ensuring the affordability, availability and more attractive growth segments: and quality of core mainstream lager is critical regaining share from other beverages.
to growth in these markets.
However, while The global beer market is relatively the beer category is heavily focused on consolidated, with the top four largest Soft drinks mainstream lager, the rise in disposable brewers AB InBev, SABMiller, Heineken, Sparkling, or carbonated soft drinks CSDs, incomes provides opportunities for and Carlsberg accounting for around 50% make up approximately 40% of total soft premiumisation through local and of global volumes and will consolidate further drinks global retail sales value.
on completion of the AB InBev transaction.
drinks volumes have been growing at around SABMiller is the number two globally, which Compared with our global competitors, 4% per year over the past 10 years, with the gives us the opportunity to leverage our scale, a greater proportion of our total profit and category demonstrating similar consumption global brands and skills to improve in-market volumes comes from developing markets.
characteristics and growth dynamics to beer, performance.
Given the importance of local This has helped support our superior rates with rapid growth and increasing levels of per brands and scale, the strength of local market of organic topline growth.
capita consumption as markets develop.
positions is also important to sustainable long-term performance in beer, and 94% Soft drinks also show a similar overall Developed markets of our beer volumes come from markets category development dynamic to beer.
In contrast with developing markets, volume where we are the number one or two brewer.
In developing markets, CSDs and bottled and consumption growth in more developed The nature of competition and competitive water are the dominant sub-categories, markets have typically been at or have intensity varies by market, but we typically but fragmentation of the category occurs declined over the past decade.
This reects compete not only against the major global as markets develop, with still drinks, juices, both a general decline in alcohol consumption brewers, but also with small and large local and premium bottled water becoming and a fall in beers share of total alcohol.
brewers and other alcohol producers.
As with beer, scale and There are many reasons for this shift and the leadership in a market is critical to long-term The global beer market has been growing increasing fragmentation of consumer choice, sustainable success.
However, including changes in the nature of drinking there is a clear difference in growth, category occasions and in the demographics of dynamics and characteristics between alcohol consumers.
These changes include developing and developed markets and, the growth of mixed gender drinking accordingly, in the growth opportunities occasions and ageing populations.
