Strategic Report DIVISIONAL REVIEW We have continued to build strong momentum across all of our divisions Insurance 34 Travel 36 Emerging businesses 37 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 33 DIVISIONAL REVIEW Insurance during this year.
The panel will CONTINUED Our insurance model allows our retail continue to increase in efficiency broker, Saga Services, access to the as new underwriters join.
However, highest quality and most cost-efficient we are already starting to see the source of underwriting available in the benefits with around one quarter market, whether that be AICL, a panel of of net premium being underwritten providers or a solus relationship with a by the panel during January 2016. third party.
This flexibility provides us with a number of levers to operate effectively Overall, we are pleased with the across our full portfolio of products to balance we have achieved between Insurance capitalise on, or protect against, market profit growth and customer growth in conditions.
This year, this has allowed us the year, and, with the enhanced supply to deliver both profit and customer growth chain provided by the panel, our retail across all of our major product lines.
broker remains well placed to capitalise on its competitive advantages.
Motor insurance At a glance The UK motor insurance market remains Motor underwriting Our award winning insurance very competitive.
Our experience across Within our underwriter, AICL, we business is the largest part of the the book supports the market view that continue to see a relatively stable claims Group, providing tailored products premiums continued to fall during the frequency and personal injury claims and services ranging from motor first quarter of 2015 but, since then, cost.
This claims experience has to pet insurance to over 2m there have been sustainable increases contributed strongly to our combined customers per year.
in market premiums, particularly from operating ratio, which has improved the fourth quarter of 2015 onwards.
We have worked to capitalise on our Given this positive underwriting Motor Insurance: competitive advantages within the performance, we have been able to Core policies sold motor insurance market to continue to price risk from AICL very competitively grow the business.
These include: a low in a rising price environment, while cost of acquisition due to our brand and maintaining our prudent approach to database covering 11.2m of the UKs underwriting.
This more competitive 1,238k over 50s: a differentiated retailer, Saga approach to pricing means that in future Performance Services, with access to our newly more profit will be realised in the current launched panel of underwriters: the year, while historic reserve releases will 14.9% participation on the panel of our own reduce over time.
experienced in-house underwriter, AICL, with a clear focus and data-driven AICL remains a critical part of our Motor Insurance: insight into a relatively low risk section business.
Its clear focus and data-driven Trading Profit of the market: and an efficient and insight in a relatively low risk section effective claims management function.
of the market has made a significant contribution to the Groups earnings We have grown our core motor policies since its formation.
Equally, our ongoing 118.3m to 1,238k 2015: 1,077k, with 3.1% ability to act as underwriter and underlying policy growth and 128k participate on our motor panel is a vital Performance policies added through our Bennetts element of delivering the motor panels acquisition.
Following a review of the use of capital in AICL, we entered into a quota share Motor Underwriting: In particular, this customer and profit arrangement with NewRe, a subsidiary Combined Operating Ratio growth has been driven by two factors: of Munich Re, the worlds biggest reinsurance group.
Our approach to pricing risk in AICL: of the risk of the motor policies within By better reflecting our excellent AICL, from 1 February 2016 for a 74.4% underwriting performance in AICLs period of three years with the option Performance risk pricing our retail broker has of a further three years.
The terms of been able to be more competitive, the arrangement, with a market-leading particularly in a rising premium reinsurer, are testament to the quality 3.5pts environment.
of the Saga underwritten book, and 2.
The successful launch of our motor our historic performance.
panel: Access to the panel has allowed our retail broker to increase its competitiveness outside of AICLs traditional target market of lower risk drivers.
The panel, launched in late summer, has five underwriters and we expect to add a further two 34 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Strategic Report With the expected reduction in policies Our travel insurance product has again Home Insurance: written by AICL with the future growth in performed very strongly in the past year, Core policies sold the motor panel, our previously announced partly as a result of developing new lower risk investment policy going forward routes to market.
This is an important and our quota share arrangements, we source of income for the Group and as 1,287k expect the amount of capital within AICL importantly, it remains a key source to reduce gradually over time.
of new names onto the database, Performance adding more than 158k names during Importantly, capital that will be gradually the period.
2.3% released from the underwriter will allow us to increase our free cash flow During the course of the year, our and reduce the capital at risk, while external Saga Legal Services partner, Home Insurance: increasing the resilience of earnings by Parabis Law LLP, filed for insolvency.
Trading Profit increasing the percentage that comes While disruptive to our business, our from broking activities.
focus throughout has been on ensuring that any impact on our customers was Home insurance minimised.
We have established 64.1m The market for home insurance continues relationships with new partners, which to be highly competitive and we have will enable us to continue to develop Performance seen the same fall in average premiums an offering in this area.
that the wider market has experienced.
3.2% Investment in marketing for Saga Legal The increasing competitive tension Services at the start of the year and the provided by our panel and our use of negative financial impact of the Parabis Other Insurance: the Saga Factor, has led to a reduction insolvency resulted in Trading Profit in Core policies sold in the net rate at which we can source Other Insurance reducing to 30.7m underwriting for these policies, enabling us 2015: 34.9m.
to maintain our margin in this area despite 383k falling market rates.
This has allowed us Current trading to increase our competitiveness and Trading across the insurance Performance grow core policy numbers.
businesses has started well and is line with our expectations.
11.3% We saw a limited number of claims in relation to the flooding that took place in Our experience suggests that recent the UK this winter and our focus was on strong price increases in the UK motor Other Insurance: working with our partners on the panel market appear to be sustainable and our Trading Profit to support any customers who were claims experience has continued to be affected during a difficult time.
With the continued development it is worth reiterating that our insurance of our motor panel and competitive model in home, with the use of the pricing from AICL, we are well placed to 30.7m panel and co-insurance re-insurance grow customer numbers and profit in of the risk underwritten by AICL, means the current market conditions during Performance our short-term earnings are protected the coming year.
We are mindful of in situations such as this.
the impact of Insurance Premium 12% Tax increases and the effect on As a result, we have grown both profits market churn.
and core policy numbers within our home insurance business.
Our core While the UK home insurance market The arrangement is with NewRe, a home policies have grown by 2.3% remains highly competitive, our subsidiary of Munich Re, the worlds to 1,287k 2015: 1,258k and we have proactive management of the home biggest reinsurance group, and will cover delivered a 3.2% increase in Trading insurance panel leaves us well placed 75% of the risk of new policies written by Profit to 64.1m 2015: 62.1m.
in this area despite there being limited AICL, from 1 February 2016 for a period signs of premium increases across of three years with the option of a Other insurance the market.
The terms of the Within other insurance we have arrangement we have signed, with a continued to deliver a strong Within other insurance, we have market-leading reinsurer, is testament performance through growing seen continued strong performance to the quality of the Saga underwritten customer numbers in this segments in private medical insurance.
Recent book, and our historic performance.
core products of private medical geopolitical turbulence in traditional insurance PMI and travel insurance.
winter sun destinations has had an impact on demand for our single trip PMI remains an important area for travel insurance policies in the early part us and we continue to grow policy of the year.
However, demand for our numbers by evolving and enhancing annual travel insurance policies remains our product to ensure its relevance strong and we expect a continued to our target customer base.
robust operating performance within our other insurance business.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 35 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Travel Our travel business has continued to Whilst the announcement of the At a glance focus on growing profitability.
We have purchase of the new ship has caused delivered customer and profit growth much excitement amongst our Our award winning travel across our tour operating and cruising customers, our immediate focus businesses is at the heart of the businesses with overall revenue growing is on ensuring the maintenance of the Saga brand, taking over 250,000 by 11.0% to 423.1m 2015: 381.3m customer experience and the high levels passengers a year all over the and Trading Profit up by 26.5% to 17.2m of satisfaction with customers overall world on package holidays, 2015: 13.6m.
The business continues holiday experience which we have seen escorted tours and cruises.
to be on track to deliver its objectives.
reach historic highs this year.
During 2015, our travel businesses As part of this ongoing process, the were awarded 65 awards ranging from Saga Sapphire will be in wet dock Holidays passengers: Sagas best specialist tour operator, during the coming year for scheduled award from the Times and Sunday maintenance.
As with the refit of Saga Times to Destinologys Gold award Pearl II last year, this will enhance our for best medium sized luxury holiday service capability and the proposition 189k company, in the British Travel Awards.
It will, however, mean we have one ship out of service Performance Tour operating for two months during the year, which, Within our tour operating businesses whilst budgeted, will hold back the total 9.9% we have seen a shift in the mix of sales profit growth in the travel business for to longer-haul, higher-value products the coming year.
where we can provide our customers Current trading with both security and a highly Ship passenger days: differentiated product.
The success Trading in Tour Operating for the yearending 31 January 2017 has of this shift is attributable to our ability to know more about our customers beenpositive and we are around threequarters sold for the year.
As wants and needs than any other provider, 339k and to create affordable packages expected our cruise revenue is lower than last years position, given the underpinned by excellent service.
As we are over We have grown customer numbers with 90%sold, we have good visibility 0.9% a 9.9% increase in holiday passengers ontheoutturn for the year.
Trading to week ending 9 April 2016 Cruising Travel: Departure 2016 2015 Cruising remains a vital part of our Trading Profit year 2017 Growth 2016 travel offering through our two ships, the Saga Sapphire and Saga Pearl II.
Tour The business had another good year operating with load factors of 84.4% 2015: 84.9% revenue 269.4m 5.0% 256.5m 17.2m across both ships and a 0.9% increase Cruise in the number of ship passenger days Performance revenue 71.2m 2.2% 72.8m to 339k 2015: 336k.
26.5% 36 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Strategic Report Emerging businesses Other personal finance At a glance Our high quality personal finance Emerging businesses includes business also continues to make our personal finance, homecare, good progress.
We have 130k savings publishing and printing operations account customers, provided 10k new as well as new development Saga Credit Cards and 227m was areasfor the long-term growth spent on our cards by 167k customers.
Homecare and retirement villages Our private homecare trial continues to Saga Investment Services make progress in Hertfordshire.
During We launched Saga Investment Services, the year we have focused on ensuring our investment management joint the offer is right for customers, as well venture with Tilney Bestinvest, in as testing the economics before we November 2015 to support those expand it further.
We are continuing customers who have previously been to assess the opportunity around ignored by the investment management retirement villages in the UK.
It has been quite an achievement by the team to get the business up and running with such a strong proposition in less than a year.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 37
