Delivering our Our strategy has been developed to deliver long-term shareholder value through growth in the core businesses and capitalising on the long-term value identified in our new business opportunities.
These are our strategic priorities for the coming year.
They build on ourachievements so far and are the next step in the long-term delivery ofour strategy.
Becoming anever more customercentric organisation Over 65 years, we have built up a very ensure our relevance and appeal to our engage with Saga on multiple levels, deep understanding of our customers target market in the future.
improving the average product and our target demographic.
Our plan for delivery is multi-faceted Traditionally, this insight has been The brand: the Saga brand is a vital used to develop products and gauge and includes: part of the Saga business with 97% important characteristics of the recognition amongst the UKs over Customer insight: as the meaning customer, such as propensity to buy 50s.
We will continue to increase our of retirement changes for our travel products and renewal dates for relevance to our target customers customers, we need to understand insurance policies.
and help shift recognition and that change more than anyone else awareness into conversion.
and remain relevant to the changing With our new marketing team in place, we have the capability to do much more needs of our customers and Understanding the customer has always differentiate accordingly.
with the data we have at our disposal.
been at the heart of what we do in order Our aim is to make Saga a truly The customer journey: moving to provide leading products and from a very successful, direct customer-centric organisation, allowing services.
Our renewed focus on the us to respond even more effectively to marketing model to a multi-channel customers journey towards retirement model that simplifies the customer our customers wants and needs and gives us the opportunity to enhance this help them to put more of Saga in journey.
We can personalise the approach to help ensure Saga remains customer experience, develop a their lives.
the UKs chosen provider for customers deeper understanding and deliver that are in, or thinking about, retirement, At the heart of these plans is an more efficient and personalised well into the future.
understanding of how our customers communications.
are changing and how we are adapting Helping the customer to put to meet their needs.
By focusing on the more of Saga in their lives: We way a customers life changes up to and will work to create a customer view in retirement, we have an opportunity to of relationships with Saga to help build on our current strong position to identify and reward those who 18 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Strategic Report 2.
Much of this growth will be driven Ashleigh Hatton, Growing our by the development of the motor Performance Consultant, insurance insurance panel, allowing us to provide Performance Support Team, competitive quotes for a broader range Saga Holidays businesses of customers than we could in the past.
Additionally, we will continue to improve As the largest part of the business by our product propositions through customer numbers and earnings, our enhanced customer insight and insurance operations play a vital role in understanding, allowing us to further the delivery of growth across the Group.
differentiate our products from the broader marketplace.
Our business model provides us with the flexibility to balance growth in Finally, we are focusing on engaging customer numbers and profit across with our customers on a multi-channel our insurance business, depending basis to ensure our customers receive on market conditions or our strategic the same Saga experience regardless aims.
To deliver long-term growth for of how we interact.
We are therefore the Group, we have targeted growth in working across the Group to ensure a customer numbers and have delivered joined up, easy, personal and engaging policy growth across all of our major customer experience through whichever insurance lines in the past year.
channel in person, by phone, by letter or digitally our customers are most We will continue to build our insurance comfortable with.
customer base and encourage loyalty amongst these customers with the aim of increasing the average number of products held, both within our insurance business and across the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 19 DELIVERING OUR PRIORITIES 4.
CONTINUED Investing for future growth The majority of our short-term growth will 3. come from continuing to unlock the potential in our core businesses of insurance and travel.
At the same time, however, we are Growing our putting in place the building blocks that will support Sagas long-term growth plans.
travel Matt Shearman, Holiday Sales Adviser, Saga Holidays Some of these opportunities are well businesses progressed: others are potentially exciting but may not progress beyond the pilot stage.
As always, we monitor progress extremely carefully Our travel business lies at the heart We will work to leverage these new to ensure that we can deliver a product or of our brand.
It enables customers to propositions through marketing service that fits within The Saga Model and experience Saga levels of service and initiatives that help to attract new surprises and delights our customers.
dedication in a unique way that many customers, particularly through the of our competitors are unable to replicate.
enhanced use of digital channels as New ships: In September 2015 we our target customers become more announced our decision to enhance our Growth across the travel business digitally active.
excellent cruise business by updating our will come from the delivery of more shipping capacity.
In the year ahead we targeted and sophisticated products, Within our cruising business, we willbe working alongside our partner Meyer making Sagas travel offerings more will maintain the highest possible Werft to finalise the design of the ship to contemporary through the development standards of customer experience ensure its delivery in 2019.
The new ship of new and differentiated propositions.
on both the Saga Sapphire and the will be transformative for the operating Saga Pearl II.
efficiency and profitability of our cruising business.
We expect cruises on the new ship to be on sale from 2017.
Saga Investment Services: With high street banks and independent financial advisers continuing to withdraw from the advisory space in the face of increased regulatory pressures, we identified a significant gap in the market for quality financial advice from a trusted provider.
In November 2015 we launched Saga Investment Services, our investment management joint venture with Tilney BestInvest, to fill this gap.
The business offers everything from SIPPs to a personal advisory relationship, with all products transparently and fairly priced.
Our aim is to grow Saga Investment Services to become, in time, a meaningful contributor to our earnings.
New opportunities: We continue to identifygaps in the market where the UKs over 50s could be better served through the implementation of the Saga Model.
We test these opportunities through a series of pilots such as the ones we are currently running in private pay homecare and retirement villages.
This allows us to gauge their potential before slowly scaling the business up into a meaningful profit contributor.
In the coming year we will continue to asses our current pilots and, subject to them proving their viability on a larger scale, start to expand them further.
20 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Strategic Report 5.
Developing our people Our people are central to everything The implementation of The Saga Way wedo and as such, their ongoing will continue, making it a key responsibility development plays a key role in the for every leader within thebusiness.
successful delivery of our strategy.
We will also increase ourinvestment in leadership and management capability We now have a strong team in place across our Executive Team, our top team throughout the business and last year and all seniorleaders within the business.
we started to put in place the tools we need to support their development and enhance their engagement, ensuring wemaximise the talent we have.
Mackenzie Carne, Service Delivery Development Team Assistant, Saga Insurance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 21
