STRATEGIC REPORT Business overview SABMiller by numbers We have a balanced spread of businesses with a significant US$5,810m presence in 1% Group EBITA 2015: US$6,367m.
developing markets Group lager volume.
249m hl 69% The proportion of EBITA from developing markets.
Our five shared 1 EBITA by region imperatives are % Latin America 33% aligned with US$1,959m 12 of the 17 North America Africa 29% US$1,708m UN Sustainable Where we operate Asia Pacific 13% Development Goals.
Regional ofce: US$753m Chicago, USA Europe 11% MillerCoors is a joint venture US$636m with Molson Coors Brewing North America 14% Company, which was formed in US$865m 2008 by bringing together the 6% US and Puerto Rican operations Soft drinks of both groups.
What we do MillerCoors is the second Every minute of every day, largest brewer in the USA, more than 140,000 bottles with 27% of the beer market.
70,000 Our wholly-owned Miller of SABMiller beer are enjoyed Brewing International business around the world.
is based in Milwaukee, USA and exports and sells our brands to Canada, Brazil and Mexico and throughout SABMiller has 70,000 the Americas.
employees and is in more Read more on page 34 than 80 countries.
94% #1 The proportion of our Subsidiary NPR growth.
#2 total lager volume from 2 markets in which we have no 1. or no.
Our global brands are Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Miller Genuine Draft, Miller Lite, Pilsner Urquell, and Grolsch.
12% 13% 2 On an organic, constant currency basis.
NPR premium NPR global 3 Subsidiaries only, excluding home 3 4 markets, on a constant currency basis.
4 Subsidiaries only, excluding home markets.
2 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Europe Where we operate What we do Regional ofce: In the majority of these countries we are the number one Zug, Switzerland or two brewer by market share.
Our primary brewing operations We cover a further 16 countries including Russia, Turkey, cover nine countries: the Czech and Ukraine in a strategic alliance with Anadolu Efes Republic, Hungary, Italy, Poland, through brewing, soft drinks and export operations.
Romania, Slovakia, Spain Canary We export significant volumes to a further six European Islands, the Netherlands, and markets, of which the largest are Germany and France.
Read more on page 30 Africa Where we operate Asia Pacific Latin America Regional ofce: Johannesburg, South Africa Where we operate Where we operate Our primary brewing and beverage Regional ofce: Regional ofce: operations in Africa cover 17 countries Hong Kong Miami, USA including Botswana, Mozambique, Our brewing interests across Asia Pacic Our primary brewing and beverage Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, cover four countries: Australia, China, India, operations cover six countries across and Zambia.
A further 21 countries are and Vietnam.
South and Central America: Colombia, covered through our associate interests Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, in the Castel groups African beverage What we do Panama, and Peru.
businesses and we also have an CR Snow, our partnership of more than associated undertaking in Zimbabwe.
20 years with China Resources Beer What we do Holdings Co Ltd, is the largest brewer In each of these countries we are the What we do in China.
number one brewer by market share.
In most of these countries we are the Carlton & United Breweries CUB is We have a brewery in Argentina, and number one brewer by market share.
we export to Chile and Paraguay.
We produce Coca-Cola products in 23 We are the second largest brewer We produce soft drinks across the of our African markets with Castel in inIndia.
region including Coca-Cola products 15 of these markets and through our We have a brewery in Vietnam, and we in El Salvador and Honduras.
export to numerous markets including South Korea.
Read more on page 22 Read more on page 18 Read more on page 26 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 3
