STRATEGIC REPORT Operations review | AFRICA Where we operate Lager volumes Soft drinks volumes 50.8m hl 37.8m hl 5% 8% Group NPR US$6,781m 1 1 11% EBITA 11% US$1,708m significant business with production operations Associates Drive superior topline growth through our brands: In the affordable category, Impala, our cassava-based beer, 3.5hl and Eagle were the main drivers of growth: Castle Lite continued to grow strongly, which helped to drive premium water hl beer segment growth of 11% for our subsidiaries: and Our innovation pipeline delivered double digit growth for our premium This year our breweries in Africa flavoured beer Flying Fish, along with the successful pan-African launch improved their water efficiency by of our premium, single malt beer Carling Blue Label.
6%, using on average 3.5hl of water to produce 1hl of beer.
22 22 SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 16 6 STRATEGIC REPORT Our regional performance reflected our focus on cost management, premiumisation and the introduction of more affordable pack sizes.
In Africa, group NPR grew by 11% on an segment growth of 11% for our subsidiaries organic, constant currency basis down 9% in the region and increased premium mix.
on a reported basis, reecting beverage Our strategy of price moderation assisted the volume growth of 6% supported by our growth in the mainstream segment while in affordability strategy, selective price increases the affordable category, Impala, our cassavaand continued premiumisation in South based beer, and Eagle were the main drivers Africa.
On an organic, constant currency of growth.
Our innovation pipeline delivered Mark Bowman basis, our subsidiaries achieved volume and double digit growth for our premium avoured Managing Director, NPR growth of 8% and 12%, respectively, beer Flying Fish, along with the successful SABMiller Africa with increased topline momentum in the year, pan-African launch in the second half of the notwithstanding increased currency and year of our premium, single malt beer Carling economic volatility in the second half.
Soft drinks volumes increased by associate, Castel, delivered more modest 8%, against a strong comparative.
Traditional beer volumes returned to growth in the growth, predominantly due to very second half which resulted in growth of 1% challenging macro-economic conditions for the full year.
Chibuku Super grew by in its key market of Angola.
double digits driving its share of our traditional beer volumes to 27%.
The Castle Lite brand continued to grow strongly, which helped to drive premium Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2015 and disposals translation growth 2016 % % Group NPR including share of associates US$m 7,462 43 1,519 795 6,781 11 9 1 EBITA US$m 1,907 8 423 216 1,708 11 10 EBITA margin % 25.6 25.2 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 48,413 41 2,349 50,803 55 Soft drinks 34,901 1 2,884 37,786 88 Other alcoholic beverages 7,618 2 158 7,774 22 Total beverages 90,932 40 5,391 96,363 66 1 In 2016 before a net exceptional charge of US$422 million, being impairments and related charges of US$508 million arising from Angola and South Sudan, net of the groups US$86 million share of a gain recognised as a result of Castels operations in Tunisia being reclassied from an associate to a subsidiary following the acquisition of additional shares 2015: net exceptional credit of US$45 million, being additional profit on disposal of a business in 2012.
SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 16 6 23 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Operations review Africa | | trading period.
Our focus on manufacturing EBITA grew by 11% on an organic, constant and distribution efficiencies, together with currency basis down 10% on a reported xed cost productivity in the SAB beer basis, with EBITA margin expansion of business, partially offset the impact of 10 bps constrained by the performance of our adverse currency on raw materials and associates.
The depreciation of key currencies resulted in double digit EBITA growth against the US dollar created significant on an organic, constant currency basis.
pressure on raw material input costs which was only partially offset by efficiencies In Tanzania, group NPR grew 5% on a achieved in manufacturing and distribution.
constant currency basis with beverage Our regional performance reected our focus volume growth of 7%.
Lager volumes grew on cost management, premiumisation and by 7% with strong growth in the affordable the introduction of more affordable pack sizes.
segment led by Eagle, as well as the On a reported basis, EBITA margin declined expansion into draught and smaller pack by 40 bps primarily due to the depreciation of sizes of Balimi.
Other alcoholic beverages the South African rand, Tanzanian shilling and grew by 3%, spurred by the growth of euro against the US dollar the euro being Chibuku Super, partially offset by a subdued The right ingredients for Castels functional currency.
performance from wines and spirits.
affordable success profitability was adversely impacted by In South Africa, group NPR grew by 10% the growth of the affordable segment and Our strategy of creating affordable beers on an organic, constant currency basis, traditional beer, the decline in wines and in Africa by using local crops has allowed supported by selective pricing and spirits, transactional foreign exchange us to grow the beer category.
It has also premiumisation against a tough economic pressure on raw materials, and increased supported thousands of subsistence backdrop in which consumers disposable employee costs.
farmers, increased government excise income continued to be under pressure.
revenues and helped towards reducing Beverage volumes increased by 6% and lager In Mozambique, a 20% increase in group the consumption of harmful illicit alcohol.
volumes grew by 2%, with share gains across NPR on a constant currency basis reected the beer and total alcohol markets.
This was beverage volume growth of 12%, together In Uganda, our Eagle Extra lager uses driven by our premium brand volume growth with positive pack and category mix.
Lager locally-grown sorghum rather than of 13%, led by Castle Lite and Castle Milk volume growth of 15% was led by the Impala imported malted barley.
Volumes of our mainstream lager brands declined by 1% driven by Hansa brand, together with strong growth of our a major part of the countrys affordable Pilsener, partially offset by the growth of mainstream brand 2M, primarily in the can segment and grew volumes by 15% Castle Lager.
In the avoured beer segment format.
Other alcoholic beverages declined by during the year.
In Mozambique, our there were strong performances from Redds 29% due to competition from informal wines cassava-based lager Impala has enjoyed and Brutal Fruit.
Soft drinks volume growth and spirits.
EBITA growth on an organic, great success since its initial launch in of 10% in an increasingly promotion-driven constant currency basis was driven by the 2011.
During the year, its volumes trading environment was supported by robust topline performance, while margins declined increased by 60%.
growth of 17% in the second half, which driven by the adverse transactional foreign benefited from hot weather over the peak exchange impact on the cost base.
In Zambia, group NPR grew by 23% on a constant currency basis with beverage Bringing Africans together volume growth of 10% driven by lager volumes up 30%, against a soft comparative.
Castle Lager has been bringing Africans together for over 120 years, since the days of gold Lager volume growth benefited from price prospecting in Johannesburg.
Today Castle Lager is brewed in nine African countries and reductions at the beginning of the financial exported to many more.
This cross-continental success reects our strategy of establishing year in anticipation of the excise duty consistent regional brands across Africa.
This has led us to align the brands recipe, packaging decrease which became effective in January and brand foundation, to launch a powerful African marketing campaign, It all comes together 2016, together with the strong performance of with a Castle, and to sponsor the COSAFA Castle Football Cup in southern Africa for the Castle Lite in the premium segment and Eagle coming five years.
During the year, Castle Lager achieved a 9% increase in volumes in South in the affordable segment.
Following pricing Africa, and 8% growth on the rest of the continent.
taken earlier in the year, soft drinks volumes returned to growth in the second half to end the year with volume growth of 1%.
Traditional beer volumes grew by 5% driven by double digit growth in Chibuku Super.
Group NPR in Nigeria grew by 31% on a constant currency basis with volume growth of 27%.
Continued strong growth in our mainstream lager brands, Hero and Trophy, was underpinned by our expanded distribution footprint, supported by increased capacity and enhanced market execution.
Our non-alcoholic malt beverage category also remained strong with double digit volume growth driven by Beta Malt.
On an organic, 24 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT constant currency basis, EBITA growth and robust EBITA margin expansion were driven by the strong topline performance, supported by marketing and xed cost productivity.
In Botswana, group NPR grew by 5% on a constant currency basis supported by Accelerating growth and social development is one of our top moderate pricing and favourable category priorities in Africa.
Through our Go Farming strategy, we are mix.
Beverage volumes were in line with the working with smallholder farmers to source affordable crops prior year as volume growth in lager and soft that can be used for brewing.
This year we also rolled out a drinks of 11% and 6%, respectively, was retailer programme and to date have trained over 9,000 small offset by a 16% decline in traditional beer shopkeepers and bar owners across 13 African countries in volumes due to the impact of water business management and responsible retailing.
Read more about how we are supporting retailers in Africa From zero to Hero Group NPR in Ghana grew by 48% on at www.
com  a constant currency basis, as moderate The swift ascent of Hero in pricing drove volume growth of 24%, and We aim to create a healthy and positive work environment.
Nigeria has delivered one of the growth of non-alcoholic malt beverage Our African Wellness Development Programme focuses our most successful launches volumes, as opposed to water, led to on health issues such as HIV Aids and malaria.
Since it was introduced an improved soft drinks segment mix.
train employees to educate their peers by promoting in south-east Nigeria in 2012, Non-alcoholic malt beverages delivered prevention, testing and treatment and reducing stigma.
the lower mainstream brand robust growth as the capacity increase in We provided free voluntary counselling and testing for has outstripped competitor the prior year led to improved availability.
56% of employees in the last year in countries where brands to become the HIV Aids has a high prevalence dened as greater than regional market leader by In Uganda, group NPR grew by 20% on 5% of the population.
This success a constant currency basis, owing to volume reected our identication of growth of 14%, supported by pricing.
Lager Read more about regional and country sustainability Heros characteristics of volume growth of 12% was driven by the priorities and performance at www.
com sam tenacity, strength and courage Eagle brand family in the affordable segment.
with those of the majority Igbo people.
In 2015 we took The continuing turmoil in South Sudan Hero nationwide, with a brand and the acute shortage of access to foreign promise of inspiring and exchange in the country has signicantly recognising the hero in every impacted our performance in the second Nigerian.
It has already half of the year.
As a result, we have closed become one of the leading the brewery and are now operating as an national brands in Nigeria.
Our associate, Castel, delivered group NPR growth of 6%.
Beverage volumes were down 1%, constrained by weak economic fundamentals in Angola where the local currency has devalued substantially and there is limited access to foreign currency.
Tackling water scarcity Beverage volumes in Angola were down 19%, driven by the 18% decline in lager Across Africa, water scarcity limits growth and opportunities volumes, and contributed to a double digit for millions of people.
A number of our breweries also face decline in EBITA.
Castel has undertaken material water supply challenges, ranging from availability to an impairment review in Angola and has quality.
Almost all of our breweries have now assessed their scaled back activity signicantly.
The value at risk, determined the specic nature of water risks, resultant impairment of our investment in and developed action plans to address them, often through BIH Angola, together with our share of partnerships.
In South Africa, for example, drought is Castels impairment of its operations in placing even greater pressure on scarce water resources.
Angola, has been treated as exceptional.
We play a leading role in the Strategic Water Partners Excluding Angola, Castels volumes were Network SWPN, through which government and the up mid single digits driven by double private sector are working together to address pressing digit growth in the Republic of Congo, water challenges.
During the year, Castel increased its interest in its Read more about how we are partnering to tackle water Tunisian operation, gaining control of the risk on page 50. business and resulting in a reclassication of the operation from an associate to a subsidiary.
We have treated our share of the gain recognised on the change of control as exceptional.
