STRATEGIC REPORT Operations review | EUROPE Where we operate Soft drinks volume 15.8m hl significant business with production operations Associates Selling operations and 2% major export markets Lager Group NPR 1 volumes US$3,832m 5% 43.1m hl EBITA 1 US$636m 2% -1 % 11 non-alcoholic beer brands Drive superior topline growth through our brands: Subsidiary NPR and volumes both grew by 1% on an organic, Many of our markets constant currency basis: and in Europe now produce Continued focus on expanding the beer category, non-alcoholic beers with innovations in brand variants driving growth in Birell, our to offer consumers 0% non-alcoholic lager in the Czech Republic.
an alternative to abv alcoholic beer for different occasions.
30 30 SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 16 6 STRATEGIC REPORT Following a challenging first half reflecting significant competitor activity in Poland, subsidiary topline momentum improved during the year with NPR and volume up 6% in the second half, with volume growth across all of our operations.
In Europe, group NPR grew by 2% on an At a regional level, the improved volume organic, constant currency basis down by performance of our subsidiaries was held 13% on a reported basis.
On both a reported back by the relatively weaker performance Sue Clark and an organic basis, beverage volumes were in our associate, Anadolu Efes.
Managing Director, in line with the prior year with a 1% decline in SABMiller Europe lager volumes offset by growth of 2% in soft Reported EBITA declined by 9%, with drinks volumes.
On a constant currency basis, EBITA was up by 5% and Subsidiary NPR and volumes were both up EBITA margin increased by 60 bps.
Our by 1% on an organic, constant currency subsidiaries increased EBITA by 6% on an basis.
Following a challenging first half organic, constant currency basis, with the reecting significant competitor activity in topline performance supported by cost Poland, subsidiary topline momentum reductions and efficiencies.
Associates EBITA improved during the year with NPR and was down by 3% on an organic, constant volume up 6% in the second half, with volume currency basis driven by Anadolu Efes.
growth across all of our operations.
Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2015 and disposals translation growth 2016 % % Group NPR including share of associates US$m 4,398 17 656 73 3,832 2 13 1 EBITA US$m 700 4 105 37 636 5 9 EBITA margin % 15.9 16.6 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 43,595 78 526 43,147 1 1 Soft drinks 15,493 283 15,776 22 Total beverages 59,088 78 243 58,923 1 In 2015 before an exceptional charge of US$63million being the groups share of Anadolu Efes impairment charge relating to its beer businesses in Russia and Ukraine.
SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 16 6 31 31 STRATEGIC REPORT Operations review Europe | | Keepers of the craft We have strengthened Pilsner Urquells premium brand positioning by underpinning its proud heritage with innovation.
As demand for craft beer grows, we have reinforced the 173-year-old brands status as the original and authentic pilsner, brewed by Czech brew masters in the time-honoured way with the same recipe and quality ingredients.
We have also enhanced the way in which we ship and serve the brand to ensure its unique taste is preserved.
Fresh, unpasteurised Pilsner Urquell is now available in over 300 on-premise Tankovnas, with three-quarters in the Czech Republic and the rest across eight other European markets.
In the United Kingdom, group NPR grew In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, group by 5% on an organic, constant currency NPR grew by 3% on a constant currency basis.
Beverage volumes were up by 3% on basis with beverage volumes up by 1%.
an organic basis with favourable brand mix The business grew through a continued resulting from the continued growth of Peroni focus on sales execution and supported by Nastro Azzurro which offset the planned favourable weather throughout the year.
volume decline in both Miller Genuine Draft Growth in Pilsner Urquell offset the decline and the Polish brand portfolio.
In June, we of our mainstream brand Gambrinus 10.
We acquired the modern craft brewer Meantime continued to focus on expanding the beer Brewing Company Ltd which delivered category, with innovations in brand variants double digit volume growth.
driving growth in Birell, our non-alcoholic lager which penetrates soft drinks occasions.
In the In Italy, group NPR was up by 7% on a Czech Republic, our volume share of the beer constant currency basis with lager volume market increased by 10 bps.
In Slovakia, we growth of 5%, driven by the Peroni and lost 120 bps of share on the same basis.
Nastro Azzurro brands, and supported by good weather relative to the prior year.
Group In Poland, group NPR declined by 9% on NPR per hl expansion benefited from price a constant currency basis.
The beverage increases in both the offand on-premise volume decline of 5% reected significant channels in what remains a relatively low competitor activity in the first half of the year.
inationary environment, coupled with Initiatives launched in the second quarter to focused management of discounts.
restore our competitive position, particularly From the village to the world that of our lower mainstream brand Zubr, and In Romania, group NPR grew by 10% on a strengthened sales model, supported lager a constant currency basis driven by lager We have transformed Kozel from a small volume growth of 6% in the second half of the volume growth of 7%, which outperformed domestic brand to a major international year.
Our volume share of the beer market the beer market.
When we bought the Kozel brewery declined by 150 bps, although we achieved across all price segments as a result of our in 1999, volumes were low and the brand sequential improvements in market share enhanced revenue management capabilities had no export market or presence in during the second half.
EBITA and EBITA and supported by an exceptionally hot the on-premise channel.
We carefully margin decreased signicantly on a constant currency basis, driven by the decline in the summer and good weather in the second half positioned Kozel as the epitome of village topline which was only partially mitigated of the year.
Volume growth was boosted by values and traditional craftsmanship, by overhead cost reductions and the growth in our economy brand Ciucas, due offering great taste at a fair price.
We optimisation of our distribution network.
to increased promotional activity and the then developed a quality on-premise success of a new convenience pack size experience, built strong digital consumer driving favourable pack mix.
engagement, launched premium variant Kozel 11 in the Czech Republic, and successfully built Kozel Dark internationally.
Kozel is now sold in more than 40 countries and by volume is the best-selling Czech lager outside its home market, and the largest mainstream brand in the Czech Republic.
32 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Delivering style and substance In the UK, we are making Peroni Nastro Azzurro even more desirable by inspiring consumers to embrace Italian style.
We focus on delivering sustainable In Europe we continue to focus on improving efficiency in our long-term growth by building the breweries and value chains.
Our regional water and energy premium positioning of the brand, reduction taskforce, which shares best practice and mentors which remains a genuine import efficiency champions, played a key role in making Europe our from Italy, with the highest quality first region to achieve an average water efficiency of 3.0 hl of ingredients, craftsmanship and water per 1 hl of beer.
By evolving Peroni Nastro Azzurro in an innovative Read more at www.
com nowaternobeer way we continue to perform ahead of the UK beer market, By engaging with consumers on shared concerns we strive adding value to the category and to deliver societal benets while driving topline growth.
We work with In Italy, where unemployment reached 44% among 18-24 established and rising Italian year olds in 2015, Nastro Azzurros Ti Porta Lontano Takes creative talents through The You Further programme helps connect young entrepreneurs House of Peroni platform to with mentors, creating a network of peers and business create compelling content which people to share knowledge and advice.
brings customers and consumers closer to the brand.
Read more about how we are engaging with consumers on sustainability on page 50.
Read more about regional and country sustainability priorities and performance at www.
com sam In the Netherlands, group NPR increased by 3% on a constant currency basis with lager volume growth of 5%.
Our performance reected improved execution in the offpremise channel and was further boosted by the success of Grolsch brand innovations and extensions.
In Hungary, group NPR increased by 11% on a constant currency basis with lager volume growth of 6% and selective pricing on premium and economy brands.
Our associate, Anadolu Efes, continued to be affected by economic and political instability in its key lager markets.
Total beverage volumes decreased by 3%, with the volume decline in lager partly offset by growth in soft drinks volumes.
The lager volume weakness was mainly driven by Growing the non-alcoholic beer alternative continuing challenges in Ukraine, Russia, and Turkey.
Group NPR per hl improved as Many of our European markets now produce non-alcoholic a result of price increases and favourable mix.
beer to offer consumers an alternative to alcoholic beer EBITA was down by 9% owing to currency for different occasions.
In the Czech Republic, our Birell headwinds driving up raw material input costs brand has dened the category, and sales have more than and despite a continuous focus on cost quadrupled between 2001 and 2015.
The brewing process optimisation and improved efficiencies.
is identical to that for lager, but with a yeast which does not produce alcohol, which means that the taste appeals to beer lovers.
Birell has twice been judged the best non-alcoholic beer in the Czech Beer Awards.
We have extended the Birell range with real fruit juice mixes, further broadening the brands appeal.
Read more about Birell at www.
com birell SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 33
