STRATEGIC REPORT Our business model is built on our passion for beer We are local beer experts.
Our success is rooted in deep local insights, global skills, talented people and community investment.
Understanding consumer tastes Refreshing our success: innovation andapplying local insights andselling across the price spectrum Sharing our consumers passion for local beer, more than 200 of We enhance our enduring brands with innovation across a vibrant ourbrands are mostly sold locally in their country or region of origin.
spectrum of beer styles to reect demographic, cultural and societal We have a selected number of regional and global brands, which shifts and evolving consumer tastes.
We reinvigorate national icon brands to keep our strength in core lager and are developing products for more occasions and consumer types.
Our brands range from entry-level beers, including sorghum and cassava beers such as Eagle and Impala to international super premium beers such as Peroni Nastro Azzurro.
Creating sustainable value chains We create sustainable value chains that contribute to local economic and social development.
Sourcing Brewing Bottling and distribution Working closely with suppliers, including Producing beers that taste great demands a Delivering quality, fresh beers and soft drinks for large-scale and smallholder farmers who mix of traditional craftsmanship, modern our consumers to enjoy while minimising waste grow quality crops, and sourcing locally science and fresh, natural ingredients.
and promoting returnable bottles and recycling.
Using global skills and scale Investing in talent for to drive local performance competitive advantage Our local markets focus on commercial activity, producing, marketing We are proud to attract and retain the best talent, and invest in and selling the right beers and beverages for their area.
We support our country operations with broader, shared service The global mobility of our leaders is one of our major strengths, operations.
These help us to achieve economies and efficiencies by moving around, they take insights into new markets.
of scale and drive duplicative costs out of local businesses.
We incentivise management at every level through a rigorous goalWe also share best practice and success across our markets setting process that aligns the need for commercial success with the in innovation, marketing, technical standards and training.
longer-term ambition of achieving sustainable best practice.
12 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Working with associates and joint ventures We generate a significant amount of group NPR from interests in associates and joint ventures and in Africa we have significant minorities inour subsidiaries.
These have facilitated our global expansion and are valuable where local knowledge is an important asset.
Delivering value for our stakeholders: sustainable superior returns for shareholders: refreshment and sociability for consumers: jobs and career Retail Consumers Partnering with small and large retailers Listening and responding to changing development for in the onand off-trade segment to consumer needs, using local insight employees: and broadening our appeal across new bring refreshment and sociability segments and occasions.
incomes and livelihoods for suppliers and retailers: growth for Partnering for national shared prosperity economies: and By supporting the small businesses across our value chains and in local communities to prosper, our business will prosper too.
By joining forces with others who share our goals, we can co-ordinate action and unlock innovation for job creation, responsible alcohol consumption, watershed protection, lower carbon emissions and more productive use of land.
We tailor our approach in response to challenges, widening and deepening partnerships as our understanding develops and our initiatives grow.
