Governance DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report Results and dividends Viability statement together with the audited consolidated The Group made a profit after taxation The Directors viability statement is set financial statements for the year ended of141.2m for the financial year ended out on page 53.
The Board paid an section 415 of the Companies Act 2006 interim dividend of 2.2p per share Political donations which were approved by the Board on and proposes to pay, subject to No political donations were made during 18 April 2016. shareholder approval at the 2016 the year.
AGM, a final dividend of 5.0p net per Management report share in respect of the year ended Directors interests The Directors Report, together with 31 January 2016.
A list of the Directors, their interests in theStrategic Report set out on pages its long-term performance share plan, 01-49 form the Management Report Going concern contracts and ordinary share capital of forthepurposes of Disclosure and The going concern statement required the Company are given in the Directors Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
by the Listing Rules and the UK Remuneration Report on pages Corporate Governance Code the 78-100.
Statutory information contained Code is set out in the Compliance elsewhere in the annual report Statement on page 53.
Rules on appointment and Information required to be part of this replacement of Directors Directors Report can be found elsewhere Fair balanced and understandable All Directors will seek re-election or in the annual report as indicated in the The Boards statement regarding election at theAGM in accordance with table below and is incorporated into this whether the information contained the Companys articles of association report by reference: within the annual report is fair, balanced and the recommendations of the Code.
and understandable is contained on page53.
A Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting following Location in Information annualreport nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a Likely future developments in the business of the Company Pages 01-49 meeting.
In addition, the Directors may orits subsidiaries appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the Corporate social responsibility Pages 24-25 individual retires at the next AGM.
Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 26-27 A Director may be removed by the Employees employment of disabled persons, employee Page 23 Company in certain circumstances engagement and policies set out in the Companys articles of association or by an ordinary resolution Corporate Governance Statement Pages 50-77 of the Company.
Directors details including changes made during the year Pages 57 and 60-63 Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement entered into between the Company and Related party transactions Note 34 on each of the Private Equity Investors as page172 defined on page 103 each Private Equity Investor is entitled to appoint one Employee share schemes including long-term Note 31 on pages Non-Executive Director to the Board for incentive schemes 168-169 so long as it is entitled, either directly or Financial instruments: Information on the Groups financial Note 2.3 on pages indirectly through its voting rights in instruments and risk management objectives and policies, 119-130 Acromas Bid Co Limited, to exercise or including our policy for hedging to control the exercise of the equivalent of 10% or more of the votes able to be Additional information Pages 183-185 cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 101 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Directors indemnities In accordance with DTR5, the Company has been notified of the following interests andinsurance in 3% or more of the Companys total voting rights: As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which theCompany Percentage Name Ordinary shares of capital Nature of holding has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted bylaw and the Acromas Bid Co Limited ABCL 352,674,283 31.54 Direct Companys articles of association, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in HSBC Global Custody Nominees 34,367,968 3.07 Direct connection with, theexecution of their UK Limited powers, duties and responsibilities, Majedie UK Income Fund, 68,956,717 6.17 Indirect asDirectors of the Company or any of Majedie Asset Management UK its subsidiaries.
No amount was paid Income Fund, Majedie Asset under any of these indemnities or Management UK Equity Fund, insurances during the year other than Majedie UK Equity Fund, the applicable insurance premiums.
Majedie UK Trust, Directors and officers liability insurance Discretionary Clients is in place as at the date of this report, at an amount which the Board Pelham Long Short Master 69,056,048 6.22 Equity swap considers adequate.
This is subject Fund Limited toan annual review.
Share capital and interests in voting rights On 27 February 2015, the Company Information regarding other interests in The Companys share capital including was notified that ABCL had sold voting rights provided to the Company movements during the year is set out 111,000,000 shares in aggregate, pursuant to the FCA DTRs is published on page 167.
At the date of this report pursuant to transactions which took on the Companys website and a the Companys issued share capital place on 26 and 27 February 2015.
comprised a single class of share Following such transactions, ABCL Notification was also received by the capital which is divided into ordinary held 688,974,283 ordinary shares, Company during the year that Goldman shares of 1p each.
As at 31 January representing 62.03% of capital.
Sachs had a notifiable interest but this 2016, 1,118,005,405 ordinary shares ceased to be a notifiable interest and of 1p each have been issued, are fully On 13 May 2015, the Company was isnot included in the tableabove.
paid up and quoted on the London notified that ABCL had sold Stock Exchange.
Following the sale, Relationship Agreement ABCL held 566,474,283 ordinary The Company has entered into an During the year, 7,300,000 additional shares, representing 51.00% of capital agreement with Acromas Bid Co shares were issued in connection with at 13 May 2015.
Limited as its controlling shareholder the Customer Offer and Employee Offer asrequired under Listing Rule 9.2.
2A R detailed in the prospectus published On 28 July 2015, the Company was 2 a, complies with the independence on 8 May 2014 in connection with notified that ABCL had sold 68,800,000 provisions set out in LR 6.1.
4D R and the Companys initial public offering shares.
Following the sale, ABCL held has a constitution that allows for the the Prospectus.
Under the offer 497,674,283 ordinary shares, representing election and re-election of independent Eligible Customers and Eligible 44.51% of capital at 28 July 2015.
Directors to be conducted in Employees were eligible to receive accordance with the election provisions one free share for every twenty held On 2 December 2015, the Company set out in LR 9.2.
2F R. subject to certain conditions.
Such was notified that ABCL had sold shares rank pari passu with existing 145,000,000 shares.
Following the sale, As far as the Company is aware: shares in the Company.
ABCL held 352,674,283 ordinary shares, representing 31.54% of capital The controlling shareholder and at 2 December 2015. itsassociates have also complied with the independence provisions referred to above.
The controlling shareholder has complied with its agreement to procure compliance with the independence provisions referred toabove by another controlling shareholder and its associates.
102 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Change of control matters at general meetings of the Conflicts of interest  Company: and ii the Principal Each Director is obliged to disclose any A number of agreements take effect, Shareholder together with its potential or actual conflict of interest alter or terminate upon a change of associates ceases to be entitled inaccordance with the Companys control of the Company including to exercise orcontrol the exercise, conflict of interest policy.
The policy following a takeover bid, for example directly or indirectly, of 30% or more anddeclarations made are subject insurance, commercial contracts and of the votes able to be cast on all or to annual review and Directors are distribution agreements.
The Group substantially allmatters at general required to update any changes to hasa number of contracts and meetings of the Company.
There are declarations as they occur.
Internal arrangements throughout the business also provisions that provide for the controls are in place to ensure that where the legal risk arising out of a Relationship Agreement to be anyrelated party transactions are change of control is closely managed automatically terminated if the conducted on an arms length basis.
as part of the contractual governance Companys shares cease to be listed process.
Inevitably, there may be certain onthe premium listing segment of the Authority to allot purchase operational contracts that could provide Official List and traded on the London ownshares for a period of disruption or higher Stock Exchange plcs main market for A shareholders resolution was passed operational charges if a change of listed securities.
There are no provisions at the AGM on 23 June 2015 which control clause was invoked.
However, in the Relationship Agreement which authorised the Company to make market at the current time, we are not aware allow the Principal Shareholder or the purchases within the meaning of section of any critical or material contracts that Private Equity Investor to terminate the 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 the pose such a threat.
agreement in the event of a change of Act up to 1,110,705.41 representing control of the Company.
10% of aggregate nominal share capital The Senior Facilities Agreement and the of the share capital of the Company financing agreements in relation to the As a result of the share placing following Admission: subject to a new ship provides the Group with loan undertaken by ABCL on 2 December minimum price of 1p and a maximum and revolving credit facilities for general 2015, CVC Capital Partners and price of the higher of 105% of the financing purposes.
In the event of a Permiras interests fell below 10% average mid-market quotations for change of control the facilities would and the Private Equity Investment fivebusiness days prior to purchase or either require repayment or reDirectors nominated by them resigned price of last individual trade and highest negotiation.
Further details on banking from the Board.
current individual bid as derived from the facilities are shown in note 28 to the London Stock Exchange trading system.
The rules of the Companys employee share plans generally provide for the The Company did not exercise this The Relationship Agreement between accelerated vesting and or release of authority during the year ended the Company, Acromas Bid Co Limited share awards in the event of a change 31 January 2016.
The above authority the Principal Shareholder and certain of control of the Company.
will expire at the forthcoming AGM funds managed or advised by and a resolution to authorise the Charterhouse Capital Partners, CVC The Company does not have any Company to make market purchases Capital Partners and Permira the agreements with Directors or employees representing 10% of current nominal Private Equity Investors remains in which would pay compensation in the share capital will be proposed.
force until the later of i each of the event of a change of control.
Private Equity Investors together with The Directors of the Company were also its associates ceases to be entitled to granted authority at the 2015 AGM to exercise or control the exercise, directly allot relevant securities up to a nominal or indirectly, of 10% or more of the votes amount of 3,698,649.
This authority able to be cast on all or substantially all will apply until the conclusion of the ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 103 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 2016 AGM, where shareholders will be Restrictions on the transfer Annual General Meeting asked to grant the Directors authority for of shares The AGM will be held on Tuesday the purposes of section 551 of the Act Other than where imposed by law or 21June 2016 at 11am at Enbrook Park, to allot relevant securities i up to an regulations, or where the Listing Rules Sandgate, Folkestone, Kent CT20 3SE.
aggregate nominal amount of require certain persons to obtain The Notice contains an explanation of 3,722,958: and ii comprising equity clearance before dealing, there are no special business to be considered at securities as defined in the Act up to an restrictions regarding the transfer of the meeting.
aggregate nominal amount of 7,445,916 shares in the Company.
The Company after deducting from such limit any is not aware of any agreement which A copy of the Notice will be available on relevant securities issued under i in would result in a restriction on the our website, http: corporate.
co. uk connection with a rights issue.
These transfer of shares or voting rights.
amounts will apply until the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2017, or, if earlier, Articles of association Directors responsibilities 31 July 2017.
Any amendment to the Companys As required under the Financial articles of association may only be ConductAuthority FCA Disclosure Special resolutions will also be proposed made by passing a special resolution Rulesand Transparency Rules DTRs, to give the Directors authority to make ofthe shareholders of the Company.
the following statements are made by non pre-emptive issues wholly for cash the Board regarding the preparation in connection with rights issues and Branches outside the UK of the financial statements.
otherwise up to an aggregate nominal The Company does not have any amount of 1,118,005.41 and to make branches outside of the UK.
The process for producing the market purchases.
The authority to Companys annual report and accounts repurchase the Companys ordinary Post-balance sheet events starts with clear direction for all those shares in the market will be limited There have been no important involved, so that the final document to 1,118,005.41 and will set out the events affecting the Company or any represents a balanced picture of our minimum and maximum price which of its subsidiary undertakings since activities throughout the year and will be paid.
31 January 2016. sothat shareholders are given the information they need to assess Rights attaching to shares Auditor theperformance, business model The rights attached to the shares are A resolution to re-appoint Ernst and andstrategy.
governed by applicable law and the Young LLP who have indicated their Companys articles of association willingness to act as our Auditor will The Directors are responsible for which are available at http: corporate.
preparing the annual report and saga.
co. uk assets downloads accounts in accordance with applicable corporate-governance saga-plcDisclosure of information law and regulations.
to the Auditor requires the Directors to prepare Group Having made the requisite enquiries, financial statements for each financial Ordinary shareholders have the right so far as each of the Directors is aware, year.
Under that law, the Directors are to receive notice, attend and vote at there is no relevant audit information required to prepare Group financial general meetings: receive a copy of the as defined by section 418 3 of the statements under IFRSs as adopted Companys report and accounts and Companies Act 2006 of which the by the European Union and applicable adividend when approved and paid.
Companys Auditor is unaware and the law.
Under company law the Directors Ona show of hands, each shareholder Directors have taken all the steps they must not approve the Group financial present in person, or by proxy or an ought to have taken as Directors to authorised representative of a corporate make themselves aware of any relevant shareholder, shall have one vote.
In the audit information and to ensure that event of a poll, one vote is attached to theCompanys Auditor is aware of each share held.
The notice of the AGM the Notice states deadlines for exercising voting rights and for appointing a proxy proxies.
No shareholder owns shares with special rights as to control.
104 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance statements unless they are satisfied financial statements comply with the Each of the Directors, who were in that, to the best of their knowledge, Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of office at the date of this report, whose they give a true and fair view of the the IAS Regulation.
They are also names and responsibilities are listed state of affairs of the Group and of responsible for safeguarding the assets on pages 57 and 60-61, confirm that, the profit or loss of the Group for of the Group and hence for taking to the best of their knowledge: that period.
In preparing the Group reasonable steps for the prevention financial statements the Directors and detection of fraud and other The Group financial statements, are required to: irregularities.
which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Present fairly the financial position, The Directors are responsible for by the European Union, give a true financial performance and cash the maintenance and integrity of the and fair view of the assets, liabilities, flows of the Group.
corporate and financial information financial position and profit of the Select suitable accounting policies included on the Companys website.
Group, and in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Legislation in the UK governing the The Strategic Report contained on Policies, Changes in Accounting preparation and dissemination of pages 01-49 includes a fair review of Estimates and Errors and then financial statements may differ from the development and performance apply them consistently.
of the business and the position Present information, including of the Group, together with a accounting policies, in a manner The Directors are also responsible description of the principal risks that provides relevant, reliable, for preparing the Strategic Report, and uncertainties that it faces.
comparable and understandable the Directors Report, the Directors information.
Remuneration Report and the By order of the Board Make judgements that are Corporate Governance Statement reasonable and prudent.
in accordance with the Companies Provide additional disclosures Act 2006 and applicable regulations, when compliance with the specific including the requirements of the requirements in IFRSs as adopted Listing Rules and the Disclosure and V Haynes by the European Union is insufficient Transparency Rules.
Company Secretary to enable users to understand the 18 April 2016 impact of particular transactions, Neither the Company nor the Directors other events and conditions on the accept and hereby exclude any liability Saga plc Groups financial position and to any person in relation to the annual Company no.
report except to the extent that such State whether the Group financial liability is imposed by law and may statements have been prepared in not be validly excluded.
Accordingly, accordance with IFRSs as adopted any liability to a person who has by the European Union.
demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission The Directors are responsible for shall be determined in accordance with keeping adequate records that are section 90A and schedule 10A of the sufficient to show and explain the Financial Services and Markets Act Groups transactions and disclose with 2000, as amended.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 105
