Governance Relations with shareholders We understand the importance of live and post-event webcasts of The Director of Corporate Affairs reports maintaining open and regular dialogue keypresentations on all shareholder and wider market with our shareholders many of whom presentations added to our website matters and provides regular updates are our loyal customers.
We work hard to allow shareholders to gain an tothe Chairman and Non-Executive to develop a relationship built on trust insight into how our trading Directors by way of face-to-face and welcome feedback throughout performance links to strategy briefings, email updates and an Investor the year.
We plan a shareholder investor road shows Relations Report, which is discussed communications strategy for the year.
investor days, briefings and ad hoc ateach Board meeting.
This includes The AGM provides the opportunity for meetings on request, where calendar reference to the views of key our shareholders to meet the Board and regulatory requirements allow shareholders, including their concerns, and senior management of the Group.
conducted tours of Sagas along with any new analyst research.
operations Lance Batchelor, Group Chief Executive The Board is kept fully up to date notification of key financial Officer and Jonathan Hill, Group Chief calendar information on the views of shareholders and Financial Officer lead communications analysts through: notification of the provision of live with our shareholders.
Lance and webcasting services for key Jonathan are assisted by the feedback from investor meetings, presentations shareholders relations team led by including key questions notification of availability of our Director of Corporate Affairs.
and concerns past key presentations via our recommendations and corporate website.
We attach significant importance to expectations of sell-side analysts.
theeffectiveness of our communications peer group news Wider communication: with all of our shareholders and set Face-to-face presentations of full share price performance ourselves the target of providing monitoring year and half year results where information that is timely, clear the Group Chief Executive Officer composition of the andconcise.
shareholder register and management team were available for discussions.
feedback from our professional Saga has a diverse shareholder register and other external advisers market Telephone briefings for analysts which is formed of both institutional and in conjunction with key financial participants.
retail ownership, the latter numbering announcements.
Saga also has a number Face-to-face and telephone of analysts following the Company so Annual General Meeting meetings for analysts with the we arrange for a clear explanation of The AGM will be held on Tuesday management team.
key strategic events and developments, 21 June 2016 at 11am at Enbrook Park, Face-to-face presentations with including results and acquisitions Sandgate, Folkestone, Kent CT20 3SE.
The Chairman and Chairs of all Conducted tours of Sagas Committees will be available to answer operations for analysts.
We communicate in the following ways: questions during the formal business of the meeting.
Shareholder communication In addition to the AGM, we arranged for: The Notice contains an explanation of business to be considered at the regular meetings with key meeting.
A copy is available on our shareholders website, http: corporate.
face-to-face presentations of full year and half year results by the Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer telephone briefings in conjunction with key financial announcements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 77
