Strategic Report MARKET OVERVIEW Overview of our target market As pointed out in the investment case Macro conditions Our core businesses of insurance on page 5, the over 50s are the fastest While the over 50s are not immune and travel are, however, linked to growing demographic in the UK.
to macro events, they tend to be more the economic cycle, and there is resilient during times of economic a possibility for altered behaviour The over 50s are also the most affluent stress.
This is because they tend to amongst our customers depending and influential individuals in the UK with rely on pensions, savings and pools on the stage of the cycle.
varied, complex and evolving needs of acquired assets.
This is especially and a very clear view on what good In suppressed economic conditions for true for the ABC1 households, which customer service looks like.
They own form the core of Sagas target example, the frequency and severity of 1 68% of the UKs household wealth motor insurance claims have a tendency customer base.
1 and account for nearly 40% of the fall as people drive less.
Whilst we have UKs household expenditure.
Factors which further enhance this not seen this from our customer base economic resilience include: in the past twelve months, the opposite We work constantly to understand can also be true, with increasing and cater for this group and provide Low debt levels economic activity and lower fuel prices products and services across multiple Fewer fixed costs leading to more miles being driven and categories including insurance, travel, Younger members of this group an increase in the frequency and personal finance and publishing.
benefiting from inheritance from severity of motor insurance claims.
the older ones During a longer downturn, as consumers come under increasing pressure, some may choose to downgrade their level of insurance cover, or withdraw from certain insurance products entirely.
In the travel sector, consumers may choose to travel less or purchase cruises and holiday packages with lower Projected growth of the UKs over 50s price tags.
Given its entirely discretionary 35% of the 40% of the nature, some consumers may cease population population to take cruises or holidays altogether.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 11 c. 7m increase MARKET OVERVIEW CONTINUED During a period of strong economic Saga as a regulated business Saga however does have the advantage activity, demand for discretionary Saga operates in regulated sectors, of only focusing on serving the needs of styleproducts, such as all our travel notably in financial services and the over 50s, allowing us to differentiate products, and some insurance travel.
The regulatory environment our offering from competitors who need products, such as private medical is continuously evolving and Saga to provide products and services that andhome insurance, may increase.
maintains excellent relationships with work for customers of all ages.
Consumers appetite for more its regulators in order to ensure that This, in combination with our focus on sophisticated products with superior we remain abreast of any changes levels of cover may also increase.
that could impact our operations.
growth across the Group, means we are in a strong position to leverage Similarly, consumers will tend to opt formore expensive holidays, or take We take our responsibility towards our model to continue to grow profitably our customers seriously and strive our market share throughout all our more holidays on an annual basis.
to go the extra mile for them.
We operating divisions, and capitalise on Regulatory and political change recognise that some may need extra the new opportunities weidentify.
The over 50s in the UK are highly help.
This additional support ranges influential politically, as they tend to from contacting those who havent form a larger proportion of the active changed their policy details for a electorate than other segments of number of years, in order to make sure the population.
their insurance needs havent changed, to identifying vulnerable customers and We aim help our customers by engaging providing them with a dedicated team to on the issues that impact them most.
assist with any claim they might make.
Where relevant, we aim to provide new products and services that support them The competition for customers following times of regulatory change, Saga operates across multiple sectors, such as Saga Investment Services.
but we have modest market shares in all of our sectors and compete with multiple providers.
Whilst we have a strong position and are growing customer numbers, we do not have a monopoly when it comes to the UKs over 50s, whose substantial buying power is attractive to all market participants.
12 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016
