Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Business builders Sage is the market leader for integrated accounting, payroll and payment solutions.
Strategic report 2016 Financial highlights Our Strategy 1 We serve business builders read more on p16 8 Business builders Sage at a glance Organic revenue Organic operating 10 Our market growth margin 12 Our business model Customers 14 Chairmans statement 6.1% 27.2% for life 16 Our strategy 28 Chief Executives review 32 Key performance indicators 34 Our products 36 Principal risks and uncertainties Winning in the market 46 Financial and operating review 52 Corporate responsibility 54 People 58 Championing small business 15 16 15 16 60 SageFoundation Revolutionise 62 Environment business Governance Underlying basic EPS Underlying cash 65 Chairmans introduction growth conversion to Governance Capacity 66 Board of Directors for growth 68 Executive Committ ee 9.0% 100% 70 Corporate governance report 82 Directors remuneration report 101 Directors report One Sage Financial statements 107 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc 113 Group financial statements 118 Notes to the Group 15 16 15 16 financial statements 164 Company financial statements 170 Glossary 172 Shareholder information Discover more about Sage online www.
com About our non-GAAP measures and why we use them Throughout the strategic report we quote two kinds of non-GAAP measure: underlying and organic.
We use these measures in monitoring performance and incentivising management.
Underlying underlying measures exclude certain one-o and non-operational items, and prior year underlying measures are retranslated at the current year exchange rates to neutralise the e ect of currency uctuations.
Underlying measures allow management and investors to compare performance without the potentially distorting e ects of foreign exchange movements.
Organic in addition to the adjustments made to underlying measures, organic measures exclude part-year contributions from acquisitions, disposals and assets held for sale of standalone businesses in the current and or prior years.
This allows management and investors to understand the like-for-like performance of the business.
Reconciliations of statutory revenue, operating pro t and basic earnings per share to their underlying and organic equivalents are in the Financial and operating review starting on page 46.
All images used within this Annual Report and Accounts are those of real customers and colleagues.
BeSage Those who look deeper, reach higher and strive harder, whilst measuring success on relationships, partnerships and communities not just pro t. Sage helps drive todays business builders with new generation soft ware to manage everything from money to people.
Because when business builders do well, we all do.
2016 has been a key year in our transformation and the business continues to perform, delivering consistent returns for our shareholders, whilst ensuring we do business the right way for the bene t of our customers, colleagues and communities.
1 Our Strategy read more on p16 Customers for life Winning in the market Revolutionise business Capacity for growth One Sage 41% of entrepreneurs believe that in the future, everyone will work from a mobile device.
2 Revolutionise business BeSage Sage One is in my handbag, in my pocket, wherever my tech is and thats why its perfect for the business.
Gemma Price Superfood Market Co-Founder The world is becoming more mobile and revolutionary technology is freeing business builders from the shackles of their desk.
Gemma uses Sage One Accounting to manage her business on her PC, tablet or smartphone at home, in the o ce and on the move.
3 Our Strategy read more on p16 Customers for life Winning in the market Revolutionise business Capacity for growth One Sage The average small business owner spends 52 hours a week just keeping up with their admin.
4 Be an entrepreneur BeSage Weve been a customer of Sage since 2000 and Im a raving fan: I love the soft ware and its made my business so much easier to run.
Jeremy Corner CEO of Blue Eyed Sun As a business owner and entrepreneur, Jeremy has many priorities to juggle.
Jeremy uses Sage 50 Accounts and Sage 50 Payroll, which automate financial and administrative processes, freeing up precious hours to focus on growing his business.
