Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk governance We operate a formal governance structure to manage risk.
Board Audit and Risk Executive Committ ee Committ ee Global Risk Committ ee Vice President, Risk and Assurance Regional Risk Sage Risk Committ ees Global Risk Committ ee Risk Governance The Global Risk Committ ee is chaired by the Chief Executive Board O cer, and has responsibility for providing direction and The Board has overall responsibility for risk support to Sage Risk in transforming and embedding risk management, actively supporting the implementation of across One Sage.
It meets quarterly and seeks to: riskmanagement, and establishing the Groups risk appetite.
Oversee cultural change: It monitors risk trends and themes on an ongoing basis.
Establish clear governance and accountability for risk, andany associated remediation activities: Audit and Risk Committ ee Provide direction to regions and countries, including The Audit and Risk Committ ee supports the Board in sett ing creation and deployment of common methodologies the Groups risk appetite and ensuring that processes are in andpractices: place to identify and manage the Groups principal risks.
At each meeting, the committ ee reviews the principal risks, Provide a point of escalation: associated appetite statements and metrics, to assess Ensure inclusion of the wider business in risk whether they continue to be relevant and aligned to the managementdecision making: achievement of Sages strategic objectives and within an Drive the inclusion of risk management into acceptable tolerance for the Group.
The committ ee also : monitors the adequacy and e ectiveness of the control Enable the Company to e ectively operate as One Sage: environment through the review of internal audit reports from Sage Assurance and consideration of relevant reporting Review and approve fide ned policies: and from management, Sage Risk and the external auditor.
Provide the Board and Audit and Risk Committ ee with Further information on the committ ees activity in 2016 is su cient e ective information to enable them to discharge their risk reporting requirements.
set out in the Audit and Risk Committ ee section on pages 76 to 80.
Its membership includes representatives from across the business and all key support functions.
The Chairman of Executive Committ ee theAudit and Risk Committ ee may att end any meeting The Executive Committ ee is responsible for establishing asdesired.
therisk agenda, for the internal reporting and ongoing management of risks, and for the stewardship of the risk management approach.
The Executive Committ ee identi es and assesses Sages principal risks on an ongoing basis, andfor each principal risk, sponsorship is assigned to amember of the Executive Committ ee.
44 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Regional Risk Committ ees Sage Risk Three Regional Risk Committ eeswere operational Sage Risk supports the e ective operation of the Risk through2016, inEurope, International and North America.
Committ ees andprovides guidance, support and challenge Each Committ ee met four times during 2016. to the businessin embedding appropriate risk management processes.
Led by the Head of Risk, it continues to develop A further Regional Risk Committ ee has been established its capability to ensure it is fully integrated into business forLatin America, andmet for the first time in October 2016. activities, and assists in delivering scalable and consistent TheRegional Risk Committ eesmeet in advance of the risk activities to support growth, and allowing Sage to GlobalRisk Committ ee, supportingits operationand the operate within risk appetite.
management of principal and local risks withineach region.
In addition to managing identi ed local risks, they also Sage Compliance monitor the deployment of risk management activities Sage Compliance is led by the Head of Compliance, throughout the countries within their regions, and who has been appointed to focus on building this new provideassociated escalation and reporting.
The function will seek tosupport the business in continuing to develop Vice President VP Risk and Assurance an appropriate internal control framework, nurturinga The VP Risk and Assurance is responsible for the second 100% compliance culture and ensuring thatit continues to and third line of defence functions, namely Sage Risk, Sage embracethe values and behaviours set out in the Sage Way.
The VP Risk and Assurance is responsible for the facilitation and implementation of Sage Assurance the risk management approach across Sage, including Sage Assurance is led by the Head of Assurance, and its the consolidation of risk reports from the Regional Risk purpose and activities are set out in Internal Auditsection Committ ees, and the provision of appropriate risk reporting ofthe Audit and Risk Committ ee report on pages 79 to 80. from Sage Risk for the Global Risk Committ ee, the Audit and Risk Committ ee, and the Executive Committ ee.
The VP Risk and Assurance att ends the quarterly Audit and Risk Committ ee meetings andregularly meets with the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committ ee outside theformal con fines of these meetings.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 45
