Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus 80% of the bonus will Measures and targets are set annually 125% of salary.
be determined by Rewards and incentivises and payout levels are determined by the measure s of Group the achievement of annual Remuneration Committee after the year end financial performance.
financial and strategic based on performance against those targets.
20% of the bonus will be The Remuneration Committee may, in based on pre-determined An element of compulsory exceptional circumstances, amend the financial, strategic or deferral provides a link to bonus payout should this not, in the view operational measures the creation of sustainable of the Committee, reect overall business appropriate to the long-term value.
A minimum of one-third of any annual bonus The measures that will earned by executive directors is delivered in apply for the financial deferred share awards, with the remainder year 2017 are described delivered in cash.
The length of the deferral in the Directors annual period will be determined by the Remuneration remuneration report.
Committee before the grant of an award.
Performance Share Plan Awards vest dependent upon the achievement Awards vest on the following basis: Performance is PSP of performance conditions measured over a assessed against two Target performance: 20% of the Motivates and rewards the period of at least three years.
 maximum shares awarded achievement of long-term metrics which are equally Following the end of the performance period, Stretch performance: 80% of business goals.
weighted: the performance conditions will be assessed the maximum shares awarded Supports the creation of 50% recurring and the percentage of awards that will vest Exceptional performance: 100% shareholder value through revenue growth will be determined.
of the shares awarded the delivery of strong market 50% relative TSR The Committee may decide that the shares in With straight-line vesting between performance aligned with performance against respect of which an award vests are delivered to each level of performance.
the long-term business the FTSE 100 excluding participants at that point or that awards will then Current annual award levels in strategy.
financial services and be subject to an additional holding period before respect of a financial year of the extracting companies Supports achievement of participants are entitled to receive their shares.
Company for executive directors our strategy by targeting A holding period will normally last for two years, At its discretion, the are 250% of base salary at the time performance under our unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Committee may elect to of grant.
Overall individual limit of key financial performance add additional underpin The Remuneration Committee has discretion 300% of base salary under the indicators.
performance conditions to decide whether and to what extent the rules of the plan.
to one or both of the performance conditions have been met, and The Committee retains the above metrics.
if an event occurs that causes the Committee discretion to make awards up to to consider that an amended or substituted Details of the targets the individual limit under the performance condition would be more that will apply for awards PSP and, as stated in previous appropriate and not materially less dicult to granted in 2016 are set out remuneration reports, would satisfy, the Committee may amend or substitute in the Directors annual expect to consult with significant any performance condition.
investors if awards were to be made routinely above current levels.
All-employee share UK-based executive directors are entitled to UK participation limits are those None.
plans participate in a UK tax-approved all-employee set by the UK tax authorities from Provides an opportunity for plan, The Sage Group Savings-Related Share time to time.
Currently this is 500 directors to voluntarily invest Option Plan, under which they make monthly per month.
Limits for participants in the Company.
savings over a period of three or five years linked in overseas schemes are to the grant of an option over Sage shares with determined in line with any an option price which can be at a discount of up local legislation.
to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Options may be adjusted to reect the impact of any variation of share capital.
An overseas-based executive director is entitled to participate in any similar all-employee scheme operated by Sage in their jurisdiction.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 87 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy continued Remuneration policy table continued Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Chairman and Fees are reviewed periodically.
non-executive director Reects the commitment and The fee structure is as follows: fees contribution that is expected from the The Chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee Provide an appropriate Chairman and non-executive directors The non-executive directors are paid a basic reward to attract and retain Is appropriately positioned against fee, plus additional fees for chairmanship of high-calibre individuals.
comparable roles in companies of Board Committees and to the Senior Non-executive directors a similar size and complexity in the Independent Director do not participate in any relevant market, particularly companies Fees are currently paid in cash but the incentive scheme.
of a similar size and international scope Company may choose to provide some to Sage, in particular those within the of the fees in shares FTSE 100 excluding the top 30 The Chairman has the use of a car and driver.
Overall fees paid to directors will remain Non-executive directors may be eligible for within the limit stated in our articles of benets such as company car, use of association, currently 1m.
secretarial support, healthcare or other Actual fee levels are disclosed in the benets that may be appropriate including Directors annual remuneration report where travel to the Companys registered for the relevant financial year.
oce is recognised as a taxable benefit, in which case a non-executive may receive the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.
Notes: Annual bonus performance measures have been selected to provide an appropriate balance between incentivising directors to meet profitability and other financial targets for the year and achieve strategic operational objectives.
The measures and targets are selected every year by the Committee.
Performance Share Plan: recurring revenue growth is a key measure of the success of the execution of our long-term strategy.
TSR is considered a key measure for a number of our shareholders and provides further alignment with value created for shareholders.
Awards granted under the deferred bonus plan and the PSP may: a be made in the form of conditional awards or nil-cost options and may be settled in cash: b incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends which would have been paid or payable on the shares that vest in the period up to vesting or, where PSP awards are made subject to a holding period, the end of the holding period.
This amount may be calculated assuming the dividends were reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: and c be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event which may, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, aect the current or future value of the Companys shares.
Provisions to withhold malus or recover clawback sums paid under the annual bonus and PSP in the event of material negative circumstances, such as material misstatement in the Companys audited results, serious reputational damage or significant financial loss to the Company as a result of the participants misconduct, an error in assessing the performance metrics relating to the award or the participants gross misconduct, are incorporated into both the PSP and deferred bonus plan.
These provisions may apply up to three years from the date a PSP award vests is released or a minimum of two years from the date a cash bonus is paid or a deferred share award is granted.
While our remuneration policy follows the same principles across the Group, packages oered to employees reect dierences in market practice in the dierent countries the Group operates in and also dierences in size of role.
All directors submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Remuneration Committee intends to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors on their original terms, including outstanding incentive awards, which have been disclosed in previous remuneration reports and, where relevant, are consistent with a previous policy approved by shareholders.
Any such payments to former directors will be set out in the Remuneration Report as and when they occur.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of oce including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the date the Companys first remuneration policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act came into eect: ii before the policy set out above came into eect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor amendments to the policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
88 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors annual remuneration report Purpose of this section: Provides remuneration disclosures for executive and non-executive directors Details financial measures for bonus and PSP Illustrates Company performance and how this compares to executive pay Outlines implementation of remuneration policy for executive and non-executive directors for 2017 Single gure for total remuneration audited information The following table sets out the single gure for total remuneration for executive directors for the financial years ended 30 September 2015 and 2016.
Details of salary progression since appointment for the current executive directors are summarised in the Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year on page 95.
Current fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors are set out on page 96.
Stephen Kelly joined the Company on 5 November 2014: his remuneration for 2015 is shown on a part-year basis.
Benets provided to the executive directors included: car benets or cash equivalent, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance, financial advice and where deemed to be a taxable benefit, the costs of travel, accommodation and subsistence for the directors and their partners on Sage-related business if required.
A portion of Steve Hares benets relate to the grossed-up cost of his travel to Sages London oce which, since 1 April 2015, has been deemed a taxable benefit as a result of the enhanced amount of time that he has been required to spend in London attending to Sage matters.
Donald Brydon receives a company car benefit, the taxable value of which has reduced year-on-year as he no longer uses a fuel card.
Bonus payable in respect of the financial year including any deferred element at face value at date of award.
Further information about how the level of 2016 award was determined is provided in the additional disclosures below.
Pension emoluments for both executive directors were equal to 25% of base salary.
Both elected to receive them as a cash allowance.
The 2016 PSP value is based on the PSP award granted in 2014 which is due to vest in 2017.
Steve Hare received two PSP awards in 2014.
As noted on page 84 of the 2013 Annual Report, he received an award under Sages normal grant policy and a second award as compensation for share awards received in his previous employment and forfeited as a result of joining Sage.
Both of Steve Hares awards have the same performance conditions.
The value is based on the number of shares vesting in 2017 multiplied by the average price of a Sage share between 1 July and 30 September 2016, which was 709.2p, plus 23,168 dividend equivalents accrued or accruable.
820,636 of the value can be attributed to the increase in share price between the grant and vesting dates.
Stephen Kelly does not have a 2014 PSP award.
This column captures Stephen Kellys award under the Sage Group Savings Related Share Option Plan SRSOP, as detailed on page 83 of the 2015 Annual Report.
It has been valued as the number of options multiplied by the difference on the grant date 17 June 2015 between the share price 540.5p and the option price 456p.
Total remuneration for directors in 2016 was 5,580,000 compared to 3,447,000 in 2015.
The total remuneration figure for 2015 includes Guy Berruyer who left Sage in that financial year.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 89 Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Additional disclosures for single gure for total remuneration table Annual bonus 2016 The bonus targets for FY16 were set by reference to the revised strategy for FY16 in particular the achievement of accelerated recurring revenue growth, taking into account the Companys annual budget and consensus in determining the payout curve.
The actual target ranges for 2016 for the financial performance measures have not been disclosed as this is considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information, bearing in mind that many of our competitors are unlisted companies who do not provide this level of disclosure.
An indication of where actual performance fell within each range is given in the table below.
Retrospective disclosure of the target ranges will be made in next years Remuneration Report once the information is no longer considered commercially sensitive by the Board.
Bonus measure % Weighting Threshold Potential Performance outcome as a % of maximum bonus Recurring revenue 80 Achievement of 9.8% for FY16 was 89% of full potential, resulting in 53% of 1 growth the maximum bonus becoming payable.
Strategic measures 20 Stephen Kellys achievement of strategic objectives for FY16 led to 16% of see directors the maximum bonus becoming payable.
personal strategic Steve Hares achievement of strategic objectives for FY16 led to 16% of objectives table the maximum bonus becoming payable.
below Overall assessment Stephen Kelly received a bonus equal to 87% of salary 69% of the maximum.
One-third of the total bonus was deferred into Sage shares for two years under the compulsory bonus deferral requirement in the 2016 remuneration policy.
Steve Hare received a bonus equal to 87% of salary 69% of the maximum.
Recurring revenue growth is dened on page 170.
For the purposes of assessing bonus performance in 2016, recurring revenue includes recurring revenues generated from our payments processing business.
Recurring revenue plus payments processing revenue for 2015 has been retranslated at 2016 foreign currency exchange rates to provide a comparison of underlying performance, and the rates selected are the same as those used to determine the targets.
Payment of a bonus is subject to the achievement of three underpin conditions: Group organic revenue growth, Group underlying operating margin and Group software subscription growth, which were met, permitting the payment of a bonus.
Executive directors personal strategic objectives Executive directors personal strategic objectives were set by the Committee at the beginning of the financial year, consistent with the key deliverables within the annual budget.
Targets for strategic objectives are considered to be commercially sensitive and are not disclosed.
However, details of metrics that were taken into account by the Committee in coming to its assessment of this measure are set out below: CEO measures 20% of bonus payable CFO measures 20% of bonus payable Grow global product revenues Deliver operational efficiencies Sage One paying subscriptions grown by 81% over 2016 Organic revenue growth and operating margin commitments achieved whilst making 51m of run-rate savings through a major reorganisation of X3 new licence revenue grown by 17% over 2016 the business Increase Global Net Promoter Score Strengthen risk and governance frameworks Excellence in governance programme embedded across the business Global Net Promoter Score grown by 61% over 2016 as noted on page 40 with a new global policy suite and mandatory training, improving the Companys risk management and compliance culture Continued to develop and embed the process for the identification and assessment of the Companys principal risks.
This process also encompassed the resetting and ongoing review of key risk measurement metrics.
In conjunction with the Global and Regional risk committees, established programmes to manage and mitigate the principal risks Disclosure of 2015 bonus targets The target ranges for financial measures used to determine the 2015 bonus were not disclosed in last years Annual Report & Accounts as this was considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information.
Last years Report stated that it was intended for retrospective disclosure to be made after a period of one year.
The table below therefore sets out the target ranges for the financial measures that were used to determine the 2015 bonus.
90 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 % Threshold Target Stretch Actual % of maximum Bonus measure weighting performance performance performance performance bonus payable 1 Underlying PBT 50% 351m 361m 372m 361.7m 31% 6% of bonus 30% of bonus 50% of bonus payable payable payable Organic revenue 30% 3% 6% 8% 6.7% 22% 2 growth 3.6% of bonus 18% of bonus 30% of bonus payable payable payable Strategic measures 20% The assessment of strategic measures was CEO: 14% disclosed on page 84 of the 2015 Annual Report CFO: 14% Between 2.4% and 20% of bonus payable Total CEO 67% of maximum bonus 84% of salary CFO 67% of maximum bonus 84% of salary Notes: 1.
Underlying PBT is dened on page 163 of the 2015 Annual Report.
Targets and actuals are stated at 2015 actual foreign currency exchange rates to facilitate comparison with the published accounts.
As noted on pages 76, 83 and 84 of the 2015 Report, targets and actuals are presented on the basis of the prior revenue recognition policy explained on page 44 of the 2015 Report, as this was consistent with the basis on which targets were set at the beginning of the performance period.
Organic revenue growth is dened on page 163 of the 2015 Annual Report.
PSP awards Awards granted under the PSP in 2014 vest depending on performance against three equally weighted measures, measured over three years, from 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2016: One-third organic revenue growth with a margin underpin One-third EPS growth One-third relative TSR performance against the FTSE 100 excluding financial services and extracting companies For each measure, three levels of performance are dened below, with straight-line vesting between each level of performance: target, stretch and exceptional.
Measure Between target and stretch Between stretch and exceptional EPS growth CAGR Between 6% and 12% Between 12% and 15% or above Relative TSR Between median and upper quartile Between upper quartile and upper decile or above Organic revenue growth CAGR Between 4% and 8% Between 8% and 10% or above 20% of the award vests for the achievement of 80% of the award vests for the achievement of target, with 80% of the award vesting for the stretch, with 100% of the award for the achievement achievement of stretch of exceptional performance For the organic revenue growth measure to vest, margin at 30 September 2016 must be at least the level at the beginning of the performance period.
The TSR vesting percentage may only exceed 80% Stretch level if performance against either the EPS target or the organic revenue growth target is also at Stretch level.
Measure Achieved Vesting EPS growth CAGR 10.4% 21.2% th Relative TSR 99 percentile 26.7% Organic revenue growth CAGR 5.9% 16.0% Total 63.9% A change in accounting policy for revenue recognition was introduced in financial year 2015, the basis of which is explained on page 44 of our 2015 Annual Report.
This change in policy, which occurred mid-way through the performance cycle, affects the calculation of both organic revenue and EPS.
Organic revenue and EPS growth over the three-year performance period of this PSP award has therefore been calculated on an amalgamated basis comprising growth for each of 2014 and 2015 assessed on the prior accounting basis plus growth for 2016 assessed on the revised accounting basis.
This approach was adopted by the Committee in order that the basis of calculation for each year remains consistent with the financial measures and targets communicated to employees and the market at the start of that particular year.
The Committee has determined that this basis of calculation does not make the growth targets materially more or less difficult to satisfy than when they were originally set.
The Committee also determined that the margin underpin condition had been met, allowing the portion of the award relating to organic revenue measure to vest.
Both of Steve Hares PSPs noted in the single figure table have the same performance conditions attached to them.
Stephen Kelly was not a participant in the 2014 PSP.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 91 Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued PSP awards granted in FY16 Awards were granted under the PSP on 2 March 2016, at a market value of 6.023 the middle market quotation of a Sage share on 1 March 2016 to selected senior employees, including the executive directors, in the form of conditional share awards.
In alignment with our revised business strategy for FY16, performance conditions for awards granted in FY16 are: Relative TSR: 50% of award Recurring revenue: 50% of award Have both underpin conditions been met?
EPS growth CAGR of 8% p. a. Organic revenue growth CAGR of 6% p. a.
No Yes This portion of the award lapses Recurring revenue growth CAGR TSR ranking % of award vesting % of award vesting Median 10% 8% p. a.
50% The following key points are highlighted in relation to the performance measures: The introduction of recurring revenue growth as a medium-term performance condition provides close alignment with our medium-term strategic priorities to grow our subscription-based services and acquire new customers.
The recurring revenue growth targets for FY16 awards 8-12% p. a. are consistent with our ambition for the three-year period FY16-18.
Continued focus on overall Group growth and delivery of shareholder value is achieved by: Enhancing the proportion of PSP awards that will be determined by relative TSR performance 50% compared to 33% under the previous policy : Requiring the achievement of two broader underpin conditions based on EPS and organic revenue growth before the recurring revenue growth element of the PSP awards can vest.
The targets for these underpin conditions 8% p. a. EPS and 6% p. a. organic revenue growth are consistent with delivery of a successful transitional phase.
More specifically, they ensure that the transition to a subscription model is achieved whilst maintaining overall growth in revenues and earnings i. e. subscription growth will need to more than offset the decline in licence growth.
Awards will vest, subject to satisfaction of those performance conditions, on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Maximum number Face value Face value Threshold vesting End of performance Type of award of shares % of salary % of award period Stephen Kelly 327,909 1,975,000 250% 20% 30 September 2018 Performance shares Steve Hare 211,356 1,273,000 250% 20% 30 September 2018 92 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016
