Our strategy continued Revolutionise business Transform Kingpin Simplifying Kingpin is an integrated marketing customers lives agency, helping technology brands connect with audiences.
As a fastgrowing business, it was important for Innovation and exciting technology Kingpin to be able to focus on growing are at the heart of Sages strategy.
deliver the latest solutions through Sage Live provides Kingpin with access to real-time information on connected our ecosystem of partners and thirddevices meaning the company can meet party applications to our nations of clients and hold board meetings anywhere.
business builders, giving them the technology they deserve so they canfocus on doing what they love.
Our priorities The risks that could impact our success Revolutionising business at Sage means delivering our new, exciting Working collaboratively and with agility is key to ensuring our product solutions like Sage One, which can be accessed by smartphone, Sage development can outpace a rapidly evolving market.
We also need to Live, which won the Salesforce award for most innovative product of work tirelessly to support our ecosystem and partner network so that We experienced 20% growth last year.
2016, and X3 which we are launching in the cloud, but also revolutionising our customers can integrate our products with other solutions to suit.
Forus, its not about saving money, its our much-loved existing suite of products.
We are releasing hybrid Read more about our strategic partnerships and third party reliance on-premise cloud versions of Sage 50, 100 and 300, providing both principal risks at p about s age 41. aving time and working smarter.
high-functionality and the exibility to work from multiple locations Sage Live enables one single point of anddevices.
How we will measure our progress view of my customers and takes away Revolutionise business strongly supports our business model growth In 2016 we announced a partnership of Sage 50 and O ce 365, bundling alot of the headache of managing drivers of Activate and Grow see page 12 for the business model.
the two products to allow enhanced analytics, sharing of documents business I see this as transformational.
between colleagues and access to the business anywhere.
The lead indicator that we are delivering on our strategy is our Iwould recommend Sage Live.
Our annualised soft ware subscription base ASB, given that our very latest We also launched Pegg, the worlds first accountancy chatbot, in features are available on subscription.
Read more about our KPIs on search took a long time and hitt ing July2016 see overleaf.
page 32 and see more about our progress in the CEO report on page 30. something that also worked with our We use the most appropriate, industry-leading development platforms for each of our products and select the latest applications to integrate CRM system was really hard to nd with our soft ware to continue to evolve ourecosystem.
James Foulkes Co-Founder, Kingpin www.
com investors 22 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 23
