Our strategy continued Capacity for growth Increasing e ciencies Building a single, united operating model, increasing e ciencies and synergy to drive superiorgrowth.
For instance, on a Sage Live quali ed lead, the CBC team takes on all Our priorities contact from product demos, to post implementation success coaches, Throughout our transformation we are focused on progressing towards ensuring that new users gain maximum value from the product from a single, united operating model to provide consistently excellent dayone.
support to both colleagues and customers.
We have realigned key functions such as Marketing, Product Delivery and Technology, whilst The digital marketing and CBC formula can be repeated in other regions ensuring the function remains strongly connected to the country and from the existing hubs in Dublin and Atlanta, utilising the same best in the customer.
We ensure the responsibility for the customer remains breed applications and generating standardised management under the remit of that country, with sales and service provided locally, information to aid comparability of performance.
in local language, by Sage experts.
This united model drives e ciencies and creates synergy across The risks that could impact our success countries.
The savings in formerly decentralised back o ce functions Business Model transition has been identi ed as a principal risk, this is are being reinvested into the business to drive growth.
We are continuing to improve our always-on digital marketing platform.
Our customer business centres CBCs deploy this platform, sta ed 24 How we will measure our progress hours a day with solutions experts who can nurture the incoming leads Our KPI linked to capacity for growth is the ratio of general and to identify which product will best suit the customers needs, rather than administration spending as a percentage of revenue G&A%.
marketing a product and identifying suitable customers.
Read more about our KPIs on page 33 and see more about our progress in the CEO report on page 31.
24 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Perform By reducing unnecessary cost fromback o ce functions to reinvest in the go-to-market model: General and admin expense as a proportion of revenue reduced by 2.2% during FY16 51m Annualised cost savings The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 See overleaf 25
