Chairmans statement Delivering value for our shareholders The Group continues to meet its shareholder commitments, delivering 6% organic growth and 27% organic operating margin for FY16.
Donald Brydon Chairman 14 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 This has been an important year in In July, we hosted Sage Summit in Sages transformationand a year of Chicago.
It was one of the largest sustained performance.
I am delighted gatherings of Small & Medium Perform and Transform to report that Sage continues to meet Business owners anywhere in the We deliver good governance with our world-class its commitments to shareholders, world.
I was delighted to att end Board of Directors and Executive Committ ee, who delivering 6% organic revenue growth withother members of the Board together, provide the leadership to steer us through and 27% organic operating margin for andpersonally met many inspiring ourtransformation whilst ensuring the business FY16, whilst taking very important entrepreneurs, business partners continues to perform to a high standard.
stepsto deliver change in the business andcustomers.
The 15,000 registered to support our long term aspirations.
att endees were presented with clearly Inevery part of the business I observe articulated roadmaps for our major Read more about the Board on pages 66 agenuine sense of raised ambition products and also got the first glimpse and the Executive Committ ee on pages 68 from our people and a rm desire to of innovative new solutions, like our drive our success to new heights.
Sage is committ ed to supporting the success of Small & Since our Capital Markets Day in Medium Businesses everywhere in the June2015, Sages transformation world as an indispensable business ally.
hascontinued successfully along the The Board wholly supports the course we committ ed to at that time.
The Board has enjoyed a year of initiatives being undertaken to ensure Whilst there is still much to deliver in continuity and bene ts from the that Sage not only continues to comply order to fully realise our strategy, I am collective expertise of members with relevant regulations, but develops very encouraged by the initial progress whohave all actively engaged with a market leading system of controls made under the direction of Stephen thebusiness over the last 12 months.
These are central to Kelly and his new management team.
Ruth Markland will step down from ensuring that Sage is scalable and There have been many changes in the theBoard at the AGM in February 2017 capable of supporting the growth senior team bringing together a new aft er completing over ten years service.
expected of the Group in the coming operating model with relevant We have all greatly appreciated her years.
The initiatives sponsor is Steve management skills.
Sage has increased dedication, experience and the wealth Hare and he has our full backing to its pace of decision making and there of knowledge and insight she has embed the rigorous principles approved.
has been a step change in the speed brought to Sage.
Inna Kuznetsova At the same time the Boardhas and scale of innovation and levels of hasalso decided not to stand for commenced new work to bett er fide ne agility in product development.
Although the accompanying culture necessary thesame time, customer satisfaction withusfor a shorter time than Ruth, for sustained success.
On 30November scores have risen in almost all areas.
she brought a new perspective to our 2016 Sage announced adividend for deliberations and we thank her for her the year 2015 16 of 14.15p per share, Our cloud accounting solutions service.
I am pleased to con rm that anincrease of 8%.
suchas Sage One continue to reach Drummond Hall has accepted the arapidlyexpanding market, with paying I would like to thank Stephen Kelly appointment of Senior Independent subscribers in Sage One growing by andhis team for all their endeavours Director and his appointment will 81% for the year.
We are also bringing inthe past year.
The next twelve takee ect from the end of the the power of the cloud to existing months will represent another year of AnnualGeneral Meeting.
customers with connected versions tireless e orts to continue on our path ofmarket leading products such as The Board has reviewed its of transformation, whilst continuing Sage 50, Sage 100 and Sage 300.
Our composition with respect to both todeliver to all our stakeholders, renewed strategic partnership with skillsand diversity and as a includingpartners, customers, Microsoft to combine the deep consequence has commenced the colleagues and shareholders.
functionality of Sage 50C with the search for successors to Ruth and Inna.
innovative mobility of Microsoft O ce As reported elsewhere we bene ted 365 is an example of our commitment from a review of our performance by to supporting customers for life, F on Hague and continue to nd our however they choose to deploy objective sett ing process adds value.
On 30th September 2016, Michael Robinson retired from his position Customers for life is just one of the asLegal Counsel and Company Donald Brydon clear strategic pillars around which Secretary and I thank him for his Chairman Sage is developing.
Elsewhere in this calmand unwavering support during report you will nd detail around his 14yearswith Sage.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 15 s t s e h e e k t f r n w i i l a s o r m u r o e g f b e g r s h e a r o t s S Our strategy Delivering for our stakeholders Our strategy responds directly to the market in order to realise the signi cant opportunities available.
We are transforming our business to grow market share and improve the quality of growth, always ensuring we keep our customers, communities and people at the heart of what wedo.
Putt ing our customers at the heart of everything we do to provide exceptional experiences.
See page 18 Our people and our culture, working Outpacing market growth to collaboratively with pace and agility gain market share and realise toput our customers first.
our ambition to be the marketleader.
See page 26 See page 20 Building a single, united operating Using the latest technology within our model, increasing e ciencies and ecosystem to make our customers synergy to drive superior lives easier, so they can focus on qualitymargins.
See page 24 See page 22 16 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 e f i n y n m e i t n o g i o i O c t t n i a u s n l u p o n a C i v C W e R Perform We introduced our updated strategy at our Capital Markets Day in June 2015, signalling the start of several years oftransformation.
2016 has been a pivotal yearinour transformation andthe business continues toperform, achieving organic revenue growth and organic operating margin in line withguidance: Organic revenue growth 6% Organic operating margin 27% The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 See overleaf 17 s t s e h e e k t f r n w i i l a s o r m u r o e g f b e g r s h e a r o t s S Our strategy Delivering for our stakeholde rA s nd transform Our strategy responds directly to the market in or 201 der t 7 will be ano o realise the ther k ey year signi cant opportunities available.
We are transforming our business t oftransformation, whe or e we grow market share and improve the quality of growth, alw expect to maint ays ensuring we ain organic keep our customers, communities and people at the he revenue g art of what wedo rowth of at leas.
t 6%and an organic operating margin of at least 27%, with accelerating momentum as weexit FY17.
During 2017 we will focus Putt ing our customers at onreinvesting our savings the heart of everything we do to provide exceptional intosales and marketing experiences.
tocontinue to improve our See page 18 abilityto winin the market.
Our people and our culture, working Outpacing market growth to collaboratively with pace and agility gain market share and realise toput our customers first.
See page 24 See page 22 Organic revenue growth will make up 80% of the overall bonus weighting for executive directors in 2017.
See page 84 for more detail on 2017 bonus.
16 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 e f i n y n m e i t n o g i o i O c t t n i a u s n l u p o n a C i v C W e R The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 17 Our strategy continued Customers for life Providing exceptional experiences Putt ing our customers at the heart of everything we do to provide exceptional experiences.
This involves providing choice, indispensable advice and the right product for the customer however they want to deploy theirsolution.
Our priorities The risks that could impact our success We want to serve customers for life as their indispensable and trusted Failing to recognise the changing needs of our customers and the ally when facing business issues.
Developing ever closer relationships evolving compliance landscapes faced by customers in our geographies helps us to deliver a superior experience to customers.
Oursubscription would inhibit our ability to satisfy their needs.
If the move to a subscription model is central to developing this tighter bond and is mutually delivery model is not executed collaboratively then we riskalienating bene cial, providing great value and bene ts to the customer and customers.
Read more about our market intelligence andlicensing increasing our customer retention.
We will never force migration model transition principal risks on page 37. and will always o er choice to ourcustomers.
How we will measure our progress We continue to provide value-adding solutions to the customer, If we succeed in delighting our customers, they will respond by freeingup their time so thatthey can continue building their business.
continuing to use our services, so our KPI linked to this pillar is our This means more integrated, complementary solutions, hassle-free contract renewal rate.
Read more about our KPIs on page 32 and migrations for those ready to move to the next product and exceptional seemore about our progress in the CEO report on page 30. levels of customer service andsupport.
Our latest solutions are customer-led, with features built based on customerrequests.
18 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Perform Our subscription model instats: 32% growth in soft ware subscription revenue year-on-year 46% increase in soft ware subscription contracts year-on-year 10% growth in recurring revenue year-on-year 86% contract renewal rate Soft ware subscription contracts 14 15 16 See overleaf 19 450,000 690,000 1,016,000 Our strategy continued Customers for life Transform Frylite Limited Providing exceptional Our customer for life commitment experiences provides choice and success pathways to support businesses as they expand.
As Frylite has grown, the business has Putt ing our customers at the heart migrated up from Sage 50 to Sage 200 of everything we do to provide tomatch the increasing complexity of itsprocesses to a capable solution which exceptional experiences.
This involves supports continued successfulgrowth.
providing choice, indispensable advice and the right product for the customer however they want to deploy theirsolution.
We were taking on a lot of new customers every day so we needed a bigger, more powerful package.
We have seen a lot of bene ts of using Sage 200 integration with other soft ware packages is key for us and because Sage are established, they have a great support system.
Justin Barrett Financial Controller, Frylite Limited www.
com investors 18 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 19 Our strategy continued Winning in the market Growing our marketshare Outpacing the competition to gain market share and sustain our ambition to be the leader in our chosen markets.
Our purpose is to serve the worlds business builders.
Providing the very best technology and services, combined with an emotive brand strategy that puts people at the heart of our operations, will unlock huge opportunities for growth.
Our priorities The risks that could impact our success We are winning in the market with our range of next-generation cloud Developing enhanced core product functionality, product integration accounting, payroll &HCM and payments products see page 10, and a compelling commercial proposition are all features which help to providing solutions that cater for all sizes of Small & Medium Businesses drive a competitive advantage but which present execution risks.
Read from start-up, through scale-up to enterprise.
These products will be more about our competitive positioning and product development, the default product choice for new customers unless their particular and market intelligence principal risks on pages 37 and 38. needs are bett er served by another of Sages products.
How we will measure our progress We aim to make the entire customer sales experience from enquiry to As wegrow market share, the primary measure for winning in the product deployment and customer success as seamless as possible.
market is the adoption of our cloud products.
Read more about our Our regional Customer Business Centres CBCs coordinate the sales KPIs on page 32 and see more about our progress in the CEO report of our cloud solutionsto new customers and maintain relationships onpage 30. with customers as they grow see page 24 for details.
We are also investing in an always-on, digital marketing platform to ensure a consistent, modern and user-friendly online presence across Sage.
We are uniting all of our sales and marketing under one emotive brand strategy.
This integrated approach will di erentiate us from the competition whilst creating deeper connections in the market that willincrease brand loyalty and advocacy.
20 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Perform Growing market share by att racting customers to our latest cloud technologies.
In July 2016 we hosted Sage Summit, the worlds largest gathering of entrepreneurs.
Sage Summit in numbers: 15,000 att endee registrations Over 1bn social impressions Over 3,000 news articles writt en about Sage Summit The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 See overleaf 21
