Business Our Strategy read more on p16 Sage is enabling the businesses of entrepreneurs Customers for life Winning in the market Supporting entrepreneurs TheGolden with the right products Triangle Our new generation soft ware helps to drive todays Revolutionise businessbuilders.
The Golden Triangle of seamlessly business integrated solutions for Accounting, Payroll & Human Capital Management HCM and Payments automates work ow and the movement of money.
We provide soft ware deployed on desktops and in the cloud to maximise customer choice.
Capacity for growth Accounting Our range of accounting solutions allows customers to issue invoices, analyse business performance and manage cash ow, taxes, stock, budgets and more.
One Sage Payroll & HCM Our Payroll & HCM solutions are simple, secure and e cient: helping our customers to remain compliant, pay their employees accurately and on time, and to deliver a great employee experience.
Payments Our payments o erings and partnerships enable our customers to receive payments through their websites, in person using a card reader, or directly from electronic invoices, as well as making outgoing payments.
See our products on p34 Organic revenue by region Our unrivalled ecosystem North America Our ecosystem is the network of partners and platforms which 34% we work with across 23 countries to service our threemillion Europe customers.
Ranging from accountants, value-adding partners, 53% developers and cloud platforms to name a few, this community works seamlessly with us to provide exceptional experiences International to our customers.
13% See our regional performance on p50 8 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 s t s e STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS e h k e r n t f a i i w l s o m r u e r o b e g f g e s h a r r t s o S builders BeSage and delivering a compelling investment proposition.
The right strategy for our markets Our strategy responds directly to the market in order to realise the signi cant opportunities available.
We are transforming our business to grow market share and improve the quality of growth, always ensuring we keep our customers, communities and people at the heart of what we do.
See our strategy on p16 Delivering sustainable returns We are focused on doing well by doing right to deliver superior shareholder returns.
The transition to ever closer subscription relationships with our customers not only enables us to provide bett er supportbut also gives us excellent visibility 16 year dividend history overour revenue streams.
Growing the annual dividend per share Our att ention to resource allocation provides potential for strategic investment in our go to market capability coupled with rigorous cost control to deliver strong operating margins and capacity for growth.
We target free cash conversion of revenue in the 15% 20% range which supports our progressive dividend policy.
We are one of very few businesses in the FTSE 100 that have delivered an increased ordinary dividend every year since 1999.
