Market review The market opportunity and how we approach it Small & Medium Businesses Small& Medium Businesses are the lifeblood of the global economy and make up 99% of all businesses, driving two thirds of new jobcreation.
There is a signi cant opportunity for growth within the markets in which we operate.
The Small & Medium Businesses market encompasses many types of business with varying complexities and requirements.
We constantly strive to understand the characteristics of businesses of di erent sizes to help us bett er serve them as they grow and their needs evolve.
Our market Soft ware solutions in our market comprise Accounting, Payroll & HCM, Payments, or a full suite of business management solutions.
Increasingly, soft ware solutions are hosted on a public server and accessed in the cloud, though we also provide the option of solutions hosted locally and accessed on-premise.
Sage is the only worldwide company who can provide such soft ware solutions to take the business from start-up, toscale-up, through to enterprise, allowing the customer to migrate seamlessly across the product range, as illustrated below.
Accounting Payment Payroll solutions solutions solutions businesses in our markets 68m One Payroll Only around one in 10 businesses of this size use dedicated soft ware to manage their accounting and 0 9 employees payroll processes.
Start-up businesses in Pay 4m our markets incoming payments 50 Payroll Most businesses have solutions to maintain appropriate records Payments and perform multiple functions.
10 200 employees outgoing payments Scale-up businesses in our markets 150k Businesses are more complex X3 People andoft en require extensive, multi-functional, crossbordersolutions.
200 employees Enterprise 10 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Growth opportunities White space Purchased Of the 72 million Small & Medium Businesses in the countries where we operate, application onlyaround one in 10 currently uses a purchased soft ware solution to manage their Alternative accounting and payroll processes.
The others use alternative means such as pen means and paper or spreadsheets: these businesses represent the white space opportunity.
The cloud Cloud applications are key to reaching this white space, allowing the consumer topurchase instantly online, without installation, via a standard web-browser andwithlimited con guration.
Forecasts show cloud spending growing at a rate of approximately 17% per annum to 2018, largely att ributable to expansion in the market: traditional soft ware spending is 17% expected to stay broadly at.
Analysis indicates that both forms of deployment will remain material components Growth in public cloud ofthe overall market for the foreseeable future.
spend year on year We are committ ed to our three million customers and will continue to support them byinvesting in innovative technology for both cloud and on-premise deployment.
Evolving technology Technology evolves rapidly and business needs are becoming ever more mobile and social led.
The Sage ecosystem allows us to develop the latest applications and also to partner with other technology companies to seamlessly integrate with other best in class applications on leading cloud platforms.
Customer led strategy Our privileged and trusted position with Small& Medium Businesses is enhanced byover 30,000 conversations we have with our customers each day.
This provides us with a deep understanding of customer demand drivers, which isintegral to developing our strategy.
We combine this with our knowledge of local markets to develop intuitive, tailored technology solutions and provide exceptional levels of customer support and advice.
Our latest product designs are customer led, includingfeatures based on customer requests and demand drivers.
Fragmented market Top 3 providers Sage operates in a relatively fragmented market, with the top three providers account for only accounting for only around one quarter of market spend.
Sage is one of the market leadersin every countryin which we operate and our ambition is to grow our position as a global market leader.
14 of market spend The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 11
