Strategic report Governance Financial statements Accountability Internal control and risk management Dialogue with Shareholders The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the The Group recognises the importance of an ongoing relationship associated mitigating actions for these are set out on pages 25 with its Shareholders and fully supports the principles encouraging to 29. dialogue between companies and their Shareholders in the Code.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer have The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of risk primary responsibility for investor relations and lead a regular management and internal control across the Group.
This programme of meetings and presentations with analysts and responsibility includes the determination of the nature and extent of investors.
This includes presentations following the publication of the principal risks the Board is willing to take to achieve its strategic the Companys full and half year results.
This programme maintains objectives and for ensuring that an appropriate culture has been a continuous two-way dialogue between the Company and embedded throughout the organisation.
Risk management is Shareholders, and helps to ensure that the Board is aware of implemented from the top down.
The Board is supported by the Shareholders views on a timely basis.
The Board also normally Audit Committee in discharging its oversight duties with regard to receives feedback twice each year from its corporate brokers on internal control and risk management.
investors and the markets perceptions of the Company.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are also available to Whilst the Board is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate meet Shareholders if so required.
The Company has enjoyed and is culture has been embedded throughout the organisation and appreciative of the significant Shareholder support that it has had establishing and maintaining the Groups system of risk in recent years in relation to the Groups remuneration policy and management and internal control to safeguard Shareholders continues to welcome Shareholder views with regard to the investments and the Groups assets and for reviewing the Groups Remuneration Policy.
Details of the Companys response effectiveness of this system, such a system is designed to to any Shareholder views raised would be included in the relevant manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business years Remuneration Report.
objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards The AGM provides the Board with a valuable opportunity to attitude and appetite to risk is communicated to the Groups communicate with private Shareholders and is generally attended businesses through the strategy planning processes.
The Audit by all of the Directors.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to Committee monitors the ongoing status and progress of action ask questions before and during the meeting and to meet Directors plans against key risks on a regular basis and reports its findings following the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
accordance with the Code, the level and manner of voting of proxies lodged on each resolution at the AGM is declared at the Going concern meeting and published on the Companys website.
The notice of The Groups business activities, together with the factors the AGM is sent out at least 20 working days before the meeting considered likely to affect its future development, performance and and at least 14 working days notice is given before other general position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 39.
The meetings in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described on page 23.
In addition, Note 3 Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the 2017 AGM can to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies be found in the AGM Notice which accompanies this Report and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk and Accounts.
management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be The Group has considerable financial resources, including a received not later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
250m committed revolving credit facility augmented by a 50m accordion option which can be activated to increase the facility The Groups website includes a specific investor relations section that runs to December 2020.
The Group has a broad geographic containing all RNS announcements, share price information and presence, service offering and extensive client spread ensuring annual reports available for download.
The Company has taken that the Group is not over-dependent on one geography, service advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 CA line or client.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the 2006 which allow communications with Shareholders to be made Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
electronically where Shareholders have not requested hard copy documentation.
Details of the information available to Shareholders After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a can be found on page 155. reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue as a going concern for at least 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Report andAccounts.
Savills plc 51 Report and Accounts 2016 Accountability continued Audit Committee Report Role of the Committee The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter within its Terms of Reference a copy of which can be found in the governance section of the Companys website at www.
aspx and has access to the services of the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and, where necessary, the authority to obtain external legal or other independent professional advice to fulfil its duties.
The Committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control, the effectiveness of the risk management process and in making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the External Auditor.
The Committee is responsible for the scope and results of the External Audit work, its cost effectiveness and for ensuring the independence and objectivity of the External Auditor.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Groups whistleblowing arrangements as they relate to matters of financial integrity, As Chair of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the Audit including ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place for Committees report for the financial year ended 31 December employees to be able to raise in confidence matters of alleged 2016.
This report is intended to explain how the Committee has financial improprieties and for ensuring that appropriate follow-up met its responsibilities throughout the year and what it has done to actions are taken.
The key matters considered in the year are set out on pages 53 and 54.
The report provides an Composition overview of the significant issues that the Audit Committee The Committee is a fundamental element of the Companys assessed and details the Committees major considerations and governance framework.
The Committee is chaired by Liz Hewitt.
activities during the 2016 financial year in ensuring that the Three Independent Non-Executive Directors, Liz Hewitt, Tim Companys governance processes remain appropriate, robust, Freshwater and Rupert Robson are members of the Committee.
of a high standard and are rigorously applied.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board following recommendations by the Nomination Committee and membership The Audit Committee has a key role in ensuring the integrity of the is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee as part of the Groups financial statements, internal controls and the effectiveness annual Board performance evaluation.
As at 31 December 2016 of its risk management processes.
The Audit Committee also has a and up to the date of this Report, the Audit Committee was role in representing the interests of Shareholders by monitoring the comprised entirely of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The activities and conduct of management and the auditors.
Board considers the Committee members to have recent and relevant financial experience as per the UK Corporate Governance During the year, the Committee continued to focus on the Code.
Biographical details of the Committee members are shown effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and reviewed the on pages 44 and 45. principal risks, to ensure the alignment of these with the Companys strategic objectives.
It monitored the effectiveness of All members of the Committee receive induction including an the control environment through the review of reports from Internal overview of the business, its financial dynamics and risks, and Audit, management and the External Auditor and ensured the meetings with senior management.
Committee members are quality of the Companys financial reporting by reviewing the 2015 expected to have an understanding of the principles of, and Report and Accounts and the 2016 Half Year Financial Statements, recent developments in, financial reporting and internal controls, and subsequently, in 2017, the Companys 2016 Report and risk management, and Internal and external audit roles Accounts.
The Committee also considered the processes andresponsibilities.
supporting the assessment of the Groups longer-term solvency and liquidity in support of the viability statement.
Looking ahead, Engagement the Committee will continue to monitor changes in regulation and The Chair of the Committee meets informally, and is in regular continue to focus on the audit, assurance and risk processes contact with the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Director of within the Principal Businesses.
Risk Assurance and the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and prior to each Committee meeting, meets with each At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed the of them and the External Auditor individually.
content of this years Annual Report and Accounts and has advised the Board that in its opinion the Report taken as a whole is fair, A standing invitation has been extended by the Committee to the balanced and understandable and it provides the information Non-Executive Chairman and Group Chief Executive to attend the necessary for Shareholders to assess the Groups position, Committees meetings.
The Group Chief Financial Officer, Group performance, business model and strategy.
Financial Controller, Group Director of Risk & Assurance, Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and the External Auditor The Committee noted the unqualified opinion from the External attend each of the Committees meetings.
Other senior executives Auditor on the 2016 Annual Report.
from across the Group are invited to present reports to assist the Audit Committee in discharging its duties.
During each year, the Liz Hewitt Committee meets privately with the External Auditor and the Group Chair of the Audit Committee Director of Risk & Assurance.
Savills plc 52 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Chair of the Committee also attends the AGM to respond to shareholder questions on its activities.
The Committee met four times during the year and reports to the Board after each Committee meeting.
Attendance at meetings during 2016 is shown in the table below: Meetings % of eligible Meetings eligible to meetings Committee member Member since attended attend attended Liz Hewitt June 2014 4 4 100% Tim Freshwater January 2012 4 4 100% Martin Angle until 8 March 2016 January 2007 1 1 100% Rupert Robson June 2015 4 4 100% Martin Angle retired as a member of the Committee at the Committees March 2016 meeting.
During the year, in addition to its established review processes, the Committee considered and reviewed a number of other areas.
These included reviews of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control in the Groups Asia, Europe and Investment Management businesses.
In addition, the Committee examined the EMEA IT systems strategy including the approach to cyber security.
The Committee also considered the processes supporting the assessment of the Groups longer-term solvency and liquidity which support the viability statement, and considered and provided input into the determination of which of the Groups principal risks might have an impact on the Groups longer-term solvency and liquidity.
It also reviewed the results of managements scenario modelling, including severe downside modelling, and the stress testing of those financial models supporting the viability analysis.
Financial Reporting Activities of the Committee To enable the Committee to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively it works to a structured programme of activity focused on key events in the annual financial reporting cycle.
This work includes items that the Committee considers regularly in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
In addition to its core work, the Committee undertakes additional work in response to the evolving audit and external reporting landscape.
The Committee relies on information and support from management across the business, receiving reports and presentations from, business management, the heads of key Group functions, Internal Audit and the External Auditor, which it challenges as appropriate, and reports its findings to the Board.
The principal activities of the Committee during the year are set out below: Responsibilities How the Committee discharged its responsibilities Mar July Aug Dec Financial Reviewed and discussed the key accounting considerations and Reporting judgements reflected in the Groups results for the half year X Reviewed and discussed the key accounting considerations and judgements reflected in the Groups results X Reviewed going concern status and considered whether any asset impairments were required X X Reviewed the viability statement and considered the processes supporting the assessment of the longer-term solvency and liquidity X X External Audit Agreed the external audit strategy and scope X Considered and, where appropriate, approved the instruction of the Groups External Auditor on non-audit assignments X Reviewed and considered the External Auditor Report, including the External Auditor observations on the Groups internal control environment X X Discussed the External Auditor performance X Met with the External Auditor without management present to discuss their remit and any concerns X X Discussed and agreed the External Auditor remuneration in respect of audit services provided X Assessed the External Auditors independence and recommended their reappointment to the Board X Compliance, Reviewed the Groups arrangements by which staff can, in Whistleblowing confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters and Fraud of financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee also considers any reports made under these arrangements X Savills plc 53 Report and Accounts 2016 Accountability continued Responsibilities How the Committee discharged its responsibilities Mar July Aug Dec Internal Audit Considered and approved the remit of the Internal Audit function and the Internal Audit plan X Received and considered reports from the Groups Internal Audit team covering various aspects of the Groups operations, controls and processes and monitored the progress made by management in addressing recommendations arising out of these reports X X Monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function in the context of the Groups overall risk management arrangements X Met with the Group Director of Risk and Assurance privately to discuss his remit and any concerns X Internal Controls Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system and Risk and internal controls in place to manage the Groups principal risks X Management Reviewed and considered the Groups risk register X X Systems Reviewed risk management arrangements for the Groups regional businesses by receiving presentations from the Chief Operating Financial Officers of the Principal Businesses X X Reviewed the Committees own performance, composition and Terms of Reference, and recommended any changes the Committee considers necessary for Board approval X As part of its monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, the Committee considers the appropriateness of the accounting policies proposed for adoption and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
To support its decisionmaking, the Committee seeks support from the External Auditor in these areas.
After discussions with management and the External Auditor, the Committee determined that the significant issues and other accounting judgements relating to the 2016 financial statements were: Matter considered Action Impairment of goodwill Focus on European businesses Risk of fraud in revenue recognition The Committee considered the presumed risk of fraud as defined by the auditing statements in relation to cut-off for transaction and was satisfied that there were no issues arising income in the Investment Management and Transactional Advisory businesses Provisions for litigation The Committee reviewed the provisions held in relation to each significant legal case and assessed the appropriateness of these as at 31 December 2016 taking into account the Groups insurance cover and the advice received from external counsel to ensure that appropriate provision had been made.
The Committee agreed with the position taken by management in respect of these matters Recoverability of trade receivables The Committee considered the recoverability of trade receivables and was satisfied that there were no issues arising Regulatory compliance obligations During the year the Committee reviewed the Groups policies and procedures around regulatory risks including but not limited to: Whistleblowing reports: Anti-bribery and corruption procedures: and The Groups Client Acceptance procedures The Committee was satisfied that no significant issues had been identified in these areas Savills plc 54 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee monitored the performance of the External Auditor Internal Audit The provision of Internal Audit services during 2016 was delivered during the year and carried out a review of the effectiveness of the External Audit process and considered the reappointment of by the Groups Internal Audit team with support from EY where country and or subject matter expertise was required, or where  LLP PwC and the appropriateness of its fees.
The review covers a broad range of matters including local language reviews were required or internal resources were not available.
The Boards responsibility for internal control and amongst other matters, the quality of staff, its expertise, resources and the independence of the audit.
The Committee considered the risk is detailed on page 42 and is incorporated into this Report by reference.
External Audit plan for the year and assessed how the External Auditor had performed.
In deciding whether to recommend the During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the Internal reappointment of PwC, the Committee considered the robustness of their challenge and findings on areas which require judgement, Audit plan, having regard to the complementary roles of the Internal Audit function and the External Auditor.
The Committee ensured the strength and depth of the lead partners and feedback from the Groups management.
that the Internal Audit team had the necessary resources and information made available to it to enable it to fulfil its mandate The Committee formally concluded the assessment of the to the appropriate professional standards.
performance of the External Auditor at the December Committee meeting and made a corresponding recommendation on the The Committee reviewed Internal Audit reports on a regular basis and the Group Director of Risk & Assurance attended meetings appointment of PwC for the forthcoming financial year to the Board.
Shareholders formally appoint the External Auditor at the and presented to the Committee.
In assessing the performance of the Internal Audit function, the Committee considered and AGM in May.
There were no significant findings arising from the evaluation this year and the Committee concluded that both the monitored its effectiveness in the context of the Companys risk management system and took into account managements audit and the audit process were effective.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the reappointment of PwC as assessment of and responsiveness to the Internal Auditors findings the Groups External Auditor and it was satisfied that it should and recommendations and reports from the External Auditor on recommend to the Board their reappointment as the Groups any issues identified during the course of their work.
Internal Control and Risk Management In light of the assessment and review undertaken during the year, the The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertook a robust review of the effectiveness of the system of risk Board endorsed the Committees recommendation that PwC be re-appointed as the External Auditor for a further year and that their management and internal control.
In performing its review of effectiveness, the Committee reviewed and assessed the re-appointment would be put to the shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
following reports and activities: PwC has been the Companys Auditor since 2001, following a tender for the External Audit.
The senior partner responsible is Internal Audit reports on the review of the controls across the Group and the monitoring of management actions arising from rotated every five years to ensure objectivity and the last lead partner change took place at the close of the 2015 audit.
The these reviews: managements own assessment of risk and the performance of Committee continues to review the auditor appointment and the need to tender the audit, ensuring compliance with the UK the system of risk management and internal control during 2016: reports from the Group Director of Risk & Assurance including Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee has considered the timing of a potential External Audit tender timetable and processes reports on Group-wide risk assessment activity and annual self-assessment findings: and and concluded that the tender process should take place at the end of the next lead audit partner term in 2020.
The Committee is reports from the External Auditor on any issues identified during the course of their work.
satisfied that the proposed retender of audit services in 2020 was in the best interests of the shareholders of the Company.
Having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control, The Committee recognises the importance of External Auditor the Committee was satisfied that necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified.
objectivity and monitors their independence.
The Committee reviews the External Auditors own policies and procedures for External Audit safeguarding its objectivity and independence.
The Committees The Committee holds private meetings with the External Auditor at assessment of PwCs independence is underpinned by the the March and August Committee meetings to provide additional Groups policy on the use of PwC for the provision of non-audit opportunity for open dialogue and feedback to from the services.
In accordance with the Groups policy in place to Committee and the External Auditor without management being 31 December 2016, the following non-audit services were not present.
The Committee chair also meets with the external lead provided by the External Auditor: audit partner outside the formal Committee process throughout the year.
bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements: financial information systems design and implementation: Internal Audit outsourcing services: management functions or human resources advice: or advising on senior executive including Executive Director remuneration.
Savills plc 55 Report and Accounts 2016 Accountability continued To further safeguard the independence of the Companys External Auditor and the integrity of the audit process, recruitment of senior employees from the External Auditor is not allowed for an appropriate period after they cease to provide services to the Company.
During the year, PwC was paid 1.6m for audit services and 0.6m for non-audit services, principally for advice on taxation and transaction-related matters.
Details of the fees paid to the External Auditor can be found in Note 7.2 on page 115.
During the financial year ending 31 December 2016, contracts for non-audit services in excess of 0.1m require Committee approval and the Chair of the Audit Committee is notified of new instructions for the delivery of non-audit services below this level.
The Committee was satisfied that in view of their knowledge and experience of the Company, PwC was best placed to provide such non-audit services and that their objectivity and independence had not been impaired by reason of this further work.
In line with the Companys policy for the financial year ending 31 December 2016 on the provision of non-audit work, the Committee reviewed the provision of non-audit work provided by the External Auditor on a case-by-case basis.
The Committee was satisfied that the overall levels of audit related and non-audit fees were not material relative to the income of the External Auditor firm as a whole.
The Committee has assessed the FRCs Revised Ethical Standard for Auditors June 2016 which will implement new restrictions on the supply of non-audit services that the External Auditor can provide, including the cap on the amount of non-audit fees that can be billed and a list of prohibited services.
The restrictions are effective for the Group from 1 January 2017 and the Groups policy on using the External Auditor for non-audit engagements has been reviewed and subsequently amended to reflect these additional restrictions.
The External Auditor will no longer provide taxation services.
As part of the Groups monitoring system, all non-audit instructions with the External Auditor must be approved by either the Group Chief Financial Officer or the Group Financial Controller and management must seek approval from the Committee for all non-audit contracts in excess of 0.1m.
The Groups policy also requires that non-audit fees must not exceed 70% of the average External Audit fees billed over the previous three years.
The Directors confirm that, insofar as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which PwC is unaware and each Director has taken the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that PwC is aware of that information.
Savills plc 56 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The governance rules applicable to all UK companies admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority with a Premium listing and with accounting periods ended before 17 June 2016 are set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council and publicly available at www.
Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2016 the Code remained the standard against which we measured ourselves and the Board fully supports the principles set out in the Code.
The Main Principles have been applied as follows: A.
Effectiveness A1 The Boards Role B1 The Boards Composition.
B5 Provision of information and support The Board met formally eight times The Board is made up of a majority of To enable the Board to discharge its duties, during the year with specific focus on Independent Non-Executive Directors, each Director received appropriate and strategy, performance, leadership and excluding the Chairman.
timely information, including detailed risk, governance and finance.
There is a papers in advance of Board meetings.
schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The Board has determined that each Non-Executive Director is independent in Each Director has access to the advice and A2 Clear Division of Responsibilities character and judgement, commits services of the Group Legal Director & The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief sufficient time and energy to the role, and Company Secretary and through him have Executive are clearly defined.
The continues to make a valuable contribution access to independent professional advice Chairman, Nicholas Ferguson, is to the Board and its Committees, including in respect of their duties at the Companys responsible for the leadership and Charles McVeigh, notwithstanding his expense.
effectiveness of the Board, and the Group long service.
Chief Executive, Jeremy Helsby is B6 Board and Committee performance responsible for leading the day-to-day The Nomination Committees primary evaluation management of the Group within the objective is to review the composition of In 2016, the Boards annual evaluation was strategy set by the Board.
In making appointments to the facilitated by Alice Perkins of JCA, an Board, the Nomination Committee independent consultancy.
The process and A3 Role of the Chairman assesses the balance of skills, knowledge, key findings are explained on page 48 of The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, independence, experience and diversity the Annual Report.
manages the meeting timetable in required in order to maintain an effective conjunction with the Group Legal Director Board.
B7 Re-election of the Directors & Company Secretary and promotes a All Directors are subject to election by culture of open and constructive dialogue B2 Board appointments Shareholders at the AGM.
All Directors will during meetings.
The Nomination Committee leads the stand for reelection by Shareholders at appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Directors The Chairman on appointment met and biographies are given on pages 44 and 45 continues to meet the independence B3 Time commitments of the Annual Report, enabling criteria set out in B.
On appointment, Directors are notified of Shareholders to take an informed decision the time commitment expected of them.
A4 Role of the Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors have ensured The Chairman promotes an open and that they have sufficient time to carry out constructive environment in the boardroom their duties.
and actively invites the Non-Executive Directors views.
The Non-Executive B4 Development Directors provide objective, constructive To ensure a full understanding of Savills and rigorous challenge to management and its businesses, on appointment each and meet regularly in the absence of the new Director undergoes a comprehensive Executive Directors.
and tailored induction programme which introduces the Director to the Groups businesses, its operations, strategic plans, key risks and its governance policies.
The induction also includes one to one meetings with the Heads of the Principal Businesses and an introduction to each Group business development strategy.
Savills plc 57 Report and Accounts 2016 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued C. Accountability D. Remuneration E. Relations with Shareholders C1 Financial and business reporting C3 Roles and Responsibilities of the D1 Levels and components of D2 Development of remuneration E1 Shareholder engagement The strategic report is set out on pages 2 Audit Committee remuneration policy and packages and dialogue to 39 of the Annual Report and provides The main roles and responsibilities of the The Remuneration Committee is principally The Groups focus and business policy is The Group Chief Executive and Group Chief information about the performance of the Audit Committee are set out in written responsible for determining Company founded on the premise that staff in the Financial Officer lead a regular programme Group, the business model, strategy and Terms of Reference which are available on policy on senior executive remuneration real estate advisory sector are motivated of meetings and presentations with analysts the principal risks and uncertainties.
The Committee is authorised and for setting the remuneration through highly incentive-based and and investors, including presentations to investigate any matter within its Terms of arrangements of the Executive Directors therefore variable remuneration consistent following the publication of the Companys The Directors going concern statement is Reference and has access to the services and reviewing those of the members of the with the Groups partnership style culture, full and half year results.
This programme given on page 51 of the Annual Report.
of the Group Legal Director & Company Group Executive Board.
The Committee which also ensures that the Groups reward maintains a continuous two-way dialogue Secretary and, where necessary, the excluding the Non-Executive Chairman arrangements are consistent with and between the Company and Shareholders, C2 Risk management and internal authority to obtain external legal or other also determines the level of fees payable to sensitive to the cyclical nature of real and helps to ensure that the Board is aware control systems independent professional advice in the the Non-Executive Chairman.
of Shareholders views on a timely basis.
The Board sets out the Groups risk fulfilment of its duties.
The Board also normally receives feedback appetite and, through the Audit Committee, The Committee is advised by FIT The Groups Remuneration Policy is twice each year from the Companys annually reviews the effectiveness of the The Audit Committees role is to assist the Remuneration Consultants LLP, who designed to deliver these objectives and to corporate brokers on investors and the Groups risk management and internal Board in discharging its duties and provide an independent commentary on provide the reward potential necessary for markets perceptions of the Company.
responsibilities for financial reporting, matters under consideration by the the Company to attract, retain and motivate internal control and in making Committee and updates on market the high-calibre individuals on whom its The Chairman and the Senior Independent The Directors carried out a robust recommendations to the Board on the developments, legislative requirements and continued growth and development Director are also available to meet with assessment of the principal risks including appointment of the independent External best practice, and internally by the Group depend.
Reflecting this philosophy, the Shareholders if so required.
those that would threaten the business Auditors.
The Committee is responsible for Legal Director & Company Secretary.
salaries for the Executive Directors, Group model, future performance, solvency or the scope and results of the audit work, its Executive Board members and senior E2 Constructive use of the AGM liquidity.
Those risks and how they are cost effectiveness and the independence fee-earners are set significantly below The AGM provides the Board with a being managed or mitigated is set out in and objectivity of the External Auditors.
market medians for similar businesses, valuable opportunity to communicate with the Annual Report at pages 25 to 29. with a greater emphasis on the private Shareholders and is generally The Committee has responsibility for performance-related elements of profit attended by all of the Directors.
Taking account of the Companys current reviewing the Groups whistleblowing share and or, outside of the UK, position and principal risks, the Directors arrangements, including ensuring that commission in the total reward package.
The Notice of Meeting and related papers assessed the viability of the Group over a appropriate arrangements are in place for for the AGM are sent to Shareholders at three-year period.
The Directors have a employees to be able to raise, in The Committee is mindful of its least 20 working days before the meeting.
reasonable expectation that the Group will confidence, matters of alleged impropriety, responsibility to reward appropriately, but be able to continue in operation and meet and for ensuring that appropriate follow-up not excessively, and rigorously assesses its liabilities as they fall due over the actions are taken.
competitive positioning in setting three-year period.
The viability statement is remuneration and determining targets to set out on page 29 of the Annual Report.
ensure that reward properly reflects performance, that it supports the delivery The Board monitors the Groups risk of our strategic and operational objectives management and internal control systems and that it is fair to management and and, at least annually, carries out a review Shareholders alike.
of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control, covering all material The established policy has been reviewed controls, including financial, operational during the year and is proposed for and compliance.
The activities of the Audit re-approval by Shareholders at the 2017 Committee are summarised on pages 53 AGM as required by the Directors and 54 of the Annual Report.
The policy proposed for re-approval at the 2017 AGM is substantially the same as the expiring established policy, with some refinements to ensure its consistency with emerging governance best practice.
Full details of the proposed policy are on pages 64 to 73 of the Annual Report.
Savills plc 58 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements C. Accountability D. Remuneration E. Relations with Shareholders C1 Financial and business reporting C3 Roles and Responsibilities of the D1 Levels and components of D2 Development of remuneration E1 Shareholder engagement The strategic report is set out on pages 2 Audit Committee remuneration policy and packages and dialogue to 39 of the Annual Report and provides The main roles and responsibilities of the The Remuneration Committee is principally The Groups focus and business policy is The Group Chief Executive and Group Chief information about the performance of the Audit Committee are set out in written responsible for determining Company founded on the premise that staff in the Financial Officer lead a regular programme Group, the business model, strategy and Terms of Reference which are available on policy on senior executive remuneration real estate advisory sector are motivated of meetings and presentations with analysts the principal risks and uncertainties.
Savills plc 59 Report and Accounts 2016
