Strategic report Governance Financial statements Effectiveness Board composition and balance Time commitment and conflicts The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the NonBalance of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors Executive Directors committed sufficient time during the year to enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors of the Company.
Non-Executive Chairman 1 The Companies Act 2006 places a duty on each Director to avoid a Non-Executive Directors 4 situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect Executive Directors 2 interest which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been authorised by the other Directors in accordance with the Articles.
The Board has adopted a set of guiding principles 04 years 3 59 years 1 10 years 1 on managing conflicts and approved a process for identifying current and future actual and potential conflicts of interest.
The At all times during the year at least half of the Board members, Nomination Committee review authorised conflicts at least annually excluding the Chairman, were Independent Non-Executive Directors.
or if and when a new potential conflict situation was identified or a potential conflict situation materialised.
During 2016, actual and Chairman and Chief Executive potential conflicts of interest that were identified by each Director The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct and were subsequently authorised by the Nomination Committee, separate and their roles and responsibilities are clearly established.
subject to appropriate conditions in accordance with the guiding The Chairman leads the Board and has particular responsibility for principles.
Procedures adopted to deal with conflicts of interest the effectiveness of the Groups governance.
In promoting a culture continue to operate effectively and the Boards authorisation of openness he ensures the effective engagement and contribution powers continue to be exercised properly in accordance with the of all Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
To help ensure a Companys Articles of Association.
proper dialogue with all Directors, the Chairman meets with the Directors individually.
The Group Chief Executive has responsibility Induction, training and support for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority To ensure a full understanding of Savills and its businesses, following delegated by the Board.
There are a number of areas where the their appointment to the Board, each Director undergoes a Board has delegated specific responsibility to management, comprehensive and tailored induction programme which introduces including responsibility for the operational management of the the Director to the Groups businesses, its operations, strategic plans Groups businesses as well as reviewing strategic issues and risk and key risks.
New Directors are also provided with information on matters in advance of these being considered by the Board and or relevant share dealing policies, Directors duties, Company policies its Committees.
The Board considers that throughout the year the and governance.
The induction also includes one to one briefings Company was in full compliance with the Code.
from the Heads of the Principal Businesses and an introduction to each Group businesss developmentstrategy.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors The Board reviews the independence of its Non-Executive The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary, whose Directors, particularly those with long service.
The Non-Executive appointment is a matter reserved for the Board, is responsible for Directors are responsible for bringing independent and objective advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on company judgement and scrutiny to matters before the Board and its law and corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board Committees.
The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive procedures are followed, as well as ensuring that there is a smooth Directors bring considerable management expertise and are an flow of information to enable effective decision making.
The Group Independent Non-Executive Directors, being independent of Legal Director & Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that management and having no business or other relationship which the Directors receive regular updates on developments in legal and could interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
All the Directors have access to the advice and particular, notwithstanding his long service on the Board, the services of the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and Board continues to consider that Charles McVeigh remains entirely through him have access, if required, to independent professional independent in character and judgement.
His experience provides advice in respect of their duties at the Companys expense.
valuable insight, knowledge and continuity.
Senior Independent Director Tim Freshwater is the Senior Independent Director and is available to Shareholders if they have concerns which have not been addressed by contact with the Chairman and or Group Chief Executive.
Savills plc 47 Report and Accounts 2016 Effectiveness continued Board evaluation The Board undertakes a rigorous and formal evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees and its Directors annually.
In accordance with the Code requirements, the Board believes that an external independent evaluation of Board effectiveness and performance and that of its principal Committees at least every three years brings further insight into its performance.
As well as looking to continually improve the Boards processes, the evaluation process is used to reflect on areas that the Board would like to see more focus on.
The last  external evaluation of its performance took place in the year ended 31 December 2013 and therefore this year its annual review was externally facilitated by Alice Perkins of JCA.
The evaluation covered the performance of the Board as a whole as well as that of its Committees.
This years review took the form of confidential one to one meetings with each Director and the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary conducted by Alice Perkins of JCA and covering areas including board effectiveness: the mix of skills and experience on the Board: the development of the Companys strategy: the effectiveness of Board procedures and processes: the connectivity between the Board and the Groups businesses: the performance of Board Committees: relations with Shareholders and other stakeholders: and the individual performance of Board members.
The facilitator consolidated the responses and the output was initially reviewed by the Chairman and then by the Board.
The key outcomes from the evaluation related to: ensuring that the Board had the mix of skills and experience required for the next stages of the Groups development, in particular ensuring that Board membership was appropriately diverse, in the widest sense: and increasing focus on reviewing the progress and development of the Groups Principal Businesses and ensuring greater awareness of key individuals in each business below Executive Committee level.
As a result of the evaluation, the Board considers the performance of each Director to be effective and concluded that both the Board and its Committees continue to provide effective leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control.
The Shareholders should therefore support their re-election to the Board at the AGM in May.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development.
The skills and experience of the Directors are set out on pages 44 and 45.
Savills plc 48 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee Report Composition As at 31 December 2016 and up to the date of this Report, the Committee comprised Tim Freshwater, Liz Hewitt and Rupert Robson, together with the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
Biographical details relating to each of the Committee members is shown on pages 44 and 45.
I became the Committee Chairman when Peter Smith retired from the Board at the close of the 2016 AGM on 11 May 2016.
I chair the Committee save in circumstances where the Chairmans succession is considered.
Any other Director, the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary or an external advisor may be invited by the Committee to attend the meetings from time to time, as appropriate.
The Committee meets at least twice a year, or as required, and met two times during 2016.
The attendance at meetings by members, is shown in the table on page 42.
Members of the Committee also attend the Companys AGM at which there is an opportunity to meet with Shareholders.
The Committee Chairman is on hand to answer questions in the event that Shareholders ask specific The Nomination Committee has an important role to play in questions related to the Nomination Committee and its activities.
ensuring that the Board and its principal Committees have the right mix of skills, experience and diversity to deliver Group strategy and Activity during the year to create value.
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates The Committees activities during the year included: the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and independence to be reviewing leadership needs of the organisation and succession able to function effectively.
plans with a view to ensuring the Company has executive leadership of the highest quality to ensure that it continues to Committee objective and activities be able to compete effectively in the various markets in which The primary objective of the Committee is to review the size and Group companies operate: composition of the Board and its key Committees and to plan for the focusing on succession planning including the tenure, mix and Boards progressive refreshing, with regard to balance andstructure.
diversity of skills and experience of the existing Board in the context of the Groups strategy: The Committee has standing items that it considers regularly under Considering the proposed reappointment of the Non-Executive its Terms of Reference: for example, the Committee considered Directors, before making a recommendation to the Board and approved Directors potential conflicts of interest and reviewed regarding their re-election: and its own Terms of Reference which are reviewed at least annually considering and approving the Directors potential conflict or as required, e. g. to reflect changes to the UK Corporate ofinterests.
Governance Code or as a result of changes in regulations or best practice.
New Directors receive a tailored induction as detailed on page 47.
In addition, and specifically during the year, the Committee Succession planning and diversity reviewed the Groups senior level succession plans to ensure The Committee recognises the importance of planning for the that these remained appropriate.
future and of having a succession planning policy designed to bring in new skills and perspectives to the Board which complement the More detailed information on the role and responsibilities of experience of the existing Board members.
The Committee the Committee can be found in the Committees Terms of continues to keep the Boards composition under review and Reference which can be accessed on the Companys website considers how the composition may be enhanced to ensure that at www.
the Board continues to reflect the needs of the Company and itsShareholders.
In consultation with the Chairmen of the principal Committees, the Nomination Committee will continue to monitor the needs of the Board and its Committees in the context of Group strategy, with the aim of ensuring that the Groups succession planning policy evolves such that there is an identifiable supply of talent and experience available to the Board and its Committees from which to select successors.
Savills plc 49 Report and Accounts 2016 Effectiveness continued The Committee has sought to maintain a balance of skills and experience on the Board and its Committees.
The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors and key senior executives with consideration to gender and diversity in its widest sense.
Before making an appointment, the Committee assesses the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity of the Board and, in view of this assessment, will draw up a description of the role and competencies needed, with a view to appointing the best-placed individual for the role.
In making a recommendation to the Board on a Non-Executive Director appointment, the Nomination Committee specifically considers the expected time commitment of the proposed Non-Executive Director and other commitments they may already have.
The Company uses recruitment consultants to assist the Committee in delivering its objectives and responsibilities: and the search firms are required to present a mix of suitable male and female candidates.
No Director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own succession.
The Committee is aware that the number of women on boards remains a topic for debate for companies and regulators.
We fully agree with the spirit and aspirations of the Davies Report to increase the number of women on company boards.
All appointments to the Board are made on merit and within this context, whilst having regard to the recommendations of the Davies Report, the Board continues to view diversity in the widest sense, with a view to appointing the best-placed individual for the role.
Appointing the best people to the Board is critical to the success of the Company and our focus remains on attracting the right talent and skills irrespective of gender or diversity.
The biographies of the Board members appear on pages 44 and 45.
Nicholas Ferguson CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee 21 March 2017 Savills plc 50 Report and Accounts 2016
