Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors report In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Directors interests in significant contracts Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in the Annual No Directors were materially interested in any contract of significance.
Report and Accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors Report.
Statement of Directors responsibilities In accordance with the Code and the Disclosure Guidance and Operations Transparency Rules DTR DTR4, the Directors Responsibilities The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group operate Statement is set out on page 84 and is incorporated into this Report through a network of offices and associates throughout the Americas, by reference.
the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East.
Corporate Governance Statement Results for the year In accordance with the Code and DTR 7.2.
9R, the Corporate The results for the Group are set out in the consolidated income Governance Statement on page 40 is incorporated into this Report statement on page 93 which shows a reported profit for the financial by reference.
year attributable to the shareholders of the Company of 66.9m 2015: 64.3m.
Management Report This Directors Report, on pages 81 to 83, together with the Strategic Dividend Report on pages 2 to 32, form the Management Report for the An interim dividend of 4.4p per ordinary share amounting to 5.9m purposes of DTR 4.1.
It is recommended that a final dividend of 10.1p per ordinary share amounting to 13.5m is paid, Additional Information Disclosure together with a supplemental interim dividend of 14.5p per ordinary Pursuant to regulations made under the CA2006 the Company is share amounting to 19.5m to be declared by the Board on 21 March required to disclose certain additional information.
Those disclosures 2017, on 15 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at 18 April 2017. not covered elsewhere within this Annual Report are as follows: More details of the proposed dividend and the Companys performance Share capital and major shareholdings can be found in the Chairmans statement on pages 10 and 11.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2016 Principal developments comprised 139,809,677 2.5p ordinary shares, details of which may be The principal developments of the business are detailed in the Strategic found on pages 138 and 139.
Report on pages 2 to 32 and incorporated into this Report by reference.
The Company has only one class of share capital formed of ordinary The principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 27 to 29 shares.
All shares forming part of the ordinary share capital have the and incorporated into this Report by reference.
same rights and each carries one vote.
Directors Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or by corporate Short biographical details of the current Directors are shown on pages representatives in relation to corporate members.
All the Board members served throughout the year save provide a deadline for the submission of proxy forms electronically or for Nicholas Ferguson who was appointed as an Independent by paper of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Non-Executive Director with effect from 26 January 2016 and Martin holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
Angle and Peter Smith who resigned as Non-Executive Directors with effect from 11 May 2016.
As at 31 December 2016 the Board There are no unusual restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share and five Independent Non-Executive Directors.
unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged at the registered office of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide Interests in the issued share capital of the Company held at the end accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred and of the period under review and up to the date of this Report by the such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show Directors or their families are set out on pages 78 and 79 of the the right of the transferor to make the transfer: or ii in respect of only Remuneration Report.
Details of share options held by the Directors one class of shares.
pursuant to the Companys share option schemes are provided in the Remuneration Report on page 79.
It is the Boards policy that the GEB The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share whether Members should retain at least 105,000 shares value at 31 December certificated or uncertificated, whether fully paid or not, in favour of 2016: 735,525 in the Company and that the Group Chief Executive more than four persons jointly.
retains at least 150,000 shares value at 31 December 2016: 1.05m based on the mid-market share price of 700.5p per share on 30 December 2016 at all times.
On approval of the new Remuneration Policy by Shareholders, the shareholding requirement will change to a requirement that the Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer hold shares to the value of five times their respectivesalaries.
Savills plc 81 Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report continued As at 31 December 2016 the Company had been notified of the Unless determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, the following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital in number of Directors shall be not less than three and not more than accordance with DTR 5: 18.
A Director is not required to hold any shares in the Company by way of qualification.
However, as more fully described on page 78, Number of in accordance with Board policy, the members of the GEB which Shareholders shares % includes the Executive Directors are expected to build-up and Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 11,986,846 8.57 maintain a shareholding in the Company.
The Board may appoint Old Mutual plc 11,977,937 8.57 any person to be a Director and such Director shall hold office only Norges Bank 5,404,296 3.87 until the next AGM when he or she shall then be eligible for reappointment by the shareholders.
The Articles provide that each Note: On 3 January 2017, Old Mutual plc disclosed a shareholding of 9.15% and on Director shall retire from office at the third AGM after the AGM at 13 January 2017, Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited disclosed a shareholding of 4.81%.
No other changes to the above have been disclosed to the which he or she was last elected.
A retiring Director shall be eligible Company in accordance with DTR 5, between 31 December 2016 and 21 March 2017. for re-election.
However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors of the Company are subject to annual re-election.
As at 31 December 2016, the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT held 5,706,307 shares.
Any voting or other similar Annual General Meeting decisions relating to these shares are taken by the trustees of the The AGM is to be held at 33 Margaret Street, London W1G 0JD EBT, who may take account of any recommendation of the at 12 noon on 9 May 2017: details are contained in the AGM Company.
The EBT waives all but 0.01p per share of its dividend Notice circulated to shareholders with this Report.
For further details of the EBT please refer to Note 2.21 to the financial statements.
Half Year Report Like many other listed public companies, we no longer circulate Purchase of own shares printed Half Year reports to shareholders.
Rather, Half Year results In accordance with the Listing Rules, at the AGM on 11 May 2016, statements are published on the Companys website.
This is shareholders gave authority for a limited purchase of Savills shares consistent with our target of saving printing and distribution costs.
of up to 10% of the issued share capital.
During the year, no shares were purchased under the authority.
Political contributions There were no political contributions during the year 2015: nil.
The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM on 9 May 2017 to renew the Companys authority to make market Employees policies and involvement purchases of its own ordinary shares of 2.5p each for cancellation The Directors recognise that the quality, commitment and or to be held in treasury.
Details of the proposed resolution are motivation of Savills staff is a key element in the success of included in the Notice of AGM circulated to shareholders with this the Group: see pages 33 and 34 for more information.
Annual Report the AGM Notice.
The Group provides regular updates covering performance, Change of control developments and progress to employees through regular There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or newsletters, video addresses, the Groups intranet, social media terminate in the event of change of control of the Company except and through formal and informal briefings.
These arrangements that under its banking arrangements, a change of control may also aim at ensuring that all of our staff understand our strategy trigger an early repayment obligation.
and to build knowledge on the part of employees of matters affecting the performance of the Group.
The Group also consults Articles of Association with employees so as to ascertain their views in relation to The Companys Articles are governed by relevant statutes and decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
Employees are able to share in the Groups success through performance-related profit share schemes see page 70 for more The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of details and for UK employees including Executive Directors, share Directors are contained in the Articles.
The powers of the Directors plans which include a Sharesave Scheme and a Share Incentive are determined by UK legislation and the Articles in force from time Plan SIP.
The Sharesave Scheme is an HMRC-approved to time.
save-as-you-earn share option scheme which allows participants to purchase shares out of the proceeds of a linked savings contract at a price set at the time of option grant.
Participants may elect to save up to 500 per month and options may normally be exercised in the six months following the maturity of the linked three-year savings contract.
The potential for extending the Sharesave Scheme internationally remains under consideration.
The SIP is also HMRC-approved and through which participants may make regular purchases of shares up to 150 per month which is the current statutory limit from pre-tax income.
Shares under the SIP normally vest after five years, free from income tax and national insurance contributions.
Savills plc 82 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Human rights and equal opportunities We support the principles of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Core Principles of the International Labour Organization.
It is Group policy to provide employment on an equal basis irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, disability or age.
In particular, the Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment and to provide training and career development and promotion to disabled employees.
Independent Auditors In accordance with Section 489 of the CA2006, a resolution for the reappointment of  LLP as Auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Whistleblowing The Group encourages staff to report any concerns which they feel need to be brought to the attention of management.
Whistleblowing procedures, which are published on the Groups intranet site, are available to staff who are concerned about possible impropriety, financial or otherwise, and who may wish to ensure that action is taken without fear or victimisation or reprisal.
Greenhouse gas emissions Details of the Groups global greenhouse gas emissions for the financial year under review can be found on page 36 and are incorporated into this Report by reference.
By order of the Board Chris Lee Group Legal Director & Company Secretary 21 March 2017 Savills plc Registered in England No.
2122174 Savills plc 83 Report and Accounts 2016
