Our business explained Our business model illustrates in Our resources simple terms how we create shareholder value through improving and relationships the strength of our premium brand, and through the delivery of profits and dividends to shareholders.
We treat every client as an individual and take time to understand what they need and how we can best Outstanding people Outstanding people service them.
Local knowledge Entrepreneurial approach Long-term client relationships Long-term client relationships We have built our brand and reputation on the quality of our people, relationships, resources and processes.
Savills has a strong and well embedded culture, founded on an entrepreneurial approach and Client care programmes underpinned by our values and operational standards.
All that we do is underpinned by strong governance, a disciplined approach to risk management and high standards of responsibility, which supports High quality servicer the sustainable development of our business.
More detail of our governance structure, policies and practices can be found later in this Annual Report on pages 40 to 59.
We are committed to delivering a high quality service and creating long-term relationships with our clients.
Because of our personal approach to business, our people are fundamental to our business Intellectual property Intellectual property and we encourage an open and supportive culture in which every individual is respected.
We strive to provide an environment in which our people can flourish and succeed.
This allows us to Market intelligence recruit, motivate and retain talented people and build on our status as an employer of choice.
We work hard to ensure that our people enjoy working at Savills promoting their personal and professional development.
We encourage them to develop their careers within Brand and reputation the Group, nurturing the entrepreneurs and leaders of the future to share in the success of the business.
We firmly believe that our people are key to delivering excellent service to our clients and achieving our objectives.
They give us a unique perspective of the markets in which we operate and Financial connect our clients with real estate opportunities and market intelligence.
To be the real estate advisor of choice in our markets, and deliver superior financial performance, we aim to employ Prudent capital structure people of the highest quality supporting the delivery of the highest standards of client service.
By choosing Savills, our clients have access to over 32,000 staff with a broad range of experience, skills and local knowledge, based in offices in key real Strong cash generation estate locations across the globe and benefit from our extensive market research material.
Savills plc 04 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our business Our value model creation Defensive, Revenue by business Cyclical Shareholders scale high-margin business businesses Dividends Underlying earnings 29.0p per share Property Commercial Management Transactions 72.5p Underlying 33% 35% profit 54% 46% 135.8m Consultancy Residential Transactions 16% 11% People Investment Management Training and development Restructured training programme 5% Employee engagement Achieved One Star status Diversity UK Diversity Group Underpinned by Pride in everything we do Our values Our values Take an entrepreneurial approach Clients to business Help our people fulfil their High quality service true potential Client Advocates Always act with integrity Client care Client relationship management team Board oversight Governance Governance High standards of governance Community Reducing environmental impact Risk mitigation to limit exposure Carbon emission reduction Disciplined Disciplined to any one market or economy Community investment approach approach Business and geography Community engagement diversification programmes to risk to risk Savills plc 05 Report and Accounts 2016 Sp tlight on North America US economy and real estate provides welcome stability in 2016.
The core drivers of demand for office space payroll growth Institutional investors and REITS invested selectively.
They and business investment continued to register positive trends backed away slightly from some, but not all, of the top gateway in most markets during 2016.
The private sector has increased markets.
Office sales in Manhattan declined from $28.5 billion employment for 76 consecutive months.
New office to $22.8 billion, but Los Angeles captured some of the shifting development is rising, but remains below historical norms.
geographical focus rising from $6.9 billion to $11.4 billion.
In turn, the expansion cycle for the US office sector as well Secondary markets with integral links to tech and strong as the industrial and housing sectors continued on its upward long-term demographic trends were clear winners in 2016. trend over the last 12 months.
We expect that 2017 will bring These included Austin, Texas up by 14.2% with $2.5 billion another year of steady demand in most office markets.
and Charlotte, North Carolina 64.6%, $1.7 billion.
Additionally, other investors priced out of the core gateway Leasing activity cooled from its intense pace in some of the markets invested in alternative locations just outside San most active markets, such as Dallas Fort Worth and Atlanta, Francisco East Bay 49.5%, $2.6 billion or Manhattan but is not expected to reduce significantly in 2017.
Demand for Northern New Jersey 32.8%, $3.7 billion.
office space in most tech markets Silicon Valley, Boston and Seattle and low-cost markets Dallas Fort Worth and Tampa remained steady but returned to a pace that is on par with long-term trends.
Atlanta and Chicagos CBD registered sustained leasing in 2014 and 2015, but slowed in 2016, in part due to price resistance among some tenants.
Leasing is sporadic in markets that still depend primarily on traditional space users such as Midtown Manhattan and Washington, DC.
Several markets Boston, Los Angeles, the Bay Area in Northern California and Seattle ended the year with a concentration of leasing activity.
Savills plc 06 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Case study ABN AMRO Chicago acquisisition ABN AMRO, an Amsterdambased bank, secured a 45,000 sq ft acquisition in Chicago.
Savills Amsterdam engaged with the banks HQ real estate team to revitalise the opportunity and Savills Studley Chicago completed the acquisition.
Savills plc 07 Report and Accounts 2016
