Leadership continued Group Executive Board Appointment to the Group Appointment to the Group Michael Colacino Christian Mancini ExecutiveBoard ExecutiveBoard alternate member with Mitch Steir Chief Executive Asia Pacific Michael was appointed to the Group Christian was appointed to the Group President Savills Studley ex-Greater China Executive Board when Studley, Inc. Executive Board on 1 July 2016. joined Savills in May 2014.
Background and relevant Background and relevant experience experience Christian was made CEO of Savills Japan He joined Studley, Inc. in October 1991 in 2007 and appointed CEO of Savills and became president in 2002.
Other appointments Other appointments Michael serves on the real estate board of Christian also serves as non-executive New Yorks Board of Governors and the director in Savills Asset Advisory, the advisory board of the Zell-Lurie Real Estate wholly-owned asset management Center at Wharton.
subsidiary of Savills Japan Co, Ltd created in May 2012.
Appointment to the Group Justin OConnor ExecutiveBoard Chief Executive Officer Savills Investment Appointment to the Group Simon Hope Justin was appointed to the Group Management ExecutiveBoard Global Head of Capital Markets Executive Board in September 2010.
Simon was appointed to the Group Executive Board when it was formed in Background and relevant February 2008. experience He joined Cordea Savills in January 2004 as Background and relevant Head of Business Development.
He was experience subsequently appointed Chief Executive of He joined Savills in September 1986 and Savills Investment Management formerly he is Head of our Global Capital Markets Cordea Savills in January 2006.
He is also a member of the Board previously held a number of senior positions of the Charities Property Fund and at Henderson Global Investors, Lend Lease Chairman of Tilstone LLP.
Mark Ridley Appointment to the Group ExecutiveBoard Chief Executive Savills UK and Europe Appointment to the Group Chris Lee Mark was appointed to the Group Executive ExecutiveBoard Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Board when it was formed in February Chris joined Savills in June 2008 and was 2008. appointed to the Group Executive Board in August 2008.
He has responsibility for legal Background and relevant and compliance issues globally.
experience He became Chief Executive of Savills UK Background and relevant and Europe in October 2014, previously experience holding the position of Chief Executive for He held equivalent roles with Alfred Savills UK following the merger of the McAlpine plc, Courts plc and Scholl plc Commercial and L&P businesses in January between 1997 and 2008, prior to which he 2013.
He previously served as Chairman was deputy group secretary of Delta plc and Chief Executive of Savills Commercial from 1990 to 1997.
Limited from January 2008 and prior to this was Head of the Manchester office which he opened for Savills from the time he joined in July 1996.
Appointment to the Group Raymond Lee ExecutiveBoard Mitch Steir Appointment to the Group Chief Executive Hong Kong, Macau Raymond was appointed to the Group alternate member with Michael Colacino ExecutiveBoard and Greater China Executive Board in January 2011.
Mitch was appointed to the Group Executive Chairman & CEO Savills Studley Board when Studley, Inc. joined Savills in Background and relevant May 2014. experience He joined Savills in 1989.
In 2003, Raymond Background and relevant became the Managing Director in Hong experience Kong and Macau and in 2010 was He joined Studley, Inc. in 1988 after appointed CEO of Greater China.
Raymond beginning his commercial real estate career is a Fellow Member of the Hong Kong at Huberth & Peters in New York.
Institute of Directors and holds an Honorary Fellowship at the Quangxi Academy of Other appointments Social Science.
Raymond is also an Mitch serves on the boards of The Museum Honorary Doctor of Management at Lincoln of the City of New York, the Film Society of University and holds a Fellowship at the Lincoln Center, The Realty Foundation of Asian College of Knowledge Management New York, The Avenue of Americas ACKM.
He became a Fellow Member of Association, The Mount Sinai Hospital the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors Surgery advisory board and the Citizens RICS in 2016.
Savills plc 46 Report and Accounts 2016
