Leadership continued Board of Directors Appointment to the Board Other appointments Nicholas Ferguson CBE Chairman of Savills plc and Chairman Nicholas was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on He is also currently chairman of Alta Advisers Limited, an of the NominationCommittee 26 January 2016 and became Chairman in May 2016. investment advisory firm: chairman of African Logistical Properties: and chairman and founder of The Kilfinan Group, Background and relevant experience which provides mentoring by chairmen and CEOs to heads Nicholas has held a number of leadership roles in the private equity and ofcharities.
He was co-founder of Schroder Ventures the private equity group which later became Permira of which he served as Committee Membership chairman from 1984 to 2001.
He later served as chairman of SVG Nomination Committees.
Capital plc, a publicly quoted private equity group, from April 2005 to November 2012.
Nicholas was chairman of Sky Plc from April 2012 to May 2016, having been appointed to the board as a non-executive director in June 2004 and having previously served as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Jeremy Helsby Appointment to the Board Committee Membership Group Chief Executive Jeremy joined Savills in 1980 and was appointed to the Board in 1999.
Background and relevant experience He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Savills Commercial and Savills Europe for seven years until he was appointed as Group Chief Executive on 7 May 2008.
Appointment to the Board Other appointments Simon Shaw Group Chief Financial Officer Simon joined Savills as Group Chief Financial Officer in March 2009.
Non-executive chairman of Synairgen plc.
Background and relevant experience Simon is a chartered accountant.
He was formerly chief financial officer of Gyrus Group PLC, a position he held for five years until its sale to the Olympus Corporation.
Simon was chief operating officer of Profile Therapeutics plc for five years and also worked as a corporate financier, latterly at Hambros Bank Limited.
Appointment to the Board Other appointments Charles McVeigh Independent Non-Executive Director Charles was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director Charles has recently become chairman of Rubicon Fund on 1 August 2000.
Management, a successful London based hedge fund.
He is vice chairman of Citigroups European Advisory Board as well Background and relevant experience as senior advisor to the Private Bank.
He is also a nonFormerly, he was co-chairman of Citigroups European Investment executive director of EFGHermes.
He is a trustee of the Bank and served on the boards of Witan Investment Company plc, Landmark Trust and serves on the board of governors of Clearstream, the London Stock Exchange, LIFFE, British American Sandroyd School.
Business Inc and was a member of both the development board and advisory council of the Princes Trust.
He was also a non-executive director of Petropavlovsk plc until mid-2015.
He was appointed by the Bank of England to serve on the City Capital Markets Committee and the Legal Risk Review Committee and was a member of the FulbrightCommission.
Savills plc 44 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appointment to the Board Other appointments Tim Freshwater Independent Non-Executive Director Tim was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on Non-executive director of Swire Pacific Limited, Corney & 1 January 2012.
Barrow Group Limited, Chelsfield Asia Limited former name: Dymon Asia Real Estate Limited and Hong Kong Exchanges Background and relevant experience and Clearing Limited.
Tim is chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia Bank Limited and was formerly chairman of Corporate Finance for Goldman Sachs Asia.
Committee Membership He was also chairman of Grosvenor Asia Pacific Limited until 2013.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Before joining Goldman Sachs, Tim worked at Jardine Fleming, becoming group chairman in 1999, and was a partner at Slaughter and May from 1975 to 1996.
Liz Hewitt Appointment to the Board Other appointments Independent Non-Executive Director and Liz was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on Non-executive director of Melrose Industries PLC and Chair of the Audit Committee 24 June 2014.
Novo Nordisk A S. External member of the House of Lords Commission.
Background and relevant experience Liz previously held senior executive roles at Smith & Nephew plc and 3i Committee Membership Group plc having spent her early career with Gartmore, CVC and 3i as a Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
She qualified as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen.
Appointment to the Board Other appointments Rupert Robson Independent Non-Executive Director and Rupert was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on Chairman of TP ICAP plc, Sanne Group plc, EMF Capital Chair of the Remuneration Committee 23 June 2015.
Partners and governor of Sherborne School Background and relevant experience Committee Membership Rupert has held a number of senior roles in financial institutions, most Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
recently chairman of Charles Taylor plc and non-executive director of London Metal Exchange Holdings Limited, Tenet Group Limited and OJSC Nomos Bank.
Prior to that he was global head, Financial Institutions Group, Corporate Investment Banking and Markets at HSBC and head of European Insurance, Investment Banking at Citigroup Global Markets.
Savills plc 45 Report and Accounts 2016
