Governance Once completed this will restore the 4:1 ratio of ordinary shares Directors report to non-voting ordinary shares.
Since 1 January 2017, the Company purchased 171 non-voting ordinary shares at an average price of 21.40, representing 0.0003% of the issued non-voting ordinary share capital.
Of the shares repurchased, all were cancelled immediately.
Under the terms of the Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares are held on trust on behalf of employee share plan participants.
The trustees may exercise the voting rights in any way they think fit.
In doing so, they may consider the financial and nonfinancial interests of the beneficiaries and their dependents.
As at 28 February 2017, being the latest practicable date before the publication of this Annual Report and Accounts, the Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the Schroder US Holdings Inc. Directors report Grantor Trust together held 9,453,080 ordinary shares and The information contained in the sections of this Annual Report 347,701 non-voting ordinary shares.
and Accounts identified below forms part of this Directors report: Strategic report which includes that part of the Financial review Under the terms of the Share Incentive Plan, as at 28 February 2017, contained on pages 102, 104 and 106 567,887 ordinary shares were held in trust on behalf of plan participants.
Board of Directors At the participants direction, the trustees can exercise the voting rights Corporate governance report, including the Nominations over ordinary shares in respect of participant share entitlements.
Committee report and the Audit and Risk Committee report The Statement of Directors responsibilities.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares save for: Restrictions imposed by laws and regulations Share capital Restrictions on the transfer of shares imposed under the Companys Schroders has developed under stable ownership for more than 200 Articles of Association or under Part 22 of the UK Companies Act years and has been a public company whose ordinary shares have 2006, in either case after a failure to supply information required been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1959.
The Companys to be disclosed following service of a request under section 793 share capital is comprised of ordinary shares of 1 each and non-voting of the UK Companies Act 2006 ordinary shares of 1 each.
The ordinary shares have a premium listing Restrictions on the transfer of shares held under certain employee on the London Stock Exchange and the non-voting ordinary shares share plans while they remain subject to the plan.
have a standard listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is not aware of any agreement between shareholders 226,022,400 ordinary shares 80% of the total issued share capital were that may restrict the transfer of securities or voting rights.
in issue throughout the year.
The Company has no authority to issue or buy back any ordinary shares.
Each ordinary share carries the right Substantial shareholdings to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
56,505,600 As at 31 December 2016, the Company had received notifications, non-voting ordinary shares 20% of the total issued share capital were in accordance with rule 5.1.
2R of the Disclosure and Transparency in issue at the beginning of 2016.
No shares were held in treasury.
Rules, of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in the table below.
There The non-voting ordinary shares were created in 1986 to facilitate the had been no changes to these notifications as at the date of this report.
operation of an employee share plan without diluting the voting rights of ordinary shareholders.
The non-voting ordinary shares carry the No.
of voting % of voting Member Class of shares rights held rights held same rights as ordinary shares except that they do not provide the right 1 to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company and that, on a Vincitas Limited Ordinary 60,724,609 26.87 capitalisation issue, they carry the right to receive non-voting ordinary 1 Veritas Limited Ordinary 36,795,041 16.28 shares rather than ordinary shares.
2 Flavida Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 2 Fervida Limited Ordinary 39,225,379 17.37 When the non-voting ordinary shares were created the ratio of ordinary 3 Harris Associates L. P. Ordinary 11,443,978 5.06 shares to non-voting ordinary shares was 4:1.
The Company has at times 3 issued non-voting ordinary shares, principally in connection with the Lindsell Train Limited Ordinary 11,312,070 5.01 Groups employee share plans.
The Company has not intended and does 1 Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are trustee companies which act as trustees of not intend to increase the issued non-voting ordinary share capital over certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family.
Vincitas Limited and the medium term and therefore has, at times, bought back non-voting Veritas Limited are party to the Relationship Agreement.
2 The interests of Flavida Limited include interests in voting rights in respect of all the shares in which Vincitas Limited is interested as trustee.
Flavida Limited is party to the Relationship Agreement.
The interests of Fervida Limited include interests in voting At the 2016 AGM shareholders renewed the Directors authority to issue rights in respect of all the shares in which Veritas Limited is interested as trustee.
5,000,000 non-voting ordinary shares in order to provide the Directors Fervida Limited is party to the Relationship Agreement.
3 with the flexibility to issue non-voting ordinary shares or to grant rights Harris Associates L. P. and Lindsell Train Limited are not party to the Relationship Agreement.
to subscribe for, or convert securities into, non-voting ordinary shares.
Relationship Agreement Shareholders also gave approval for the Company to buy back up to 14,100,000 non-voting ordinary shares which will expire at the 2017 The Schroder family interests are in shares owned directly or indirectly by trustee companies which act as trustees of various trusts settled by AGM.
Renewal of these authorities will be sought at the 2017 AGM which will be held at 11.30 a. m. on 27 April 2017. family individuals, in shares owned by family individuals, and in shares owned by a family charitable trust.
The trustee holdings include On 21 December 2016, the Company issued 233,623 non-voting the interests 43.15% held by Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited, as disclosed in the table above, and further interests 1.6% held by ordinary shares in part consideration for the acquisition of the Companys interest in Benchmark Capital.
The total number two other trustee companies which are not required to be disclosed under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
of non-voting ordinary shares in issue at the year end was 56,739,223.
If aggregated, the total interests covered by the Relationship On 30 December 2016, the Company entered into a share buy-back programme operated by a third party within set parameters to Agreement including shares held by the trustee companies, individuals and the family charitable trust amount to 108,323,711 of the Companys repurchase a maximum of 233,623 of its non-voting ordinary shares.
66 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Following changes made to the UK Listing Rules in May 2014, This indemnity provision covers, to the extent permitted by law, companies with a shareholder or shareholders who could, when acting certain losses or liabilities incurred by the Directors of Cazenove in concert, exercise 30% or more of the voting rights of a company at a Capital Management Pension Trustee Limited in connection with general meeting, are required to enter into a binding agreement with that companys activities as trustee of the Cazenove Capital that shareholder or shareholders.
This is intended to ensure that the Management Limited Pension Scheme.
parties to the agreement comply with certain independence provisions as set out in the Listing Rules.
Accordingly, on 14 November 2014, Change of control the Company entered into such an agreement the Relationship Directors and employees employment contracts do not normally Agreement with a number of shareholders who own or control provide for compensation for loss of office or employment as a result the ordinary shares and associated voting rights referred to above.
However, the provisions of the Companys employee share schemes may cause awards granted to employees In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14, the Board confirms that under such schemes to vest on a change of control.
for the year ended 31 December 2016: i the Company has complied with the independence provisions The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would included in the Relationship Agreement: and take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
ii so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by Political donations the other parties to the Relationship Agreement and their associates.
No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year 2015: nil Dividends and there is no intention to make or incur any in the current year.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 64 pence per share which, if approved by shareholders at the AGM, will be paid on UK Listing Authority Listing Rules LR compliance 4 May 2017 to shareholders on the register of members at close of with LR 9.8.
Details on the Companys dividend policy The majority of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.
Dividends payable in respect of the year, subject applicable to Schroders.
The table below sets out the location to this approval, along with prior year payments, are set out below.
of the disclosures for those requirements that are applicable: 2016 2015 Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4 Disclosure provided Ordinary shares and non-voting ordinary shares pence m pence m 12 Details of any arrangements under which a See page 67 shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends.
Interim 29.0 78.9 29.0 79.0 13 Where a shareholder has agreed to waive future See pages 67, 115 Final 64.0 174.7 58.0 158.0 dividends, details of such waiver together with those and 137 Total 93.0 253.6 87.0 237.0 relating to dividends which are payable during the period under review.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
14 A statement made by the Board that the Company See page 67 has entered into an agreement under LR 9.2.
2A, that the The Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the Schroder US Holdings Company has, and, as far as it is aware, the other parties Inc. Grantor Trust have waived their rights to dividends paid on both to the agreement have, complied with the provisions in the ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares in respect of 2016 and the agreement.
See notes 8 and 22 to the accounts.
Post year end events Corporate Responsibility On 17 February 2017, the Group acquired the wealth management Details of the Companys employment practices, including diversity business of C. Hoare & Co. Further information can be found in note and employee involvement can be found in the Strategic report on 30 to the accounts.
Going concern We are committed to minimising the environmental impact of The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to our operations and to delivering continuous improvement in our affect its future development, performance and position are set out environmental performance.
See page 32 and 33 for more details in the Strategic report.
In addition, the financial statements include e emissions data.
on our total CO 2 information on the Groups approach to managing its capital and financial risk: details of its financial instruments and hedging Indemnities and Insurance activities: and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
At the 2007 AGM, shareholders authorised the Company to provide indemnities to, and to fund defence costs for, Directors in certain The Group has considerable financial resources, a broad range of circumstances.
All Directors at the time shareholder approval was products and a geographically diversified business.
As a consequence, received were granted specific deeds of indemnity and any Director the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its appointed subsequently has been granted such an indemnity.
This business risks in the context of the current economic outlook.
means that, on their appointment, new Directors are granted an indemnity as defined in the Companies Act 2006 in respect of any Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company third party liabilities that they may incur as a result of their service and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational on the Board.
All Directors indemnities were in place during the existence for the foreseeable future.
They therefore continue to adopt year and remain in force.
the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance is maintained by the In addition, the Directors have assessed the Companys viability over a Company for all Directors.
The results of this assessment are set out on page 37.
As part of the integration of Cazenove Capital, the Cazenove Capital By Order of the Board.
Management Limited Pension Scheme was merged with the Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme with effect from 31 December 2014.
Pursuant to that merger, a qualifying pension scheme indemnity as defined in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 provided by Graham Staples Schroders plc for the benefit of the Directors of Cazenove Capital Company Secretary Management Pension Trustee Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, 1 March 2017 was put in place at that time and remains in force.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67
