Governance Board of Directors and Company Secretary Chairman and executive Directors Michael Dobson Peter Harrison Richard Keers Chairman 64 Group Chief Executive 50 Chief Financial Officer 53 Appointed Chairman in April 2016, having been Appointed Group Chief Executive in April 2016.
Appointed a Director and Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive since November 2001.
He first He was previously an executive Director and in May 2013. joined the Board as a non-executive Director Head of Investment from May 2014.
Experience: He is a chartered accountant and was in April 2001.
Experience: He began his career at Schroders as a Senior Audit Partner of PwC until May 2013.
He Experience: Prior to joining Schroders he was a graduate in 1988 and subsequently held roles became a partner of  previously Chief Executive of Morgan Grenfell at Newton Investment Management, JP Morgan LLP PwC in 1997 and has 25 years experience Group and a member of the Board of Managing Asset Management as Head of Global Equities and in the audits of global financial services groups.
Directors of Deutsche Bank AG.
Multi-asset and at Deutsche Asset Management His experience includes time spent in PwCs New as Global Chief Investment Officer.
He was York, Sydney, Edinburgh and London offices.
External appointments: Member of the FCA Chairman and Chief Executive of RWC Partners Practitioner Panel and the Presidents Committee External appointments: Non-executive member before re-joining Schroders as Global Head of of the Confederation of British Industry.
of Lloyds Franchise Board and Chairman of its Equities in March 2013.
Committee membership: Chairman of the External appointments: Director of the Nominations Committee.
Investment Association and Chairman from 1 May 2017.
Non-executive Directors Lord Howard of Penrith Robin Buchanan Rhian Davies Senior Independent Director 71 Independent non-executive Director 64 Independent non-executive Director 52 Appointed Senior Independent Director in April Appointed in March 2010.
2015, having been a non-executive Director since Experience: He was the Senior Partner of Bain & Experience: She is a chartered accountant and November 2008.
Company Inc. in the UK for 12 years and remains was a partner at Electra Partners, an independent Experience: He was previously Deputy to the a senior adviser.
Most recently he served as private equity fund manager until June 2015 and Chairman of Lehman in Europe until 1998 and was Chairman of PageGroup plc until December 2015. remains a senior adviser.
She previously worked in the Partner in charge of international fixed income He was Dean and President of London Business PwCs audit and insolvency practice before joining at Phillips & Drew.
He was also Chairman of School.
He is a chartered accountant and holds Electra in 1992.
Tarchon Capital Management LLP from 1998 an MBA from Harvard Business School.
External appointments: Senior adviser at until March 2013.
External appointments: Non-executive Director of Electra Partners.
External appointments: Senior Adviser at Beazley LyondellBasell Industries N. V. He is Chairman of Committee membership: Chairman of the plc having previously held the position of Chief the Investment Committee of Access Industries, Audit and Risk Committee.
Member of the Investment Officer until the end of 2015. and a senior adviser to Coller Capital Ltd.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Audit and Risk and Nominations Committees.
46 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors who left the Board during 2016 Andrew Beeson, Ashley Almanza and Massimo Tosato left the Board on 4 April, 28 April and 31 December 2016 respectively.
Their biographical details are shown in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Rakhi Goss-Custard Ian King Philip Mallinckrodt Independent non-executive Director 42 Independent non-executive Director 60 Non-executive Director 54 Appointed in January 2017.
She will stand for Appointed in January 2017.
He will stand for Appointed an executive Director in January 2009 election at the 2017 AGM.
and a non-executive Director on 1 March 2017.
Experience: She is an experienced executive in Experience: He was appointed Chief Executive of Experience: He started his career at Credit Suisse digital retailing having spent 11 years at Amazon.
BAE Systems plc in 2008 having been originally First Boston in 1985.
He first joined Schroders in Prior to joining Amazon, she held roles at TomTom appointed to the BAE board as Chief Operating 1994, and then worked for Citigroup from 2000 and in management consultancy in the US.
Officer, UK and Rest of the World.
He rejoined Schroders in 2002 as Head he was Chief Executive of Alenia Marconi Systems, of Corporate Development, was Group Head External appointments: Non-executive Director having previously served as Finance Director of of Wealth Management from 2006 to 2016 of Kingfisher plc, Rightmove plc, Intu Properties Marconi Electronic systems.
He also served as a and then Group Head of Private Assets and plc and AIM listed Be Heard plc.
non-executive Director and Senior Independent Wealth Management until 1 March 2017.
Director of Rotork plc until June 2014.
Committee membership: Member of the External appointments: Member of the Nominations Committee.
External appointments: Chief Executive of BAE International Advisory Council of the Systems plc.
Committee membership: Member of the Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Committee.
Graham Staples Nichola Pease Bruno Schroder Independent non-executive Director 55 Non-executive Director 84 Group Company Secretary 55 Experience: He joined Schroders in 2004.
Previously, he held senior company secretarial, Experience: She has over 30 years experience Experience: He is the great-great-grandson of compliance and business development roles at in the asset management and stock broking John Henry Schroder, co-founder of the Schroders NatWest, Barclays, TSB and Computershare.
She was the Chief Executive and businesses in 1804.
He joined the Schroder Group As Secretary to the Board of Schroders plc and the then Deputy Chairman of J O Hambro Capital in London where he worked in the Commercial Management Ltd from 1998 until 2008, following Banking and Corporate Finance divisions of GMC, he is responsible for the Groups governance framework and advising the Board and GMC on all which she held a number of roles in the charity J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Co Ltd. and public sectors.
External appointments: Director of a number External appointments: Founder and Chairman of private limited companies.
of Investment 2020 and a Member of the Eton Committee membership: Member of the College Investment Committee.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Risk Committee, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47
