Strategic report Strategy and business review Market trends A number of key themes are driving change in the asset management industry.
Investment environment Demographics In recent years the global macro environment has been dominated by Over recent decades, we have seen enormous shifts in demographics limited global growth and an expectation that interest rates will be kept globally.
People are living longer and many developed countries lower for longer.
Political upheaval and populist movements are driving are facing ageing populations, with significant implications for uncertainty across the globe, along with fears over the limitations of retirement planning.
As governments find it increasingly challenging monetary and fiscal policies implemented by central banks.
to provide financial security, the responsibility for savings has shifted to the individual.
Pension schemes are obliged to look for new Although equity markets were strong at the end of 2016, investors are and more efficient ways to match liabilities as longevity increases.
feeling the effects of a lower return world and we are seeing shifts in product demand.
Increasingly, our clients are looking for solutions with This year we have developed a stand alone, asset class agnostic, specific outcomes to meet their investment objectives, rather than the Solutions business dedicated to providing our clients with the component building blocks of a wider portfolio.
To ensure we are at investment solutions to help them achieve their changing financial the forefront of meeting evolving client needs we have increased our objectives.
We have a long-established and growing liability operational focus on the products we provide, more information on driven investment capability in addition to a number of which can be found on page 27. strategies which provide innovative investment products during the accumulation phase.
The search for higher returns has also driven a shift in asset allocation and product demand.
As asset classes have become more correlated Nowhere has seen greater effects of demographic changes than and offered lower returns, clients fee sensitivity has increased and Asia Pacific.
A burgeoning middle class and second-generation wealth many have allocated towards passive investments.
We have seen accumulation will likely alter our clients approach to investing.
With sustained increased demand for income products and we have over 96 billion of assets under management AUM from clients in Asia evolved our franchise across equity, fixed income and multi-asset Pacific and with a local presence established in many financial centres products to address this.
We have also seen reduced client demand for over 40 years, we are well placed to continue to build our clients for traditional asset classes and greater interest in higher returning future prosperity.
areas, such as private assets.
Above all else, the current macro environment means a greater focus on value for money, and the onus is upon us to demonstrate that we are consistently delivering for all of our clients.
12 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Chief Executives statement Key performance indicators Our people Market trends Business and financial review Our impact Strategy Business model Key risks and mitigations Our clients investment needs are changing as the global landscape evolves.
Technology Regulation Many industries across the globe have been transformed by Financial services, including asset management, have come under improvements in technology and asset management will be no increased scrutiny from regulators around the world and the business exception.
Increasingly sophisticated technology is changing every models of many firms have been forced to evolve.
In the UK, we aspect of asset management, from how we interact with our clients, have seen the publication of the FCAs interim report on its asset to how we conduct research, execute trades and manage risks.
management market study, which is looking at ways to improve client outcomes across the entire industry.
We aim to be at the forefront of these changes and will continue to make significant investments in technology throughout our business.
At Schroders, we welcome regulation that increases transparency, improves trust and promotes better outcomes for clients.
As an active Within Investment, our Data Insights team has developed well.
investment manager, we believe that we have an important role to play Using the latest in data science technology to interpret new and in driving better outcomes for our clients and society as a whole.
We non-traditional data sets, the team provides fresh and diverse insights believe that we have the responsibility to demonstrate that we provide which complement the skills of our fund managers and analysts.
We value for money for our clients and act with integrity as good stewards have also widened the application of technology across the business of capital.
Focusing on the sustainability of investments and applying to improve efficiency and change how we work on a day-to-day basis.
influence as active shareholders adds significant value to our clients A significant upgrade to our front office technology systems will drive portfolios.
We have a team dedicated to environmental, social and further efficiencies through increased end-to-end processing across governance issues.
More information can be found on page 34. the globe.
We have also changed our approach to technology projects so that innovations are implemented much sooner across the business, Whilst increased regulation can bring challenges and increase improving productivity and efficiency.
operational complexity, it also provides opportunity.
As banks activities have declined, particularly in credit and more illiquid fixed income, Technology is also changing how we interact with our clients across asset managers can expand their operations.
We have expanded all distribution channels.
In 2016, we made a strategic investment in our investment capabilities in these areas this year, acquiring a new Benchmark Capital, a UK-based technology-led, high quality adviser securitised credit team based in New York, and have taken an associate support business.
interest in NEOS Finance Group, a Dutch direct-lending business.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13
