Governance Group Management Committee Other Group Management Committee members Executive Directors Peter Harrison Group Chief Executive 50 Responsible for the management of the overall business and strategic development of the Group.
Richard Keers Chief Financial Officer 53 Responsible for financial management, risk management, tax, capital and treasury, human Geoff Blanning Stewart Carmichael resources, corporate services and a range of Head of Emerging Market Debt and Chief Technology Officer 51 operational areas.
He is also chair of the Global Commodities 55 He joined Schroders in March 2015 as Group Operations Committee.
He joined Schroders in 1998 and developed the Head of IT.
Prior to joining Schroders, he was Commodity and Currency investment teams.
Chief Technology Officer for JP Morgan Corporate He previously managed Global Bond Funds at N M and Investment Bank in Asia.
From 1993 to 2008 Rothschild and Bankers Trust before developing he held numerous senior leadership positions and managing Morgan Grenfells first Emerging at Merrill Lynch.
He is responsible for the investment performance of the Emerging Market Debt and Commodities team.
Karl Dasher Lieven Debruyne CEO North America and Co-Head of Fixed Income CEO Asia Pacific 47 47 He joined Schroders in London in 2000 as Head of He joined Schroders in 2008 as Global Head of Asian Investment Product before moving to Hong Product and became Head of Fixed Income in Kong in 2005.
Prior to joining Schroders, he worked October 2008.
He previously worked at SEI for Mees Pierson Capital Management as Chief Investments in various investment roles, Investment Officer and for Fortis Investments.
He is responsible for the Groups operations in He is responsible for the Groups operations in the Asia Pacific region.
North America and is also Co-Head of Fixed Income within the Investment division.
48 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Emma Holden Philippe Lespinard Richard Mountford Global Head of Human Resources 42 Global Head of Product 58 Co-Head of Fixed Income 53 She joined Schroders in 2007 and was appointed He joined Schroders in 2010 as Chief Investment He joined Schroders in 1980 as a graduate and held Global Head of Human Resources in November a number of investment and management roles Officer for Fixed Income.
Prior to joining Schroders, she held various partner at Brevan Howard and Chief Investment before becoming Global Head of Intermediary roles at Corus Group.
She qualified as a chartered Sales in 2008 and Head of Asia Pacific between Officer at BNP Paribas Asset Management.
He is Co-Head of Fixed Income within the She works with senior management on the issues He is responsible for developing product strategy Investment division.
that affect our people and the development of and managing our diverse product range.
Nicky Richards Andrew Ross Carolyn Sims Global Head of Wealth Management 57 Global Head of Equities 50 Chief Financial Officer of Wealth Management 51 She began her investment career at Schroders He joined Schroders in 2013 having been Chief She joined Schroders in 2013 having been Chief Executive of Cazenove Capital Management since as a graduate in 1987.
She held a number of Financial Officer of Cazenove Capital Management senior roles in the firm before joining Fidelity 2001.
Prior to that he was Chief Executive of HSBC since 2007.
Prior to that she was Finance Director Asset Management Europe Limited between International and then MLC Investment at Lazard UK between 2004 and 2007.
She is responsible for finance and operations Schroders in 2014 as Global Head of Equities.
He is responsible for the Wealth within the Wealth Management division.
She was appointed non-executive Chairman Management division.
She is responsible for the Equities business within the Investment division.
Huw van Steenis John Troiano Howard Trust Global Head of Strategy 47 Global Head of Distribution 58 General Counsel 62 He joined Schroders in 2016 as Global Head He began his career at Schroders as a graduate He joined Schroders in 2003 from Barclays where of Strategy.
Prior to joining Schroders, he was in 1981.
After holding a number of senior roles, he held various roles including Group General Managing Director and Global Head of Banks and he was appointed the Deputy Head of Distribution Counsel and Board Secretary.
Diversified Financials Research at Morgan Stanley.
in September 2012 and was appointed Head He is responsible for the Groups Compliance, Prior to Morgan Stanley he worked at JP Morgan of Distribution in 2016.
He is responsible for helping Schroders develop and implement long-term goals and respond to the competitive financial services landscape.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49
