| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Managers Review near-term outlook continues to appear uninspiring.
Our contrarian approach However, we see their out-of-favour status as an Before examining the year under review, I thought it opportunity and can foresee the circumstances in which would be useful to outline our contrarian investment these investments will surprise on the upside.
These philosophy which we believe will benefit a long-term stocks often have a higher than average dividend yield investor in the Company.
which can provide an attractive income while we wait for Our contrarian approach is grounded in the simple our investment thesis to unfold.
observation that people like to belong to a group or to feel part of something bigger.
Humans, as a species, The second category consists of companies where have evolved to feel uncomfortable outwith the change is afoot.
These companies have seen a mainstream because, in more arduous times, a significant improvement in their prospects but this coordinated group stood a better chance of survival.
progress has not yet been recognised by the market.
However, we believe this crowding instinct works against Often, they are disliked for historical reasons, with the best interests of an investor and that a different investors unwilling to credit the signs of change that are stance is required to profit.
Accordingly, we do not so far evident.
attempt to follow investment fashions and instead seek Thirdly, we have stocks where we see more to come.
investments in which we can foresee long term upside.
Unlike the first two categories, these companies are We think it is crucial to ignore the emotions associated generally recognised as good businesses but we see with past performance and, rather, to view each an opportunity as the market does not appreciate the investment on its future merit.
This requires lateral scope for further improvement.
thinking and the willingness to adopt a contrarian point of view as both markets and company management In our experience, the best investments can, over time, teams have a propensity for hubris in the good times move along an axis from ugly ducklings through and unjustified pessimism when times are hard.
change is afoot and into the more to come category but we are happy to purchase and hold investments in We divide the stocks in which we invest into three any of the categories.
First, we have those that we describe as ugly ducklings A key strength of our contrarian approach is that unloved shares that most investors shun.
These it provides profitable opportunities in all market companies have endured an extended period of environments as there are always underappreciated poor operating performance and, for the majority, the areas of the market.
Categorisation of Investments more to come underappreciated prospects change is afoot overlooked progress ugly ducklings positive potential Challenged Overlooked Underestimated OPERATING PERFORMANCE 142443 SIT AnReview PRINT.
indd 7 05 01 2017 08:51 MARKET SENTIMENT Pessimistic Reluctant Improving 08 | 09 Managers Review continued plunge in markets was chaotic but the portfolio made The financial year a swift recovery and quickly advanced to new highs for This was a strong year for investment returns but there the year.
The downward movement in sterling had an were two volatile periods that favoured our contrarian obvious beneficial impact to the value of our overseas approach.
investments when considered in sterling terms.
The There was a sharp change in investor sentiment in vote also triggered an awakening of interest in our UK January 2016 in the aftermath of a small interest rate domiciled international companies, which stood to increase by the US Federal Reserve.
Almost overnight, benefit from the conversion of their substantial noninvestors shunned highly valued, fashionable stocks in sterling revenues.
favour of more attractively valued, but unfashionable, Given our focus on individual stock ideas, rather than investments.
reporting portfolio activity in terms of geography or The outcome of the Brexit vote surprised investors industry, I thought it more meaningful to discuss the who had set excessive store in the soothsaying abilities notable gains and losses, in total return terms, over the of opinion pollsters and bookmakers.
NAV Absolute Performance Attribution Year to 31 October 2016 Contribution % Equity portfolio ungeared 28.7 Gearing 2.3 Total equities 31.0 Other income, tax and currency 0.6 Buybacks 1.0 Expenses -0.5 Interest charges -0.7 Premium on repayment of secured bonds -0.4 Change in market value of borrowings -1.5 Change in pension liability -0.1 NAV with borrowings at market value total return 29.4 Contributors to Absolute Performance Year to 31 October 2016 Positive Negative Performance Contribution Performance Contribution % m % m Treasury Wine Estates 105.2 21.0 British Land -29.7 -4.3 Sands China 62.8 13.0 Marks & Spencer -24.6 -2.3 Microsoft 47.5 10.7 BT -16.4 -2.2 Rentokil Initial 50.5 10.1 Associated British Foods -13.4 -1.4 Standard Life -16.7 -1.2 Nintendo 92.1 7.0 Intesa Sanpaolo -11.5 -0.9 Standard Chartered 50.3 6.2 Bank of Ireland -37.4 -0.7 KDDI 61.4 6.2 Inditex -8.4 -0.7 Johnson & Johnson 49.0 5.6 Panasonic -12.5 -0.7 Suncor Energy 31.7 5.5 Bank of Kyoto -7.4 -0.6 Royal Dutch Shell 34.2 5.5 Sold during the year.
indd 8 05 01 2017 08:51 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Managers Review continued Treasury Wine Estates 21.0m, the largest holding the second half of the financial year.
As reported last in our portfolio, delivered outstanding performance year, we had increased our exposure to certain stocks and more than doubled in sterling terms over the year.
where we judged that pessimistic scenarios, related to a This Australian wine company has been rejuvenated slowdown in emerging markets, were overly discounted under the leadership of Michael Clarke and is being in share prices.
We saw large gains from our investments repositioned towards a brand-led strategy.
The in Suncor Energy 5.5m, Royal Dutch Shell 5.5m, acquisition of Diageos wine assets greatly expanded Rio Tinto 4.0m, Cemex 3.7m and BHP Billiton the companys scale and scope at a very reasonable 2.6m.
On purchase, we viewed the company as an ugly In a strong year for markets, it is unsurprising that we duckling but progress to date and a more general made comparatively few notable absolute losses.
acceptance of the companys strategy means that we British Land -4.3m suffered from the perceived threat now believe that change is afoot.
to the UK commercial property market from Brexit but Sands China 13.0m, the Macau casino operator, is gloomy market assumptions present an interesting another investment we view as an ugly duckling.
The ugly duckling recovery opportunity.
BT -2.2m also share price had suffered from the perception that the performed poorly in the aftermath of the Brexit vote Chinese economy was heading for a period of very and this was compounded by a potential shift in the slow growth.
However, a recovery in visitor spending regulatory framework.
Being contrarian can require supported our view of the broader appeal of Macau as patience and this was the case with our new holding a tourist destination while investor sentiment towards in Marks & Spencer -2.3m.
We continue to think China improved.
This, alongside an appealing dividend this ugly duckling will benefit from the meaningful yield, helped produce a strong total return.
change which has commenced in earnest under the new leadership of Steve Rowe.
Microsoft 10.7m appreciated meaningfully during the year as it continued to demonstrate an ability to shift An important part of our contrarian investment approach a large user base to a more valuable subscription model.
is to sell investments where we no longer envisage a We originally viewed the company within the change prospect for significant further upside.
Most notably, is afoot category but now consider the company has we sold Pandora 4.9m, which had performed more to come.
extremely well and which we considered fully valued, as we saw a less favourable balance of risks for this fashion Rentokil Initial 10.1m, the UK support services driven stock.
We also sold a number of other longcompany, is another example of where we see change term holdings, where we judged the current valuation is afoot.
Following a period of substantial restructuring, fully reflected their prospects, including Ross Stores, the company has refocused on the pest control market Associated British Foods, Persimmon, Alphabet, Svenska and has an opportunity to improve profit margins Handelsbanken and Sampo.
The company performed particularly well in the aftermath of Brexit as a high proportion of overseas The Brexit vote and, subsequent to the year end, revenues proved attractive to investors.
the election of Donald Trump as the forthcoming US President indicate that there may be a shift in the Leading Japanese games company Nintendo 7.0m political and investment environment.
Large segments has the opportunity to bring its content to a wider of the populations in the developed world clearly feel audience and this was highlighted by the enthusiastic that a decline in their living standards has been ignored reception for the Pokmon Go smartphone game.
We consider that change is afoot and the upcoming launches of new smartphone games have the potential A change in the political zeitgeist, if it actually occurs, to shine further light on Nintendos underappreciated will undoubtedly benefit some companies more than intellectual property.
However, our contrarian investment approach is designed to anticipate and benefit from change and we We view Standard Chartered 6.2m as an ugly will continue to seek opportunities which we believe will duckling as it was shunned for high loan exposure profit a long-term investor.
to weak emerging markets and commodities.
The prospects for these loans are improving which, alongside the companys ambitious restructuring plan, has the potential to improve the companys lowly valuation.
Alasdair McKinnon Improving sentiment towards emerging markets, oil Manager and commodities in general was a common theme for several more of our best investments, particularly in 3 January 2017 142443 SIT AnReview PRINT.
