12 | 13 Strategic Report The Company has the ability to enter into contracts Status to hedge against currency risks on both capital and The Company is a self-managed global growth income.
investment trust and is an investment company within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006.
HM The Companys investment activities are subject to the Revenue & Customs has approved the Company as an following limitations and restrictions: investment trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the under the Companys articles of association, up to Corporation Taxes Act 2010.
The Company continues 40% of the Companys total assets on the last audited to satisfy the conditions for such approval.
The balance sheet may be used to make investments of Company is registered in Scotland and its registered up to a maximum of 8% of the value of total assets in office is 6 Albyn Place, Edinburgh EH2 4NL.
any one company, at the time the investment is made.
Thereafter, individual investments may not exceed 3% Investment objective and policy of the value of total assets, at the time the investment The Companys objective is to provide investors, over is made: the longer term, with above-average returns through the levels of gearing and gross gearing are monitored a diversified portfolio of international equities and to closely by the Board and the Manager.
The Board achieve dividend growth ahead of UK inflation.
While gearing will be In order to achieve this objective, the Company invests employed in a typical range of 0% to 20%, the in an integrated global portfolio constructed through Company retains the ability to lower equity exposure an investment process whereby assets are primarily to a net cash position if deemed appropriate: allocated on the basis of the investment merits of the Company has a policy not to invest more than individual stocks rather than those of regions, sectors 15% of total assets in other listed closed-ended or themes.
investment funds: and The Companys portfolio is actively managed and the Company may not make investments in respect of typically will contain 50 to 100 listed international which there is unlimited liability except that the equity investments.
The portfolio is widely diversified Company may sell index futures for efficient portfolio both by industrial sector and geographic location of management purposes.
investments in order to spread investment risk.
Whilst performance is compared against major global Investment policy implementation and UK indices, the composition of indices has no During the year under review, the assets of the influence on investment decisions or the construction Company were invested in accordance with the of the portfolio.
As a result, it is expected that the Companys investment policy.
Companys investment portfolio and performance may A full list of holdings is disclosed on pages 18 and 19 deviate from the comparator indices.
and detailed analysis of the spread of investments Since the Companys assets are invested globally and by geographic region and industry sector is shown without regard to the composition of any index, there on page 20.
A further analysis of changes in asset are no restrictions on maximum or minimum exposures distribution by industry sector over the year, including to specific geographic regions, industry sectors or the sources of appreciation depreciation, is shown on unlisted investments.
However, such exposures are page 21.
Attribution of NAV performance is shown on reported in detail to, and monitored by, the Board at page 8. each board meeting in order to ensure that adequate At the year end, the number of listed holdings was 70. diversification is maintained.
The top ten holdings comprised 31.0% of total assets Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed 2015: 24.1%.
with the aim of improving returns to shareholders.
In pursuing its investment objective, from time to time Details of the extent to which the Companys objective the Company will hold certain financial instruments has been achieved and how the investment policy comprising equity and non-equity shares, fixed income was implemented are provided in the Chairmans securities, interests in limited partnerships, structured Statement on pages 3 and 4 and the Managers Review products and cash and liquid resources.
The Company on pages 7 to 9. may use derivatives, other than in relation to the sale of index futures, for hedging or tactical investment Additional limitations on borrowings purposes.
The Company may only sell index futures Under the Companys articles of association, the for efficient portfolio management purposes.
For the Directors control the borrowings of the Company and avoidance of doubt, any derivative instrument may only its subsidiaries to ensure that the aggregate amount of be used with the prior authorisation of the Board.
borrowings does not, unless approved by an ordinary 142443 SIT AnReview PRINT.
indd 12 05 01 2017 08:51 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report continued resolution of shareholders, exceed the aggregate of The Directors recommend a final dividend of 8.25p the reserves excluding unrealised capital profits of the and a special dividend of 9.00p per share, payable on Company and its subsidiaries, as published in the latest 17 February 2017.
With the interim dividend of 5.25p accounts.
In addition, the Directors are authorised to already paid in July 2016, this makes a total of 22.5p incur temporary borrowings in the ordinary course of for the year.
Based on 96,342,683 shares in issue at business of up to 10% of the Companys issued share 31 October 2016, the final and special dividend will capital.
Such temporary borrowings are to be for no cost 16.619m.
The total dividend for the year will cost longer than six months.
Principal risks and uncertainties Share capital The principal risks and uncertainties facing the General business are as follows: The Company had 96,342,683 shares of 25p each in issue on 31 October 2016 2015: 105,587,426.
Since investment and market price risk: the year end, the Company has bought back 388,000 interest rate risk: shares for cancellation.
The rights attaching to shares liquidity risk: in the Company are set out in the Companys articles foreign currency risk: of association which may be amended by the passing credit risk: of a special resolution of shareholders, that is, by the discount volatility: approval of a majority of not less than 75% of votes cast.
custody and depositary risk: and operational risk.
The Financial Conduct Authority rules in relation to These and other risks facing the Company are reviewed non-mainstream investment products do not apply to regularly by the Audit Committee and the Board.
detailed risk map, which identifies significant risks Rights to the capital of the Company on winding up relevant to the Company, is assessed twice per year.
Shareholders would be entitled to the assets of the These risks include corporate strategy, investment Company in the event of a winding up after the decisions, financial and regulatory activities, business Companys other liabilities had been satisfied.
Further information on risks is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report Voting on page 28 and in note 17 to the accounts on pages 53 On a show of hands, every shareholder present in to 58 and on internal controls in the Report of the Audit person or by proxy has one vote and on a poll every Committee on page 30. member present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
Performance Management provides the Board with detailed Transfer information on the Companys performance at There are no restrictions concerning the holding every Board meeting.
Performance is measured in or transfer of shares in the Company and there are comparison with the Companys peers and comparator no special rights attaching to any of the shares.
Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which might result in any restriction on Key Performance Indicators are: the transfer of shares or their voting rights.
NAV total return: NAV total return against comparators: Deadlines for exercising voting rights NAV and share price total return against peers: If a shareholder wishes to appoint a proxy to attend, discount with debt at market value: speak and vote at a meeting on their behalf, a valid dividend growth against UK inflation: and appointment is made when the form of proxy together, ongoing charges figure.
where relevant, with a notarially certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority under which the form of proxy is signed is received by the Companys Dividends registrar not less than 48 hours before the start of the The Board may declare dividends, including interim meeting or the adjourned meeting at which the proxy dividends, but no dividend is payable except out of the is appointed to vote or, in the case of a poll taken Companys revenue return and revenue reserves, or in more than 48 hours after it is demanded, no later than excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
24 hours before the time appointed for taking the poll.
Neither unrealised appreciation of capital assets nor In calculating these time periods, no account is taken of realised profits arising from the sale of capital assets any day or part thereof that is not a working day.
are available for the dividend.
indd 13 05 01 2017 08:51 14 | 15 Strategic Report continued Viability statement Discount control policy The Directors have assessed the prospects of the The Companys policy aims, in normal market Company for a period of five years.
The Board believes conditions, to maintain the discount to ex-income this time period is appropriate having consideration NAV at or below 9%.
In calculating the NAV for the for the Companys principal risks and uncertainties purposes of this policy, the Companys borrowings are outlined on page 13 : its portfolio of liquid listed taken at their market value so as to ensure that future international equity investments and cash balances: repurchases of shares will take into account changes and its ability to achieve the stated dividend policy and in the value of the borrowings brought about by to cover interest payments on the Companys debt.
movements in long-term interest rates.
During the year ended 31 October 2016, the Company bought back In making this assessment, the Directors have for cancellation a total of 9,244,743 shares of 25p each considered detailed information provided at Board representing 8.8% of shares in issue at 31 October meetings which includes the Companys balance sheet, 2015, at a cost of 59,944,000. gearing level, share price discount, asset allocation, At the AGM on 29 January 2016, authority was granted income and operating expenses.
to repurchase up to 14.99% of shares in issue on that Based on the above, the Board confirms it has a date.
The number of shares authorised for repurchase reasonable expectation that the Company will be able was 15,654,570.
Share buybacks from the date of to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they the AGM to the Companys year end amounted to fall due over the five year period of this assessment.
8,090,743 shares or 7.75 percentage points of the 14.99% authority.
Since the year end to 3 January 2017, Investment risk the Company has bought back 388,000 shares.
The investment portfolio is diversified over a range of industries and regions in order to spread risk.
The Discount to ex-income NAV % 5 Years to 31 October 2016 Company has a long-term policy of borrowing money 0 to invest in equities in the expectation that this will improve returns but, should stockmarkets fall, such 3 borrowings would magnify losses.
The Company can 6 buy back and cancel its own shares.
All other things being equal, this would have the effect of increasing 9 gearing.
Investment risk is considered in more detail in note 17 on page 54.
12 15 Performance comparators The Company does not have a formal benchmark.
18 Performance is reviewed in the context of returns Oct 11 Oct 12 Oct 13 Oct 14 Oct 15 Oct 16 achieved by a broad basket of UK equities through the with borrowings at market value MSCI UK All Cap Index and of international equities through the MSCI All Country World Index ACWI.
During the year, the Company changed its comparator Holdings in listed closed-ended investment indices from FTSE to the equivalent MSCI indices.
funds Historically, the respective indices have performed Company holdings include an investment in listed broadly in line.
The portfolio is not modelled on any closed-ended investment funds of 9.8m: 1.0% of total index.
This comprised solely of an investment in British Land, a UK property fund.
The Company has a policy not to invest more than 15% of Management total assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
The Board has appointed the Companys wholly-owned subsidiary, S. I. T. Savings Limited, as its Alternative Unlisted portfolio Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
Day to day The Companys unlisted holdings were valued at 1.9m management of the Company is delegated to the 0.2% of shareholders funds.
These comprise our Companys executive management which reports office property, subsidiaries and residual holdings from directly to the Board.
partnership agreements signed in 2000 and 2001.
No new partnerships were entered into during the year.
indd 14 05 01 2017 08:51 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report continued Investor Disclosure Document Companys directors and employees In accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority rules The table below shows the breakdown of directors implementing the EU Alternative Investment Fund and employees.
Managers Directive AIFMD, certain information must 31 October 2016 31 October 2015 be made available to investors before they invest.
The Male Female Male Female Companys Investor Disclosure Document can be found Directors 5 1 5 0 on the Companys website, www.
co. uk Manager 1 0 1 0 Employees 4 2 10 5 The Association of Investment Companies AIC The Company is a member of the AIC, the trade organisation for the closed-ended investment company industry.
James Will Substantial shareholdings Chairman At 3 January 2017, the Company had been notified of 3 January 2017 the following holdings in excess of 3% of its shares.
% Shares held Aviva PLC 11,544,732 12.0 Wells Capital Management Inc. 4,924,836 5.1 AXA Investment Managers SA 3,450,050 3.6 Analysis of share register at 31 October 2016 Share capital Category of holder Number % Individuals 18,926 63.7 Insurance companies 11 16.9 Investment companies 72 8.9 Pension funds 35 4.5 Other 110 6.0 Total 19,154 100.0 Socially responsible investing When investments are made, the primary objective is to achieve the best investment return while allowing for an acceptable degree of risk.
In pursuing this objective, various factors that may impact on the performance are considered and these may include socially responsible investment issues.
