| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Board of Directors Ian Hunter James Will Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in May December 2014.
He is Chairman of 2013 and became Chairman in the Audit Committee.
He is a former Chairman of law firm Shepherd and He is a chartered accountant and a member of the Wedderburn LLP where he was a senior corporate Chartered Institute of Taxation.
In June 2011, he partner, heading its financial sector practice.
He has retired from EY, having spent over 35 years in the experience of working with companies in a wide firms Edinburgh office and having been a partner range of industry sectors including financial services, for 25 years.
Throughout his career, he was heavily technology, energy and life sciences.
involved in advising closed-ended funds particularly investment trusts, and their managers, on taxation and Other investment company directorship: Herald on corporate transactions.
He served as a member of Investment Trust.
Shares held: 8,000 Fees: 50,000 Other investment company directorships: None.
In addition to the 8,000 shares held, Mr Will is a trustee of a trust which holds 22,000 shares in the Company.
Mr Will Shares held: 22,608 Fees: 30,000 is beneficially or potentially beneficially interested in this holding.
Jane Lewis Appointed to the Board in Hamish Buchan December 2015.
She is Chairman Appointed to the Board in of the Remuneration Committee.
November 2003 and will retire at the AGM to be held in 2018.
She is an investment trust specialist who, until August 2013, was a director of corporate finance and broking He is a former Chairman of the Association of at Winterflood Investment Trusts.
Prior to this, she Investment Companies and was formerly Chairman of worked at Henderson Global Investors and Gartmore Natwest Securities in Scotland.
He has been involved in Investment Management Limited in investment trust the investment company sector for over 40 years.
business development and at WestLB Panmure as an Other investment company directorships: Personal investment trust broker.
Assets Trust Chairman and Templeton Emerging Other investment company directorships: BlackRock Markets Investment Trust.
World Mining Trust, F&C Capital and Income Investment Shares held: 22,325 Fees: 30,000 Trust, Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust and Phaunos Timber Fund Limited.
Russell Napier Shares held: 1,000 Fees: 30,000 Appointed to the Board in July 2009.
Mick Brewis Appointed to the Board in December 2015.
He runs a course in financial history at the University of Edinburgh Business School and is the author of the book Anatomy of the Bear: Lessons from Wall He was an investment manager at Baillie Gifford, Streets Four Great Bottoms.
He has been providing retiring in April 2014 after 29 years at the firm, 21 of investment advice to financial institutions for more them as a partner.
He was a stockpicker throughout than 20 years both as a stockbroker and latterly as an his time there, responsible for managing UK equity independent analyst.
portfolios before heading the North American equities team from 1995 onwards.
His broad investment Other investment company directorship: Mid Wynd experience includes managing investment teams International Investment Trust.
and research groups, global asset allocation, working with clients including investment trusts, marketing, Shares held: 14,000 Fees: 30,000 graduate recruitment and investor development.
Other investment company directorships: None.
