Governance Report Directors and Management Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Directors JPHS Scott Professor JA Kay John Scott, the Chairman, is a former international John Kay has a distinguished record as an economist, investment banker.
John was appointed a Director in 2001 academic, author and commentator on business, and became Chairman on 31 December 2009.
He is also government and economic issues.
John was appointed a Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He is a former executive Director in 2008, he is a Visiting Professor at the London School director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
During his twenty of Economics and Investment Officer, St Johns College, years with Lazard, he was involved with the merchant banks University of Oxford.
He is a director of Value and Income Trust corporate advisory activities and its Asian businesses.
He is PLC and The Investor Forum CIC.
currently Chairman of Impax Environmental Markets plc and Alpha Insurance Analysts Limited, as well as being a director of various companies including Bluefield Solar Income Fund Limited, JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc, CC Japan Income & Growth Trust plc and Alternative Asset Opportunities PCC Limited.
LJ Dowley Professor PH Maxwell Justin Dowley is a former international investment banker Patrick Maxwell is Regius Professor of Physic and Head and was appointed a Director on 4 September 2015.
He of the School of Clinical Medicine at Cambridge University.
qualified as a chartered accountant at Price Waterhouse in 1980.
He was appointed a Director on 1 April 2016.
Patrick has Subsequently he was a director of Morgan Grenfell & Co. Limited, extensive knowledge and experience of the biotechnology sector Head of Investment Banking at Merrill Lynch Europe and a and holds a Wellcome Trust senior investigator award for his founder partner of Tricorn Partners LLP.
He is currently Chairman research on oxygen sensing.
He was elected a Fellow of the of Intermediate Capital Group plc and a non executive director of Academy of Medical Sciences in 2005 and chairs the Medical Melrose Industries plc, Novae Group plc, the National Crime Research Councils Molecular and Cellular Medicine Board.
He is Agency and a number of private companies.
currently a director of the Global Medical Excellence Cluster GMEC and a member of the boards of Cambridge University Health Partners CUHP and Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
22 Annual Report 2016 Governance Report FC McBain Dr P Subacchi Fiona McBain is chief executive of Scottish Friendly Paola Subacchi is the Director of International Economics Assurance, a Glasgow based and mutually owned financial Research at Chatham House in London and a visiting services group with over 1,000,000 policyholders.
Fiona was professor at the University of Bologna.
Paola was appointed to appointed a Director in 2009.
Before joining Scottish Friendly in the Board in 2014.
An Italian national, she studied at Universit 1998, Fiona, a chartered accountant, was employed by Prudential Bocconi in Milan and at the University of Oxford.
She is a plc and Arthur Young now Ernst & Young where she spent some governor of St Marylebone School in London.
Her forthcoming time working across a number of industry sectors, both in the UK book The Peoples Money: How China is building a global and in the United States.
She is also a director of Marine and currency will be published by Columbia University Press.
General Mutual Life Assurance Society and a trustee of Save the All Directors are members of the Nomination and Audit Children UK.
Managers and Secretaries The Company has appointed Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager and Company Secretary.
Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management services to Baillie Gifford & Co. Baillie Gifford & Co is an investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been Managers and Secretaries to the Company since its formation in 1909.
Baillie Gifford is one of the largest investment trust managers in the UK and currently manages seven investment trusts.
Baillie Gifford also manages unit trusts and open ended investment WG McQueen companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of Gordon McQueen, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the brings to the Board first class financial and banking UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of expertise, as a former finance director of Bank of Scotland.
Baillie Gifford total around 120 billion.
Based in Edinburgh, it is Gordon was appointed a Director in 2001.
Until 2003 he was an one of the leading privately owned investment management firms executive director of HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and Halifax plc, in the UK, with 41 partners and a staff of around 930. where his main role was chief executive, Treasury.
He is a director The Managers of Scottish Mortgages portfolio are James of JPMorgan Mid Cap Investment Trust plc and The Edinburgh Anderson and Tom Slater.
James Anderson is a partner of Baillie Investment Trust plc.
Gifford & Co and Head of the Long Term Global Growth team.
Tom Slater is also a partner and Head of the North American equities team.
Baillie Gifford & Co and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited are both authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 23
