Strategic Report Managers Review It has been a year of sound and fury.
In conventional terms it has the 21st century in quite astonishing scale.
Whilst cynics, value signified very little.
Markets and our portfolio ended the 12 months investors and commentators can argue all they like as to the little changed in prices after varied and frenetic zigzags throughout precisely correct valuations afforded to the great predominately the period.
Mr. Market has been more than usually emotional in his technology driven companies of our era even the most dedicated moods but has ended up back much where he was a year ago.
and morose cannot wish away their existence.
That Apple and Equally the shape of the portfolio is familiar.
The top 5 holdings are Alphabet Google are the two largest companies in the world by in the same companies for the second year running.
We still own market capitalization is hardly a figment of fevered speculation but 29 of the top 30 shares from the previous year.
of levels of profitability that even conservative valuation principles cannot ignore.
For an equity investor this ought to matter far more Despite the indecision of markets we believe that the last year than endless speculation over the odds of a quarter point rise in may come to be seen as one of those rare occasions when the the Federal Reserves monetary settings or the trajectory of UK world we are likely to inhabit underwent radical change.
Naturally GDP growth or otherwise in 2016. many of the shifts have long antecedents and may still be but dimly grasped but this should not be allowed to disguise the What matters still more and next is whether the extraordinary reality of extraordinary change.
With such a backdrop it is not value creation of the recent past can be replicated or bettered in surprising that ructions have been frequent and market progress the future.
Indeed we think that the chances halting there are many companies and investment approaches that this is so in the future have increased and are increasing.
that are raging against the dying of the old lights.
This process is The evidence that this is so appears to us to be particularly bound to be uncomfortable.
compelling in the fields of transportation and energy.
Until recently Last year we concluded that we needed to concentrate on three we thought that the mutually reinforcing trio of electric vehicles, new questions in order both to convey the direction of our autonomous vehicles and renewable energy would require at the thoughts to shareholders and to assess whether our views and very least five years and more probably a decade to become a portfolio are productive and meaningful interpretations of the significant economic influence.
This did not mean that we investment world.
So far we think all three of these questions regarded these areas as unfit for investment but that we felt the retain their relevance.
lengthy time frames and inevitable uncertainties of technological and competitive clarity combined with bureaucratic and selfWill major and accelerating improvements in core technologies interested inertia and obstructionism by incumbents did require lead to progress in healthcare, energy and transportation more than our usual patience and willingness to be wrong in analogous to those in information technology in recent years?
return for significant upside potential.
Our position sizing reflected Or will secular stagnation and limited productivity gains this.
This has proven unduly conservative.
That this is so is principally This seems to us to have become the central debate of our to the credit of Tesla.
Whilst the underlying trends have been investing perhaps even our economic times.
It needs scarcely supportive, the ability to tie the strands together, to apply the be added that the predominant mood in markets, politics and the necessary capital, to thereby drive down the cost of batteries and media is that we are condemned to an era of pervasive doom and storage, to manufacture from scratch and to build electric vehicles gloom.
The academic version of this is perhaps best captured by of performance and allure has transformed the probabilities and Robert Gordons The Rise and Fall of American Growth but the the time scale involved.
market version has been buttressed by the widespread belief that low stated GDP growth and minimal inflation are indicators of The extraordinary success of the Model 3 unveiling seems to us distress and justification for negative government bond yields in to be one of those rare moments that have meaning beyond the several countries.
In equity terms this has been matched by an normal.
In the first two days Tesla received 232,000 orders with a assumption that this must mean that we are condemned to a low $1,000 reservation fee and a potential $8.1bn in revenue.
In return world and by a chronic lack of confidence that active comparison in the first two days of the original iPhone in 2007 investment management is worthwhile.
Whether electric vehicles have come of age or not Tesla itself most certainly has.
By 2020 We disagree with this vision of futility.
Unfortunately the more the the impact on the mass market ought to be apparent.
By 2030 investment world endorses these pessimistic mantras the more Musk believes the entire market will be 100% electric and 100% likely they become.
If the worlds savings are merely tied up in autonomous.
Given the sustained improvement in performance bonds yielding little or nothing issued by governments attempting and price electric vehicles will, he suggests, be cheaper even if little or nothing or in seeking out those quoted companies that the price of oil goes to zero.
Teslas Autopilot already seems to have the least conceivable need of capital or desire to invest in have cut accident rates by 50%.
We have bought more Tesla uncertain future growth then we can hardly be surprised if shares.
The only compensation is that the returns for those few who aspire to more are likely to rise as competition Our contentions that healthcare is embarking on a path of radical falls.
reinvention survive but they have not advanced as much as those surrounding transportation and energy.
Its tempting to say But the simplest reason we do not adhere to the dystopian that this is unsurprising as healthcare is complex, highly politicized version of the investment world is that it has been badly and at the mercy of incumbent interests.
But this may be misguided.
Ultimately for equity investors the economic context indulgent: all these apply to energy and transport too and the as defined by GDP growth, government deficits, inflation and economic and personal motivations ought to be at least as strong bond yields is at best of minor and unclear relevance to markets in creating pressure for healthcare improvements.
Equally it is and at worst a dangerous distraction.
What matters is the creation of wealth by companies.
This has already happened in 10 Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Tesla Model 3 232,000 orders within two days of unveiling.
unclear that the breakthroughs that are occurring in healthcare We would now go further than in the past.
It seems to us that are less significant than in transportation.
Our experience over the there is usually no longevity without volatility.
As with states and last year has been that of listening to expert industry veterans individuals, exaggerated stability leads to complacency and an repeating as in a mantra that they do not like to use the term inability to respond to changed circumstances.
From the storied cure but that this is what they are observing at least at the supposed safety of newspaper franchises even Warren Buffett conceptual level.
At an individual company level it is not even believed in this one for too long to the downfall of notable food obvious that the time and capital required are out of kilter with retailers people will always need food decades of effortless that expended by Tesla.
But at an industry level this translates into prosperity proved a recipe for disaster.
Barnes & Noble and a very high barrier.
Immunotherapy oncology is a clear example.
Borders proved much more prone to permanent loss of capital The clinical testing for each specific type of cancer usually runs than the volatile and supposedly risky Amazon.
Investors redouble into billions of dollars and as genomic science progresses, the the problem.
In the search for low volatility positive returns they indications become more and more specific.
It is only in rare push companies to manage for stability, cash-flow and dividends instances that an appeal to the public directly can accelerate the thereby frequently undermining the necessary investment.
Illuminas non-invasive Downs syndrome test has been then gear up their portfolios and trading position on the basis that a clear instance of such a success.
these stocks are virtually riskless according to the models.
Eventually we do believe that the promise of new technologies in These considerations seem to us to be likely to be even more healthcare will reward patient investors.
From genomics to relevant in the future.
On the one hand the rise of low volatility and immunotherapy to gene editing and therapy the methodology, the passive investing are clear.
They unduly support the apparently proofs of concept and the economics are falling into place.
Much stable and the complacent large.
On the other the direct assault of what is needed now is the building out of scale, data, training on the businesses of the apparently secure is rapidly growing.
Musk is right about transportation in 2030 then whither oil companies or the inventors of the combustion engine?
If Which companies will prove to have the greatest profitability personalized medicine and early cures do indeed arrive then what resilience and longevity?
happens to the trillions in market capitalization enjoyed by the We wrote last year about the risks that matter to us as investors.
exploiters of questionable blockbuster drugs and unquestionably Tom Slater pointed out that we do not believe that risk can be unjustified pharmaceutical price inflation?
Valeants demise is likely defined as volatility and that doing so indeed detracts from the to be the lead indicator of much greater pain.
ability to discern true risk in the form of a permanent loss of capital.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 11 Strategic Report Corporations, states and citizens.
Beneath so many of the headlines of the last year lurks the increasingly acrimonious battle for the share of the spoils of economies and societies.
It is not possible to assume any longer that the effortless dominance of capital over labour, or in popular terms the 1% over the 99%, will continue as it has done since the late 1970s.
From Donald Trump to Yanis Varoufakis many of the most colourful people and episodes over the last year have explored such issues.
But almost as frequently the relative power of the state and the corporate sector has been the issue at stake.
From iPhone encryption to Googles tax affairs tensions have grown.
Once again this has not been confined to the west.
Facebook has been involved in both a vitriolic argument about Indian Internet access at low cost and an elaborate minuet with the Chinese authorities, who in turn seem increasingly unsure whether to be proud of the modernizing impact of their technology companies or scared of their allure to a querulous middle-class.
Whilst these issues continue to rise up the agenda we find it hard Amazon founder Jeff Bezos.
to come to any conclusions as to what the likely impact and resolutions will be at this stage.
This is principally because none of Getty Images North America.
the parties to these messy struggles seems to be very convincing in conveying its case.
Our own sole In contrast we increasingly believe that the business models and conviction is that we should use our limited influence to persuade mentalities of the frequently volatile companies that make up the the companies in which we invest that they are better thinking of bulk of the Scottish Mortgage portfolio have the capability to their long-run credibility than their short-run profit maximization.
enjoy long as well as profitable lives.
We noted last year that from We are quite prepared to be outspoken about these issues.
their very long-term visions to their low capital requirements and strong networks, there might be reason to doubt the all too Concluding Observations prevalent assumption that the internet platform companies of We find ourselves in a very strange environment.
The investment today would turn out to be the inflated but near identical brethren world appears to be becoming ever more self-referential, ever of the 1990s bubble.
more short-term, ever more obsessed by positioning and The last year has provided substantial practical evidence of this in macroeconomic soothsaying.
Neither building great companies ways that have both helped and hindered our results.
In both the nor sensibly allocating precious capital resources appears to be of US and China, the current evidence is that instead of the power much interest.
of the internet incumbents being threatened by the next As we have discussed the market mood is full of pessimism and innovation, rather their reach and authority has expanded, thereby negativity.
We need to reiterate in closing that to us this is squeezing both smaller competitors and the pre-internet misguided.
The opportunities for fundamental, long-term growth behemoths.
For good or ill Tencent, Alibaba and Baidu appear to investment do not turn on stated GDP growth or on central banks control directly or indirectly almost the entire internet ecosystem in or overall corporate earnings.
They are instead dependent on the China.
At the same time they are starting to encroach on the skills, circumstances and opportunities available to build great world of finance and banking in an apparently remorseless businesses at scale with high and persistent returns.
In America the clearest example may be Facebook.
It has such companies, quoted and unquoted and frequently at quite used its data, insights and financial power in a manner that enormous scale, seems to us to have increased and be appears to be extending its reach and potential longevity as each increasing.
new technology and business model comes into view.
Through analyzing and buying Instagram, WhatsApp and Oculus Rift Facebook has made itself the leading presence in emergent areas James Anderson rather than disappearing as AOL or My Space did.
What we have to acknowledge is that this dominant position has increasingly come at the cost of the smaller players in the market.
The prospects of Twitter and LinkedIn have soured.
12 Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Investing in Private Companies for Scottish Mortgage Scottish Mortgages portfolio of unlisted companies has been growing and we believe there are some tremendous opportunities to deploy capital in this area.
Our reputation as a long-term supportive shareholder helps us to get access to appealing growth businesses and our scale enables us to invest in them at a cost that few can match.
Why are a growing number of our investment ideas coming from outside of the listed sphere?
Our philosophy and process are unchanged and we are not becoming early stage venture capitalists.
What has changed is that the capital cost of building a company has collapsed.
Ten years ago, businesses had to buy servers, infrastructure and software.
Today they use free development tools and pay a fee to Amazon Web Services to host their infrastructure.
Ten years ago, their addressable market was the three hundred million people that could access a website using a desktop computer, most of whom were in the United States.
Today there are more than three billion people across the globe accessing the Internet with a mobile device, which means breakthrough businesses can achieve huge scale whilst raising only modest amounts of capital.
Without pressure from dominant early funding partners wanting to recoup their capital, the attitude of the entrepreneurs involved has changed.
They are staying private longer, avoiding the burdens of the public markets and being selective about their investors.
They are listing at a time and on terms to suit their businesses.
This provides a challenge for public market investors if they wish to The portfolio of unlisted companies retain their opportunity set.
This was starkly illustrated by the has been growing.
listing of Alibaba in September 2014 at a market capitalisation of Images clockwise from top: www.
com: HelloFresh 2016: Courtesy of over $150bn.
A great deal of value creation had taken place Skyscanner: Britta Pedersen dpa Corbis.
before it became a listed company.
Retaining private status allows companies to make decisions in a different way from those beholden to stock markets.
It allows Being closed-ended means that we can own these investments founders to think long-term and invest in projects without on a long-term time horizon.
We do not have the liquidity immediate payoffs.
Such an approach is often difficult for listed constraints of open-ended funds or the limited life constraints of companies.
The average holding period across major stock most venture capital structures.
markets has declined significantly and as a result, the focus on As outlined elsewhere in this report, we value our unlisted quarterly earnings statements has increased, as has the demand holdings using the International Private Equity and Venture Capital for predictable and increasing short-term profitability.
An important element of this accounting approach is decisions to be taken in a different way, which we believe is that we regularly estimate the price at which a company would increasingly detrimental to the chances of long-term outsized trade if there were a market in its shares.
We are concerned that returns.
As a result, unlisted companies may have a structure that this pushes us to become the conduit through which exaggerated confers an advantage over our investment time horizon.
stock market volatility is transmitted to unlisted companies.
We Scottish Mortgage has two important assets when seeking do not wish to make it harder for the management of investee companies to take long-term decisions, thereby eroding one of unlisted investments.
The first is our reputation as a long-term and supportive custodian.
Weve held Amazon shares in size for the key advantages that originally attracted us to them.
Within the context of the guidelines we therefore aim to have a robust and over ten years and that kind of behaviour stands out amidst short-termism elsewhere.
This matters because the management thoughtful valuation process that emphasises the evolving performance of these businesses and does not simply reflect teams involved are careful about whom they will allow onto their shareholder register.
Just because companies dont want to go stock market noise.
public, it doesnt mean they dont have financing requirements We are in the fortunate position to get the opportunity to invest in and, for rapidly scaling companies, this can require the resources unlisted companies with great potential and remarkable of public market investors.
Our second asset is our structure.
We need to continue to earn a reputation as desirable shareholders to ensure that we remain able to invest in the best growth companies available globally.
We are excited about the prospects for long-term returns and committed to keeping the costs of investing low.
Tom Slater Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 13 Strategic Report The Managers Core Investment Beliefs Whilst fund managers claim to spend much of their careers visions that are barely noticed by the markets.
There is more in the investment world than the Financial Times or Wall Street assessing the competitive advantage of companies they are notoriously reluctant to perform any such analysis on themselves.
The tendency is to cite recent performance as evidence of skill We are global in stock selection, asset allocation and despite the luck, randomness and mean-reverting characteristics attribution.
We are active not passive or far worse index of most such data.
If this does not suffice then attention turns to a plus in stock selection.
Holding sizes reflect the potential discussion of the high educational qualifications, hard work and upside and its probability or otherwise rather than the exotic remuneration packages that the fund manager enjoys.
combination of the market capitalisation and geographical Sometimes the procedural details of the investment process are location of the company and its headquarters.
We do not have outlined with heavy emphasis on risk sufficient confidence in our top-down asset controls.
Little attention is given to either allocation skills to wish to override stock the distinctiveness of the approach or the selection.
We do not have enough strategic advantages the manager might confidence in our market timing abilities to enjoy in order to make imitation wish to add or remove gearing at frequent improbable.
We think we should try to do intervals.
We do, however, have strong better than this.
conviction that our portfolio should be We are long term in our investment comparatively concentrated, and that it is of decisions.
It is only over periods of at little use to shareholders to tinker around least five years that the competitive the edges of indices.
We think this advantages and managerial excellence produces better investment results and it of companies becomes apparent.
It certainly makes us more committed is these characteristics that we want shareholders in companies.
We suspect to identify and support.
We own that selecting stocks on the basis of the companies rather than rent shares.
past their current market capitalisation is a We do not regard ourselves as experts policy designed to protect the security of in forecasting the oscillations of tenure of asset managers rather than to economies or the mood swings of build the wealth of shareholders.
Indeed we think that it is hard Companies that are large and established to excel in such areas as this is where tend to be internally complacent and We are growth investors.
so many market participants focus and inflexible.
They are often vulnerable to where so little of the value of assault by more ambitious and vibrant companies lies.
Equally Baillie Gifford is newcomers.
more likely to possess competitive advantages for the good of We are Growth stock investors.
Such has been the preference shareholders when it adopts a long term perspective.
We are for Value and the search to arbitrage away minor rating a 100 year old Scottish partnership.
We think about our own differentials that investors find it very hard to acknowledge the business over decades not quarters.
Such stability may not be extraordinary growth rates and returns that can be found exciting but it does encourage patience in this most impatient today.
The growth that we are particularly interested in is of an of industries.
We only judge our investment performance over explosive nature and often requires minimal fixed assets or five year plus time horizons.
In truth it takes at least a decade indeed capital.
We think of it as Growth at Unreasonable to provide adequate evidence of investment skill.
Prices rather than the traditional discipline of Growth at a The investment management industry is ill-equipped to deal Reasonable Price.
We need to be willing to pay high multiples with the behavioural and emotional challenges inherent in of immediate earnings because the scale of future potential todays capital markets.
Our time frame and ownership and returns can be so dramatic.
On the stocks that flourish structure help us to fight these dangers.
We are besieged by the valuation will have turned out to be derisorily low.
On the news, data and opinion.
The bulk of this information is of little others we will lose money.
significance but it implores you to rapid and usually futile We believe that it is our first duty to shareholders to limit fees.
This can be particularly damaging at times of stress.
Both the investment management fee 0.30% and ongoing Academic research argues that most individuals dislike charges ratio 0.45% as at 31 March 2016 are low by financial losses twice as much as they take pleasure in gains.
comparative standards but at least adequate in absolute We fear that for fund managers this relationship is close to terms.
We think that the malign impact of high fees is tenfold.
Internal and external pressures make the avoidance of frequently underestimated.
The difference between an loss dominant.
This is damaging in a portfolio context.
We ongoing charges ratio of 0.45% and one of 1.5% may not need to be willing to accept loss if there is an equal or greater appear great but if the perspective is altered to think of costs chance of almost unlimited gain.
as a percentage of expected annual returns then the contrast We are very dubious about the value of routine information.
If annual returns average 10% then this is We have little confidence in quarterly earnings and none in the the difference between removing approximately 5% or 15% of views of investment banks.
We try to screen out rather than your returns each year.
Nor do we believe in a performance incorporate their noise.
In contrast we think that the world fee.
Usually it undermines investment performance.
It offers joyous opportunities to hear views, perspectives and increases pressure and narrows perspective.
