Governance Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the financial Mr WG McQueen will retire at the Annual General Meeting and will statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2016. not offer himself for re-election.
All other Directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting and Corporate Governance offer themselves for re-election.
The Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 26 to 28 and forms part of this Report.
Following a formal performance evaluation this year facilitated by external consultants, the Board considers that the performance of Manager and Company Secretaries the Directors continues to be effective and each remains The Investment Management Agreement sets out the matters committed to the Company.
Their contribution to the Board is over which the Managers have authority in accordance with the greatly valued and the Board recommends their re-election to policies and directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, shareholders.
The Investment Management Agreement is terminable Director Indemnification and Insurance on not less than six months notice.
The annual management fee The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of is 0.30% of total assets less current liabilities excluding short each of its Directors.
The deeds were in force during the year to term borrowings for investment purposes.
Careful consideration 31 March 2016 and cover any liabilities that may arise to a third has been given by the Board as to the basis on which the party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach management fee is charged.
The Board considers that of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of maintaining a low ongoing charges ratio is in the best interests of liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any all shareholders as lower costs mean higher returns, particularly costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which when compounded over long periods.
The Board is also of the the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the view that calculating the fee with reference to performance would Company in which judgement is given against him her.
In be unlikely to exert a positive influence over the long term addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent performance.
that it is recovered from another person.
The Board as a whole fulfils the functions of the Management The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance.
The Board considers the Companys investment management and secretarial arrangements on a Conflicts of Interest continuing basis and a formal review is conducted at least Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the following Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee topics in its review: the quality of the personnel assigned to handle considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances the Companys affairs: the investment process and the results surrounding them and makes a recommendation to the Board on achieved to date: the administrative services provided by the whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Board Secretaries and the marketing efforts undertaken by the authorisation is for a period of one year.
Following the most recent review and the good lists of potential conflicts there were no situations which gave rise performance particularly over the long term, it is the opinion of to a direct or indirect interest of a Director which conflicted with the Directors that the continuing appointment of Baillie Gifford & the interests of the Company.
Co Limited as Alternative Investment Fund Manager and the delegation of investment management services to Baillie Gifford & Dividends Co, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders as a The Board recommends a final dividend of 1.58p per ordinary whole.
share which, together with the interim dividend of 1.38p per ordinary share already paid, makes a total of 2.96p for the year Depositary compared with 2.93p per ordinary share for the previous year.
In accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited has been If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary appointed Depositary to the Company.
shares will be paid on 4 July 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 June 2016.
The ex-dividend date is The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, 9 June 2016. safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and The Companys Registrars offer a Dividend Reinvestment Plan monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and see page 57 and the final date for elections for this dividend is leverage requirements.
The Depositary has delegated the custody 13 June 2016. function to The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV the Custodian.
Share Capital Directors Capital Structure Information about the Directors, including their relevant The Companys capital structure as at 31 March 2016 consists of experience, can be found on pages 22 to 23.
Mr LJ Dowley and 1,421,730,880 ordinary shares of 5p each, of which Professor PH Maxwell, having been appointed to the Board on 1,312,524,485 are allotted and fully paid and 109,206,395 are 4 September 2015 and 1 April 2016, respectively, are required to held in treasury.
There are no restrictions concerning the holding seek election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The or transfer of the Companys ordinary shares and there are no Directors believe that the Board will benefit from their extensive special rights attached to any of the shares.
knowledge and experience and recommend their election to shareholders.
24 Annual Report 2016 Governance Report Dividends Annual General Meeting The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim Information relating to the Companys Annual General Meeting to dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed be held on 30 June 2016 is contained in the Circular sent to final dividend is subject to shareholder approval.
shareholders with this Annual Report.
Capital Entitlement Articles of Association On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Voting The Directors confirm that, so far as each of the Directors is Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one Companys Auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all vote for every share held.
the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
found on the inside front cover of the Circular which is being sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Independent Auditor Share Issuances and Share Buy-backs The Auditor, KPMG LLP, is willing to continue in office and, in accordance with section 489 and section 491 1 of the At the last Annual General Meeting the Directors were granted Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning their reappointment power to allot equity securities or sell ordinary shares held in and remuneration will be submitted to the Annual General treasury for cash up to a maximum nominal amount of Meeting.
During the year the Company tendered its audit see Audit During the year to 31 March 2016 the Company sold 68,100,000 Committee Report on page 29. shares from treasury on a non-pre-emptive basis nominal value 3,405,000, representing 5.5% of the called up share capital, Post Balance Sheet Events excluding treasury shares, at 31 March 2015 at a premium to net The Directors confirm that there have been no post Balance asset value on the basis of debt valued at fair value on 86 Sheet events up to 18 May 2016. separate occasions at an average price of 264.6 pence per share raising net proceeds of 179,873,000.
At 31 March 2016 the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Company held 109,206,395 treasury shares.
Between 1 April and All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
The 16 May 2016 the Company sold a further 2,500,000 shares from Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to report treasury raising proceeds of 6,481,000. from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other During the year to 31 March 2016 the Company bought back emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 1,250,000 ordinary shares nominal value 63,000 representing Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
0.1% of the called up share capital, excluding treasury shares, at Bribery Act 2010 31 March 2015, on the London Stock Exchange, all of which The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is were added to shares held in treasury.
The total consideration for committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
Between 1 April and 16 May 2016 The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have no further shares were bought back into treasury.
policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
The Directors will again be seeking authorities at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to buy back shares and to sell shares held in treasury and allot new shares at a premium to the net By order of the Board asset value per share with debt valued at a fair value.
Details of John Scott these resolutions are contained in the Circular sent to 18 May 2016 shareholders with this Annual Report.
Major Interests Disclosed in the Companys Shares No.
of ordinary 5p shares held at 31 March % of Name 2016 issue BlackRock Inc Indirect 128,243,466 9.8 D. C. Thomson & Company Limited Direct 50,005,000 3.8 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited Indirect 40,646,265 3.1 There have been no changes to the major interests in the Companys shares disclosed to the Company up to 16 May 2016.
Ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 25
