STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SENIOR PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SENIOR PLC GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT RISK DESCRIPTION HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT KEY OBSERVATIONS OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN In our opinion: RESPONDED TO THE RISK the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP Goodwill impairment in Flexonics the Group and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group has a material goodwill balance, arising from We challenged managements key assumptions Based on our procedures statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in past acquisitions, with a carrying value of 318.8m of which used in the Flexonics impairment model for we agreed with the of accounting contained within Note 2 to the Financial Statements accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs 78.6m relates to the Flexonics division as disclosed in goodwill by focusing on, but not limited to: Directors assessment that and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group as adopted by the European Union: Note 13.
During 2016, declining revenue in the truck and considering the cash flow projections through the goodwill allocated to the contained within the Strategic Report on page 23. the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared off highway markets, particularly for agricultural and mining assessing the accuracy of historical budgeting by Flexonics division did not We are required to state whether we have anything material to add in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting vehicles, combined with the continued slowdown in the oil comparing them with historically achieved results require impairment as at or draw attention to in relation to: Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and and gas market, have negatively impacted the performance and benchmarking the consistency of the cash 31December 2016. the Directors confirmation on page 23 that they have carried out a the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with of the Flexonics division.
flow projections with industry data and trends: robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the engaging our internal valuation specialists to The Directors assess the valuation of goodwill which relies on those that would threaten its business model, future performance, Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
review the inputs used to determine the key assumptions and judgements made by them concerning solvency or liquidity: discount rates applied by comparing them The Group Financial Statements that we have audited comprise: the estimated value of future cash flows, associated discount the disclosures on pages 27 to 29 that describe those risks and against available external market data: the Consolidated Income Statement: rates, and growth rates based on their view of future business explain how they are being managed or mitigated: benchmarking the perpetuity rates against the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: prospects on an annual basis.
The extent of the judgement the Directors statement on page 23 about whether they considered industry and GDP growth rates: and the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets: involved presents the risk that the carrying value has not been it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in reviewing their adopted sensitivities to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: adjusted appropriately to reflect the adverse market conditions preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to assess whether they reflect a reasonable the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and described above.
This is consistent with the key sources of the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve possible change.
the Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements estimation and uncertainty as discussed in Note 2. months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: and 1 to 55. the Directors explanation on page 23 as to how they have assessed Inventory net realisable value The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and The Group held an inventory balance at the year-end of We have tested a sample of inventory items at Based on our procedures, no preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements is applicable law why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement 154.4m, as disclosed in Note 17 which relates to the each in scope component to assess whether the issues were identified which and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will Aerospace and Flexonics divisions.
Due to cost pressures cost of inventory is in excess of its net realisable raised material concern on framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due especially on early stage production, products may be sold value.
We have also challenged managements inventory net realisable Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures at a margin which impacts the valuation of inventory under assessment of the profitability of work packages value.
We found that the Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Inventory is a material balance for the experiencing cost pressures.
This was done by judgements made, and including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention Group which requires management judgement in assessing the key underlying judgements made conclusions reached, by to in respect of these matters.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH determining whether the cost of inventory on hand is lower and sensitivities run by management around labour management in determining We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis than its net realisable value at year-end.
There are a small costs, overheads and the learning curve associated the exposure to work Key risks of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
number of work packages that are experiencing cost with these work packages.
We also agreed packages experiencing cost The key risks that we identified for reporting in the current year were: However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, pressures and therefore management has had to consider underlying performance to approved forecasts and pressures to be reasonable Goodwill impairment in Flexonics this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue whether there are any indications of onerous contractual held discussions with both finance and non-finance based on the information Inventory net realisable value as a going concern.
staff to consider any contradictory evidence.
Further to this we Provision for uncertain tax positions in the US did not identify any other We also assessed whether indicators exist of INDEPENDENCE significant work packages any other significant work packages that are not Materiality We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical that are experiencing cost actively monitored by management or may have Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the pressure at the other The materiality that we used in the current year was 3.7m which indicators of cost pressure.
Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in was determined on the basis of 5.0% of profit before tax adjusted components in our scope.
to exclude amortisation of intangible assets from acquisitions.
Provision for uncertain tax positions in the US We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled Scoping As the Group operates in a number of different tax We assessed the tax provisions in conjunction Based on our procedures our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
jurisdictions, management judgement is required to determine with our internal tax experts and challenged we concur that the overall We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit The scope of our audit was driven by our risk assessment and tax provisions across the Group principally in the US.
As set managements judgements in order to determine provision recognised by services referred to in those standards.
This consisted of 20 components out in Note 21 to the Financial Statements the Group is whether the provisions have been recorded management, including that subjected to full scope or statutory audits, 4 components were OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT carrying a provision of 19.7m 2015: 17.7m for uncertain tax accurately and completely based on our knowledge relating to the provision for subjected to specified audit procedures and the residual subjected positions.
Determination of tax provisions is subject to of tax law and practical implementation risk.
uncertain tax positions, is The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those to analytical procedures at the Group level.
inherent judgement in assessing the probable outflow of appropriate given the tax that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of Our assessment included consideration of The components at which full audits or specified audit procedures taxes that will be borne by the entity relating to matters where risks faced by the Group.
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
prior year open computations, the Groups were performed accounted for 86% revenue coverage and 98% the relevant tax authoritys final assessment of the tax transfer pricing and financing arrangements, In the current year, we focussed our goodwill risk on the Flexonics of profit before tax on 2016 reported performance.
The transfer pricing tax risk provision correspondence with tax authorities and the division, which is reflective of the challenges faced by the end markets held is a key risk due to the subjective nature of the arms general tax environment and attitude of tax Significant changes in our approach of this division.
Our inventory risk focussed on the net realisable value length principle which the payment should adhere to.
In particular, we also evaluated of inventory associated with significant work packages experiencing We reassessed the benchmark used to determine materiality.
Previously managements assessment of uncertainties cost pressure and our tax risk focussed on the provision of uncertain this was based on profit before tax, excluding goodwill impairment and in light of the closure of tax authority audits tax positions.
impairment of assets held for sale.
In the current year our materiality is during the year.
We have not assessed the prior year risk associated to acquisition calculated on the basis of profit before tax excluding the amortisation of intangible assets from acquisitions.
accounting as the Group made no acquisitions during the current year.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, We have also lowered the percentage applied to the benchmark from and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
7.3% in the prior year to 5.0% in the current year.
72 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 73 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SENIOR PLC CONTINUED AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 AND AUDITOR The Group operates in 14 countries spread across five continents with We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial the largest footprint being in North America, the UK and the rest In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a of Europe.
Our Group audit was scoped based on our understanding the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
We the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial in evaluating the results of our work.
have considered components on the basis of their contribution to Group Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality revenue and profitability, as well as those that require local statutory prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: audits in their jurisdiction.
the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit Group materiality in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily 3.7m 2015: 6.1m are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems on the audit work at 24 locations.
20 of these were subject to a full In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its include our dedicated professional standards review team.
scope or statutory audit, whilst the remaining 4 were subject to an audit environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any Basis for determining materiality of specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, 5% of profit before tax excluding amortisation of intangible assets from on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. acquisitions.
The principal reason for the reduction in materiality is due MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the to a reduction in the benchmark used to assess materiality and the TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Companys members those matters we are required to state to them These 24 locations account for 86% 2015: 89% of the Groups revenue Groups lower performance year-on-year.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and 98% 2015: 98% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records In the prior-year, the benchmark used to determine materiality was permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 7.3% of profit before tax excluding goodwill impairment and impairment other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit in our opinion: of assets held for sale.
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
work at the 24 locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable we have not received all the information and explanations we require Rationale for the benchmark applied to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and for our audit: or SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We used a profit-based measure as our benchmark for determining ranged from 1.5m to 1.9m 2015: 2.4m to 3.1m.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures materiality on the basis that profit is a key performance indicator or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and used by the market and is comparable with the Groups peers.
in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that branches not visited by us: or carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether the Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with In the current year we determined that, due to historically high volumes were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the the accounting records and returns.
of acquisitions made by the Group, the most relevant key performance financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys indicator was profit before tax excluding amortisation of intangible We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
or audit of specified account balances.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately assets from acquisition.
This basis is consistent with managements The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned Directors remuneration disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made focus on adjusted metrics to evaluate financial performance.
visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
We also lowered the benchmark applied to 5.0% which brings our audit team visits the Groups components on a rotation basis.
In the opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in basis for determining materiality in line with the Groups peers.
current year we visited locations in the UK, USA and South East Asia.
made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited In years when we do not visit a significant component we include is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
MATERIALITY assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Corporate Governance Statement If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or The Group audit team led a global audit team briefing in October 2016 Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
to share the audit strategy and to ensure component teams understood Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance the referral instructions.
Subsequently, the Group audit team maintained with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
contact with the component teams to provide guidance and supervision Mark Mullins FCA Senior statutory auditor Group materiality 3.7m We have nothing to report arising from our review.
A member of the Group audit team also attended the final audit for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP meetings held with local management at each component either in Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Component materiality Adjusted PBT person or telephonically.
London, United Kingdom 75.3m range 1.5m to 1.9m Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are 24 February 2017 required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual Audit Committee report is: reporting threshold 0.12m AUDIT COVERAGE BY AUDIT COVERAGE BY materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial SITE AS A PROPORTION SITE AS A PROPORTION Statements: or OF FY16 REVENUE OF FY16 PROFIT Adjusted PBT apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Group materiality BEFORE TAX with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 2% performing our audit: or We agreed that we would report to the Audit Committee all audit otherwise misleading.
differences we identified in excess of 120,000 2015: 120,000, 14% In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall profit is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report Revenue presentation of the Financial Statements.
before tax appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
86% 98% We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Full audit scope and specified procedures Review at Group level 74 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 75
