Directors' Report Directors' Report Annual Report and Accounts The Company is not aware of any agreement between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the The Directors present the Annual Report and Accounts transfer of securities and or voting rights.
of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Comparative figures used in this report are for the year Authority for the purchase of shares ended 31 December 2015 unless otherwise stated.
As at the date of this report authority granted at the The Corporate Governance Report, including the Companys AGM in May 2016 remains in force, as set out Remuneration Report, set out on pages 74 to 125 in the 2016 Notice of Meeting which is available on the forms part of the Statutory Directors Report.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 5 and the Dividends Chief Executive's Review and Divisional Reviews on No interim dividend was paid in respect of the 2016 pages 26 to 41 report on the activities during the year financial year 2015: nil.
The Directors do not recommend and likely future developments.
The information in a final dividend to be paid for 2016 2015: nil.
these reports which is required to fulfil the requirements of the Business Review is incorporated in this Directors Directors Report by reference.
The current members of the Board together with Articles of Association biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 74 and 75.
The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles On 31 July 2016, Tamara Ingram retired as Nonof Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association Executive Director of the Company.
On 6 September must be approved by the shareholders in accordance 2016, the Company announced that Malcolm Wyman with the legislation in force from time to time.
would also be retiring his position as Non-Executive Director with effect from 31 October 2016.
John Share capital Rishton subsequently joined the Board as NonThe issued share capital of the Company, together with Executive Director with effect from 13 September 2016. the details of shares issued during the year, is shown in He became a member of the Audit Committee on note 34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
appointment and subsequently replaced Malcolm as The powers of the Directors to issue or buy back shares Chair of the Audit Committee from 1 November 2016. are restricted to those approved at the Companys John will stand for election at the 2017 AGM.
As in previous years, and in accordance with the UK At the Annual General Meeting in May 2016, pursuant to Corporate Governance Code, all other Directors will Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders stand for re-election at the AGM in May 2017. approved the issue of shares for cash up to 5% of the Directors interests existing issued share capital and an additional 5% only With the exception of the Executive Directors service to be used in connection with an acquisition or specified contracts and the Non-Executive Directors letters capital investment in each case without the application of appointment, there are no contracts in which any of pre-emption rights.
The authority granted continues Director has an interest.
until the earlier of the AGM planned to be held in May 2017 or close of business on 30 June 2017.
Certain change of control conditions are included in the service contracts of Directors which provide Rights attaching to shares compensation or reduction of notice periods in the Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote event of a change of control of the Company.
at general meetings of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Details of the Directors interests in the ordinary shares capital of the Company other than certain restrictions and options over the ordinary shares of the Company which may from time to time be imposed by law.
In as at 31 December 2016 are set out in the Directors accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 125.
Between Conduct Authority, certain employees are required to 1January 2017 and the date of this report there were seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
no changes in Directors' interests in ordinary shares and options.
126 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Directors indemnities Jacobs Engineering Group.
The AWE JV oversees the design, development, maintenance and Directors and officers insurance cover has been established for all Directors to provide cover against manufacture of warheads for the UKs strategic their reasonable actions on behalf of the Company.
This work is carried out by the As permitted under the Articles of Association and in AWE JV under a management and operation accordance with best practice, deeds of indemnity have contract with the Secretary of State for Defence the been executed indemnifying each of the Directors and AWE Contract.
The AWE Contract was entered Company Secretary of the Company in respect of their into on 1 December 1999 and has a 25-year term.
positions as officers of the Company as a supplement Under the terms of the AWE Contract, any change to the Directors and officers insurance cover.
The in shareholding or the identity of a shareholder in indemnities, which constitute a qualifying third party the AWE JV requires the consent of the Secretary indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the of State for Defence.
In the event that there is a Companies Act 2006, remain in force for all current change of control of Serco Holdings Limited, it is Directors and the Company Secretary of the Company.
required to transfer its entrire shareholding in the AWE JV to the Serco Group or another wholly owned Branch offices subsidiary of the Serco Group prior to such change In certain jurisdictions, the Group will operate through of control.
In the event that there is a change of a branch of one of its subsidiary companies.
control of Serco Holdings Limited without its entire Significant agreements that take effect, alter or shareholding in the AWE JV first being transferred to terminate upon a change of control another member of the Serco Group or if there is a Given the Business to Government nature of many change of control of the Serco Group then the other of the services provided by the Company and its shareholders in the AWE JV are entitled subject to subsidiaries, many agreements contain provisions the approval of the Secretary of State and applicable entitling the other parties to terminate them in the regulatory approvals to purchase the AWE JV shares event of a change of control, which can be triggered by and loans held by Serco Holdings Limited and any a takeover of the Company.
The following agreements other member of the Serco Group.
are those individual agreements which the Company CMS Eligibility Support Services ESS : On 1 July considers to be significant to the Group as a whole 2013, Serco Inc. entered into a contract with the that contain provisions giving the other party a specific United States of America acting through the Centers right to terminate them if the Company is subject to a for Medicare and Medicaid Services CMS for the change of control: provision of support for the Health Care Exchanges Material contracts implemented to provide affordable health insurance Australian Immigration Services: On 11 December and insurance affordability programs.
The contract 2014, Serco Australia Pty Limited entered into a had an initial base term of one year, with four options contract with the Commonwealth of Australia acting of one year each.
In the event of a change in control through the Department of Immigration and Border or ownership of Serco Inc. which in the reasonable Protection for the provision of detention services opinion of the U. S. Government adversely affects at all onshore immigration facilities in Australia.
the Company's ability to perform the services, the The contract has an initial five-year term, with two contract may be terminated by the U. S. Government.
In the event of SSA: In order to bid and perform on certain classified a change in control or ownership of Serco Australia contracts involving US national security, Serco Inc. Pty Limited, which in the reasonable opinion of the was required to mitigate its foreign ownership Commonwealth adversely affects the Companys through a Special Security Agreement SSA between ability to perform the Services, the contract may be the US Government, Serco Inc. and Serco Group plc.
The effective date of the SSA is 18 June 2008.
The AWE: Serco Holdings Limited is a shareholder in U. S. Department of Defense may terminate Serco's AWE Management Limited the AWE JV.
Serco SSA in the event of the sale of the Corporation to a Holdings Limiteds joint venture partners and the company or person not under Foreign Ownership, other shareholders in the AWE JV are UK subsidiary Control or Influence FOCI.
companies of Lockheed Martin Corporation and 127 Directors' Report Directors' Report continued Financing facilities Employment policies Revolving credit facility: the Company has a The Board is committed to maintaining a working environment where staff are individually valued and 480,000,000 revolving credit facility dated 28 March recognised.
Group companies and Divisions operate 2012 amended and restated 12 March 2015 with within a framework of human resources policies, the Bank of America Securities Limited, Barclays practices and regulations appropriate to their own Bank PLC, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Credit market sector and country of operation, whilst subject Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, DBS to Group-wide policies and principles.
Bank Limited, HSBC Bank PLC, J. P. Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank PLC, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Diversity UFJ Limited and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC as The Group is committed to ensuring equal mandated lead arrangers, and Barclays Bank PLC opportunity, honouring the rights of the individual, as Facility Agent.
The facility provides funds for and fostering partnership and trust in every working general corporate and working capital purposes, relationship.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, and bonds to support the Groups business needs.
training and career development promote diversity, The facility agreement provides that in the event of a respect for human rights and equality of opportunity change of control of the Company each lender may, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital within a certain period, call for the prepayment of status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and the amounts owed to it and cancel its commitments ethnic or national origin.
The Group promotes diversity so that all employees are US notes: the Company has notes outstanding able to be successful regardless of their background.
under three US Private Placement Note Purchase The Group gives full consideration to applications Agreements the USPP Agreements dated 9 May for employment, career development and promotion 2011, 20 October 2011 and 13 May 2013, respectively.
received from the disabled, and offers employment The total amount of the notes outstanding under when suitable opportunities arise.
If employees the three USPP Agreements was $357,042,884 at 31 become disabled during their service with the Group, December 2016, and their maturity is between 9 May arrangements are made wherever practicable to 2018 and 14 May 2024.
Under the terms of the USPP continue their employment and training.
Agreements, if a change of control of the Company The Group recognises the importance of protecting occurs it is required to offer to prepay the entire human rights.
We seek to respect and uphold the human principal amount of the notes together with interest rights of individuals in all aspects of our operations to the prepayment date but without payment of any wherever we operate.
Our Human Rights Group Standard make-whole amount.
demonstrates this commitment and the significance of Share plans human rights for a diverse global organisation.
It also sets The Companys share plans contain provisions in out expectations for individual and corporate behaviour relation to a change of control.
Outstanding options across our business in regards to human rights.
We use and awards may vest and become exercisable on a International Human Rights Standards such as the United change of control of the Company, in accordance with Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human the rules of the plans.
Rights 2011 UN Guiding Principles as frameworks to assist our decision-making and constructive Annual General Meeting engagement: to identify, assess, and manage adverse The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company human rights impacts: and to integrate and act on will be held at Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank findings, track responses, monitor effectiveness and Street, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5JJ on 11 May 2017 communicate how impacts are addressed.
Engagement Financial risk policies The Group remains proud of its record of managing A summary of the Groups treasury policies and employee relations and continues to believe that the objectives relating to financial risk management, structure of individual and collective consultation and including exposure to associated risks, is on negotiation is best developed at a local level.
Over the pages 186 to 192. years, the Group has demonstrated that working with trade unions and creating effective partnerships allows 128 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements improvements to be delivered in business performance Financial statements as well as in employment terms and conditions.
Where At the date of this report, as far as each Director is employees choose not to belong to a trade union, aware, there is no relevant audit information of which employee communication forums such as works councils the Groups Auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken exist to ensure involvement of staff within the business.
all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a The Group has been proactive in providing employees Director in order to make himself or herself aware of with information on matters of concern to them as any relevant audit information and to establish that the employees.
These mechanisms ensure employees' Groups Auditor is aware of that information.
views are considered in decision-making and that they Auditor have a common awareness of Group strategy, matters of concern to them and the financial and economic factors The Company undertook a formal competitive tender affecting the performance of the Company.
exercise for external audit services during 2016, as detailed in the 2015 Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Participation by staff in the success of the Group is As a result of this tender process KPMG LLP KPMG encouraged by the availability of long-term incentive was appointed as the Companys External Auditor by arrangements for senior management, which effectively the Board on 27 May 2016 and Deloitte LLP resigned as aligns their interests with those of shareholders by Auditor on the same date.
requiring that Company-level financial performance criteria are achieved as a condition of vesting.
The appointment of KPMG for the 2017 financial year will be subject to shareholder approval at the next AGM Corporate responsibility in May 2017.
Further details are set out in the Notice of The Group recognises that operating in a responsible Meeting sent to shareholders.
manner helps drive Serco's success.
Our commitment Going concern to corporate responsibility is supported by defined policies embedded in our Serco Management System.
In assessing the basis of preparation of the financial More information on Corporate Responsibility, including statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, the greenhouse gas emission reporting, can be found in the Directors have considered the principles of the Financial Strategic Report on pages 64 to 72.
Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Research and development Reporting, 2014: namely assessing the applicability Serco undertakes a limited amount of research and of the going concern basis, the review period and development R&D, given that our primary business disclosures.
The Groups principal debt facilities at the model is the delivery of public services through our year-end comprised a 480m revolving credit facility, people.
In 2016, we spent 3.6m on R&D on IT-related and 290m of US private placement notes.
As at projects, compared to 4.3m in 2015.
31December 2016, the Group had 770m of committed credit facilities and committed headroom of 647m.
Political donations Assessment of going concern During the year neither the Company nor the Group made political donations and they intend to continue The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment with this policy.
However, it is possible that certain of going concern and liquidity taking into account routine activities may unintentionally fall within financial forecasts.
In order to satisfy ourselves that we the broad scope of the Companies Act provisions have adequate resources for the future, the Directors relating to political donations and expenditure.
As in have reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the previous years, the Company will therefore propose to committed funding and liquidity positions under our shareholders that the authority granted at the AGM in debt covenants, and our ability to generate cash from May 2016 regarding political donations be renewed.
Details will be included in the notice of AGM.
Review period Within the US business there exists a Political Action In undertaking this review the Directors have Committee PAC, which is funded entirely by employees considered the business plans which provide financial and their spouses.
The Serco PAC and its contributions projections for the foreseeable future.
For the purposes are administered in strict accordance with regulatory of this review, we consider that to be the period ending requirements.
Employee contributions are entirely 30 June 2018.
The Directors have also reviewed the voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to principal risks considered on pages 16 to 23 of the participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC Strategic Review and taken account of the results of must bear the name of the employing company.
129 Directors' Report Directors' Report continued Going concern continued Assessment The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to operate within the level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Interests in voting rights At 31 December 2016 the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares: Number of shares % held at millions at date date of Nature of Notifying person of notification notification holding Azvalor Asset Management S. G. I. I. C. S. A.
33.3 3.04 Direct Blackrock Inc 18.4 1.67 Indirect 16.0 1.45 Securities Lending 20.8 1.89 Contract for Difference 5.01 Total Lancaster Investment Management LLP 54.7 4.98 Swap Majedie Asset Management Limited 56.0 5.09 Direct Marathon Asset Management LLP 68.3 5.31 Indirect 1.2 0.11 Direct Morgan Stanley Institutional Securities Group and Global Wealth Management 38.0 3.46 Right of Recall 19.5 1.76 Swap 5.33 Total MSD Partners, L. P. 109.9 10.0 Indirect Orbis Group 54.5 4.96 Indirect Tameside MBC re: Greater Manchester Pension Fund 34.1 3.11 Direct Notes: Between 1 January 2017 and the date of this report, the Company has been advised of the following changes of interests in shares: on 19 January 2017 Azvalor Asset Management S. G. I. I.
C, S. A. notified that their interest in voting rights had fallen below 3%: on 16 February 2017, Morgan Stanley Institutional Securities Group and Global Wealth Management notified that their interest in voting rights had fallen below 3%.
On 17 February 2017 Morgan Stanley notified that their interest in voting rights was 5.10% and on 20February 2017 that their interest stood at 5.11% 130 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Index of Directors Report disclosures The information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report can be found in this Annual Report on the pages listed below.
4C, the information required to be disclosed in the Annual Report under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is marked with an asterisk.
Amendment of the Articles Page 126 Appointment and replacement of Directors Page 90 Board of Directors Pages 74 and 75 Change of control Pages 127 and 128 Community Page 69 Corporate responsibility Pages 64 to 72 Directors insurance and indemnities Page 127 Directors inductions and training Pages 94 Directors responsibilities statement Page 132 Disclosure of information to Auditor Page 132 Diversity Page 68 Dividends Pages 30 and 126 Employee involvement Pages 68 and 128 Employees with disabilities Page 128 Financial risk management Pages 186 to 192 Future developments of the business Pages 8 to 13 Going concern Pages 129 and 145 Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 71 and 72 Independent Auditors' Report Pages 134 to 138 Long-term incentive plans under Listing Rule 9.4.
3 Pages 96 to 125 Political donations Page 129 Powers for the Company to issue or buy back its shares Page 126 Powers of the Directors Page 94 Research and development activities Page 129 Restrictions on transfer of securities Page 126 Rights attaching to shares Page 126 Risk management and internal control Pages 16 to 23 and 81 Share capital Page 126 Significant agreements Pages 127 and 128 Significant related party agreements Page 204 Significant shareholders Page 130 Statement of corporate governance Pages 76 and 77 Strategic report Pages 4 to 72 Viability Statement Page 24 Voting rights Page 126 Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Secretary 22 February 2017 131
