Strategic Report Our Business Serco has deep expertise: overlaid on our private sector techniques, drive and energy is a public service ethos that means that we can help deliver government services efficiently, but in a way that recognises the need for public accountability and trust.
What we do, and how we do it One example would be a policy that asylum seekers Serco delivers services to governments and should be housed in the community, rather than in other institutions who serve the public or detention, whilst their applications are processed: such protect vital national interests.
We focus on a policy requires the government to employ directly five sectors: Defence, Justice & Immigration, or indirectly the people required to arrange housing Transport, Health and Citizen Services, and welfare services.
Another example of a policy that and deliver them in the UK, Europe, North requires a dedicated workforce to deliver it would be America, Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
one that sought to help the long-term unemployed find jobs, which requires local offices and staff to support and Since we were founded more than 50 years ago, we encourage people through the job-finding process.
have delivered services through people, supported by effective processes, technology and skilled Public services require people management.
Our customers define what outcomes The delivery of many areas of government policy is or services they need to deliver, and we develop labour intensive, and the number of people involved in new and more effective ways to deliver them.
We the delivery of government services vastly outnumbers deliver innovative solutions to some of the most those involved in developing policy: in some countries, complex challenges facing governments, bringing our government is the largest employer.
For example, experience, capability and scale to deliver the service according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, standards, cost efficiencies and policy outcomes nearly twice as many people 22 million are employed governments want.
In this way we make a positive by local, state and federal government as are in difference to the lives of millions of people around manufacturing 12 million.
the world, and help keep nations safe.
Given that delivering public services is often labour Governments have two basic responsibilities: to develop intensive, this demands strong management of the policies, and to ensure that those policies are delivered.
processes to recruit, organise and oversee the hundreds Some policies can be delivered simply by enacting or even thousands of people required to deliver a public legislation, relying on individuals and corporations to service.
Many public servants are talented managers, deliver the policy themselves by acting in accordance but all governments find it hard to attract and retain in with the law, with the police and judiciary acting as the numbers required to deliver services in the face of enforcers of behaviour.
An example of this would be a private sector competition for these skills.
Serco helps policy that required a speed limit of 20 mph near schools, government by being a bridge between the drive, energy which can be enforced by the police in the normal course and innovation of the private sector, and the very specific of law enforcement.
Other policies require substantial requirements of public services.
specialist workforces to be employed to deliver them.
06 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Public services and delivery by the private sector Sercos breadth and structure Governments have used private contractors to deliver As well as providing a bridge between the private and public policy, often in very sensitive areas, for centuries.
public sector, Serco also provides the international and In medieval times, fighting wars and tax collection were inter-departmental sharing of ideas and best practice often outsourced, in whole or part, to private enterprise.
which governments often find hard to achieve.
New The transportation of prisoners from the UK to Australia, approaches for running prisons and reducing youth rewhich started in 1788 and continued until 1868, was offending in the UK come from Australia: hospitals we carried out entirely by private contractors.
Today, in manage in the Middle East use processes developed in the UK, frontline medical services by the National the UK: likewise our Defence business in the Middle East Health Service are provided by some 280,000 general serves Australian armed forces.
We transfer our insights, practitioners, the vast majority of whom are employed by skills and processes from one sector or region to another, private partnerships and companies.
Some of the most so we can anticipate and meet new challenges for sensitive and secret defence work, such as developing customers.
In our markets we are a rarity: a company that and supporting strategic nuclear weapons, is carried offers services covering front, middle, and back office out by private companies.
requirements across multiple areas of government policy delivery, internationally.
Some services which governments need in order to deliver public policy are similar or identical to those We focus our activities in five areas of government required in the private sector, and suppliers can happily service: Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, operate in both markets.
Running payroll, providing Health and Citizen Services.
All these sectors are telecoms networks and IT centres is not vastly different characterised by large and growing demand, and the in the public and private sectors.
But some government requirement to employ significant numbers of people services such as running prisons or providing airin service delivery.
traffic control are unique to government and have no We structure ourselves with four types of function: private sector equivalent.
Many government services Divisions, Group, Centres of Excellence CoEs are bought only by government, and providing them and Shared Services.
All operational delivery is is a specialist business, quite different from anything executed through five geographic Divisions: UK found in the private sector.
However, many of them can Central Government, UK & Europe Local & Regional be run efficiently on behalf of government by private Government, the Americas, Asia Pacific and the Middle companies using techniques, management, technology East.
Within their domains, Divisions are responsible for and processes developed in the private sector.
everything involved in winning and delivering contracts: Unique demands of public service delivery 97% of our employees work in these Divisions.
A lean Group function provides governance, strategy, asset Providing government services to citizens, funded allocation, policy-setting and oversight, as well as certain by taxpayers, is different, and in many ways more specialist consolidation and functional roles in Finance, demanding, than providing services to the private sector Risk and HR.
The Group also manages CoEs which or consumers.
Politics, transparency and accountability provide focused expertise and support to the Divisions, to multiple stakeholders are seen only dimly in the and enable sharing of best practice and the development private sector, but are writ large in the public sector, and of common propositions in areas such as Transport, need careful management.
Serco has deep expertise Justice & Immigration and Health.
Shared Services in providing this bridge: overlaid on our private sector provide common functional and processing support techniques, drive and energy is a public service ethos in areas such as IT, HR and finance to the Divisions.
that means that we can help deliver government services efficiently, but in a way that recognises the need for public accountability and trust, and the fact that we are often looking after some of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged in society.
07 Strategic Report Our Business continued Our Strategy However, despite what is now a more mature and difficult As managers, our job is to ensure Serco market than it was around the turn of the century, the delivers value to the people and institutions business of providing services to government has who have an interest in our success: to our attractions.
We believe that the market is growing and customers and service-users, by providing will continue to do so because of two fundamental high-quality, resilient and innovative truths.
First, that in many areas of public service public services: to our shareholders, by provision, private companies, properly managed, can providing sustainable and growing returns deliver services of higher quality and lower cost than governments can themselves.
Second, that governments on capital: to our lenders, by providing will continue to face huge pressure to deliver more and them with a solid and secure credit: and to better public services, for less, and that this will lead our colleagues, by enabling them to have them to focus relentlessly on value for money and the interesting and rewarding careers.
This pressure comes from what we call the Four Forces comprising: We believe that good strategies are simply expressed.
Our strategy is to be a superb provider of public services, The relentless increase, at rates above GDP by being the best-managed business in our sector.
growth, of demand for public services across We are a B2G Business to Government business, important areas of government.
Examples are specialising across five sectors: Defence, Justice & the pressures on health and social care driven by Immigration, Transport, Health and Citizen Services.
ageing populations, and growing prison populations.
We deliver these services in four regions: UK & Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
The need to reduce public debt and expenditure deficits.
The decision to focus on being a B2G business was taken Rising expectations of service quality amongst in 2014, and was a change from the previous strategy public service users.
which had been to serve both private and public sector customers.
The strategy was changed as a result of the The unwillingness of voters and corporate need to recapitalise the business following a troubled taxpayers to countenance tax increases.
diversification into private sector outsourcing and the The challenge facing governments worldwide can, like realisation that Serco had taken on a number of very our strategy, be simply expressed: to deliver more, and heavily loss-making contracts.
As a result of this the better, for less.
management team was changed in 2013 and 2014, and over 700m was raised by way of an equity Rights Issue in In the face of this challenge, and having over recent early 2015 and the disposal of non-core businesses later years already plucked from the savings tree the lowin that year.
hanging fruit, governments are having to find ever-more inventive and sophisticated ways of providing better Focusing the business on the public sector market was, public services at lower cost.
For governments, as for in effect, going back to our roots.
For some 20 years up companies in the private sector, when under pressure until 2010, the company had delivered rapid growth and it is often best to focus intellectual and management very significant value creation by being largely focused energy on their core mission, and leave it to others to on the public sector.
In recent years the public sector provide the development and operation of supporting market has become more difficult as governments activities.
A modern army, air force or navy needs struggled with the effects of the financial crisis in 2008, to concentrate its efforts on maintaining its fighting slowdowns in military spending, and the election of capability, not running the payroll, maintaining buildings governments committed to reducing public expenditure.
or manoeuvring ships around in port with tugs.
Likewise, Furthermore, governments have become much more hospitals need to concentrate their intellectual and skilled at contracting and focused on risk-transfer: as a management energy on delivering clinical services, consequence margins and risk-adjusted returns earned not delivering meals to patients, cleaning the loos and by many suppliers to government are much lower today maintaining the air-conditioning.
than they were ten years ago.
08 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements There are other factors that make the public sector An international footprint also helps us build customer marketplace attractive to us: whilst some niches may be interest and confidence.
The fact that we are involved disrupted by technology or other exogenous factors, in running major urban rail infrastructure in the UK and we can be very confident that the world will still need Dubai helps us in rail bids in the United States: our prisons, will still need to manage immigration, and proven track record in reducing recidivism amongst provide healthcare and transport, and that these services offenders in Australia is of interest to authorities in will be highly people-intensive for decades to come.
But, more broadly, when governments are bank teller or shop assistant may be rightly fearful that considering awarding us an important project, the fact technology will disintermediate their role, but a prison that other governments trust us to help them manage custody officer can sleep soundly in the knowledge that some of their most critical and secret areas of national his or her skills will be required for years to come.
security infrastructure is helpful in building confidence.
Market size Risk management is central to our thinking at both a strategic and an operational level.
In terms of strategy, People ask: how large is the market for the private sector although being a focused and specialist B2G business, provision of public services?
This is hard to determine we think it beneficial, and a competitive advantage, to with precision, as the boundaries of the market are diversify our exposure to individual governments and fiendishly hard to define.
Does the maintenance contract sectors.
Governments can be capricious: decisionfor a mainframe computer operated by the government making processes regularly come to a halt around fall within the definition of the market?
How should we elections: the attitude to using private companies can treat services provided by government-owned agencies be volatile: political priorities can change in the blink of operating on an arms-length basis?
Within Defence, do an eye, switching discretionary resources from defence we count supply and support of, say, missile systems, to immigration to healthcare and back again.
In this or just the types of services we currently as opposed environment, being diversified both by sector and to could supply?
And how do we disentangle the very geography reduces risk and volatility.
Most companies different definitions of, and accounting for, expenditure operating in our market are heavily focused in either a used by the various governments with whom we deal?
particular sector, or within a geography: in our market, In the last year we have done a lot of work to try and Serco is a rare beast, operating amongst five sectors and size the market in the sectors and geographies we four regions.
currently operate in, which are clearly a subset of the But management of risk is only one reason we favour a global market.
Our best guess is that the total annual strategy of operating across a number of jurisdictions value of government services in our target segments and sectors.
Governments across the world face similar and geographies which could be provided by the private challenges, and we believe that we can gain competitive sector is around 300bn, of which around 100bn is advantage and deliver value to customers by operating delivered by private companies.
At a detailed operational level, providing on the absolute number, some key conclusions from our cleaning and catering services in a hospital is very similar work are: in Western Australia and in Abu Dhabi.
In terms of the market for private sector delivery of government capability, many of our contracts employ hundreds, and services is very large: some, thousands, of people: so recruitment, training, staff rostering and time management are key capabilities the supply-side is fragmented: as a leading applicable across all our sectors and geographies.
international supplier, our market share within our The same is true of project and case management: we existing footprint, at around 3%, is small, although are also able to adopt consistent approaches to key it is larger in some specific segments within certain operational tools such as Continuous Improvement.
sectors:and there is significant opportunity for growth, given that around two-thirds of the services that could be provided by the private sector are currently selfdelivered by government.
09 Strategic Report Our Business continued Our core sectors Our business is focused on five sectors: Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, Health and Citizen Services.
Our revenues, jurisdictions by region and key services in each of these sectors are shown below.
Revenue in 2016 continuing operations, including share of 3,492m joint ventures and associates Justice & Defence Transport Health Citizen Services Immigration 1,112m 569m 606m 355m 850m 32% 16% 17% 10% 25% Regions UK & Europe Asia Pacific UK & Europe UK & Europe UK & Europe Americas UK & Europe Middle East Asia Pacific Americas Asia Pacific Americas Middle East Asia Pacific Middle East Asia Pacific Middle East Key Services Base and Custodial Rail and ferries Non-clinical Contact centres operational services support services and case Road traffic support management Immigration management Patient Engineering, detention and administration Middle and back Air traffic control management services and contact office services: IT and information services Detainee services transport and Employment and Maritime services monitoring skills services 10 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Implementing our strategy We combine people, processes and technology to deliver superb services.
Serco is not a process consultant or a technology business: we use process and technology as enabling tools, not as products to sell.
Furthermore, since processes and technology depend entirely on people, it can be simply said that the success of our strategy will depend upon how well we manage, organise, motivate, develop and select people.
is: by being the best-managed business in our sector.
Having such an ambition may sound trite, but we believe that it is a worthy and value-creating aspiration, and one that we can use to inspire our management teams and customers.
In any given circumstances, and whatever the slings and arrows of fortune, well-managed businesses do better than poorly-managed businesses, and the best-managed businesses do best of all.
We are great believers in succinctness and simplicity.
Accordingly, we have managed to fit our strategy and performance framework of what is a very complex and diverse business into a single graphic that we use throughout the business: Our performance framework Our values Trust Care Innovation Pride Our purpose what we want to be A trusted partner of governments, delivering superb public services that transform outcomes and make a positive difference for our fellow citizens Our organising principles Flair, agility, innovation Rigour, discipline Loose Tight management Empowerment Common processes Disciplined entrepreneurialism Decentralisation of execution Centralised intent Our method Winning good business A place people are proud to work Being the best-managed company in the sector Executing brilliantly Profitable and sustainable Our deliverables Engagement Revenue growth Trading margin 60% and increasing of 57% 56% 11 Strategic Report Our Business continued Our performance framework continued The purpose of the performance framework is to Our organising principles provide a structure which will deliver value to our Our organising principles have to reflect the fact that many customers, shareholders, and to the people who of the things our customers want are mutually exclusive: work in the business.
they want excellent and resilient services, delivered by highly motivated staff, but they want them to be low Our values cost: they want local accountability and flexibility, but Whilst we use technology and processes, the core they also want strong governance and risk management.
of our business is using people many thousands As a management team, we believe in the principle of of them to deliver public services.
It is of central subsidiarity: that decisions should be taken by managers importance to our success that our colleagues who are as close to the customer as possible.
But we many of whom are former public servants and our are also conscious of the fact that many of our contracts customers believe that we have values appropriate to carry with them risks that need careful management and a company delivering services funded by taxpayers to supervision.
So we describe our organising principles often vulnerable and disadvantaged citizens.
Working with two concepts: 'loose-tight', and 'disciplined at the leading edge of technology may be inspiring entrepreneurialism'.
Neither of these is our own invention: to people working for IT businesses, but they are not they are based on the work of, respectively, Tom Peters reasons why a prison officer makes a cup of tea for a and Jim Collins.
They describe in subtly different ways suicidal prisoner at two oclock in the morning: why a an approach to management which recognises the housing officer leaves the comfort of an office to walk need for both local management autonomy and strong a nervous asylum seekers child to school on their first governance.
Two quotations from their works give a taste day: why an engineer crawls into that impossibly small of the type of organisation we are trying to achieve: space in the foetid bowels of an aircraft-carrier to make sure the cable-ties are secured just right so they will Loose-Tight... is the co-existence of firm central direction stay in place for the next 20 years.
It is because they and maximum individual autonomy.
Organisations care about their work and take pride in it.
Before our that live by the loose-tight principle, are on the one hand customers will give us sensitive work, they have to rigidly controlled, yet at the same time allow indeed insist trust us.
"And to win business we have to come up with on, autonomy, entrepreneurship, and innovation from innovative solutions which will enable governments to their people. """
Tom Peters: In Search of Excellence deliver more, and better, for less.
This is why our Values Avoid bureaucracy and hierarchy and instead create a of Trust, Care, Innovation and Pride are important.
When you put two complementary forces together a culture of discipline with an ethic of entrepreneurship you get a magical alchemy of superior performance and sustained results.
Jim Collins: Good to Great Our method The method we use to deliver our aspiration to be the best-managed business in our sector and to deliver our strategy is to concentrate on doing four things really well.
These are the things we want Serco to be famous for: Being a place people Being profitable Winning good business Executing brilliantly are proud to work and sustainable We try to make sure that everything we do improves our performance against one or more of these objectives, and start from a position where we know we can do much better.
We can improve the way we bid and manage contracts: develop innovative propositions: measure performance: reduce the cost and improve the quality of our administrative systems and processes.
None of these comes easily or quickly, and we need to steer a tricky course between the urgent need to reduce our costs in line with reduced revenues in the short-term and investing in systems and processes that will produce sustainable benefits in the long-term.
12 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Our deliverables Progress to date The tangible evidence of our success or otherwise will In terms of progress towards our goals, in 2014 we be a return to industry rates of growth and margins.
In identified three distinct phases in the implementation of recent years our revenues have been shrinking and our our strategy.
The first phase Stabilisation recognised underlying trading margins are far too low at around the urgent need to recapitalise the business and restore 23%.
Our challenge, and our opportunity, is to get back customer and employee confidence following the to long-term industry rates of Revenue growth, which very significant write-downs following the realisation we believe are around 57%, and Trading Profit margins that Serco had a number of very heavily loss-making across Sercos mix of business in the range of 56%.
This phase was completed in 2014, and we are If this turns out to be correct, and markets turn out as now mid-way through the Transformation phase.
This will expected, we believe that after a period of restructuring be followed from 2018 by the Growth phase as we seek to and transformation, it will be possible to increase growth reap the rewards of Transformation and start our journey rates and margins towards the average of our peers.
back towards industry-average growth rates and margins.
Our Ambition To be a superb provider of public services by being the best-managed business in our sector 2014 Stabilise 20152017 Transform 20182020 Grow Planned Outcome Chosen sectors will Hire new management Strengthen balance sheet Harvest benefits grow at 57% of transformation Identify issues Rebuild confidence and trust Leverage scale Develop strategy and Improve risk management Industry margins in and capability implementation plan our sectors 56% Rationalise portfolio Build out geographical Undertake Contract and Mitigate loss-making contracts footprint We believe our Balance Sheet Review Strengthen sector propositions performance can Move into new Stabilise morale Re-build business development match this sub-segments Roll out corporate renewal and pipeline Continuously Build differentiated capability review portfolio Improve execution and cost efficiency In terms of progress in the Transformation phase: We continue to strengthen our sector propositions, most particularly through the work carried out by our We have successfully strengthened our balance sheet, new CoEs covering Health, Justice & Immigration, and following the Rights Issue completed in April 2015 Transport.
These CoEs have been heavily involved in and the disposal of our private sector BPO business: developing propositions to support major bids such together these raised over 700m, and our Net Debt: as Barts Health NHS Trust won in 2016, Doha and EBITDA now stands at 0.7x, with period-end net debt Riyadh metros, and Grafton prison in Australia.
reduced from 745m at the end of 2013 to 109m at Our pipeline of bidding opportunities has grown very the end of 2016. substantially from 5bn at the end of 2014 to 8.4bn We have made excellent progress rebuilding at the end of 2016.
This reflects a greatly improved confidence and trust with our major customers, business development capability.
in large part due to greatly improved operational We have succeeded in reducing the businesses' performance.
operating costs: in 2016 they were 1.1bn lower Portfolio rationalisation has been completed, than in 2013.
The majority of this reduction relates concluding with the disposal of the majority of our to costs removed from contracts which have ended private sector BPO business at the end of 2015. and businesses disposed of, but it is certainly an We continue to mitigate the impact of loss-making achievement to have reduced costs broadly in line contracts: we have always regarded our Onerous with revenues.
Improving our cost efficiency is a major Contract Provisions as a portfolio, knowing that the focus for us in 2017. actual out-turn on individual contracts would almost Summary certainly be different from the original estimates We believe we have the right strategy for our business, made at the end of 2014.
To the end of 2016, actual and to date we have held to our original implementation expenditure against the 447m of Onerous Contract plan.
So far, so good, but the real test of the strategy will Provisions has been very close to the original be our ability to start growing revenues and improving estimate, with 209m spent to date against the margins in the Growth phase of our plan.
