Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Company has complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code which can be found at www.
uk The notes below are intended to assist with the evaluation of the Groups compliance during 2016, although they should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report as a whole.
Effectiveness continued Mike Clasper was Senior Independent Director A.
The responsibilities of the The Board is responsible to Sercos A full, formal and tailored induction Senior Independent Director include meeting shareholders for promoting the long-term programme is provided to all Directors major shareholders as an alternative contact success of the Company and the operation appointed to the Board, which takes into to the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or of effective governance arrangements.
It account their qualifications and experience.
The role is oversees and agrees the Groups strategy and The Chairman reviews and agrees Directors' clearly established and a description of the key ensures that necessary resources are available, training and development needs.
responsibilities is published at www.
com and that the appropriate risk management During 2016, the Board received briefings controls, processes and culture are in place to The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive from their advisers of relevant topics deliver it.
As well as oversight, responsibility Directors without the Executive Directors designed to update Directors skills and for financial performance, internal control and present.
At least annually the Non-Executive knowledge in particular areas.
A number of risk management of the Group, there is a clear Directors, led by the Senior Independent the Non-Executive Directors also undertook schedule of matters reserved to the Board Director, meet without the Chairman present.
a programme of individual contract visits which is published on our website at www.
During the year, the Directors had no and Divisional management meetings com about  unresolved concerns about the running to support familiarity with the Groups The Board meets formally on a regular basis.
of the Company or any proposed action.
operations, and visit reports were shared All Directors are expected to attend all Board It is Company policy that any such with all Boardmembers.
and relevant Committee meetings in addition unresolved concern must be recorded to general meetings of the Company, including B.
5 Information and support in the Board minutes.
Details of the number of meetings The Directors have full access to the advice and held during 2016 and the Directors attendance services of the Company Secretary and may B.
Effectiveness are shown on page 78. obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense if they believe it may be All Directors are covered by the Groups B.
1 Composition of the Board required in the furtherance of their duties.
Directors and Officers Insurance policy.
There are currently five Non-Executive The Company Secretary is responsible to the Directors, in addition to the Chairman and three A.
2 Division of responsibilities Board on a number of issues and full details on Executive Directors on the Board.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive the Company Secretarys responsibilities are are separate and full descriptions, including key During the year as part of the Boards internal published at www.
com about  of each, are published at www.
evaluation process, the Board reviewed and-governance.
The appointment and removal serco.
com the overall balance of skills, experience, of the Company Secretary is a matter for the independence and knowledge of Board and Sir Roy Gardner, the Chairman, leads and is Board as a whole.
Committee members and their diversity, responsible for the balance and composition The Chairman, in conjunction with the including gender.
of the Board and its Committees, and ensures Company Secretary, ensures that all Board its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Rupert The Board considers all of its Non-Executive members receive timely, accurate and Soames, the Chief Executive, leads the business Directors to be independent and free of any effective information.
to develop and deliver the Groups strategy and business relationships that could compromise B.
6 Evaluation business plans as agreed with the Board.
the exercise of independent and objective In 2016, performance evaluations of the Board, judgement.
In accordance with the Code, A.
3 The Chairman its Committees and individual Directors were the Board undertakes an annual review of the The Chairman manages the Board and, in carried out internally.
Further details of the independence of its Non-Executive Directors.
consultation with the Company Secretary, sets evaluation can be found on page 79. the Boards agenda for the year.
2 Appointments to the Board arranged to ensure sufficient time is available Following the evaluation, the Directors John Rishton was appointed as a Nonfor the discussion of all items.
The Chairman concluded that the Board and its Committees Executive Director on 13 September 2016. facilitates open and constructive dialogue operated effectively and that each Director The appointment was led by the Nomination during the meetings.
The Chairman was contributes effectively and demonstrates Committee, who recommended Johns independent on appointment.
Further details regarding the process for Johns appointment A.
4 Non-Executive Directors External evaluation last took place in early 2015 are available in the report of the Nomination Non-Executive Directors are urged to challenge and it is the Boards intention to carry out an Committee on page 90. constructively and help develop proposals externally facilitated evaluation in 2017. on strategy, scrutinise the performance B.
7 Election Re-election of management in meeting agreed goals The time commitment of Non-Executive Each Director is subject to election at the first and objectives, and monitor the reporting Directors is defined on appointment and AGM following their appointment, and reof performance.
They are responsible regularly evaluated.
The Board is satisfied election at each subsequent AGM.
Accordingly for determining the remuneration of the that the current external commitments of its John Rishton will stand for election at the 2017 Executive Directors and have a key role in Chairman, Senior Independent and other AGM.
The Directors unanimously recommend the appointment and succession planning of Non-Executive Directors do not conflict with the election re-election of all Board members Executive roles.
their duties and time commitments as Directors at the 2017 AGM.
Full biographical details for all of the Company.
It is the Companys policy to Directors can be found on pages 74 and 75. allow each Executive Director to accept one non-executive directorship of anothercompany.
94 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements C. Accountability D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders C. 1 Financial and business reporting D. 1 The level and components E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders A statement of the Directors responsibilities of remuneration The Board recognises that meaningful regarding the financial statements, including The Remuneration Report on pages 96 to engagement with its institutional and retail the status of the Company as a going concern, 125 outlines the activities of the Committee shareholders is integral to the continued is set out on pages 129 and 130, with an during 2016 and sets out the Companys success of the Company.
The Executive explanation of the Groups strategy and Directors Remuneration Policy table, Directors and the Investor Relations team business model together with the relevant risks including relevant remuneration components regularly meet with analysts and major and performance metrics set out on pages 8 and how they support the achievement of investors to maintain effective dialogue.
The to 23. the strategic objectives of the Group.
The Chairman is available and has met with a Annual Remuneration Report outlines the number of major investors.
Throughout 2016 A further statement is provided on page 132 implementation of remuneration during 2016 the Board has sought actively to engage with confirming that the Board considers that including salary, bonus and share awards.
shareholders through meetings, presentations the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a and roadshows.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable The Remuneration Policy will be put to a and provides the information necessary binding shareholder vote at the AGM in 2017 E. 2 Constructive use of the AGM for shareholders to assess the Companys in accordance with the requirements of the UK The AGM will be held on 11 May 2017 and is an performance, business model and strategy.
The Board believes that the opportunity for shareholders to vote in person Groups proposed Remuneration Policy has on certain aspects of Group business.
The The Audit Committee report on pages 82 to a responsible approach to Directors pay and Board values the AGM as an opportunity to 89 sets out the details of the Committees that the Remuneration Policy as proposed is meet with those shareholders able to attend responsibility for ensuring the integrity of the appropriate and fit for purpose.
and to take their questions.
The Notice of AGM financial reporting process and the key matters is made available to all shareholders either considered during the year in respect of its D. 2 Procedure electronically or, where requested, in hard oversight of financial and business reporting.
The Board has delegated a number of copy and is available at www.
responsibilities to the Remuneration C. 2 Risk management Committee, including the setting of the Groups and internal control overall remuneration policy and strategy, as The Board, through the Group Risk well as the remuneration arrangements for Committee, has carried out a robust the Executive Directors and the Executive assessment of the principal risks facing the Committee.
Full details are set out in the terms Company, including those that would threaten of reference for the Committee published its business model, future performance, at www.
com and the activities of the solvency or liquidity.
Further details about Committee are set out in the Directors these risks and how they are managed and Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 125. mitigated can be found on pages 16 to 23.
The No Director is involved in setting his or her Viability Statement on page 24 explains how own remuneration.
the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company and concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
The Board determines the Companys risk appetite and has established risk management and internal control systems.
At least annually, the Board undertakes a review of their effectiveness.
Further details are set out on pages 16 to 17 and 80 to 81.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors The Audit Committee report on pages 82 to 89 sets out details of the composition of the Committee, including the expertise of members, and outlines how the Committee discharged its responsibilities during 2016.
In April 2016 the FRC published a new UK The Board has delegated a number of Corporate Governance Code the New responsibilities to the Audit Committee, Code following the implementation of including oversight of the Groups financial the European Unions Audit Regulation reporting processes and management of and Directive.
The Company will report the External Auditor.
Full details are set out against the New Code in respect of the in the terms of reference for the Committee, 2017 financial year.
