STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Group aims to embed its risk management The Group Executive Management Committee Risk is considered to be the fact that the Seniors operations have an increased The risk assessment process is designed to OVERALL APPROACH procedures within its existing business has responsibility for oversight of all Group outcome of a future event is typically uncertain, awareness of risk management and have provide a basis for the regular review of the Senior plcs risk philosophy is based around processes and corporate governance structure, operations and implementation of risk and consequently the result may not be as processes that promote consideration of risk operating environment and an opportunity to an acknowledgement that profits are in part rather than impose an additional administrative management at a Divisional level, and the planned.
The outcome may be favourable as part of day-to-day management.
This is assess whether the correct level of resources the reward for risk-taking.
Business objectives burden on its operations.
The implementation Senior plc Board is ultimately accountable or adverse to the one planned.
Hence risk evidenced by: are being targeted at the most appropriate cannot be achieved without assuming some of this Risk Management Philosophy is the implementation of effective risk assessment and risk management should areas.
In doing so, the intention is to encourage degree of risk, and therefore risk should be an open culture which encourages supported by an appropriate balance of policies, management procedures across the Group.
be considered in the light of both positive and proactive management and reduce the time embraced and managed effectively.
consultation throughout the Group: procedures including a mandatory Corporate negative outcomes.
The possibility of a missed spent in firefighting mode.
This should lead RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS challenging debate and a multi-disciplinary The Groups Risk Management Philosophy: Framework, comprising key group policies and opportunity is also a risk.
The outcome may be to fewer surprises and a greater understanding approach to acceptance of new business: During 2016, a number of improvements were a revised Code of Conduct and performance impacted by both internal and external factors, of the Groups competitive advantage, together aims to take a relatively conservative metrics that are reported on regularly and undertaken to improve the robustness of the some of which we may have little or no with the ability to take advantage of it.
identification of the factors constraining approach to risk management: Group Risk Assessment Process.
designed to enable the effective monitoring influence over.
Hence, it is important to assess current performance and formulation of In summary, the Senior Risk Management targets an approach that is one of evolution of progress against agreed objectives.
the relative impacts of the various influencing related corrective actions: A Head of Risk and Assurance joined the process is illustrated to the left.
rather than revolution: factors and manage those that can be devolved responsibility for identifying and At a minimum, the Group aims to ensure business in April 2016.
This is a new role for encourages pursuit of opportunities, within managed, whilst acknowledging, but not The process is led by the CEOs at each level managing risk: the Group.
The Group Risk Assessment that any individually significant event that: an effective risk management framework, ignoring, those that cant be.
in the organisation, although full management Process has been aligned more closely with simple and straightforward early warning as an essential component of a high has or may result in the potential to team involvement is required.
the Group Strategic Planning Process.
Risk Risk management is the process by which mechanisms e. g. key performance indicators performance culture: compromise its ability to achieve its mapping has been introduced to provide the the key objectives and the risks in achieving financial and non-financial : and The first review is carried out as a stand-alone business objectives: or acknowledges that stronger and more linkage between key strategic actions, key risks them are identified, evaluated, prioritised management meeting with all functional consistent and reliable reporting systems.
effective risk management procedures will could lead to a material breach of policies and the controls in place to manage the risk.
Each manager prepares an result in management teams being capable and procedures: or Following improvements to the Divisional and initial risk assessment covering his or her own of embracing increased levels of risk and Group-level Risk Assessments in 2015, good could impact the delivery of earnings area of responsibility, but potentially all areas of pursuing more opportunities: progress has been made in implementing the materially at a local operational level influence.
This is presented to the meeting for effectively implemented, should allow further controls identified.
Detailed analysis of constructive challenge.
The CEOs then take the is identified, reported on and actioned through each key risk and further actions required is Senior to increase its rate of performance role of arbiter and devils advocate, and are RISK FRAMEWORK the Groups risk management procedures.
delivery without exceeding its risk appetite: refreshed on an annual basis.
responsible for ensuring the completeness of High Impact a potential impact 10% of budgeted OP or 2.5% of revenue.
the review and the prioritisation of the items is designed to enhance senior leadership Risk events may occur in one or more of the Seniors annual Risk Management and Medium Impact a potential impact 5% of budgeted OP or 1.5% of revenue.
decision-making capabilities, strengthen following categories: Strategic, Operational, Assessment Process is based on a framework Low Impact a potential impact 5% of budgeted OP or 1% of revenue.
accountability and enhance stewardship Financial or Compliance.
developed by the Committee of Sponsoring The review documentation is laid out according of the Groups assets: and Organisations of the Treadway Commission to broad functional areas, which may not Within each operation, responsibility for the COSO.
The COSO framework is globally is a critical factor in enabling management necessarily align with the management implementation of procedures to comply teams to deliver against performance and recognised as the definitive standard against structure at each operation.
Hence it is the with the Groups risk philosophy and risk which operations measure their risk organisational objectives, collectively the responsibility of the CEO to ensure that all management framework rests with the senior Groups business objectives.
management and internal control systems.
areas of the business are covered in management team, which is accountable to It outlines five components that, in an effective appropriate detail.
the operations CEO and Divisional CEO.
system, work to support the achievement of an CONTROLLABLE ADEQUATE ACTION REQUIRED The typical questions to be asked and debated entitys mission, strategy and related business WITH LIMITS for each functional area are: objectives.
These are: Have there been any problems in the past?
Control Environment: How is the area controlled and can it DEFINE AND Risk Assessment: be improved?
COMMUNICATE Control Activities: STRATEGIC What impact would it have on the business Information and Communication: and OBJECTIVES and what is the probability of things Monitoring.
STRONG AND CONTROLLABLE IDENTIFY MONITOR, ADEQUATE AND EVALUATE EFFECTIVE WITH LIMITS Can either the likelihood or severity of the REVIEW The foundation of Seniors Risk Management RISKS AND impact of things going wrong be managed?
AND UPDATE approach is a half-yearly Risk Assessment OPPORTUNITIES Should an action plan be devised?
Review, although risks are continuously SENIOR RISK monitored by the Executive Committee and Once the review has been undertaken and the Board.
In addition, all entities complete MANAGEMENT risks identified, these are then assessed an Annual Controls Self-Assessment, which PROCESS against the framework opposite.
is designed to highlight any significant gaps EVALUATE in the internal control system and require The impact is not only considered in current EXISTING STRONG AND STRONG AND IMPLEMENT ADEQUATE development of improvement initiatives.
year financial terms, but also in more strategic PROCESSES, EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE CHANGES CONTROLS AND terms, which encompasses the need to build RESOURCES relationships with all stakeholders including IDENTIFY employees, customers and suppliers for the IMPROVEMENTS longer-term success of the business.
AND ALLOCATE RESPONSIBILITY Low 10% Medium 10-50% High 50% LIKELIHOOD OF OCCURRENCE 24 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 25 IMPACT OF OCCURRENCE Low 1 Medium 2 High 3 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Three lines of defence on assurance OUR INTEGRATED GROUP RISK The Third Line of Defence AND ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK PRINCIPAL GROUP RISKS Independent Assurance Top down and bottom up approach Following a thorough review of the Groups risk profile, the relative ranking of some risks has changed.
As a result, when compared with 2015, The Second Line of Defence on risk two new principal risks have been added and one, global cyclical downturn, is no longer considered to be a principal risk.
The principal potential Operational Oversight Oversight from the Board and Executive risks and uncertainties, together with actions that are being taken to mitigate each risk, are set out below: Committee on all risk identification, The First Line of Defence assessment and mitigation is undertaken Operational Management at all levels within the Group.
Increased risk Decreased risk Constant risk N New risk 1 2 3 4 5 6 Areas of strategic focus as described on pages 16 and 17 RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK Key responsibilities Has overall responsibility for ensuring the Group risk management process NEW AIRCRAFT PLATFORM DELAYS 2 3 and systems of internal control are robust and continuously monitored Significant shipset content has been secured The Group monitors programme development and launch timing of new aircraft platforms very Formulates the Groups strategy and defines the Groups risk appetite and culture on a number of new aircraft platforms closely, utilising internal customer relationships and market intelligence.
Monitors the nature, extent and management of risk exposure for the Groups currently under development or in initial A cautious approach is taken to both capital investment in new programmes, to minimise the principal risks phases of production.
These include the time between installation and utilisation of new capital equipment, and to the projected build THE Airbus A350, A320neo, the Boeing 737 Provides direction and sets the tone on the importance of risk management rates and associated revenue in financial projections.
BOARD MAX and Bombardiers CSeries regional jet.
B oard and Executive Sub-Committees perform oversight activities in line The growing breadth of Seniors exposure to a comprehensive and diverse range of aerospace Delays in the launch or ramp-up in and land vehicle platforms, together with its broad exposure in global industrial markets, means with their Terms of Reference production of these platforms could have a that the Groups future organic growth profile is not overly dependent on any individual new material adverse impact on the Groups rate Remuneration Nominations HSE Treasury aircraft platform.
Committee Committee Committee Committee 2 3 4 5 IMPORTANCE OF EMERGING MARKETS Supports and challenges the Board in monitoring risk exposure in line Customers desire to move manufacture of The Groups strategy of developing a portfolio of high value-added engineering manufacturing with its Terms of Reference components to lower-cost countries could companies has meant that over time it has generally evolved away from products where the render the Groups operations uncompetitive direct threat of lower-cost country manufacture is significant.
Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal and have an adverse impact on profitability.
control systems The Group successfully employs a strategy of retaining commercial and engineering expertise GROUP AUDIT In addition, certain customers require global close to customers locations, principally in North America and Europe.
This enables effective Independent Assurance the Third Line of Defence COMMITTEE programme support as they respond to support to be readily given to its customers, whilst increasing manufacturing at above-average increasing domestic demand in a number External Group Risk Other External growth rates in lower-cost country locations where it makes sense to do so and with Audit and Assurance Assurance of these emerging markets.
The Group has an increasing presence in emerging markets via its facilities in Mexico, Thailand, the Czech Republic, South Africa, Brazil, India, Malaysia and China.
Operational Oversight the Second Line of Defence Each of these operations, individually and in combination, has a healthy number of viable Development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, opportunities for further expansion either to supply domestic markets or to support customers procedures and budgets increasingly global needs.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Monitoring of operating and financial performance DIVISIONAL 1 3 4 PRICE-DOWN PRESSURES Assessment and control of risk including emerging risks MANAGEMENT Customer pricing pressure is an ongoing The Group works closely with its customers to find innovative ways to produce products at Prioritisation and allocation of resources challenge within our industries, driven by the a lower cost, thus helping them to meet pricing challenges.
expectations of airlines, land vehicle operators The Group is able to consider bundles of products that in total help achieve customer and governments seeking to purchase more pricing challenges.
Lead and co-ordinate Group risk and control related processes competitively priced products in the future.
Where appropriate, the Group will actively pass work to some of its lower-cost facilities such Assesses and supports the Group in mitigating the Groups This will continue to put pressure on the as Mexico, Thailand, the Czech Republic, South Africa, Brazil, India, China and Malaysia with risks including: Groups future operating margins.
GROUP a view to helping satisfy customer challenges.
CORPORATE Policies and Control Specialist Business FUNCTIONS Procedures Self-Assessments Support Reviews O perational Management the First Line of Defence Business units identify, assess and mitigate their key risks Risk assessments are reviewed and discussed by BUSINESS UNITS Divisional Management.
26 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 27 RISK OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL OVERSIGHT AND INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE
