Strategic Report Viability Statement In accordance with provision C2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over the three-year period to 31 December 2019.
The Directors believe that a three-year period is The Group continues to deliver on the strategic appropriate for Serco since it reflects the fact that priorities it set out at the time of the Rights Issue the Group has limited visibility of contract bidding and is continuing to embed these into the business.
opportunities beyond three years, which could be It is expected that revenue growth and margin exacerbated by the recent political changes in the improvements will be seen in the latter years of the United Kingdom and the United States, and that five-year plan, although this is dependent in part on approximately 40% of current year revenue relates to the external market as well as our ability to win new contracts where the contract term potentially comes to contracts whilst reducing the cost base.
The Groups an end within three years.
Furthermore, the Group is Balance Sheet has been strengthened significantly in the early stages of implementing a new strategy to following the Rights Issue and sale of the private sector improve its performance.
offshore BPO business, and net debt as at December 2016 was at 109.3m.
The sales pipeline is improving Assessing the longer term viability of any company although net revenue attrition is still possible which at this early stage of a new strategy implementation could impact on profit and cash generation.
The is inevitably a challenge, particularly given the Group is also bidding on some significant contract recent history of the Group, as explained in previous opportunities where the ability to deliver good-quality shareholder communications, and the onerous services whilst maintaining reasonable pricing and contracts which exist.
commercial terms are key to ensuring their long-term profitability.
The Groups base projections indicate that The Board and the Group Risk Committee continue to debt facilities and projected headroom are adequate monitor the principal risks facing the Group, including to support the Group over the next three years.
In those that would threaten the execution of its strategy, testing the headroom available under the key sensitives business model, future performance, solvency and modelled, the Directors have assumed that the Group liquidity.
Management and mitigations of those refinances the portion of the revolving credit facility principal risks have been taken into consideration RCF maturing in April 2019 under similar terms.
when considering the future viability of the Group.
The Groups principal risk review, as set out on pages 16 to The Groups financial plan has been stress-tested 23, considers the impact of these principal risks and against key sensitivities which could materialise as the mitigating controls that are in place.
a result of the crystallisation of one or many of the Groups principal risks, the objective being that the In assessing the prospects of the Group over the threefuture viability of the Group is tested against severe but year period, the Directors have also considered the plausible scenarios.
It is unlikely, but not impossible, Groups current financial position as well as its financial that the crystallisation of a single risk would test the projections in the context of the Groups debt facilities future viability of the Group: however, unsurprisingly, and associated covenants.
These financial projections and as with many companies, it is possible to construct are based on a bottom-up Budget exercise for 2017 scenarios where either multiple occurrences of the same and 2018 which has been approved by the Board, and risk, or single occurrences of different significant risks, a more top down view aligned to the Groups strategic could put pressure on the Groups ability to meet its objectives for 2019. financial covenants.
At this point, the Group would look to address the issue by exploring a range of options including, amongst others, a temporary or permanent renegotiation of the financial covenants, disposals of parts of the Groups operations to reduce net debt and or raising additional capital in the form of equity, subordinated debt or other such instruments.
24 S Se er rc co G o Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A Annu nnua all R Re ep por ort t a and nd A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 01 16 6 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Subject to these risks and on the basis of the analysis undertaken, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
In doing so, it is recognised that such future assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that increases further out in time and, therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
The Directors have made the following key assumptions in connection with this assessment: There is no significant unexpected contract attrition of existing work that becomes due for extension or re-bid over the next three years: There is no significant reduction in scale of existing contract operations as a result of policy or otherchanges: There is no significant deterioration in new bid win rates from those anticipated: The Group is able to complete the execution of its strategy, including further transformation in 2017 and making progress to revenue growth and margin improvement from 2018 onwards: and The Group is not subject to any material penalties or direct and indirect costs and or losses arising from the current SFO investigation.
