28 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 REGULATED Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 29 Regulated Water and Waste Water business model Our regulated water and waste water business The framework on which we build our activities works within five year planning cycles that consists of a package of 45 performance are determined by our economic regulator, commitments that are largely unique to us Ofwat.
Each of these periods is called an Asset and agreed with Ofwat.
Of these, 33 Outcome Management Plan AMP and allows us to Delivery Incentives ODIs reward us for doing fund our investment programme and cover our the right thing for customers, improving services operating costs.
This was the first year of AMP6.
and being more efficient, or conversely penalise us for failing to do so.
Our prices and asset base are adjusted by ination each year.
Under certain circumstances, This is consistent with our own strategic for example where there is a material change in framework, which focuses on embedding costs due to factors that are beyond our control, customers at the heart of all we do: driving we can request a price review during the AMP.
operational excellence and continuous innovation: investing responsibly for sustainable growth: changing the market for the better: andcreating an awesome place to work.
The resources and relationships critical to our succes s Read more on Page 31 Our value chain Water is collected Water is cleaned Clean water is distributed We pay the Environment Our 133 groundwater and A 47,000 km network of pipes Agencyand Natural Resources 22 surface water treatment and enclosed storage Wales for the water we collect works clean raw water to reservoirs bring a continuous fromreservoirs, rivers and the highest standards making supply of clean water right underground aquifers across it safe to drink.
Waste water is treated and Waste water is collected Customers enjoy our services returned to the environment Our 92,000 km of sewers and We serve 4.3 million businesses Waste water is carefully pumping stations collect and households with a safe, screened, ltered and treated waste water from homes and reliable supply of water and in our 1,027 sewage treatment businesses from outside collect waste water 24 hours works to meet stringent properties and drains.
Wepay the Environment Agency and Natural Resources Wales annual consent fees to return the treated water to the water system.
Investment and maintenance Read more on Page 32 Associated risks Read more on Page 31 30 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Regulated Water and Waste Water business performance review Our employees Critical to our success We are rmly committed in our purpose to serve Putting customers first our communities and to build a lasting water We serve 4.3 million households and businesses legacy.
In order to do this, we need to create in the heart of the UK, in an area stretching from an awesome place to work for our colleagues the Bristol Channel to the Humber, and from and as part of this, we recognise that diversity mid-Wales to the East Midlands.
Our customers and inclusion are important for our success.
consume almost 2 billion litres of water every We need our workforce to reect the customers day and rely on us to collect almost as much and communities we serve, so that we can better waste water some 1.4 billion litres daily.
understand and respond to their needs.
Customers are at the heart of all we do.
There are several aspects to this.
For one, it They trust us to ensure that their water is not means encouraging and celebrating diversity in only available 24 hours a day, but is also always all of its forms including gender, race, national safe to drink.
origin, disability status and social background.
Secondly, to help us make meaningful progress, During the year, we have increased our water we have prioritised three key areas: women in quality standards compliance to 99.96%, an operational leadership positions: women and improvement on 99.94% in 2014.
We also BAME Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic people reduced the number of pollution incidents and in engineering positions: and BAME people in made significant reductions in both internal and technical operator positions.
We are also driving a better working Our customers pay the lowest combined water environment for our colleagues through our and waste water bills in Britain, at 329 p. a. enhanced training and development initiatives in 2015 16 2014 15: 333.
We also continuously such as our Awesome Leaders Programme.
work hard to help our vulnerable customers who have difficulty paying their bills, through a number of schemes.
More details can be found on page 32.
What a big difference the Big Difference Scheme can make One of our customers had been diagnosed with breast cancer, and as her partner suffered from dementia and was unable to work, when her sickness pay from her employer ceased, the couple were worried about how they would manage future payments.
They had paid all but 40 of their water charges, and therefore their application for a trust fund grant had been declined.
The Trustees identied that they were eligible for the Big Difference Scheme and referred them successfully.
At a difficult time, they were delighted to hear that Severn Trent wereable to ease their financial burden and reduce their bills for 2016 17.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 31 Regulatory framework Associated risks Ofwat, the industrys economic regulator, sets limits on the prices we can charge our customers during each five year AMP period.
Each phase of the value chain on page 29 presents Ofwat was founded at the time the industry risks as well as opportunities.
It is our job to maximise was privatised and since then has incentivised companies to deliver better services at a lower opportunities while anticipating and mitigating the cost, whilst ensuring efficient companies associated potential and existing risks.
Standards for water, waste water and the Water is collected environment are consistent across the European Union.
In England, the Department for the Principal risk ref 7 and 8 Key asset failure could result in injuries, damage Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra Read more Pages 51 and 52 to property and or disruption of water supply.
sets the overall water and sewerage policy framework.
In Wales the policy framework is set Water is cleaned by the Welsh Government.
We also work closely with a variety of other Principal risk ref 6 and 7 During this phase, a failure of key assets or Read more Page 51 public bodies: processes may cause a decline in water quality or disrupt our supply to customers.
The Consumer Council for Water speaks on Principal risk ref 8 behalf of all water consumers in England and The use of potentially hazardous chemicals Read more Page 52 Wales.
As such, it advises consumers and orprocesses may also result in injuries.
takes up complaints on their behalf.
The Environment Agency allows us to collect Clean water is distributed water from reservoirs, rivers and aquifers and return it to the environment after it has been Principal risk ref 1 and 6 Distribution performance could fall below the Read more Pages 48 and 51 used by our customers and treated by us.
required standards, resulting in poor customer Natural Resources Wales is the environmental service and increasing the risk of leakage from regulator in Wales.
It ensures that Wales our network.
natural resources are sustainably maintained, enhanced and used.
Customers enjoy our services Natural England advises the Government on Principal risk ref 1 the natural environment in England and helps A failure to improve or maintain our performance Read more Page 48 to protect nature and the landscape, with could result in customer disappointment.
particular responsibility for freshwater and marine ecologies.
Waste water is collected The Health and Safety Executive helps us Principal risk ref 7 to eliminate dangers to our employees Sewer ooding could be the result of failing Read more Page 51 and customers.
todeal effectively with customer waste.
The Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI provides independent reassurance that Waste water is treated and returned to the environment water supplies in England and Wales are safe and drinking water quality is acceptable Principal risk ref 8 Operational failures during this phase could Read more Page 52 to consumers.
The DWIs remit includes result in damage to the local environment.
water quality audits, a regulatory strategy to Potentially hazardous processes and Principal risk ref 8 further improve drinking water, enforcement Read more Page 52 substances may result in people being injured.
processes and science and policy.
32 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Regulated Water and Waste Water business performance review Embedding customers Investment and at the heart of all we do maintenance Severn Trent customers pay the lowest average combined water and waste water bills in Britain With a wholesale capital programme for and will continue to do so throughout AMP6.
the year of almost 500 million, our average Our average combined bill in 2015 16 was spend was 113 per connected property.
329 2014 15: 333, which equates to a 1.2% Expenditure encompassed nding and xing reduction.
Our challenge is to strike the right more leaks, reducing the number of pollution balance between keeping bills affordable for incidents and improving our water and waste todays generation and investing in our network water treatment plants.
Additional upgrades to and assets to ensure they remain affordable for our sewer network also reduced incidents of future generations.
We have worked to help our customers who We funded this programme of essential work have difficulty in paying.
Whilst we didnt through customer bills, the profits we generated meet our target, we were able to assist 24,110 from being efficient and through borrowings customers through a variety of schemes.
In some cases, through our new social tariff, The amounts we invest in improving and the Big Difference Scheme, we have been able maintaining our networks, together with the other to provide reductions of up to 90% for qualifying costs of operating the business, form the total customers.
Through carefully selected third expenditure of the business Totex.
Part of our party organisations, we also make available debt Totex is included in the calculation of current year management advice to help our customers who prices and the remainder is added to our asset are in difficulty get back on track.
base, called the Regulated Capital Value RCV.
In 1997, the Severn Trent Trust Fund was During AMP6, we aim to increase returns to our established to provide assistance for those in the shareholders through the potential created by most financial difficulty.
This independent body Outcome Delivery Incentives ODIs.
The ODI aids people in arrears with their water bills and framework means that if we deliver higher can also provide help with essential household service levels where our customers value it bills or costs.
Since its incorporation we have most, we are rewarded for a year.
In 2015 16 donated more than 56 million for the benefit we laid the foundation for potential rewards via of 550,000 people across our region who have ODI outperformance.
fallen behind with their payments.
This financial year, we have donated 3.5 million to the Fund.
In order to keep bills affordable, where possible Regulated Water and we work to ensure that everyone who can pay, Waste Water business does, so they dont increase the burden on others.
During the year we reduced our level of performance bad debts to 1.5% of turnover, one of the best We are rmly committed to delivering even performances in the sector.
better value for money, improved services and a In 2015 16 we began a more in-depth healthier environment between 2015 and 2020. engagement with our customers on a range We aim to inspire trust among our customers by of issues, such as bill design and how we maintaining and expanding a water system on communicate.
This included a survey of over which they know they can rely upon: clean, safe, 15,000 respondents, involving a much wider reliable and responsive to their needs.
cross-section of our customers than weve ever reached before, achieved through more frequent In this section, we explain how our regulated and effective communication.
business performed during the last 12 months, as well as the actions were taking to achieve We have listened to our customers comments success during this AMP.
and have made our billing information simpler and introduced more convenient ways to pay.
In response to feedback that customers wanted greater availability and accessibility of communications channels, we broadened access, setting up a webchat facility that has so far engaged in over 100,000 chats.
We expanded our Twitter feed to be a 24 7 operation to better suit customers needs.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 33 We have also committed to investigate the In 2015, to expand our water catchment 1 underlying causes of complaints and act on management programme, we recruited eight them in anticipation of problems.
This effort new agricultural advisers.
These experts, is paying off.
This year, household written together with other environmental colleagues, complaints were down by 29%.
work closely with farmers throughout the Severn Trent region to promote better land Enhancing customer experience through the management.
With help from our agricultural intelligent use of customer data, current and advisers, more farmers are now using future technologies will be an important part of acceptable substitutes or channelling their our approach during AMP6.
Were continuing 1 We conducted a mini competition for contaminated water to prevent it joining streams the Birmingham Resilience Project to to invest in and develop systems, which will get the best prices from our One Supply and rivers.
This initiative not only helps the draw together the key elements of customer Chain to procure a new tunnel boring environment, but also, by reducing the run-off machine, outperforming our 20% insights, people, processes and systems efficiency target.
of pesticides into our natural raw water sources, to provide a consistent experience to our helps to reduce our treatment costs.
customers regardless of their choice of channel.
Increasing our knowledge of each customer will Our performance commitment score for Asset 2015 16 household help us to predict their needs, so we can offer Stewardship Environmental Compliance was written complaints down them a more personalised service.
This will also 97.51% for the year.
This fell just short of 100% support our colleagues to resolve more queries compliance, largely as a result of the time it first time.
takes to see the required ow conditions to 29% confirm the improvements we have made.
Ofwats Service Incentive Mechanism SIM is an important indicator of how good our Globally there is increased focus on mitigating customer service is.
The SIM score has two the risk of climate change.
During the year, elements qualitative and quantitative.
This year we reduced our overall Severn Trent Water SIM is based on household customers only Limited carbon emissions to 484 kilotonnes of and the overall score calculation is weighted at CO e, a reduction of 1%, compared to 2014 15 2 75% qualitative and 25% quantitative.
Despite this reduction however, reporting a company SIM score of 83.7. we have not met our stretching ODI target for the year.
More information on our greenhouse gas Investing responsibly impact can be found on page61.
We hope to continue the strong start weve made Renewable energy is an important part of our to the current regulatory period, and plans are now in place to improve our performance further approach to sustainability.
We will be investing up to 190 million to reach our 2020 target of throughout AMP6.
producing the equivalent of half of our energy Our 300 million Birmingham Resilience needs from renewable sources.
We use a range project, due for completion in 2020, is our, and of technologies such as anaerobic digestion of the sectors, biggest single capital investment sewage sludge, food waste and crops as well scheme for this AMP.
It will create a second as wind turbines, hydropower and solar panels.
major source of water for the UKs second largest We lead the industry in this effort.
Once operational, the new, state-of-the-art We remain on target to deliver our renewables facility will supplement water owing through the existing Elan Valley Aqueduct, a Victorian commitment.
This year we have invested in solar arrays at over 30 sites, erected two new wind landmark.
Having this alternative source in place will enable us to divert supply in order to carry turbines and we have started construction on our second food waste anaerobic digestion site out maintenance and repairs to the full 74 mile length of the aqueduct.
This restoration and at Roundhill, Staffordshire.
We are also investing in Thermal Hydrolysis Process technology to modernisation will keep the aqueduct going for at least another century, creating a lasting legacy extract even more energy from our sewage sludge before we recycle it to agricultural land.
for the next generation and ensuring the security of Birminghams water supply.
More on our renewable energy initiatives can be found in the Business Services performance We share our customers desires for a cleaner, review onpage 36. greener future that protects and improves our environment for generations to come.
During the year, we invested 91 million towards our targets on pollution, environmental compliance, biodiversity and sustainable sewage treatment.
This forms part of a larger 250 million programme for AMP6 that will help ensure our assets are not preventing compliance with the Water Framework Directive.
34 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Regulated Water and Waste Water business performance review This year we set a target of meeting 70% of xed Driving operational excellence 1 visible leakage, where safe to do so, in 24 hours.
andcontinuous improvement Whilst we improved to 53%, we have more to do For our customers, being able to rely on the to meet this challenging commitment.
quality of the water we supply to their homes andbusinesses is their highest priority.
Over the course of the year, customers experienced an average of 11 minutes 10 To improve water quality, we have made seconds without supply, compared to an average substantial investment in our water treatment of 9 minutes 54 seconds the year before.
During the year, a total of 72 million 2 was targeted at reducing water quality Although rare, a sewer ooding is one of the complaints, compliance with drinking water worst things that can happen to a household.
quality standards and reducing coliforms.
Whether it involves a backup within the property Improvements include the installation of eight itself or an overow from beyond the perimeter, ultraviolet sterilisers at groundwater works, the upheaval and damage can have a significant as part of our wider operational effectiveness and unpleasant impact.
We therefore plan to programme.
We have undertaken the sectors increase our spend targeted at reducing such most rigorous levels of testing, with sampling for events, from 110 million in AMP5 to the current 1 As a reminder to our employees that coliform bacteria done as frequently as every 10 even one injury is too many, a Goal Zero 135 million.
Clock is now available on every desktop to 15 minutes at our critical sites.
During 2015, to keep everyone aware of their role in In 2015 16 we accelerated our investment in we improved drinking water quality standards perpetuating our safety culture, and to ood prevention and mitigation, and as a result, to 99.96%, which was below our target, but an report any safety incidents as they occur.
we were able to gain a better understanding improvement on 99.94% in 2014 15.
We have 2 Our new lime plant at Frankley was of the cause of sewer oods and how best to installed as part of a much wider also seen an improvement in coliform detection, programme to improve water supply to prevent them in future.
Looking at a decade of down to five sites this year, compared to 13 customers in Birmingham.
The plant data, we also identied hotspots throughout sites the year before.
The incident at Castle was designed and constructed off-site, reducing on-site work from three the region and have focused our investment and Donington in March 2016 however shows months totwo weeks.
that there remains much work to be done to consistently deliver the services our customers Thanks to these efforts, Severn Trent had rightly deserve.
31% fewer internal sewer oods, down from 1,168 in 2014 15 to 804 in 2015 16 and a 28% Discolouration, while usually harmless, can be drop in external ooding during the year, off-putting for our customers.
More often than down from 9,896 in 2014 15 to 7,142 in 2015 16. not, it is caused by changes in ow, which can These improvements were ahead of target, loosen harmless iron sediments from within the and built on the advances already made in the pipes.
During the year, we increased our pipe previous year.
This helped to reduce We have reduced sewer blockages by 4%, which complaints about water discolouration.
We still has been achieved in part through education had more than 7,000 discolouration contacts in programmes that help customers understand 2015 16, so we recognise that we have more to how they can prevent blockages, 75% of which do tomeet our targets.
are caused by customers putting the wrong items down the sink or toilet.
Every year it costs We have reduced total leakage and have us 10 million to clean over 700km of sewers, achieved our regulatory commitment for the so helping customers understand how they can fifth year running.
Our Valuing Every Drop help prevent blockages also lessens the cost programme has been part of this success.
It informs customers of the challenges we all face due to greater variability in weather patterns and more frequent episodes of extreme weather.
Our shared goal with customers is to reduce unnecessary usage and to do everything we reasonably can to x leaks as quickly as possible.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 35 The Environment Agency has provisionally Our new recognition scheme, Our Brilliant Only one year into assessed our overall environmental People provides a new, online way of AMP6, we can already performance at 4.
If confirmed, this would recognising individuals exemplary performance be the second time in the past three years.
So far, we see how adherence to We have also increased our efforts in preventing have had 14,764 such recognitions.
During the course of the year our less framework is delivering Our initiatives for greater involvement, serious spills classied by the Environment recognition and empowerment are working.
better outcomes for Agency as category 3 were down by 21%, In 2015 we reviewed and replaced our existing our customers, our whilemore serious incidents categories 1 & 2 employee surveys into a single global survey to were reduced by 80%.
communities and for give us new insights into employee engagement the environment.
Throughout 2015 16, we have sought to and thinking.
For its first year we are delighted enlist customer support to involve them that response rates have remained strong with more closely in what we do.
That is why we the overall response rate at 80%.
Our highest launched a number of customer focused apps.
performing areas for 2015 16 were health and Compliance with drinking These include In My Street, which provides safety: customer focus: diversity and inclusion water quality standards alerts to people of local water repair work and and corporate social responsibility.
We remain gives them the opportunity to adapt their travel determined to further improve our scores and domestic arrangements accordingly, which next year.
Utility Week cited as among the sectors best.
99.96% We take a long term view of our business Another app, Track My Job, supplies real-time 2014: 99.94% and are active in seeking out tomorrows updates on repairs, which means that customers talent particularly among women and BAME can keep constant focus on the latestsituation candidates for jobs in engineering and technical around any of the jobs or issues that theyve operations roles.
We recognise that diversity raised with us.
and inclusion are important for success and Creating an awesome place to work have always made them a business imperative.
Our Severn Trent Water Limited workforce Safety is an ongoing priority, which we have embedded into daily working life as well as remains slightly more diverse than the sector average, with female employees accounting safety in our supply chain.
We have made improvements in a number of areas, but have for 30.3% of the total compared with 30% across the industry.
7.64% of our employees fallen short of where we need to be in others.
Our year end Lost Time Injury LTI rate was are BAME against an industry average of 6%.
More information on diversity can be found 0.25 across both Severn Trent Water Limited and our supply chain.
This is slightly worse than within the Nominations Committee report and our Corporate Responsibility report on pages the previous years LTI of 0.21 per 100,000 hours worked.
Overall accidents reduced by 25% 81 and 63 respectively.
Further information on human rights issues forthe Group can be found this year.
At Severn Trent, a core value is to create an awesome place to work.
For our employees Outlook that means being part of an organisation that Only one year into AMP6, we can already celebrates diversity and individual thinking, seehow the new regulatory framework is provides recognition and reward whenever it is delivering better outcomes for our customers, due and offers opportunities for advancement our communities and for the environment.
and job enrichment through professional and Our other stakeholders investors and personal development.
During the past year, we employees are also benefiting, as ODI have made progress in all of these aspects of performance and a growing RCV provide working life.
The investments we are currently making During the year, we delivered more than 15,000 training days in our UK water business.
are yielding improved water and waste water services throughout our region for todays We undertook a comprehensive review of personal development plans for all senior customers, and we intend to continue improving our services so that tomorrows customers can leaders and line managers and devised tailored development programmes.
On the technical also reap the benets for generations to come.
side, weve provided training to all our staff on the importance of protecting drinking water quality.
