02 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 What we do SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS AND COMMUNITIES We are committed to putting customers at the heart of all we do.
Our customers will always come first in our thinking and planning as we deliver our day-to-day business, working together tirelessly to serve our communities.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 03 04 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 What we do Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 05 BUILDING A LASTING WATER LEGACY We are dedicated to ensuring a sustainable future for water and our environment.
By recognising the growing challenges and pressures on resources: by investing in smarter, more efficient ways to supply the network and by adopting greener, renewable energy to support our operations, we demonstrate a commitment beyond serving the needs of today to securing a legacy for generations to come.
06 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 What we do EARNING THE TRUST OF ALL We are committed to earning the trust of everyone we serve.
We will do this by transforming our service today, driving operational improvements and shaping the future of our industry for tomorrow, for the mutual benefit of our customers, communities, investors and employees.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 07 08 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 What we do Severn Trent provides clean water and waste water services through our businesses, Severn Trent Water andSevern Trent Business Services Regulated Water and Waste Water About us Wholesale operations One of the largest of the 10 regulated water and waste water companies in England and Wales.
and engineering We provide high quality services to more than4.3 million households and businesses Household customer services in the Midlands and mid-Wales.
For further details Page 28 Severn Trent Business Services About us UK Operating Services incl.
Italy and Ireland Business retail UK Operating Services provides contract services and operating services tomunicipal and industrial clients and the UK Ministry of Defence MOD for design, build and Green energy operation of water and waste water treatment facilities and networks.
Retail services are also New water markets provided to UK businesses.
For further details US Operating Services Page 36 US Operating Services provides contract services to community, municipal and industrial clients for the operation and maintenance ofwater and wastewater treatment facilities and networks.
Renewable Energy Severn Trent Business Services generates renewable energy from wind turbines, anaerobic digestion, hydropower andsolar technology.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 09 Key facts Where we operate Our region stretches Turnover Litres of drinking water across the heart of the supplied each day UK, from the Bristol 1,5061m.
Channel to the Humber, 1.8bn profit and from mid-Wales to Litres of waste water the East Midlands.
Before interest, tax and exceptional items 1.4bn Households and Employees businesses served 5,080 4.3m as at 31 March 2016 Key facts Where we operate Severn Trent Business Services includes our core businesses Turnover operating in the UK, theUS, and Europe.
674.6m profit, 38.2m Employees 1,968 as at 31 March 2016 New segmental basis Before interest, tax and exceptional items
