36 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BUSINESS SERVICES Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 37 Business Services business model Severn Trents Business Services portfolio Head start allows us to apply our water and waste water services knowledge to create and deliver In April 2017, the non-household retail market services to UK and international municipal, will open up to competition in England.
At this industrial and commercial customers.
point non-household customers including businesses, charities, and public sector Business Services has had a strong year organisations will be able to choose their delivering revenue of 674.6 million and water and waste water retailer who will provide underlying PBIT of 38.2 million.
billing services and general customer service.
In July 2015, we completed the disposal of our The existing water and sewerage companies Water Purication business to Industrie fide Nora will continue to provide the wholesale service, S. P. A. in a transaction valued at US$99 million including water treatment, water distribution, 61.9 million.
waste water collection through the sewers and waste water treatment, to the retailers and nonhousehold customers.
The resources and relationships critical to our succes s Read more on Page 31 Our value chain Identify and develop opportunities Create products and services Identify and develop opportunities in Create products and services that help our Business Services markets.
clients manage their water and energy needs.
Maximise our return Build strong and respected brands Maximise our return on investment through Build strong and respected brands that are long term contracts and service agreements customer focused and recognised across and cross dissemination of our products.
Operating services Read more on Page 39 Renewable energy Read more on Page 39 Associated risks Read more on Page 40 38 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Business Services performance review Market opening is an important development Equally important are the lessons we have In March 2016 we were in the water industry, arguably the biggest learned from the experience.
We now have a delighted to announce since privatisation, and in March 2016 we were better idea of what works, and what doesnt, delighted to announce our joint venture with when selling our water supply services on a our joint venture, United Utilities to create a dedicated business to competitive basis.
These lessons are serving Water Plus, with United compete in this market.
We believe the business us well and we will take them into the joint Utilities to compete will bring together our strengths and also deliver venture as we prepare to compete for the bigger in the non-household efficiencies that will result in an exciting offer combined Scottish and English non-household retail market.
for customers and represent greater value retail market in 2017. for money.
The new business, Water Plus, will operate with We are on track Building on success its own dedicated management team from its to invest up to In our Operating Services business in the UK, new location in Stoke-on-Trent and we are well 190 million underway with preparations for establishing the our 25 year, 1 billion operation and maintenance in self-generation contract with the UK Ministry of Defence MoD new business and transferring employees into it.
and renewables is now in its twelfth year.
After more than a Establishing a new market for the retailing decade of working closely together, the new during AMP6.
of water and waste water services is a major focus that our Business Services structure undertaking and we are working hard on brings has enabled us successfully to bring preparations.
Naturally, the non-household Group knowledge and expertise to bear for the retail business is undergoing major change but benefit of our customers.
Consequently, we our wholesale business is impacted too as it are delivering operational services better than will be serving multiple retailers in the future ever before and this year we have improved on through new processes and relationships.
all of our agreed operational key performance We have established internal programmes to indicators including those on water quality, waste ensure that we make the necessary changes to water compliance and environmental impact.
business processes, establish new roles where Importantly, in line with our corporate strategy, necessary and equip our people with the skills we have focused heavily on understanding our that they will need.
customers needs and working together in Meanwhile, we have continued to trade partnership with them.
We have seen improved independently as Severn Trent Services in feedback from our customers and have Scotland where the market is already open to delivered a great improvement in our customer competition.
Our team have had a good year service measure, Net Promoter Score NPS, and have grown our market share profitably by which has moved from -35 in November 2014 retaining our existing customers and gaining to 36 in March 2016 for the MoD.
We will be new ones in the face of stiff competition.
looking to build on this success as the MoD The contracts with several important existing continues to review its infrastructure.
customers, including Sainsburys and We have completed the first year of our contract Debenhams, came up for renewal this year with the Coal Authority.
Our role is to monitor and we were delighted to be able to retain and maintain water levels in disused mines their business through new contracts.
It was to prevent ooding and to treat the iron-laden particularly pleasing that our outstanding water that is pumped from the mines to ensure it customer service was a major factor in securing is safe to return to the water courses.
have been successful on many elements of the programme, there have been others where our We were delighted to secure new customers including Boots and the Mitchells & Butlers performance has not met expectations.
We have worked with the Coal Authority to develop an chain of pubs and restaurants which combined, comprises a total of 387 sites in Scotland.
improvement plan which we are in the process of delivering.
We are committed to improving our We have increased from 388 to 1,451 sites in total.
We have also started to participate in the delivery and strengthening our relationship with the Coal Authority.
SME sector which includes smaller businesses and have made some good initial inroads.
Also in the UK, our water hygiene businesses continue to perform in line with expectations.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 39 Coleshill food waste plant Our food waste plant at Coleshill has completed its first full year of operation, transforming 48,000 tonnes of food waste into more than 18,000 MWh of electricity and approximately 30,000 tonnes of biofertiliser foragricultural use.
We are now well into the process of fully optimising the plant, for example, during the year we have signicantly improved the efficiency of the site by cleverly scheduling the plants mixers.
This has reduced the energy required to process the food waste by 700 kWh per day, which is a 10% efficiency improvement, saving over 20,000 per year.
Our design, build and operate services We have worked hard to improve our businesses in Italy and Ireland are also managed commercial approach.
We have addressed our from the UK and both have met sales and profit costs and focused on delivering better margins targets.
In Italy, the market remains challenging and we are pleased to have seen profits grow and we have addressed issues with our cost during the year.
We continue with our operational base through an organisational restructure and and cost improvement programmes and are we continue to win profitable new business.
investing in new finance systems which will be operational this year.
The business is looking In our Operating Services business in the US, we forward to building on a successful year have had a year of significant change.
set the business up on an independent footing following the disposal of our Water Purication Greener energy business in 2015.
The new management team Last year we continued to build our renewable has focused heavily on customer service, energy business and generated the equivalent of new business development and operational 33% of our own energy use.
We remain on target excellence.
We have achieved our targeted to self-generate energy equivalent to 50% of contract renewal rate of 85% plus for this year what we use by 2020. and established a healthy new business pipeline.
Weve invested in solar energy this year and In total we have won US$14 million in new were able to install 16MW capacity on 30 sites.
The highlight was winning This was an important achievement in the the contract to provide waste water treatment timescales available before incentive reductions services to Oklahoma City, from January 2017. and on all installations we delivered our promise This five year contract which may be renewed of double digit returns.
for two further five year periods is worth US$14 million in annual revenue and we believe Our food waste plant at Coleshill has completed it is the biggest contract to have been awarded its first year of operation successfully and this year.
This is our second largest contract has met its targets.
We have transformed behind our 10 year US$23 million annual 48,000 tonnes of food waste into more than revenue contract with the city of Bridgeport, 18,000MWh of electricity and approximately Connecticut which continues to perform well.
30,000 tonnes of biofertiliser for agricultural use.
More information on our Coleshill food waste Our operational and health and safety plant is shown in the above case study.
programmes are working well with improvements across the board in our operational measures.
Weve seen a reduction in water quality and waste water quality issues and an improvement in our reportable health and safety incidents.
We will continue to focus on strengthening our regulatory compliance process through staff training, process improvement and audit.
40 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Business Services performance review In 2015 16, we started construction of our second Associated risks plant at Roundhill, Staffordshire, which we expect to bring on-line in early 2017.
We also completed our planned windpower Severn Trent Business Services delivered revenue of investment with the two additional installations PLOOLRQ DQG D SURW RI PLOOLRQ at our waste water treatment works in Licheld and Stoke Bardolph.
We achieved this performance in the face of several We continue to maintain our focus on generating associated risks that we continue to address.
At Minworth, weoperate one of the largest sewage plants inEurope and its our biggest generator of Processes energy.
There we inject the biogas we produce Hazardous processes may cause Principal risk ref 8 directly into the national grid where it can Read more Page 52 be used for heating and cooking as well as injuries to our people.
This has proven to be very successful and we are exploring other Failures opportunities to utilise this technology.
We have improved our operational effectiveness on Principal risk ref 4 and 8 Failure of products or treatment processes Read more Pages 50 and 52 the site by improving our processes and have may cause environmental damage and a generated 10% improvement.
Again, were short-fall in regulatory compliance.
looking at opportunities to apply what weve learnt to other sites.
We are also investing in Changes our plant to install Thermal Hydrolysis Process technology THP which generates more Regulatory or political change may lead to gas from the sewage by treating it at higher decreased demand for our services.
In addition to renewable generation, we have Competition several energy usage reduction initiatives in place ranging from investment in new more Principal risk ref 2 We may be unable to take advantage efficient equipment, improving the efficiency Read more Page 49 of the opening up of the UK retail market of our operating processes, and importantly, to competition.
changing attitudes and behaviours on energy conservation.
Energy All-in-all this remains a very exciting area for us and we will continue to explore new We may be exposed to increased opportunities.
We are on-track to invest up volatility in energy prices.
to 190 million including investment by our regulated business, in self-generation and Opposition renewables during the course of AMP6 to deliver our target of self-generating the equivalent of Local opposition to our plans may affect half of our needs by 2020. our infrastructure efforts or our ability to For further information, please see our generate sufficient renewable energy to achieve our targets.
Corporate Responsibility report on pages54 to 63.
