Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 13 Market and industry overview While meeting 21st century expectations, we also Achievements Our biggest capital have to deal with the realities of an infrastructure It is just over 25 years since the English and investment over that dates back, in some cases, to the early 20th Welsh water and waste water industry was century.
Over the next five years, were investing privatised in 1989.
Since then the industry has WKH QH[W YH HDUV 700 million in repairing and, where necessary, made significant progress through innovation, the 300 million replacing parts of our infrastructure to leave greater efficiency and a substantial increase Birmingham Resilience behind an even better set of water and waste in investment on pre-privatised levels.
SURMHFW LV MXVW RQH water services for the next generation.
Investment to date is 108 billion.
H[DPSOH RI KRZ E Increasing our networks resilience is also a This investment has helped to deliver real creating a second priority.
Extreme weather associated with global improvements for the industrys 50 million source of water for warming is likely to have a major impact on household and non-household consumers.
how we operate and how and where we invest.
Leakage has reduced by 35% since the midthe UKs second Werecommitted to building resilience against, 1990s, sewer ooding is 75% lower than a ODUJHVW FLW ZHUH and adapting to, ooding and drought in our decade ago, and 99.96% of drinking water and working to safeguard plans.
Our biggest capital investment over the 95.4% of bathing waters now meet European our customers next five years, the 300 million Birmingham Union EU standards.
At the same time, it is future supplies.
Resilience project, is just one example of how, estimated that industry-wide efficiencies have bycreating a second source of water for the UKs kept customers bills 120 lower on average second largest city, were working to safeguard thanthey would otherwise have been.
Severn Trent Water Limited, our regulated Meanwhile the UKs population continues to business, is proud of the part it has played grow, and new households and businesses in these achievements as one of 18 regional will place greater demand on our water and suppliers.
Ten of these, including Severn Trent waste water services.
Severn Trent Water Water Limited, provide water and waste water Limited currently serves 4.3 million households services.
The remaining eight provide water only.
and businesses and it is our responsibility to Challenges invest carefully to ensure that we have the right Our industry, the environment in which we work, infrastructure and resources in place to meet and the needs of the customers who we serve, their needs.
And while these changes And, underpinning all these challenges, we present, as we see them, fantastic opportunities, must continue to be able to finance our future there remain challenges.
investment needs in a sustainable way, so that Our customers expectations are ever changing, we can keep offering affordable bills to our not least how theyd like to communicate with customers, and create value for our investors.
Innovation in channels such as webchat and social media are transforming our industry beyond anything contemplated at the time of privatisation.
At Severn Trent Water Limited, were committed to serving our customers 24 hours a day, using channels that are convenient to them, and that means being a leader in this new digital world.
14 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Market and industry overview To reinforce this customer-centric approach, A changing regulatory landscape Ofwat changed the nature of incentives within The industry in England and Wales operates in the price setting framework.
By introducing a policy framework where standards shaped Outcome Delivery Incentives ODIs, Ofwat by the European Union EU are implemented better aligned the interests of companies with by the Department for Environment, Food those of their customers using performanceand Rural Affairs Defra and the Welsh related penalties and rewards.
encouraged companies to look at the whole The Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI life costs of their assets by switching to a total oversees the quality of drinking water, and the expenditure cost assessment Totex, and Environment Agency, and its Welsh counterpart, provided stronger incentives for companies to Natural Resources Wales, licencewater press for further efficiencies.
Details about our abstraction, and regulate river pollution ODIs can be found on pages 26 and 27. and ooding.
Our AMP6 plans, driven by our determination The Consumer Council for Water, which to embed customers at the heart of all we represents the industrys customers, and do, embraced these changes.
Our regulated Natural England which protects Englands business performance review on page 28 sets natural environment, play an important part out how well we did during the first year.
Contributing to the future of regulation It is perhaps in the economic regulation of the The regulatory framework within which we industry, where, in recent years, we have seen operate continues to evolve.
Ofwat consulted some of the most notable changes.
on its future proposals for the sector in its Ofwat, the industrys economic regulator, Water 2020 document.
In establishing its proposals, Ofwat encouraged water companies sets limits on the prices we can charge our customers over five year periods.
These five year to contribute to a marketplace of ideas.
We contributed to this on access pricing, the regulatory planning cycles, are known as Asset Management Plan AMP periods.
This financial allocation of the regulatory capital value RCV and indexation.
year was the first of AMP6, which started on 1 April 2015.
In September 2015, we also published Charting Our planning for AMP6 concluded in 2014 a Sustainable Course which set out our vision for the future of the water sector.
This built on when Ofwat carried out its 2014 price review PR14.
In our view, PR14 represented the our previous series of Changing Course thought leadership publications.
The Ofwat Water 2020 most significant development of the economic regulation framework since privatisation.
document is aligned with a number of our proposals including developing markets for Ofwat sought to put greater responsibility on companies to develop their plans in consultation sludge trading and water resources.
with customers, giving them a stronger voice in determining the future of their services.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 15 For the most part we are very supportive of A sustainable company 7KH PRVW VLJQLFDQW the proposals.
We believe that they will help us The central issues as we see them are immediate change deliver our vision to be the most trusted water around ensuring we continue to chart a company by creating a much stronger emphasis sustainable course: to the framework in on companies competing to deliver the best ZKLFK ZH RSHUDWH empowerment for customers in decisions service for their customers.
is the introduction about their water services: Overall we think the reforms proposed by of retail competition affordable services for customers in the Ofwat have the potential to deliver enormous long term: for non-household benets to customers through lower prices and a more resilient sector for water resources: customers in April 2017. higher service levels.
The ideas around sludge ooding and drainage challenges, particularly competition are perhaps the most exciting given during a period of climate change: recent technological developments and we think they will help promote a more innovative and cost-effective delivery of further sustainable sector.
improvements to the environment: innovation and market solutions to benefit We have suggested some improvements to customers: and the proposed package of reforms, particularly around sludge, direct procurement and the working with partners across the proposed transition to CPI.
community to deliver the most efficient and effective solutions.
The most significant immediate change to the framework within which we operate is Industry stakeholders and regulators are the introduction of retail competition for noninvolved in a continual, constructive debate household customers in April 2017.
This will on how best to meet the changing needs and enable businesses, charities and other nonaspirations of our customers.
We are proud that household customers to shop around for Severn Trent is among the leaders in that debate.
what they consider to be the best deal in water supply.
Severn Trent welcomes the introduction of competition and the potential to win new customers.
The Government has also asked Ofwat to look at how this choice might be extended to households and we welcome this review and are engaging with Ofwat to support its analysis.
