102 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Group financial Employees statements, for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The performance The average number of employees within the Group is shown in review of the Company can be found within the strategic report note 9 to the financial statements on page 130. on pages 1 to 63.
This provides detailed information relating to Severn Trent Plc believes a diverse and inclusive workforce is a the Group, its business models and strategy, the operation of its key factor in being a successful business.
Through our Diversity businesses, future developments and the results and financial and Equal Opportunities Policy, the Company seeks to ensure that position for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The governance section every employee, without exception, is treated equally and fairly and set out on pages 64 to 106 is incorporated by reference into this that all employees are aware of their responsibilities.
This means report and, accordingly, should be read as part of this report.
more than ensuring we dont discriminate in any way we want to Details of the Groups policy on addressing the principal risks and create and maintain a culture open to a diverse population.
uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the risk management We are an equal opportunities employer and welcome applications section on pages 46 to 53. from all individuals, including those with a disability.
We are fully Principal activity committed to supporting applications made by disabled persons, The principal activity of the Group is to treat and provide water and and make reasonable adjustments to their environment where remove waste water in the UK and internationally.
possible having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
We are also responsive to the needs of our employees.
As such, Details of the principal joint ventures, associated and subsidiary should any employee become disabled during their time with undertakings of the Group at 31 March 2016 are shown in note 45 us, we will actively re-train that employee and make reasonable to the financial statements on page 165. adjustments to their environment where possible, in order to keep Areas of operation the employee within the Group.
Throughout 2015 16, the Group had activities and operations in All our training, promotion and career development processes theUnited Kingdom, Ireland, Italy and the United States.
are in place for all our employees to access, regardless of their gender, race, age or disability.
The provision of occupational health Directors and their interests Biographies of the Directors currently serving on the Board are programmes is of crucial importance to Severn Trent with the aim of keeping our employees t and healthy, including an employee setout on pages 66 and 67. assistance programme.
All of the Directors, with the exception of Martin Lamb and Gordon Fryett, will be offering themselves for appointment or Employee engagement reappointment at the Annual General Meeting AGM, as set We continuously engage with our employees in a number of ways outinthe governance report onpage 74. to suit different working patterns.
This includes: Details of Directors service contracts are set out in the Directors all people briengs, Team Talk: Remuneration Report on page 94.
The interests of the Directors corporate communications events and roadshows held by in the shares of the Company are shown on page 99 of that report.
functions across the Company: The Board has a documented process in place in respect of a dedicated intranet, Streamline: conicts which is described on page 74. online news portal and weekly roundup, Pipeline News: Insurance and indemnities an active employee social media presence, Yammer: The Company maintains Directors and Ofcers liability insurance conference calls and email: in respect of legal action that might be brought against its leadership engagement channels Chief Executives weekly Directors and Ofcers.
As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, and to the extent permitted by law, blog, senior management monthly visibility programme and quarterly events: the Company indemnifies each of its Directors and other Ofcers of the Group against certain liabilities that may be incurred as a employee forum: and result of their positions with the Group.
The indemnity was in force regular meetings with Unions.
throughout the tenure of each Director during the last financial Details of the financial and economic factors affecting the year, and is currently in force.
performance of the Company are shared with all employees at Indemnities were also entered into with Emma FitzGerald, theappropriate time using the methods listed above.
KevinBeeston and Dominique Reiniche upon their appointments to the Board.
Severn Trent Plc does not have in place any indemnities for the benefit of the external Auditor.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 103 We provide opportunities for employees to give their feedback to Dividend Policy the Company in a number of ways, from team or shift meetings In January 2015, Severn Trent announced its Dividend Policy and annual employee satisfaction surveys.
The Board agreed to set the 2015 16 dividend at 80.66 pence, a reduction of 5% compared to 2014 15 The Company is keen to encourage greater employee involvement total dividend for the year 84.90 pence.
The policy is structured so in the Groups performance through share ownership.
To help as to grow the dividend annually at no less than RPI until March align employees interests with the success of the Companys 2020.
This replaced the previous Dividend Policy of RPI 3% which performance, we operate an HMRC approved all employee plan, expired in March 2015. the Severn Trent Sharesave Scheme Sharesave, which is offered to UK employees on an annual basis.
Over 65% of Severn Trents The Dividend Policy reects the lower cost of capital and UK employees participate in one or more of our schemes.
stretching objectives and improvements in operating efficiencies required by the Final Determination.
When determining the policy During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom the Board considered various scenarios and sensitivities, and limits for the issue of new shares for share plans as set out in the reviewed the impact of adverse changes in ination and interest rules of the above plan.
The Board believes that the Dividend Policy is Research and development commensurate with a sustainable investment grade credit rating.
Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will continue Capital structure to be crucial to the successful development of new products and Details of the Companys issued share capital and of the processes for the Group and our products must continue to deliver movements during the year are shown in note 30 to the Company value for customers.
The Company has one class Expenditure on research and development is set out in note 7 to of Ordinary Shares which carries no right to xed income.
the financial statements on page 129.
Each share carries the right to one vote at General Meetings of the Company.
The issued nominal value of the Ordinary Shares Internal Controls is100% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
Further details of our Internal Control framework can be found in the Audit Committee Report on page 83.
There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general Treasury management provisions of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors The disclosures required under the European Union EU Fair are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Value Directive in relation to the use of financial instruments by Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer the Company are set out in note 35 to the financial statements ofsecurities or on voting rights.
Further details on our Treasury Policy and management are set out in the financial review on page 44.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 37 to the financial statements on pages 157 to 159.
For shares held by Post balance sheet events the Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust, the Trustee Details of post balance sheet events are set out in note 43 to the abstains from voting.
Group financial statements on page 163.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys Dividends share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
An interim dividend of 32.26 pence per Ordinary Share was paid With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, on 8 January 2016.
The Directors recommend a final dividend theCompany is governed by its Articles, the Code, the Companies of 48.40 pence per Ordinary Share to be paid on 22 July 2016 to Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended shareholders on the register on 17 June 2016.
This would bring by Special Resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of the total dividend for 2015 16 to 80.66 pence per Ordinary Share Directors are described in the Severn Trent Plc Board Governance 2014: 84.90 pence.
The payment of the final dividend is subject to document, the Articles and the Governance report on pages 64 shareholder approval at the AGM.
Under the Articles, the Directors have authority to allot Ordinary Shares, subject to the aggregate nominal amount limit set at the 2015 AGM.
104 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors report Change of control Contributions for political and charitable purposes There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or Donations to charitable organisations during the year amounted terminate upon, a change of control of the Company, such as to 86,864 2015: 157,648.
Donations are given to charities whose commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease projects align closely with our aim to promote the responsible use arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are of water resources and waste water services which provide the considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on opportunity for longer term partnerships.
In addition, we provide the business of the Group as a whole.
There are no agreements donations to employee nominated charities through a matched between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide funding scheme and health and safety reward schemes.
We are for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs also committed to supporting WaterAid, the UKs only major because of a takeover bid.
charity dedicated to improving access to safe water, hygiene and sanitation in the worlds poorest countries.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 March 2016, the Company had been notied in accordance Severn Trents policy is not to make any donations for political purposes in the UK, or to donate to EU political parties or incur with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following major shareholdings: EU political expenditure.
Accordingly neither Severn Trent Plc nor its subsidiaries made any political donations or incurred political No.
of ordinary shares Percentage of voting rights 17 Name of Holder of97 p each and issued share capital 19 expenditure in the financial year under review.
Blackrock Inc 23,457,458 9.87% Under the provisions of the Political Parties Elections and Legal & General Referendums Act 2000 the relevant provisions of which are now Group Plc 9,523,698 3.99% contained in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholder authority is required for political donations to be made or As at 23 May 2016, the Company had been notied of the following political expenditure to be incurred by the Company or any of its holdings of voting rights in the Ordinary Share capital of the subsidiaries in the EU and disclosure of any such payment must be Company: Blackrock Inc 23,457,458 9.87% : Legal & General made in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The legislation gives a Group Plc 9,523,698 3.99%.
wide denition of what constitutes political donations and political The percentage of voting rights detailed above was calculated at expenditure including sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of the time of the relevant disclosures made in accordance with Rule expenses, paid leave for employees fullling public duties and 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
support for bodies representing the business community in policy review or reform.
The Company has therefore obtained limited Authority to purchase shares authority from shareholders as a precautionary measure to allow The Company was given authority at its AGM in 2014 to make the Company to continue supporting the community and such market purchases of Ordinary Shares up to a maximum number organisations without inadvertently breaching the legislation.
of 23,949,741 Ordinary Shares, and on 13 February 2015, the Company announced that it would commence a share repurchase At the 2015 AGM, shareholders gave the Company authority to programme.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, market make political donations or to incur political expenditure in the purchases of 966,578 Ordinary Shares were made with all of these EU which would not ordinarily be regarded as political donations shares being cancelled following their purchase at an average up to an aggregate annual limit of 150,000 for the Company and price of 2,031 pence.
The Company was again given authority at its subsidiaries.
Pursuant to those authorities, during the year its AGM in 2015 to make market purchases of Ordinary Shares up ended 31 March 2016 the Group incurred costs of nil 2015: nil.
to a maximum number of 23,949,741 Ordinary Shares.
During the Those authorities will expire at the 2016 AGM and, in line with financial year ended 31 March 2016, 4,274,576 Ordinary Shares market practice to renew the authorities on an annual basis, the have been repurchased at an average price of 2,139 pence.
Board has decided to put forward a resolution to this years AGM to During the year, 51,514 shares have been cancelled with 4,136,921 renew the authorities to make donations to political organisations Ordinary Shares being held in treasury as at 23 May 2016 to satisfy and to incur political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate of future share based awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, this No Ordinary Shares have been transferred from treasury to satisfy resolution also covers any political donations made or political the exercise of share options.
The share repurchase programme expenditure incurred, by any subsidiaries of the Company.
The share repurchase was considered a low risk method of returning capital to shareholders, satisfying future share awards and moving gearing in Severn Trent Water Limited towards the 62.5% net debt RCV notional level used by Ofwat in the price review PR14.
Authority will again be sought from shareholders at this years AGM to purchase up to a maximum of 23,554,028 Ordinary Shares.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 105 Supplier payment policy Greenhouse Gas Emissions Individual operating companies within the Group are responsible The disclosures required by law relating to the Groups for establishing appropriate policies with regard to the payment Greenhouse Gas Emissions are included in the Corporate of their suppliers, in accordance with the Prompt Payment Code Responsibility report on page 64.
The companies agree terms and conditions under which Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
It is Group The Annual Performance Report for Severn Trent Water Limited policy that provided a supplier is complying with the relevant terms is prepared and sent to Ofwat.
A copy of this will be available on and conditions, including the prompt and complete submission of the website of Severn Trent Water Limited or on request to the all specified documentation, payment will be made in accordance Company Secretary.
There is no charge for this publication.
It is also Group policy to ensure that suppliers know the terms on which payment will take place when business Annual General Meeting is agreed.
The AGM of the Company will be held at the Ricoh Arena, Phoenix Way, Coventry, CV6 6GE at 11am on Wednesday 20 July Relevant audit information 2016.
The notice convening the meeting, together with details of The Directors confirm that: the business to be considered and explanatory notes for each so far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also information of which the Companys Auditor are unaware: and available on our website.
each of them has taken all the steps that he she ought to have By order of the Board taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Bronagh Kennedy with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary External Auditor 23 May 2016 Having carried out a review of their effectiveness during the year, and following the audit tender process described in the Audit Committee report on page 84, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board the reappointment of Deloitte LLP.
The reappointment and a resolution to that effect will be on the agenda at the AGM.
Deloitte LLP indicated their willingness to continue as Auditor.
The Audit Committee will also be responsible for determining the audit fee on behalf of the Board.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R The information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be located in the following pages of this Annual Report and Accounts: Section Information to be included Location A statement of the amount 1 ofinterest capitalised 131 Details of long term 4 incentiveschemes 97 Section 7 in relation to 8  165 2, 5, 6, 7, 9 14 Not applicable DIGITAL FIRST Visit our online annual report to nd out more: ar2016.
