14 Market overview Macroeconomic environment Regulation Brexit Mortgage Credit Directive MCD for second-charge On 23 June 2016, the UK voted to leave the EU.
The Prime mortgages Minister set out her 12-point Brexit plan on 17 January 2017, On 21 March 2016, second-charge mortgages became announcing the UKs priorities for exit negotiations, and is regulated under the MCD with loans written after this date expected to trigger Article 50 before the end of March 2017. no longer being regulated under the Consumer Credit Act.
This resulted in significant changes to the provision of advice, Brexit-related effects on Shawbrooks businesses have been the processes for underwriting and the processing of secondlimited to date both on lending volumes and credit quality.
charge mortgages for both lenders and intermediaries.
Although economic forecasts have been upgraded from their post-referendum lows, it remains likely that the cycle will turn Buy-to-let BTL underwriting standards expectations earlier than previously expected: however, given Shawbrooks On 29 September 2016, the Prudential Regulation Authority prudent and conservative risk appetite, it has not felt the need PRA announced its expectations of firms underwriting to materially amend its risk appetite or underwriting criteria standards for the BTL market, following a review in 2015 and in light of the referendum outcome.
The PRAs actions are intended to bring all lenders up something that is continuously monitored and reviewed.
to prevailing market standards and guard against any slipping of underwriting standards during a period in which firms UK economy growth plans could be challenged by the changing economic The economic forecasts for the UK have changed markedly landscape and the impact of forthcoming tax changes.
following the UKs decision to leave the EU.
The Office for Budget Responsibility OBR reduced its 2017 UK growth The PRAs statement outlines minimum expectations that prediction from 2.2% in March 2016 to 1.4% in November firms should meet in underwriting BTL mortgages, including: 2016.
In January 2017, the International Monetary Fund IMF affordability assessments should take into account increased its 2017 growth forecast by 0.4% to 1.5%: however, borrowers costs including tax liabilities, verified personal it reduced its 2018 projection from 1.7% to 1.4%.
Inflation income and possible future interest rate increases: and reached 1.6% by December 2016, with the Bank of England lending to portfolio landlords defined by the PRA as being stating that it could increase to 2.75% by 2018.
Unemployment those with four or more mortgaged BTL properties should has also stayed low and ended 2016 at 4.8% compared to be assessed using a specialist underwriting process.
In addition, the changes to income tax relief on mortgage Outlook interest for BTL properties announced in 2015 begin to take As the UK begins negotiations for Brexit, there will effect in April 2017. undoubtedly be uncertainty in the UK macro environment which may impact growth, inflation and unemployment forecasts amongst other economic metrics.
This in turn could impact consumer confidence and demand in a number of the Outlook markets in which Shawbrook operates.
The implementation of the standard minimum BTL underwriting and the changes to income tax relief on Economists are typically assuming slower growth going mortgage interest are forecast by most commentators to forward because businesses will be less certain about slow the BTL market.
Given the ever present imbalance in investing in the UK as the country negotiates its exit from supply and demand for property in the UK, this is likely to the EU.
In addition, the depreciation of Sterling will continue have a larger impact on the amateur BTL market than the to result in higher prices of British imports such as food and professional BTL market.
The introduction of minimum fuel, driving higher inflation.
underwriting standards for BTL mortgages from the PRA could arguably be beneficial for specialist lenders such as Shawbrook, whose target market only consists of professional landlords, and lenders which already have in place the operational framework for stressed affordability assessments and manual underwriting.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 15 Monetary policy Asset purchase programme On 4 August 2016, the Bank of England reduced the Bank Rate The expansion of the Bank of Englands asset purchase from 50bps to 25bps and introduced a package of measures programme for UK government bonds is expected to lower designed to provide additional monetary stimulus, including the the yields on securities that are used to determine the cost Term Funding Scheme TFS and an expansion of the Bank of of borrowing for households and businesses.
It is also likely to Englands asset purchase programme for UK government bonds.
trigger portfolio rebalancing into riskier assets by current holders of government bonds, further enhancing the supply of credit Bank of England base rate Bank Rate reduction to the broader economy.
The expansion of the asset purchase The desired outcome of the reduction in the Bank Rate was to programme resulted in increased competition, particularly in encourage consumer lending by reducing the cost of credit.
the asset finance market, as non-bank lenders benefited from However, many banks reduced their savings rates by more than the lower costs of their borrowings.
25bps, whilst making only marginal, if any, changes to the cost of credit.
This resulted in a highly liquid deposit market with savers having very few options to earn interest.
The reduction in deposit Outlook rates was further fuelled by the introduction of the TFS.
Given Modest increases in the Bank of England base rate could be the level of existing competition in the first-charge residential imposed to manage continued rising levels of inflation and mortgage market, margins were already competitive prior to significantly low asset pricing.
In order to compete for volume, the Bank Rate cut, resulting in many lenders being unable to pricing in some markets has become so low that it could be pass on the reduction to new borrowers without their products considered unsustainable as the price does not plausibly cover becoming loss-making.
the level of risk undertaken.
Term Funding Scheme An increase in the Bank Rate, along with the termination of As with the Funding for Lending Scheme FLS, the TFS was the TFS in January 2018, may have a detrimental effect on the announced with the intention of supplying low-cost funding cost of retail deposits as competition in the market increases to banks to encourage greater lending at reasonable rates to to fund stable balance sheets and further growth.
Like the FLS, the TFS works by enabling banks to of impact will depend heavily on the extent of the competition, pre-position collateral with the Bank of England and to receive particularly if larger players in the deposit market decide funding in return.
The cost of this funding is equivalent to not to pass on the full rate to UK depositors as they seek to Bank Rate, and banks can initially encumber up to 5% of their widen margins.
loans and advances and subsequently fund 100% of their growth using the TFS.
The introduction of the TFS added to the surplus liquidity in the funding market, resulting in further reductions to deposit rates and an increase in market demand for savings accounts.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
