64 Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholders This was a busy year for the Board its first full year as a listed company as we continued our journey of ensuring that we have governance appropriate for a growing bank operating in a heavily regulated environment.
We recognise that good governance supported by a strong culture is vital to the successful delivery of Shawbrooks strategy and a key underpinning to our continued ability to grow the bank, to deliver returns to shareholders in a safe and sustainable way and to serve the interests of our customers and our people.
We are committed to adhering to principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Good governance is essential The Board effectiveness review we carried out during the year confirmed the good progress we have made in strengthening in supporting the development the governance framework and more detail on the review is set of a sustainable and successful out on page 74 of this report.
Full details of the Groups governance arrangements are also set out in this report.
In addition to its ongoing oversight activities, the key issues on which the Board focused time during 2016 included: consideration in one of two strategy days of the 2020 strategy which was presented at the Capital Markets Day in May: deep-dives into each of the business divisions, considering both current performance and future opportunities and plans: the evolution of the Target Operating Model and infrastructure required to support the future development of the Group: consideration of the competitive environment and future opportunities in a second strategy day: a 2016 governance plan to improve the operation of the Board and ensure it focuses on the main issues: the people strategy for the business: a number of training and brieng sessions on particular topics, including ICAAP, ILAAP, an overview of IFRS 9 requirements, the Mortgage Credit Directive and Consumer Credit Act, the Market Abuse Directive, remuneration overview and the FCAs regulation of conduct: capital and liquidity adequacy, including approval of the ICAAP and ILAAP documents, with specic sessions held to ensure the Board had sufficient opportunity to consider the key elements of both: oversight of the Groups response to the controls breach in the Business Finance Division see page 49 in the Risk management report for further details : participation in a review of its own effectiveness facilitated by an independent third party: and oversight of the implementation of the Senior Managers Regime.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 65 The Nomination Committee considered the appropriateness of the Boards composition during the year and concluded that it has the Key areas of Governance appropriate mix of skills and experience to full its responsibilities.
There were a number of changes during the year.
Both Graham in this section: Alcock and Tom Wood stood down and Andrew Didham joined Leadership the Board in February 2017, taking over from Roger Lovering as The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate Chair of the Board Audit Committee.
Dylan Minto was also balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independence appointed CFO in February 2017, after holding the interim position to satisfy the requirements of good corporate governance.
for the past eight months.
Proles of all the Directors are set out on pages 66 to 68.
I believe that Shawbrook has a strong and highly committed Board with the mix of expertise, experience and Compliance character that the business requires to go on being successful.
significant time and resource is given to governance matters by the Board and within the everyday operations of the We look forward to welcoming shareholders to our second Annual Group.
This ensures compliance within the framework General Meeting on 6 June 2017. of regulations but is also central to delivering sustainable business success.
Iain Cornish Effectiveness Chairman The Board understands that an effective corporate governance framework is an inherent part of running a 6 March 2017 business.
Accountability A key element of ensuring sound governance is guaranteeing an appropriate system of controls and accountability.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 66 Corporate governance report continued Board of Directors A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee RI Risk Committee Committee Chair Iain Cornish Steve Pateman Dylan Minto Role Chairman and Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board in July 2015 Appointed to the Appointed to the Board in January 2016 Board in February 2017 Iain was a founding member of Steve joined Shawbrook from Dylan spent eight months as Interim Skills and the PRA Board at its formation in Santander UK, where he was CFO at Shawbrook.
He holds a degree in Business, Executive Director and Head of spent 11 years with KPMG amongst experience Economics and Statistics from UK Banking, running the banks other things, providing advice on the Southampton University.
Corporate, Commercial, Business original Northern Rock restructure in and Retail Banking operations as well 2009, and RBSs participation in the as Wealth Management.
He joined Asset Protection Scheme and joined Santander in 2008 with responsibility Shawbrook in 2013.
He has extensive for building an SME franchise.
He is experience in the UK banking and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute finance sector.
He is ACA qualied of Bankers in Scotland.
and holds a dual BA Honours degree in German and Business Studies from Sheffield University.
Iain is currently senior independent None.
Other external director of both Arrow Global Group PLC and St Jamess Place plc.
Iain directorships also serves as a Trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Iain spent 19 years between 1992 Before joining Santander UK, Steve None.
Former and 2011 at Yorkshire Building spent eight years at RBS, where Society, including eight as Chief he was Chief Executive Officer of appointments Executive Officer between 2003 Business Banking, Retail Markets and and 2011.
Managing Director of Commercial Banking and Corporate Banking, Corporate Markets.
N R Committees Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 67 Stephen Johnson Robin Ashton Andrew Didham David Gagie Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Managing Director Property Finance Appointed to the Appointed to the Appointed to the Appointed to the Board in May 2015 Board in March 2015 Board in February 2017 Board in January 2016 Appointed to the Board of Shawbrook Bank Limited in December 2011 Stephen has 14 years experience Robin has extensive experience of Andrew has extensive financial David has global experience in building specialist lending retail financial services both in the UK services experience.
He is a qualied in consumer lending, banking, businesses, across commercial and and internationally.
He is a chartered accountant, having enjoyed a credit card payments and risk consumer lending markets in the accountant and holds a Bachelor successful career at KPMG, becoming management.
He is qualied as a chartered of Arts Hons degree in Economics a partner in 1990 and specialising Advisor at the Financial Conduct accountant.
and Law from Durham University.
Authority and member of the Payments Systems Regulator Executive he focused on regulatory conduct issues relating to retail banking, consumer credit and payments.
Stephen is a Director of Robin has been a Non-Executive Andrew is currently an Executive David is a Non-Executive Director Latchglen Ltd. Director of Leeds Building Society Vice-Chairman for Rothschild and of Lowell GFKL Group and of since April 2011 and Chairman since also a Non-Executive Director MWS Technologies Ltd.
He is also March 2013. of Charles Stanley PLC and is a Non-Executive Director of Populus Non-Executive Chairman of its Consulting Ltd. principal operating company Charles Stanley & Co Ltd. Stephen was part of the founding Robin spent 24 years at Provident Andrew was Group Finance Director David was a Senior Advisor at the team at Shawbrook Bank and was Financial plc, joining the Board in at Rothschild from 1997 to 2012, Financial Conduct Authority and a also a founding member of the 1993 initially as Finance Director, before becoming Executive Vicemember of the Payments Systems management team at Commercial then Deputy Chief Executive in 1999 Chairman.
Prior to this Stephen worked and Chief Executive in 2001, leaving was also an Advisory Board Director in corporate finance advisory.
He was Non-Executive for ING Direct, Managing Director of Chairman of the original holding Consumer Lending for Lloyds TSB, group for what is now the Groups Chairman of MasterCard UK, and secured lending business, and was a director of Visa UK and of Link Ltd. previously a Non-Executive Director of Albemarle & Bond Holdings plc and Non-Standard Finance plc.
A N RI R A RI A RI Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 68 Corporate governance report continued Board of Directors continued Sally-Ann Hibberd Paul Lawrence Roger Lovering Lindsey McMurray Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Appointed to the Appointed to the Appointed to the Board in November 2015 Board in August 2015 Board in March 2015 Board in April 2010 Appointed to the Board of Appointed to the Board of Shawbrook Bank Limited in Shawbrook Bank Limited in January 2013 January 2011 Sally-Ann has a broad financial Paul was formerly Global Head Roger has over 25 years of Lindsey has over 20 years of services background having of Group Internal Audit for HSBC.
experience in the consumer finance experience as a private equity worked in Life Assurance, Asset industry, focussing on lending investor with a particular focus on Management, Retail Banking, to individuals.
He has extensive the financial services sector.
She Bancassurance and General knowledge of secured and holds a first class honours degree Insurance.
Her particular strengths unsecured lending, both xed and in Accounting and Finance from are in Operations, Technology and revolving term via credit cards.
is a member of ICAEW and has a degree in Accountancy and Financial Analysis from Warwick University.
Roger is a Non-Executive Director of Lindsey is managing partner of Executive Director of Equiniti Group Caswell Consultancy Limited, Logical private equity fund manager Pollen plc and NFU Mutual, and sits on the Glue Limited and Amigo Loans Street Capital, an affiliate of the SOF Governing Body of Loughborough Limited.
He is also a Non-Executive General Partner Guernsey LP.
Director of Harrods Bank Ltd. also currently an Executive Director of Pollen Street Capital Limited and a Director of Freedom Acquisitions Limited, Honeycomb Holdings Limited, Honeycomb Finance plc and Capitalflow Holdings Limited.
Sally-Ann has held senior roles at During a 31 year career with HSBC, Roger was Chief Executive Officer at Prior to her time at Pollen Street Prudential, Lloyds TSB and Willis Paul was CEO of HSBC Bank, North Santander Cards UK Limited, Head Capital, Lindsey was head of RBS Group.
Prior to becoming a NonAmerica, Head of Global Banking & of European cards at HSBC and Chief Equity Finance where she led the Executive Director she worked Markets USA, CEO of HSBC Singapore, Operating Officer and Director at management of the RBS Special for Willis where she served in two and CEO of HSBC Philippines.
Opportunities Funds, a 1.1 billion separate roles over a six year period, private equity fund.
Prior to this she rstly as COO of the International was at Cabot Square Capital, Ltd for division and latterly as Group six years where she was a partner.
R RI RI A N A RI Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 69 Leadership structure The Board The primary role of the Board is to provide leadership to the Group, to set the Groups long-term strategic objectives and to develop robust corporate governance and risk management practices.
The Board delegates specic powers to some committees, details of which are set out below.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Disclosure Committee Recommends Board appointments Oversees financial reporting Monitors disclosure controls Plans successions Monitors internal control Reviews and advises on the scope and content of the disclosure Monitors internal and External Auditors Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Monitors the level and structure of Remuneration Reviews the design and implementation for the Senior Executives of risk management Approves annual performance objectives Reviews the Groups ICAAP Executive Committee The Executive Committee is responsible for developing the business and delivering against a Boardapproved strategy, putting in place effective monitoring, control mechanisms and setting out a framework for reporting to the Board.
Operations Committee Group Product Committee Asset and Liability Enterprise Risk Management Provides operational oversight Approves the Product Approval Committee Committee and Management policy Identies, manages and controls Oversees the design and Assures quality and performance management Reports to ERMC as necessary balance sheet risks: implementation of the Risk Management Framework: and Oversees and monitors Liquidity conduct of business issues control frameworks: including fair outcomes for Oversees and monitors of Capital customers control frameworks: Oversees regulatory reporting Recommends Liquidity, Funding, requirements and the Financial Market and Counterparty Risk Crime and Anti-Money policy for approval: and Laundering AML regime Recommends Liquidity and defines detailed risk appetite Market Risk Appetite Statements Limit and statements and limits and limits for approval and and recommends to Board Risk monitoring.
Committee material risk appetite limits and statements Model Management Group Impairment Committee Credit Approval Committee Policy Review Group Ensures that the Group has in Oversees impairment forecasts Considers and approves individual Ensures that the Group has in place, and operates effective, and budgets credit proposals submitted by place, and operates effective appropriate and robust procedures the business units of the Group and appropriate policies Monitors impairment from and business processes for which fall outside their permitted lending portfolios Maintains policies and governance managing the Groups models delegated lending authority across the Group and model risk policy.
Oversees the Group Policy Accountable for the overall model Inventory including the annual maintenance and governance refresh of the Group risk policies across the Group Approves raties the model inventory Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 70 Corporate governance report continued The Board Senior Independent Director Robin Ashton The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Group is managed Provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an effectively and in the best interests of its shareholders, customers, intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
Available to employees and other stakeholders including regulators and its shareholders if they have concerns, which the normal channels principal banking subsidiary, Shawbrook Bank Limited.
The Board of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors operates within a formal schedule of matters reserved, which can have failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
be found on the website at investors.
co. uk and which is reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
Key responsibilities: Chair the Nomination Committee when considering the The Board delegates specic powers for some matters to succession of the Chairman to the Board.
Committees, details of which are set out below.
The outputs from Meet with other Non-Executive Directors to appraise the each Committee meeting are reported to the Board, thus ensuring Chairmans performance.
the Board maintains the necessary oversight.
More detail on Provide feedback to the Board on the Independent Non-Executive the Committees and their work is described in the Committees Directors views.
Non-Executive Directors Roles and responsibilities Provide constructive challenge to executive management, and bring experience and objectivity to the Boards discussions and Chairman Iain Cornish decision making.
Monitor the delivery of the Groups strategy Responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in against the governance, risk and control framework established all aspects of its role as well as being responsible for its governance.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the Sets the tone for the Group and ensures that the links between the Non-Executive Directors are also responsible for evaluating Board and management and between the Board and shareholders the performance of the Chairman.
Sets the Board agenda and ensures that sufficient time is allocated to important matters.
Further responsibilities: Key responsibilities: Scrutinise management performance.
Ensure the integrity of financial information and ensure that the Promote effective flow of information between Board members.
financial controls and systems of risk management are effective.
Seek independent professional advice if needed.
Ensure effective communication between Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
Company Secretary Daniel Rushbrook Chair Board and Nomination Committee meetings.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary Handle relationships with the government, authorities, regulators in relation to the discharge of their duties.
Responsible for working and stakeholders.
with the Chairman to develop Board and Committee agendas and to ensure that all Board procedures are complied with.
Advises the Chief Executive Officer Steve Pateman Board on corporate governance, legal, regulatory and compliance Responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups matters and developments.
operations, for recommending the Groups strategy to the Board and for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board.
Additional duties: Accountable to the Board for the Groups operational and financial Ensure the Groups governance framework is maintained.
Supported in decision making by the Executive Organise Directors training and induction.
Committee comprising of senior managers.
The CEO chairs the Oversee Board and Committee administration and record-keeping.
Executive Committee, which meets three times a month to provide oversight and scrutiny of the Groups business and consider matters Division of responsibilities that need to be escalated to the Board.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Group.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are Key responsibilities: separate, clearly dened in writing and have been agreed by Maintain a good working relationship with the Chairman and the Board.
Assess the principal risks of the Group.
Lead communications with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Ensure effective internal controls and management information systems are in place.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 71 Board Committees The Board holds meetings at regular intervals, at which standing The Board has a number of Committees: Audit, Risk, Nomination items such as the Groups financial and business performance, and Remuneration.
The written terms of reference of the risk, compliance, IT, human resources and strategic matters are Committees, including their objectives and the authority reviewed and discussed.
There is a comprehensive Board pack and delegated to them by the Board, are available upon request agenda which is circulated beforehand so that Directors have the from the Company Secretary or via the Groups website at opportunity to consider the issues to be discussed, and detailed investors.
All Committees have access to minutes and any actions are documented.
independent expert advice and the services of the Company The below list shows some of the other noteworthy matters Secretary.
The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board.
considered by the Board in the year: The constitution and terms of reference of each Committee are reviewed annually to ensure that the Committees are Review of executive governance.
operating effectively and any changes considered necessary Membership of Board Committees.
are recommended to the Board for approval.
Risk Management Framework and risk policies.
Enterprise Wide Risk Management Report.
The Board also has a Disclosure Committee, which is responsible Capital and liquidity adequacy, including ICAAP.
for monitoring, evaluating and enhancing disclosure controls and Target Operating Model.
In particular, responsibilities set out in Creation of Jersey subsidiary.
its terms of reference include the identication of inside information Regulatory developments, in particular the Senior Managers and maintenance of insider lists, the design, implementation and Regime and IFRS 9. evaluation of disclosure procedures and the resolution of any Corporate development opportunities.
questions concerning the materiality of certain information.
Disclosure Committee is also required to help the Group make HR and people strategy.
timely and accurate disclosure of all information where disclosure The historical controls breach in the Business Finance Division.
is required to meet legal and regulatory obligations.
In addition, the Board also held two strategy workshops where, amongst other matters, the competitive environment and the The Board delegates daily management responsibility for the impact of Brexit were discussed.
Group to the Executive Committee, which meets three times a month.
The Executive Committee is responsible for developing the Regular meetings are scheduled up to a year in advance, and if business and delivering against a strategy approved by the Board any Director is unable to attend then they may provide comments and ensuring effective monitoring and control mechanisms.
There on the papers to the Chairman before the meeting.
Meetings are are also a number of executive sub-committees a table showing structured so that appropriate time is devoted to all agenda items.
the governance structure is set out on page 69 which assist the In addition to these regular, scheduled meetings, ad hoc Board Executive Committee in discharging its responsibilities.
meetings are held outside the published cycle where circumstances require for example, to approve appointments to the Board, any Composition, meetings and attendance material transactions or the approval of regulatory submissions.
The Board currently consists of 11 members, namely the Chairman, six Independent Non-Executive Directors, three Executive Directors Throughout the relevant period, the Chairman has held a number and one Non-Independent Non-Executive Director.
Biographical of meetings with Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive details of all Directors are given on pages 66 to 68.
The Senior Independent Director has held meetings with Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman The Non-Executive Directors have strong and relevant experience being present.
across all aspects of banking and specifically have relevant skills in financial management, regulatory, credit assessment and pricing, liability management and conduct matters.
To ensure the Board continues to have an appropriate balance of skills, these skill sets are reviewed annually through the completion of a skills matrix which is considered by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 72 Corporate governance report continued In 2016, a total of 13 Board meetings were held, 11 of which were The Board has reviewed the independence of each of the Nonscheduled and two of which were ad hoc meetings.
Attendance Executive Directors who have served on the Board throughout at meetings is shown below: the financial year and the relevant period and concluded that Robin Ashton, David Gagie, Roger Lovering, Paul Lawrence, Meetings attended Sally-Ann Hibberd and Andrew Didham are independent.
Date appointed meetings eligible to Lindsey McMurray, who represents the Groups largest shareholder, Director or resigned in the year attend as a Director is not considered independent.
During the relevant period, the Iain Cornish 13 13 Board has satisfied the Code requirements that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Graham Alcock Resigned 3 4 Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
9 June 2016 Robin Ashton 13 13 The Non-Executive Directors are considered to be of sufficient David Gagie Appointed 13 13 calibre and experience to bring significant influence to bear on the 1 January 2016 decision-making process.
The Board has satisfied itself that Robin Ashton is independent notwithstanding his interest in shares in the Sally-Ann Hibberd 12 13 Group.
It has done this by observing the way he has discharged Stephen Johnson 13 13 his duties as Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee, his Paul Lawrence 12 13 contribution to and challenge in Board and Committee meetings and the way he interacts with the Chairman in his role as Senior Roger Lovering 13 13 Independent Director, including conducting an evaluation of the Lindsey McMurray 11 13 Chairmans effectiveness at the end of 2016.
Steve Pateman Appointed 13 13 1 January 2016 The Board has also considered the independence of Roger Lovering 1 who is a Non-Executive Director of Amigo Loans, which has Tom Wood Resigned 4 6 a wholesale facility from the Group and Sally-Ann Hibberd who 30 June 2016 is a Non-Executive Director of Equiniti, which is the Groups share 1 D ylan Minto was appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer on 30 June 2016 following registrar and concluded that these outside interests do not affect Tom Woods resignation.
This is based on observations of the way both have discharged their duties as members of the Board Committees, Since the year-end Andrew Didham was appointed as an their contribution to and challenge in Board meetings.
Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2017 and Dylan Minto as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors specify on 6 February 2017. the amount of time they are expected to devote to the Groups business.
They are currently required to commit to at least four Board balance, independence and time commitment days per month which is calculated based on the time required to The Board considers that the balance of skills and experience is prepare for and attend Board and Committee meetings, meetings appropriate to the requirements of the Groups business and that with shareholders and training.
the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors allows it to exercise objectivity in decision-making and proper control.
Each member of the Board has had access to all information relating to the Group, the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and, as required, external advice at the expense of the Group.
The Board has reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board together with an evaluation of the Boards balance of skills, knowledge and experience : the membership of the various Board committees and the expected time commitment: and the policy for Board appointments for Executive and Non-Executive Directors throughout the year.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 73 Conflicts of interest Appropriate training is made available to any newly appointed All Directors have a duty to avoid situations that may give rise to Director, having regard to any previous experience they may a conflict of interest.
Formal procedures are in place to deal with have as a director of a public company or otherwise.
An on-going any conflict of interest.
Directors are responsible for notifying the programme of training is available to all members of the Board Chairman and the Company Secretary as soon as they become which includes professional external training, internal on-line aware of any actual or potential conflict of interest for discussion training and bespoke Board training on relevant topics such as by the members of the Board who will take into account the regulatory developments, changes to the Companies Act 2006 or circumstances of the conflict when deciding whether to permit accounting requirements.
Directors are also encouraged to devote potential conflict or to impose conditions on the Director in the an element of their time to self-development.
This is in addition interests of the Group.
Any actual or potential conflicts of interest to any guidance that may be given from time to time by the are recorded in a central register and Directors are also required, Company Secretary.
on an annual basis, to confirm that they are not aware of any circumstances which may affect their tness and propriety and The Chairman is responsible for reviewing the training needs of therefore their ability to continue to serve on the Board.
In addition, each Director, and for ensuring that Directors continually update Directors are required to seek the Boards approval of any new their skills and knowledge of the Group.
All Directors are advised appointments or changes in commitments.
of changes in relevant legislation, regulations and evolving risks, with the assistance of the Groups advisers where appropriate.
Induction, training and professional development Dedicated Board training sessions are held and scheduled around On appointment, all new Directors receive a comprehensive Board meetings.
During 2016 training was provided in this format and tailored induction, having regard to any previous experience on ICAAP, ILAAP, an overview of IFRS 9 requirements, the Mortgage they may have as a director of a public company or otherwise.
Credit Directive and Consumer Credit Act, the Market Abuse The Company also provides additional induction materials and Directive, a remuneration overview and the FCAs regulation training for those Directors who are also Committee chairs.
content of our Director induction programmes is designed, and the timing planned, with input from the new Director.
The induction The Board receives detailed reports from executive management on information is delivered in a variety of formats: these include face the performance of the Group at its meetings and other information to face meetings with the Chairman, Board members and senior as necessary.
Regular updates are provided on relevant legal, management and input from external advisers and training courses corporate governance and financial reporting developments and as appropriate.
These elements are supplemented by the provision Directors are encouraged to attend external seminars on areas of of our key governance documents as reading material, including relevance to their role.
policies, procedures, Board and Committee minutes, the Board meeting schedule and plans, Group structure charts and copies of the Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Code and information on directors duties and responsibilities under the Companies Act 2006.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 74 Corporate governance report continued Board performance evaluation The Board carried out an externally facilitated evaluation, using Praesta Partners, an independent facilitator with no links to the Group, at the end of 2016.
The assessment was conducted according to the guidance set out in the Code.
Given the changes within the organisation since the IPO in April 2015, the review sought to address whether the Board does the right work, to the right agenda, using the right information, with the right people, and operating the right culture.
The evaluation was based around a number of key areas: Board composition, role, skills, diversity, balance and experience Board leadership and culture Interaction between the work of the Board and the work of the executive: and Strategic risk and the wider risk framework.
This review explored the Boards journey to date, looked at its trajectory and considered how Board effectiveness could be enhanced further.
The Review was based on data collected between September and December 2016 and comprised of: Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5 Comprehensive questionnaire Interviews and Observation Evaluation Discussion and review of papers one-on-one discussion and reporting Stage 1 Comprehensive questionnaires and review of papers Stage 3 Observation Analysis of two electronic questionnaires completed by Directors.
Observation of the Board Risk Committee and Board Audit One assessed how the Board spent its time and energy to date Committee meetings held in October and November and and how it would like to continue.
The other looked at the role of the Board meeting held on 2 November 2016. and culture of the Board.
Stage 4 Evaluation and reporting Desk-top reviews of the Board and Committee packs over the Production of a report with findings based on: past 12 months.
This helped determine what the Board looked Evaluating the documentary, observation, questionnaire and at in its annual cycle and how the value chains between the interview data.
Board and the Board sub-committees and between the Board Using the Code and the PRAs Supervisory Statement SS5 16 and the Executive Committee operated.
Corporate governance: Board responsibilities, as points Stage 2 Interviews and one-on-one discussion of reference.
Structured, one on one interviews with all Directors, the Interim Utilising reviewer insights into how other boards work.
CFO and the General Counsel to whom the Company Secretariat Stage 5 Discussion reports.
Discussion with the Chairman, Board and Executive Committee.
This involved a structured, round table discussion with other Executive Committee members.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 75 Board Review and Insights The review found that: overall the Board provided effective oversight to the business whilst also: commissioning and being highly engaged in the drafting, approval and implementation of robust risk policies and frameworks: and providing guidance and input to the Executive Committees determination of longer term strategies and plans for the Group.
progress had been made in terms of: membership: the focus of its work: its delegation to Committees and to the Executive Committee: and culture.
The report found that the conditions are in place to sustain a strong rate of progress.
Follow up: The results of the evaluation will be discussed with the Chairman, Board and Executive Committee to formulate a plan against which progress will be assessed.
The Senior Independent Director held discussions with other members of the Board to assess the performance of the Chairman.
They are satisfied that the Chairman devotes a significant amount of time to the Groups business and that he had performed effectively during 2016.
In particular they are satisfied that the Chairman has ensured that the Board focused on the key issues facing the Group.
Internal control The Board assesses the effectiveness of the Groups system of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal internal controls including financial, operational and compliance control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee controls and risk management systems on the basis of: and Risk Committee have been in operation throughout the established procedures, including those already described, relevant period and oversee the Groups system of internal control.
which are in place to manage perceived risks: Material risk or control matters, which this year included the controls reports by management to the Audit Committee and Risk breach in the Business Finance Division see page 49 in the Risk Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups management report for further information, together with the system of internal control and significant control issues: appropriate remedial action, are reported by the Audit Committee under the direction of the Chief Risk Officer, the continuous and Risk Committee to the Board.
The Board monitors the on-going Group-wide process for formally identifying, evaluating and process by which top risks to the Group are identied, measured, managing the significant risks to the achievement of the Groups managed, monitored, reported and challenged.
This process is objectives: and consistent with both the Group Risk Management Framework and reports from the Audit Committee on the results of internal with internal control and related financial and business reporting audit reviews and work undertaken by other departments.
guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, and has been in place for the relevant period under review The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage, rather and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives The key elements of the Groups system of internal control and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance include regular meetings of the Executive and Risk Management against material misstatement or loss.
In assessing what constitutes Committees, together with annual budgeting, and monthly financial reasonable assurance, the Board considers the materiality of financial and operational reporting for all businesses within the Group.
and non-financial risks and the relationship between the cost of, and Conduct and compliance are monitored by management, the benefit from, the system of internal control.
During 2016 the Group Groups Risk function, Internal Audit and, to the extent it considers continued to invest in its risk management capability to ensure that necessary to support its audit report, the External Auditor.
it remains relevant, appropriate and scalable to support the Groups objectives over the duration of the strategic plan, and embedded these improvements into the Groups Risk Management Framework.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 76 Corporate governance report continued The Board regularly reviews the actual and forecast performance Relationships with shareholders of the business compared against the annual plan, as well as other The Board remains committed to maintaining good relationships key performance indicators.
There is a good dialogue with institutional shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly dened.
Officer meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The Groups policies and procedures are regularly updated and Institutional shareholders will in future be given the opportunity distributed throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee and to meet with the Chairman and or other Non-Executive Directors Risk Committee receive reports on a regular basis on compliance if they have concerns that have not, or cannot, be addressed with the Groups policies and procedures.
through the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer.
Shawbrook Bank Limited the main operating subsidiary of the The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels Group is subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulation of communication are established between the Chief Executive Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and as Officer and the other Executive Directors and shareholders and such undertakes an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ensuring that the views of the shareholders are made known to ICAAP and an Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process the Board: this includes feedback prepared by the Groups brokers ILAAP on a regular basis.
These processes benefited from ongoing on meetings held with institutional shareholders.
improvements in risk assessment during 2016 including, in the case of the ICAAP, an update to reflect the latest guidance from the PRA The Group recognises the importance of ensuring effective on approaches to the calculation of Pillar 2 capital.
The ICAAP and communication with all of its shareholders.
An annual financial ILAAP are reviewed by the Board from time to time.
The process report is distributed to all shareholders and to other parties, who involves an assessment of all the risks that the Group faces in its may have an interest in the Groups performance.
This report, operating environment, the likelihood of those risks crystallising together with a wide range of other information, including the and their potential materiality and the effectiveness of the control half-yearly financial report, interim management statements, framework in mitigating each risk.
This includes a thorough regulatory announcements and current details of the Groups evaluation of how the Group would be impacted by severe, share price, are made available on the Investor section of the but plausible, periods of stress in its stress testing programme.
The purpose of the process is to establish the level and quality of capital resources that the business should maintain, both under current market conditions and under a range of stressed scenarios, in order to ensure that financial resources are sufficient to successfully manage the effects of any risks that may crystallise.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 77 Corporate Governance Report continued Report of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Committee.
The Committees primary focus in 2016 has been on Board succession and development plans.
This has included considering plans for the continued development of key personnel within the business to ensure a pipeline of executive talent, and we have worked with the Group Human Resources Director to monitor the implementation of these plans.
We remain committed to ensuring that our succession and development plans are robust and position us well to deal with any future requirements at Board and senior management levels.
Succession planning and talent development will therefore continue to be an area of particular focus for the Committee in 2017 and future years.
The Committee is responsible During the year the Committee recommended the appointment for ensuring that appropriate of Andrew Didham as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee succession and development and Dylan Minto as Chief Financial Officer to the Board.
The Board also undertook an externally facilitated Board effectiveness review which found that significant progress had been made in terms of the Boards membership, the focus of its work, its delegation to Committees and to its executive and its culture.
The outcomes of the review further details of which can be found on page 74 will be considered and reviewed throughout 2017.
We have also continued to strengthen our belief in the benets of a diverse and inclusive working environment and remain committed to seeing that in our workforce.
We have signed the Governments Women in Finance Charter, an initiative by HM Treasury which seeks to increase the representation of women in financial services, particularly at senior levels.
We have set our own targets in line with the Charter to achieve a third of women on our Board and 40% in senior management positions by 2020.
Our diversity policy is described on page 78.
Further information on the activities of the Committee is provided in the following report.
Iain Cornish Chairman of the Nomination Committee 6 March 2017 Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 78 Corporate governance report continued Report of the Nomination Committee continued Role of the Nomination Committee Appointments The Nomination Committees principal function is to keep the The Committee ensures that a diverse pool of candidates is Boards governance, composition, skills, experience knowledge considered for any vacancy which arises and any appointments and independence and succession plans under review and to are made based on merit, having regard to the skills, competencies make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
and experience of the candidate.
As part of the identication and nomination process for Board During the year, the Committee recommended to the Board approval, the Committee carries out a formal selection process for the appointment of Andrew Didham as an Independent Executive and Non-Executive Directors and subsequently proposes Non-Executive Director, and Dylan Minto as an Executive Director.
to the Board any new appointments.
Ultimate responsibility for These appointment processes involved the services of two the appointment of Directors resides with the Board.
executive search agencies, Odgers Berndston and Ridgeway Partners, both of which have no other connection with the Group.
The Committee also oversees succession planning for Directors In each case, the executive search agencies provided a shortlist and senior managers below Board level.
The Nomination Committee of candidates who were compared against the role prole and also has oversight of recruitment activity in relation to anyone candidate brief and interviewed by members of the Nomination designated a Senior Manager under the Senior Managers Regime.
Committee, following which recommendations to appoint Andrew and Dylan were submitted to and approved by the Board.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on the outcome of meetings.
Diversity The Group is committed to improving diversity in its membership A full copy of the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee and whilst new appointments continue to be based on skill, can be found on the Groups website at investors.
experience and knowledge, careful consideration is given to diversity.
During the year, the Board approved the introduction Membership, composition and meetings of a formal Diversity Policy, as recommended by the Nomination The Nomination Committee is chaired by Iain Cornish the Chairman Committee.
of the Group and its membership comprises three Non-Executive Directors, a majority of whom are Independent Non-Executive When searching for candidates for Board appointments, the Directors in line with provision B.
Nomination Committee takes into account a number of factors, including the benets of diversity, including gender diversity, Meetings are held at least four times per year.
The Nomination and the balance of the composition of the Board.
The overriding Committee met on seven occasions during 2016 to discuss requirement is to ensure that recommendations for appointments proposed appointments, succession and development and are made on merit against objective criteria, and that the best to evaluate the balance of skills, experience, independence and candidates are put forward for Board appointments.
Individual meeting attendance during 2016 is set out below.
The number of meetings held during the Succession planning period, and the number of meetings that each Director was eligible The Committee is responsible for ensuring that appropriate to attend as a member is shown below: succession and development plans are in place for appointments to the Board.
We are satisfied that the succession planning Date joined or Meetings attended structure in place is appropriate for the size and nature of the stepped down Meetings eligible to Group.
Succession planning arrangements will be kept under Member in the year attend as a member regular review in the future.
Iain Cornish 7 7 Robin Ashton 7 7 Graham Alcock Stepped down 1 1 3 March 2016 Paul Lawrence Joined 3 March 2016 6 6 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, on occasion, other attendees included the Chief Executive Officer, Human Resources Director and Lindsey McMurray Non-Executive Director.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 79 Election of Directors CEO Induction Having reviewed the findings of the Board effectiveness process, the Nomination Committee is satisfied that the Board continues to be effective and has recommended to the Board that each of the All Directors are required to take part in an induction process.
Directors should stand for re-election in accordance with provision This includes comprehensive training in line with the Senior B.
7.1 of the Code at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Managers Regime as prescribed by the PRA and FCA.
In addition, Directors are required to undertake training in the Primary areas of focus during the year regulatory and compliance frameworks, and are also required During the relevant period the Nomination Committee considered to gain an understanding of relevant legal requirements the following principal items: such as the Market Abuse Directive and Money Laundering a review of the current structure, size and composition legislation.
Training is tailored to the requirements of each of the Board: Directors role.
the time commitment expected of Non-Executive Directors Steve Pateman joined Shawbrook in 2016 and undertook leadership and succession planning: comprehensive training related to his senior function.
He had the proposed election and re-election of Directors at the sessions with the Chairman to gain insight into the purpose forthcoming Annual General Meeting: and scope of the CEO role.
Further training included: the appointment of new Non-Executive Director: understanding his involvement in sub-committees: the appointment of a new CFO: gaining an overview of Board Director duties, responsibilities under the Senior Managers Regime: responsibilities and protocols: the Board effectiveness review, and reviewing past Board packs, Committee packs and minutes: the implementation of the Groups Diversity Policy.
gaining an understanding of current issues relevant to the CEO, including through an appropriate handover from the previous jobholder: understanding the strategic implementation of the Boards policies in relation to corporate governance across the Group and amongst the management team: receiving a full brieng on the UK Corporate Governance Code: meeting with divisional heads to consider, in depth, the key challenges facing their businesses: meeting key Group advisers: and holding discussions with the Chairman and Company Secretary.
4 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, in addition to providing an induction when Directors join the Board, care is taken to ensure they update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 80 Corporate governance report continued Report of the Audit Committee We have an annual work plan framed around the Groups financial reporting cycle which ensures that the Committee considers all matters delegated to it by the Board and covers significant accounting estimates and judgments which are set out in a table on page 82.
During the year the Financial Reporting Council FRC reviewed the 2015 Annual Report & Accounts and raised a number of points to the Board.
The resolution of the actions was overseen by the Committee and I am pleased to report that all matters were successfully resolved.
The majority of the points related to enhancing disclosures to improve the quality of our Annual Report & Accounts.
Inevitably there are also one-off matters which require the Committees attention which this year included the impairment The Committee has both members relating to the controls breach in the Business Finance Division see with a longstanding knowledge page 49 in the Risk management report for further details.
The Committee worked closely with management and the Internal of the business and those who Audit function to scope the size of the issue and determine the can provide fresh perspectives.
Another key area of focus was the roll-out of the IFRS 9 implementation programme.
Particular focus in 2016 was on our preparedness for IFRS 9 and parallel run in 2017, which aims to ensure we understand the impacts and are ready ahead of the effective date.
Progress has been made in developing our Expected Credit Loss ECL models, including our Credit Grading Framework.
The IFRS 9 programme sponsored jointly by the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer and managed by a single steering committee is within its build phase with the bulk of the testing and implementation due to take place in early 2017.
Dear Shareholder During the year the Committee received regular reports on the progress of this project, and has challenged management to ensure I am pleased to present my first report as Chairman of the Audit its implementation runs smoothly.
Committee, a role which I assumed on 1 February 2017, having succeeded Roger Lovering, who remains a Committee member.
Looking ahead to 2017, in addition to the routine audit schedule, As a Committee, we possess, as required by provision C. 3.1 of the the key areas of focus for the Committee will be IFRS 9 and giving UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, recent and relevant consideration to the transition towards our own in-house Internal financial expertise.
It was a busy year for the Committee in 2016, being the first full financial year following the IPO of the Group.
During the year, Andrew Didham David Gagie joined the Committee and Graham Alcock stepped Chairman of the Audit Committee down.
As a result of these changes, we feel that the Committee has both members with a longstanding knowledge of the business 6 March 2017 and those who can provide fresh perspectives.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 81 Accountability Membership and meetings Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises four members.
In accordance The Audit Committee is responsible on behalf of the Board, for, with provision C. 3.1 of the Code, all members of the Committee amongst other things: are Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Group.
Financial reporting process The Committee meets as required, but holds at least six meetings the significant areas of judgement and their application to the a year.
The Committee met formally seven times last year, and met results of the Group: on another five occasions to discuss other matters.
The number of reviewing the Groups Annual Report & Accounts and the Groups meetings held during the period that the Director was a member Interim Report to ensure that, taken as a whole, based on the and therefore eligible to attend is shown below.
information supplied to it and challenged by the Committee and on its judgement is fair, balanced and understandable and Meetings attended advising the Board to that effect: Date joined Meetings eligible to monitoring the integrity of the Annual Report & Accounts and Member or stepped down attend as a member the Interim Report and reviewing the critical accounting policies, Andrew Didham Joined disclosure obligations and changes in accounting requirements: 1 February 2017 reviewing and challenging the going concern and viability Roger Lovering 7 7 assessment undertaken by management, further details of which can be found on page 83: and Graham Alcock Stepped down 2 2 reviewing the Groups Pillar III disclosures to ensure compliance 3 March 2016 with prescribed requirements.
Robin Ashton 7 7 Internal controls and risk management David Gagie Joined 4 5 considering the process used to evaluate the effectiveness of 3 March 2016 internal controls, financial reporting and risk management: Paul Lawrence 7 7 considering the extent of the work undertaken by the finance function and ensuring the finance teams have adequate resources The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
to ensure that the control environment continues to operate Other individuals attend at the request of the Committee Chairman.
effectively: and During the year, the External Auditor, Chairman of the Board, continuously considering any findings of internal investigations Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, into control weaknesses, fraud or misconduct and managements Internal Audit and other senior managers as appropriate would responses to any deficiencies identied.
usually attend meetings to report to the Committee and provide External audit clarification and explanations where appropriate.
The Committee making recommendations to the Board in relation to the also met with the external and internal auditors without executive appointment, re-appointment and removal of the External management on regular occasions in 2016.
Auditor and approving the auditors remuneration and terms of engagement: and The Board is satisfied that Andrew Didham and his predecessor, reviewing the findings of the External Audit and the Roger Lovering, have recent and relevant financial experience, level of challenge produced by the External Auditor and as referred to in the Code.
considering managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations.
A full copy of the terms of reference for the Audit Committee can be obtained by request to the Company Secretary or via the Groups Internal audit website at investors.
monitoring the activity, role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and their audit programme: approving the audit plan and budget and monitoring the progress against it at regular intervals, conrming that appropriate resource and capability is in place to execute the plan effectively: and considering the internal audit reports, including thematic and routine reviews on prudential and regulatory compliance.
Whistleblowing continuously considering the Groups whistleblowing policies and procedures, including the protection of whistleblowers.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 82 Corporate governance report continued Report of the Audit Committee continued Significant areas of judgement During 2016 the following significant issues and accounting judgements were considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 Annual Report & Accounts: Significant financial and reporting issue How the Committee addressed the issue The Committee received presentations from management explaining the provisioning Impairment of loans and advances methodology across the Groups lending operations ahead of both the interim and full year results.
The Committee considered and challenged the provisioning methodology applied by management, including the inputs to the statistical loan loss models prepared by the Group Risk function.
The Committee also considered the calibration of model parameters in the light of economic indicators, including house price movements and underlying book performance.
The Committee concluded that the impairment provisions, including managements judgements, were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in Note 14 to the Financial statements.
Interest earned on loans and receivables is recognised using the Effective Interest Effective interest rate rate EIR method.
EIR is calculated on the initial recognition of loan lending through a discounted cash flow model that incorporates fees, costs and other premiums or discounts.
There have been no changes to the EIR accounting policies during the year.
The Committee considered and challenged the EIR methodology applied by management, including expected future customer behaviours, redemption proles and changes to existing redemption proles and concluded that the EIR methodology was appropriate as at 31 December 2016.
The disclosures relating to EIR are set out in Note 3 to the Financial statements.
The Committee considered and challenged the annual assessment of the carrying value Impairment assessment of goodwill of goodwill as well as a paper during the year setting out the final goodwill impairment review of the Business Credit cash generating unit CGU prior to the integration of the Business Credit and Asset Finance CGUs into a single Business Finance CGU.
Following the review and challenge of the Groups value-in-use calculations and key assumptions, the Committee agreed with managements conclusion that the carrying value of the Business Credit goodwill prior to integration into Business Finance, and the Groups carrying value of goodwill as at 31 December 2016 was reasonably stated.
The build phase of the IFRS 9 programme is near completion In addition to the matters described above, the Committee and the Committee will oversee the parallel run in 2017. considered issues relating to the IFRS 9 implementation process and the acquisition of loan books.
The Committee was regularly At the end of 2015, the Group made a Property portfolio updated on the progress of the IFRS 9 programme against acquisition.
During 2016, the Committee considered and the programme plan.
Areas of focus include the review and challenged the assumptions used in determining the unwind of interpretation and of technical accounting opinions, policy setting the fair value discount and concluded that the fair value adjustment and operational changes required in the Finance function to as at 31 December 2016 was reasonably stated.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 83 Financial reporting process The Group Risk and Internal Audit functions review the extent to During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed and discussed which the system of internal control is effective: is adequate to the financial disclosures made in the Annual Report & Accounts, manage the Groups principal risks: safeguards the Groups assets: half-yearly financial report, interim management statement and and, in conjunction with the Company Secretary and the Groups the other trading statements made by the Group together with Legal and Compliance functions, ensures compliance with legal any related management letters, letters of representation and and regulatory requirements.
It provides independent and objective reports from the External Auditors.
significant financial reporting assurance on risks and controls to the Board Audit Committee and issues and judgments were considered together with any significant senior management.
accounting policies and changes proposed to them.
Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group, Going concern and long-term viability as determined by a structured risk assessment process involving The Committee reviewed a detailed paper presented by executive directors and senior management.
The output from the management setting out the assumptions underlying the going process is summarised in an annual audit plan, which is approved concern statement.
The paper covered the capital position of the by the Audit Committee.
Group, improvements to the Groups Risk Management Framework and governance, and the work performed on the Groups ICAAP.
The role of the Internal Audit function and the scope of its work Based on the work performed, the Committee concluded that continue to evolve to take into account of changes within the the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational business and emerging best practice.
existence for the period of assessment of 12 months from the date of signing the accounts.
The Committee reported accordingly On behalf of the Board, the Committee through discharging to the Board, which also considered Going Concern in detail.
its responsibilities under its terms of reference undertakes regular reviews of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of In order to support the Boards approval of the statement on internal control as set out on page 75.
In addition, following the page 56 as to the longer term viability of the Group, the Committee implementation of upgrades to the Groups risk management reviewed papers from management setting out the intended systems and controls throughout 2015 and 2016 and the subsequent approach to the disclosures and providing details in support of identication of the controls breach in the Business Finance Division, the statement based in particular on the Groups medium term the Group engaged external forensic accountants to provide plan and the results of stress testing.
assurance on the adequacy of the revised control framework.
During the relevant period the Audit Committee discharged its Internal Audit responsibilities by performing the following activities: The Group has outsourced the Internal Audit function to Deloitte LLP since June 2013.
The Committee is satisfied that in 2016 this Internal controls and risk management continued to be the most appropriate way of managing the delivery Together with the Groups Risk Committee, the Audit Committee has of internal audit services, however as the size and nature of the performed a robust assessment of the Risk Management Framework business has changed, the Audit Committee has considered the and principal risks and uncertainties.
Details of the risk management need and suitability of transitioning to an in-house Internal Audit systems in place and principal risks and uncertainties are provided function, on the subject of which it will make a recommendation within the Risk management report on pages 40 to 56. to the Board in 2017.
The Groups system of internal control has been designed to The terms of reference of the Internal Audit function are set out manage risk and whilst risk cannot be eliminated, the new system in the Internal Audit Charter.
The Audit Committee approves the improvements assist in providing reasonable assurance against annual audit plan and audit methodology for Internal Audit and material misstatement or loss.
monitors progress against the plan during the year.
The Internal Audit Partner agrees the programme of work and reports directly The Audit Committee receives reports on a regular basis on to the Committee on the outcomes.
Special reviews are carried compliance with the Groups policies and procedures and the out as required.
effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls.
The Groups Internal Audit function as the third line of defence is outsourced to Deloitte LLP providing assurance to the Group that the specialist nature of the Groups activities can be fully assessed.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 84 Corporate governance report continued Report of the Audit Committee continued Internal Audit carried out a significant number of audits during External Audit independence and objectivity 2016 of varying size and complexity.
Thematic audits focused on, The Committee is responsible for reviewing the independence amongst other things, new business processes, capital and liquidity of the Groups External Auditor KPMG LLP and making a and the Risk Management Framework.
Audit reports are circulated recommendation to the Board on their engagement.
KPMG LLP to the Audit Committee members prior to each scheduled meeting has a policy of partner rotation which complies with regulatory and the Committee monitors progress against actions identied standards, and the audit partner changed with effect from March in these reports.
2016, in line with this requirement.
The Committee used a questionnaire to monitor and review Maintaining an independent relationship with the Groups auditor Internal Audits effectiveness using feedback from the Board, is a critical part of assessing the effectiveness of the audit process.
senior management and regular attendees.
The Audit Committee The Committee has a formal policy on the use of the Auditor for also assesses annually the resources available to Internal Audit to non-audit work and ensures that work is only awarded when, by complete its remit.
Internal Audit has unrestricted access to all Group virtue of the Auditors knowledge, skills or experience are a decisive documentation, premises, functions and employees as required to factor and when the Auditors are clearly to be preferred over enable it to perform its functions.
The appointment and removal alternative suppliers.
of Internal Audit staff is the responsibility of the Audit Committee.
The Committee receives and reviews each year an analysis of all External Audit non-audit work and reviews the level of audit and non-audit fees The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the External paid to KPMG LLP and also ensures that significant assignments Auditor and considers the External Auditors engagement including are not awarded without first being subject to the scrutiny of the remuneration, their effectiveness, their continued independence Committee.
The fees paid to KPMG for audit and non-audit services and their objectivity.
The Committee also considers audit and are set out in note 7 of the Financial statements.
The key principles audit strategy including the planned levels of materiality.
The of the policy on non-audit services are: External Auditor attends the Committee meetings as appropriate Summary of non-audit services policy and meets at least annually with the Committee without executive The Committee reviewed payment for non-audit services in 2016. management.
The Chairman of the Committee also meets privately i P rohibited services include services remunerated on a success with the External Auditor before each Committee meeting.
fee or participation in activities normally undertaken by management.
During the year, the Committee received regular detailed reports ii The Committee approved a list of permitted audit related from the External Auditor including formal written reports dealing reviews of the Groups interim results or any other review of with the audit objectives: and reports on: the auditors qualications, its accounts for regulatory purposes.
Details of the services expertise and resources: the effectiveness of the audit process: provided by the External Auditors can be found in note 7 procedures and policies for maintaining independence: and of the Financial statements.
compliance with the ethical standards issued by the Auditing iii The Committee maintains a list of prohibited services which Practices Board.
The External Auditors management letter is is aligned to the black-list of services set out in the EU Audit reviewed, as is managements response to issues raised and regulations and directives.
progress is monitored against actions identied in these reports.
iv P re-approved services up to 100,000 require approval by the CFO CEO or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
All services The Committee monitors the latest ethical guidance regarding that are not pre-approved, or are discretional or exceed the rotation of audit partners.
Non-audit services provided by the monetary threshold of 100,000 should be referred to the External Auditor is regularly monitored by the Committee.
The Committee confirms that no prohibited services were provided by the External Auditor and it is satisfied that the policy on the supply of non-audit services could not lead to audit objectivity and independence being compromised.
In order to comply with the policy, the External Auditor ceased the provision of tax advisory services from 1 January 2017.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 85 In December 2016 the Committee assessed the effectiveness of the Governance External Auditor and the audit process.
The review included seeking The Committee has undertaken a review of its own performance, the views of Audit Committee members, Executive Directors and focussing on the Code requirements for Audit Committees, as part senior executives.
The review concluded that the external audit of the Board effectiveness review.
FRC Review During the year the Financial Reporting Council FRC performed The Committee is satisfied with the performance of the External a review of Shawbrooks 2015 Annual Report & Accounts and Auditor in 2016 and the policies and procedures in place to maintain invited comments on a number of reporting areas.
The 2015 their objectivity and independence, and has recommended that Annual Report and Accounts was Shawbrooks maiden set of they be re-appointed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
accounts as a FTSE 250 listed organisation and we welcomed the opportunity to improve the quality of our reporting.
Audit tender The Group appointed KPMG Audit Plc as External Auditor from All issues raised by the FRC have been discussed by the 2011 to 2014, and KPMG LLP thereafter.
The Group did not carry out Committee and, in consultation with the External Auditor have a formal tender process in the year as it sought to embed stability been cleared with the FRC with no points outstanding at the date in the year following the IPO.
KPMG LLP has continued as External of this report and where applicable, we enhanced our disclosures.
However, the Committee has adopted the transitional provisions under the EU Statutory Audit Directive permitting the Group to put the external contract out to tender no later than Fair, balanced and understandable 2021.
The Group will keep under review regulatory and legislative The Committee considered on behalf of the Board whether the developments around the tenure of the Auditors and will undertake 2016 Annual Report & Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced a formal competitive tender at the appropriate time.
Following and understandable, and whether the disclosures are appropriate.
discussions with KPMG LLP and consideration by the Committee The Committee is satisfied that the 2016 Annual Report & Accounts Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer of possible candidates, meets this requirement, and in particular, that appropriate disclosure approval was given to the appointment of John Ellacott as the has been made with respect to any developments in the year.
In Groups new audit partner from March 2016. justifying this statement the Committee has considered the robust procedures around the preparation, review and challenge of the The Group has complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Report and the consistency of the narrative sections with the Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Financial statements.
The Annual Report & Accounts is drafted by Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee the Executive with overall governance and co-ordination provided Responsibilities Order 2014. by the Annual Report & Accounts Working Group comprising a team of cross-functional senior management.
Whistleblowing A formalised whistle-blowing policy and procedure for staff to Assurances are sought by the Audit Committee on each section raise issues regarding possible improprieties in matters of financial of the Annual Report in advance of final sign-off by the Audit reporting or other matters has been established and was reviewed Committee and ultimately the Board.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures and any Following its review, the Committee is satisfied that the Annual notications made.
The Committee is charged with ensuring that Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to information necessary for shareholders and other stakeholders to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence and performing assess the Groups position and performance, business model and suitable subsequent follow-up action.
An alternative reporting strategy and has advised the Board accordingly.
channel also exists whereby perceived wrongdoing may be reported via telephone to an external third party.
Andrew Didham The Audit Committee has access to the services of the Company Chairman of the Audit Committee Secretarial function and is authorised to obtain independent professional advice if it considers it necessary.
6 March 2017 Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 86 Corporate governance report continued Risk Committee Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the report of the Risk Committee, our second as a listed Group.
This year we have continued to strengthen our Risk Management Framework and controls in line with the Groups aspirations and risk appetite.
The following report explains in further detail how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities and highlights the key matters discussed by the Committee in 2016.
This has involved balancing the agenda to include standing areas of risk management whilst ensuring key risks which have emerged during the course of the year are appropriately addressed.
Considerable time has also been spent contributing to documents such as the ICAAP and ILAAP before making recommendations to the Board.
We have continued to strengthen Good progress has been made during 2016 in further understanding our Risk Management Framework underlying risks and enhancing risk management.
We are now and controls in line with the Groups well positioned to further embed the revised Risk Management Framework and further enhance testing and quality assurance aspirations and risk appetite.
The environment in which the Group operates continues to evolve and I believe the Committee is well placed to review inherent and emerging risks and embed an appropriate risk culture.
Paul Lawrence Chairman of the Risk Committee 6 March 2017 Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 87 Committee membership Role of the Risk Committee The Risk Committee comprises six members, all of whom are A full copy of the terms of reference of the Risk Committee can be Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Group.
obtained by request to the Company Secretary or via the Groups website at investors.
Meetings are held at least bi-monthly.
The number of meetings The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in its held during the period and those that each Director was eligible oversight of risk within the Group, with particular focus on the to attend as a member of the Committee are shown below.
Groups risk appetite, risk culture, risk prole and the effectiveness of the Groups Risk Management Framework.
As well as reviewing Date joined Meetings attended the Groups risk assessment processes and methodology it or stepped down meetings eligible to identies and manages new risks, alongside advising on proposed Member in the year attend as a member transactions and reviewing reports on any material breaches of Paul Lawrence 7 7 risk limits.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the risk function and the capital Robin Ashton 6 7 adequacy requirements of the Groups relevant subsidiaries on Graham Alcock Stepped down 3 3 an on-going basis.
9 June 2016 David Gagie Joined 4 6 Over the course of 2016, the Committee considered a wide range 3 March 2016 of risks facing the Group, both standing and emerging, across all areas of risk management in addition to the risk appetite and culture.
Sally-Ann Hibberd Joined 6 6 Below is an outline of these risks, with a summary of the material 3 March 2016 factors considered by the Committee, including the conclusions Roger Lovering 7 7 that were ultimately reached.
Andrew Didham Joined 1 February 2017 During the year, the members of the Committee were Paul Lawrence, Robin Ashton, Graham Alcock, David Gagie and Roger Lovering, who each also served on the Audit Committee throughout the reporting period.
Sally-Ann Hibberd does not sit on the Audit Committee.
Andrew Didham was appointed to the Committee on 1 February 2017.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Other individuals attend at the request of the Risk Committee Chairman and during the year the External Auditors, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, staff from the Internal Audit function and other senior managers as appropriate would usually attend meetings to report to the Committee and provide clarification and explanations where appropriate.
During the year, the Committee met on seven occasions.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 88 Corporate governance report continued Risk Committee Report continued Key matters considered in detail by the Committee in 2016 Significant risks Board Risk Committee review Enterprise risk The Committee received and recommended for the Boards approval the 2016 Risk Plan which management included the key areas of focus for the Group Risk function.
The Committee recommended Board approval of the Groups new Risk Management Framework in January 2016 which set out the Groups approach to managing the enterprise wide risks that the bank faces.
This includes culture, governance, the three lines of defence system and clear roles and responsibilities throughout the Group.
The Committee received regular summaries of the enterprise risk prole of the Group through the Chief Risk Officers report.
The Committee received an independent review of the strategic plan.
Risk governance The Committee recommended to the Board approval of revisions to risk governance, including the establishment of an Enterprise Risk Management Committee in March 2016.
Board risk appetite The Committee received a number of reports during the year including but not limited to : a new overarching risk appetite statement for the Group: an annual review of the Board Risk Appetite statements covering all principal risks: consideration of new risk appetite statements in the strategic areas of information risk and concentration risk: and consideration of divisional risk appetite limits.
Credit risk The Committee received a report on changes to delegated authorities which aligns to the three lines of defence system, ensures segregation of duties and supports escalation to the Credit Approval Committee where appropriate.
The Committee received via the Board regular updates on the Groups preparations for IFRS 9.
Operational risk The Committee received updates on changes to the Groups product management policy and annual reviews.
The Committee received updates on the Groups investment in an information security risk management framework, controls and risk appetite.
The Committee received updates on Business Continuity testing and a test of the Cyber Incident Response Plan.
Conduct, legal and The Committee received the Groups Annual Compliance Monitoring Plan and updates on performance.
compliance risk The Committee received a revised intermediary and broker risk management framework.
Liquidity and The Committee received and recommended to the Board approval of the Internal Liquidity Adequacy market risk Assessment Process ILAAP.
The Committee received and recommended to the Board approval of the Contingent Liquidity Plan CLP.
Stress testing and The Committee received the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP in March capital 2016 and was actively engaged in the oversight of the macroeconomic stress testing, the development of idiosyncratic stress tests and reverse stress testing.
The Committee received the Capital Contingency Plan CCP in July 2016.
Recovery and The Committee received the Groups updated Recovery Plan and Resolution Pack in November 2016. resolution plan Remuneration The Risk Committee received a report from the Chief Risk Officer on the progress made on risk management in early 2016.
The report formed a key part of the Remuneration Committees assessment of remuneration.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
