Pipeline programs Shaping future treatments Innovation is the lifeblood of our current and future success we now have 37 programs in the clinic with 21 in the later stages of development, with a significant focus on areas of high unmet medical need and rare disease patient populations.
35 6 10 17 4 Preclinical Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Registration Upcoming milestones At this initial stage, the focus This stage is typically the first time a medicine is In Phase 2 we carry out further clinical This is the final stage of clinical trials before Building on the data and understanding Some of the key anticipated events ison researching the feasibility tested on humans.
The emphasis is on examining trials, continuing to investigate efficacy and registration.
It focuses on confirming the gained during the earlier phases, the focus thatwe expect in 2017. and safety of a potential new effectiveness, side effects and safety.
We currently safety and deepening our understanding, effectiveness and safety of the product here is on filing for regulatory approval from product.
This lays the have six programs in Phase 1. for example of dosage levels.
We currently compared to a placebo or another treatment.
We currently have foundation for clinical trials.
We have 10 programs in Phase 2.
We currently have 17 Phase 3 programs.
four programs at this stage of our pipeline.
currently have 35 preclinical SHP611 ONIVYDE GLASSIA ADYNOVATE EU NATPAR research programs underway.
MLD First-line pancreatic cancer Acute Graft vs.
Host Disease Hemophilia A EU Filing Internally developed and SHP622 ONIVYDE Japan Calaspargase pegol INTUNIV Japan INTUNIV viapartnership Friedreichs Ataxia Pancreatic cancer post-gemicitabine Acute lymphoblastic leukemia ADHD Anticipated Japan Approval Both rare disease and SHP623 SHP607 CINRYZE NATPAR EU VYVANSE Japan specialty conditions Neuromyelitis optica Complications of prematurity Antibody Mediated Rejection Hypoparathroidism Filing SHP631: neurocognitive decline associated SHP625 CINRYZE Japan SHP465 NATPAR Multiple modalities including withHuntersyndrome Alagille syndrome ALGS HAE prophylaxis ADHD Anticipated EU Approval new chemical entities, SHP655 SHP625 PFIC CINRYZE SC SHP643 HAE Monoclonal antibodies, Hereditary thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura Progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis HAE prophylaxis Phase 3 Data proteins, and gene therapy 2 SHP656 SHP626 FIRAZYR Japan FIRAZYR Japan Key Hemophilia A Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis NASH Acute HAE Filing Rare indication 1 SHP640 GATTEX Japan SHP656 BAX826 Non-rare indication Infectious conjunctivitis Short bowel syndrome Proof of Concept 1 SHP647 HYQVIA KIOVIG: chronic inflammatory SHP611 MLD 1 Phase 3 expected to start in 2017 Crohns disease Demyelinating polyneuropathy Top line Phase 1 2 Data 2 Phase 2 3 programs shown as 1 SHP647 OBIZUR VONVENDI Phase 3 Ulcerative colitis CHAWI surgery EU Filing SHP652 OBIZUR CHAWI on demand SHP465 Systemic lupus erythematosus Hemophilia A with inhibitors Anticipated U. S. Approval SHP555 U. S. ADYNOVI Chronic constipation Anticipated EU Approval 2 SHP609 Calaspargase pegol ALL Hunter Syndrome intrathecal delivery BLA Filing SHP620 XIIDRA Cytomegalovirus infection EU Filing SHP621 ONIVYDE Japan Eosinophilic esophagitis Top line data SHP643 Hunter IT Hereditary angioedema prophylaxis Phase 3 data VONVENDI EU Von Willebrand disease 2 VYVANSE Japan Subject to regulatory approval ADHD 20 Shire Annual Report 2016 35 6 10 17 4 Preclinical Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Registration Upcoming milestones At this initial stage, the focus This stage is typically the first time a medicine is In Phase 2 we carry out further clinical This is the final stage of clinical trials before Building on the data and understanding Some of the key anticipated events ison researching the feasibility tested on humans.
Host Disease Hemophilia A EU Filing Internally developed and SHP622 ONIVYDE Japan Calaspargase pegol INTUNIV Japan INTUNIV viapartnership Friedreichs Ataxia Pancreatic cancer post-gemicitabine Acute lymphoblastic leukemia ADHD Anticipated Japan Approval Both rare disease and SHP623 SHP607 CINRYZE NATPAR EU VYVANSE Japan specialty conditions Neuromyelitis optica Complications of prematurity Antibody Mediated Rejection Hypoparathroidism Filing SHP631: neurocognitive decline associated SHP625 CINRYZE Japan SHP465 NATPAR Multiple modalities including withHuntersyndrome Alagille syndrome ALGS HAE prophylaxis ADHD Anticipated EU Approval new chemical entities, SHP655 SHP625 PFIC CINRYZE SC SHP643 HAE Monoclonal antibodies, Hereditary thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura Progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis HAE prophylaxis Phase 3 Data proteins, and gene therapy 2 SHP656 SHP626 FIRAZYR Japan FIRAZYR Japan Key Hemophilia A Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis NASH Acute HAE Filing Rare indication 1 SHP640 GATTEX Japan SHP656 BAX826 Non-rare indication Infectious conjunctivitis Short bowel syndrome Proof of Concept 1 SHP647 HYQVIA KIOVIG: chronic inflammatory SHP611 MLD 1 Phase 3 expected to start in 2017 Crohns disease Demyelinating polyneuropathy Top line Phase 1 2 Data 2 Phase 2 3 programs shown as 1 SHP647 OBIZUR VONVENDI Phase 3 Ulcerative colitis CHAWI surgery EU Filing SHP652 OBIZUR CHAWI on demand SHP465 Systemic lupus erythematosus Hemophilia A with inhibitors Anticipated U. S. Approval SHP555 U. S. ADYNOVI Chronic constipation Anticipated EU Approval 2 SHP609 Calaspargase pegol ALL Hunter Syndrome intrathecal delivery BLA Filing SHP620 XIIDRA Cytomegalovirus infection EU Filing SHP621 ONIVYDE Japan Eosinophilic esophagitis Top line data SHP643 Hunter IT Hereditary angioedema prophylaxis Phase 3 data VONVENDI EU Von Willebrand disease 2 VYVANSE Japan Subject to regulatory approval ADHD Shire Annual Report 2016 21 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Therapeutic areas Our focus on Lysosmal Storage Diseases LSD Key products Genetic Diseases For International Gaucher Day on October 1, 2016, welaunched our Spotlight on Gaucher initiative on Investing in social media to raise awareness about Gaucher manufacturing Disease.
The initiative generated over 8,500 engagements and it was endorsed by the European We continue to invest in expanding Gaucher Association EGA and the National Gaucher our global biotechnology Foundation NGF in the U. S. manufacturing capability.
In As part of our ongoing Fabry Disease education for Ireland for example, we are patients and their families, we launched a series of creating a new $400 million short films called Fabry Family Tree.
The films help facility at Piercetown, County raise awareness of Fabry Disease as a genetic Meath.
This state-of-the-art condition, its impact on other family members and biologics manufacturing campus theimportance of early diagnosis.
will play a key part in meeting the Our focus on Hereditary Angioedema HAE rising demand for our innovative treatments for Lysosmal Storage We have seen strong growth in our HAE products, Diseases LSD.
driven by demand in the U. S. Europe and Latin America.
HAE Hereditary Angioedema HAE is anautosomal dominant disorder characterized by recurrent episodes LSD Hunter Syndrome ofedema that typically involve the Hunter Syndrome, also known as extremities, abdomen, external genitalia,  II MPS II, is a rare face, or oropharynx.
Abdominal attacks X-linked genetic disorder that primarily affects areoften associated with severe males.
Physical manifestations may include distinct abdominalpain, nausea, and vomiting facial features, a large head and enlarged abdomen.
andmay lead to hospitalization and In many cases, the central nervous system may also occasionally to unnecessary exploratory be affected.
Hunter Syndrome does not manifest surgery.
Laryngeal attacks are associated the same way in all people: the rate of symptom with a substantial risk of death.
progression varies widely, but in all cases it is a HAE affects approximately 1 in 10,000 to serious, progressive, life-limiting disorder.
Approximately Hunter syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 50 percent of HAE patients begin to have 162,000 male live births.
It is caused by a episodes of swelling under the age of deficiencyor absence of the enzyme iduronate 10years.
Occasionally, HAE patients 2-sulfatase I2S which results in a build-up of donotbegin to show adverse effects glycosaminoglycans GAGs in cells throughout untiltheirlateteens or early adulthood.
Approximately75 percent of patients haveafamily history of attacks.
LSD Gaucher Disease Gaucher Disease is a rare genetic LSD Fabry Disease disorder caused by the deficiency orabsence of the enzyme Fabry Disease is a rare X-linked glucocerebrosidase.
This missing inherited genetic disease.
It is enzyme means that the body is caused by the deficiency, absence or unable to break down and recycle incomplete functioning of an enzyme specific fatty substances called called alpha-galactosidase A.
The time this can result in the glucocerebrosides accumulate accumulation of a waste substance mainly in the spleen, liver and bone called  Gb-3 marrow.
Common symptoms may in cells, causing progressive damage include enlarged liver and spleen, to tissues and major organs.
anemia, low platelet counts Fabry Disease equally affects all thrombocytopenia, and skeletal ethnic groups.
It has an estimated Total sales abnormalities.
birth prevalence of approximately Gaucher Disease is the most 1:40,000 to 117,000.
Males with common lysosomal storage disease Fabry Disease will always display $2,698m LSD.
It affects approximately 1 in the characteristic signs and 50,000-100,000 people.
25% of total product sales 22 Shire Annual Report 2016
