Board governance trusted intermediary for the other Directors.
Leadership Non-Executive Directors are charged with In addition, the Senior Independent Director Role of the Board exercising independent judgment during is responsible for leading meetings of the The principal purpose of the Board is to Board deliberations and ensuring effective Non-Executive Directors in the absence of provide leadership to the Company in a performance and delivery of strategy by the Chairman and for consulting with manner that promotes its long-term management.
shareholders when communication with the success, creating sustainable value for the The Chairman, Senior Independent Director Chairman or Chief Executive Officer would benefit of shareholders and other and Chief Executive Officer have distinctly be inappropriate.
The Board is responsible for different roles which are defined in writing determining the Groups strategy as well as and approved by the Board.
These are Chief Executive Officer overseeing its implementation by summarized as follows: The principal responsibility of the Chief management.
In doing so, the Board works Executive Officer is to manage Shires closely with management to ensure that a Chairman day-to-day business.
Having regard for the culture of integrity, responsibility and The Chairmans primary responsibility is to strategy, risk profile, objectives and policies patient focus exists throughout the provide leadership to the Board, ensuring set forth by the Board and its committees, organization.
In addition, the Board has its effective operation.
This is achieved in the Chief Executive Officer is accountable oversight of all material matters impacting part through the promotion of an open and to the Board for the development of the the Company and its operations including engaged culture that facilitates constructive Company and its operations.
key policies, significant financial matters dialogue both with management and in and M&A activity, risk management and executive sessions of the Board.
The Full details of these roles and succession planning.
Chairman is also responsible for ensuring responsibilities can be found on the effective communications between the Companys website.
Division of responsibilities Board and shareholders.
The Board comprises the Chairman, 10 other Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Senior Independent Director Executive Officer and the Chief Financial The Senior Independent Director is Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer, responsible for providing a sounding board together with the Executive Committee, is for the Chairman and for serving as a responsible for business operations.
The Key considerations The principal considerations of the Board during the year were: Strategy Operations Governance Transactional and integration Ongoing property portfolio rationalization Ongoing investor feedback, with there developments relating to the combination including focused commercial and being a high level of engagement with Baxalta, creating the leading global manufacturing investment in Ireland, regarding M&A transactions and biotechnology company focused on including commitment to a new, state-ofexecutive remuneration rarediseases the-art biologics manufacturing facility The Companys full-year and half-year The Companys strategy and long The Companys compassionate use results, quarterly earnings releases, key rangeplan program and related policy development financial reports and earnings guidance Material M&A and in-licensing Global digital capabilities, systems Board performance, effectiveness and transactions, including completion of compatibility and integration succession planning including induction theDyax acquisition and related Ongoing monitoring and review of and training initiatives integration activity theCompanys principal risks, risk Senior management succession and Clinical programs development updates, management and internal control systems talent assessment launch activity for key products The Companys ongoing performance Key policies and frameworks, including includingXIIDRA and ongoing against budget the Delegation of Authority matrix, Board commercial development Diversity Policy and Code of Ethics Litigation updates, including the agreed settlement with the U. S. Department ofJustice concerning our former Dermagraft business Ongoing group financing arrangements including the refinancing of external debt through the issuance of senior notes Developments to the global operating environment including BREXIT, the U. S. presidential election and other macro events Shire Annual Report 2016 71 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board governance continued Board operation core behaviors and therefore to the During the year the Board met frequently inorder to discharge its duties.
Six scheduled execution of its strategy.
The Board is Board meetings took place during 2016 of which five were held over two-day periods committed to ensuring that the Company alongside Board committee meetings.
In addition, five ad hoc meetings were held operates in accordance with the highest principally to consider M&A activity and other strategic matters.
standards of governance in order to promote its success for the benefit of allstakeholders.
Scheduled Ad hoc Date of meeting meeting Diversity 1 2 Board member appointment attendance attendance The Board recognizes the inherent value of 3 Susan Kilsby September 1, 2011 6 6 5 5 diversity at all levels within the Group and Flemming Ornskov January 2, 2013 6 6 5 5 strives to foster an inclusive and respectful Jeffrey Poulton April 29, 2015 6 6 5 5 professional culture.
During the year the 4 William Burns March 15, 2010 6 6 4 5 Board reviewed its Diversity Policy and considered many of the related published Dominic Blakemore January 1, 2014 6 6 5 5 5 reports and recommendations.
Moreover, Olivier Bohuon July 1, 2015 5 6 4 5 as part of the wider integration effort Gail Fosler June 3, 2016 4 4 3 3 relating to the Baxalta acquisition, the Steven Gillis October 1, 2012 6 6 5 5 Board and members of management David Ginsburg June 16, 2010 6 6 5 5 tookthe opportunity to reinforce Shires Sara Mathew September 1, 2015 6 6 4 5 commitment to people of all backgrounds, Anne Minto June 16, 2010 6 6 4 5 irrespective of race, gender or sexual Albert Stroucken June 3, 2016 4 4 3 3 orientation.
It is a core belief of Shires David Kappler April 5, 2004 April 28, 2016 2 2 2 2 leadership that an inclusive workforce brings a wealth of ideas, innovation and Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that Committee members were eligible drive that in turn contributes to the toattend.
Companys ability to anticipate, and adapt 1.
Ian Clark was appointed as a member of the Board on January 3, 2017. to, ongoing changes in its operating 2.
Ad hoc meetings are those that fell outside of the usual Board calendar and were timed to facilitate environment.
Susan Kilsby served as an independent Non-Executive Director prior to her appointment as Chairman Shires Board Diversity Policy on April 29, 2014. acknowledges that the Company, its 4.
William Burns served as a Non-Executive Director prior to his appointment as Senior Independent Director on April 28, 2016. shareholders and other stakeholders are 5.
Olivier Bohuon was absent from one scheduled meeting due to illness.
best served by a Board diverse in skill, experience, background, gender and as defined in the Board Reserve Powers, Only members of the Board are entitled ethnicity.
The principles of the policy are although wider matters are considered by toattend Board meetings, however, taken into account by both the Board and the Board as circumstances require.
duringthe year members from the the Nomination & Governance Committee TheBoard Reserve Powers are available followinginternal Group functions in their consideration of potential Board onthe Companys website.
attendedby invitation: members, consistent with the Groups At the start of the year the Chairman, focus on diversity.
Additional disclosure Finance herfellow Directors and the Company relating to diversity within Shire is made Legal and Company Secretariat Secretary agree a forward-looking onpages 38 to 39.
Corporate Development schedule of matters to be considered by Human Resources Independence the Board and its committees, with specific Research and Development The Board has reviewed the independence updates made throughout the year as Global Compliance and Risk of the Non-Executive Directors, other than required.
The Chairman is also supported Management the Chairman, in accordance with the by the Company Secretary and Communications and Public Affairs factors set forth for consideration in the management in ensuring that all necessary Investor Relations Governance Code and determined that information is provided to the Board in a International Commercial everyone seeking election or re-election timely manner, and that sufficient time is U. S. Commercial continues to be independent in character made available at meetings for the Technical Operations and judgment.
In addition, the Board consideration of individual agenda items.
regards each of its members as possessing Open and balanced discussion is External professional advisors also the skills, knowledge and experience encouraged with a view to achieving attended meetings when necessary.
During necessary for it to function effectively.
resolution by consensus, however, if scheduled Board meetings it is customary Board members biographical information consensus is not possible then decisions for the Non-Executive Directors to meet at can be found on pages 66 to 68. are to be taken by majority vote, with the least once without Executive Directors or Chairman having a casting vote in the case Appointments management present, following which a of an equality of votes.
The Board may appoint any individual as meeting of the Non-Executive Directors led aDirector either to fill a vacancy or as an by the Senior Independent Director is held Effectiveness additional member of the Board.
The in the absence of the Chairman.
Matters Effective stewardship is integral to the process for new appointments is led by considered by the Board are those development and promotion of the theNomination & Governance Committee reserved for its judgment and decision, Companys purpose, culture, values and 72 Shire Annual Report 2016 Board performance evaluation procedural details are available on page governance structure, as well as their Progress against points of focus 80 which ultimately makes a ownduties and responsibilities.
Induction from2015 recommendation to the Board.
activities undertaken during the year are asfollows: During 2015, the Board undertook an Appointments may be made by the Board externally facilitated performance at any time subject to subsequent election Non-Executive Directors evaluation.
In considering the results of that and annual re-election by the Companys As newly appointed Board members, Gail evaluation and how effectiveness might be shareholders.
All Directors are seeking Fosler and Albert Stroucken have each improved, the Board agreed that, during election or re-election at the Annual General undertaken induction meetings with 2016, greater focus would be placed on: Meeting to be held on April 25, 2017.
Atthis members of Shires Executive Committee meeting Non-Executive Director terms of and other members of management.
improving the structure and content of appointment and Executive Director service BothDirectors participated in an Board papers and presentations contracts will be made available for orientationvisit to Shires International developing the Boards agendas, inspection by shareholders.
Headquarters in Zug, focusing on the objectives and priorities Groups international commercial enhancing induction and development Commitment operations and global product strategy.
programs for Directors Prior to appointment, Non-Executive Inaddition, Ms. Fosler and Mr. Stroucken Directors are required to disclose to the To this end, during the year the Board, in received briefings on Shires research and Board their other significant commitments.
conjunction with members of management, development activities, tax strategy and This enables an assessment of their sought to refine the underlying Board U. S. commercial operations, as well as on capacity to commit sufficient time to support infrastructure, as well as enhance the duties and responsibilities associated effectively discharge their anticipated duties efficiency and streamline processes that with being a director of a global, listed and responsibilities.
Each Non-Executive underpin the Boards operation.
Further induction activities will be Director keeps the Board informed of any standard for Board papers and made available to both Directors.
changes to their other significant presentations was introduced to help commitments.
As part of the 2016 Board In addition to undergoing an initial ensure the Board receives clear and performance evaluation, it was determined induction, on an annual basis each Director balanced information that is sufficient in that each of the Directors demonstrated discusses with the Chairman their individual detail to enable it to make informed continued effective performance and development requirements with a view to decisions.
Moreover, greater emphasis was commitment to their role.
ensuring their skills, knowledge and placed on time management during experience are regularly refreshed, and that meetings to maximize productivity.
The Conflicts of interest Chairman, committee chairmen and their familiarity with the Companys Directors are required to notify the Board members of management routinely set business is maintained.
A standing before accepting any appointment, or aside time to undertake forward-looking schedule of training topics enables taking any action, which may give rise to a reviews of Shires operating environment Directors to undertake, as required, conflict of interest or a potential conflict of with a view to ensuring that matters put detailed development initiatives focused on interest together a conflict, or on forward for the Boards consideration were matters specific to the Company and its becoming aware of a conflict.
Upon timely and those most deserving of its operating environment.
notification, the Board will consider whether attention.
In addition, efforts were made to Information and support to authorize a given conflict and, if so, set enhance the training materials available to The Chairman, in collaboration with the any terms and conditions to which the new and existing Directors with focus Company Secretary and management, is authorization shall be subject.
These may placed on areas of operational and strategic responsible for ensuring that Board include the relevant Director being importance to Shire as well as on the duties members are provided at all times with the requested to abstain from the related and responsibilities that accompany being a information necessary for them to decision and or discussion.
In the event of Director of a public company.
effectively discharge their duties and a material change to the facts and or responsibilities.
Before decisions are taken 2016 procedure, conclusions and circumstances relating to an authorized at Board meetings, consideration is had as pointsof focus conflict, the Director concerned is required to the adequacy of the information available The 2016 Board performance evaluation to notify the Nomination & Governance to the Board, enabling the deferral of was undertaken internally, led by the Committee.
Authorized conflicts are decision making if necessary.
Directors Chairman with the support of the Company reviewed annually, and at such other times may seek clarification, additional Secretary, and covered the performance of as is necessary, by the Nomination & information or professional advice the Board, its committees and members.
Governance Committee which then reports necessary to the fulfillment of their duties The evaluation was conducted in on its findings to the Board.
Details on and responsibilities from across the accordance with the principles of the Directors interests in transactions can be business, from the Company Secretary or Governance Code and comprised: found on page 115. from independent sources at the Induction and development Directors each completing a Companys expense.
Upon appointment to the Board all performance and effectiveness Directors undergo a formal induction In addition, the Chairman, supported by the questionnaire with responses aggregated program tailored to their individual skills, Company Secretary, ensures that effective on a non-attributable basis and shared knowledge and experience.
The purpose channels of communication exist between with the Board ofsuch a program is to facilitate each the Board, its committees and the the Chairman meeting with each Directors familiarization with the Companys management.
Non-Executive Director to discuss Companys business, strategy and individual performance, training needs and overall Board effectiveness Shire Annual Report 2016 73 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board governance continued Monitoring and review the Chairman leading a performance Accountability The Board, supported by the ACR evaluation and effectiveness review with Risk management and internal control Committee, is responsible for the ongoing the Board based on the aggregated The Board is responsible for Shires risk monitoring and review of the Companys questionnaire responses and individual management and internal control systems risk management and internal control Director feedback which include the processes for identifying, systems.
At the start of the year the Board the Chairman of each Board committee evaluating and managing the principal risks determines how this will be achieved, holding similar performance and faced by the Company.
These systems are including agreeing a scheduled monitoring effectiveness discussions with each of developed alongside the Companys strategy and in accordance with applicable program and identifying those aspects that their committee members regulatory guidelines including the Internal will be overseen, on its behalf, by the ACR the Senior Independent Director soliciting Control Integrated Framework 2013, Committee.
In addition, the Board ensures the views of fellow Directors with respect issued by the Committee of Sponsoring that considerations of risk feature within to the performance of the Chairman and Organizations of the Treadway Commission itswider discussions including those providing her with feedback regarding COSO Framework, and the Financial concerning the Companys business the same Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk modeland strategy.
Together, this allows The review included consideration of the Management, Internal Control and Related for reflection on the determination, time and information made available to the Financial and Business Reporting.
Shires identification, assessment and mitigation Board in its assessment of strategy, risk risk management and internal control ofthe Companys principal risks, enabling management and internal control, framework has been in place for the the Board to continually evaluate whether governance and the integrity of the financial duration of the financial year covered by, the risk management and internal control statements.
The review also included and to the date of the approval of, this systems remain appropriate.
In anticipation succession planning at the Board and Annual Report.
of completion of the Baxalta acquisition, management level as well as the collective theBoard took into consideration risk skill and experience of the Board that Risk management and internal controls management and internal controls together contribute to the effective relating to financial reporting implementation, effectiveness and discharge of its responsibilities.
The Groups internal control program integration as part of its wider pre-transaction related to financial reporting ICPFR is due diligence.
In addition, following The overall conclusion drawn from the aligned with the COSO Framework.
It completion of the acquisition on June 3, evaluation is that the Board performs to a comprises a combination of manual, 2016, specific audit and assurance activities high standard, demonstrating strength in automated, preventative and detective were undertaken with respect to the sector-related knowledge and controls, as well as underlying IT controls legacy-Baxalta organization, with its understanding.
The skills and experience of for key financial systems, which are principal business risks and risk management individual directors are such that the Board documented, tested and reported on systems factored into Shires biannual is well-equipped to manage the throughout the year.
The ICPFR takes into Enterprise Risk Management program complexities associated with leading a account key policies such as the Financial andEnterprise Risk Assessment.
global, specialized organization in a Controllers Manual and the Delegation of fast-paced and ever-changing competitive Authority matrix, as well as pervasive In addition to its ongoing appraisal, the market-environment.
Furthermore, the entitylevel controls including those relating Board is responsible for undertaking an Boards culture is one of positive to integrity and ethical values, adherence annual review of the effectiveness of the engagement that supports open and tocodes of conduct and the Boards Companys risk management and internal constructive discussion and that has oversight of internal control and organizational control systems.
This is achieved through contributed to the establishment of strong structure.
In addition, on an annual basis dedicated discussion during which key factors links among the Directors and with the Internal Audit function develops and related to the Companys risk management management.
The Chairman and executes a risk-based audit plan covering and internal control regime are considered.
committee chairmen are considered areas of financial, compliance and Typically, these include its operation and effective leaders, with individual Directors operational risk across the various Group integration, managements oversight and demonstrating commitment and functions and geographic locations.
related reporting, risk appetite and culture preparedness as well as a willingness to Results of these audits, together with as well as any other aspects pertinent to understand the views of shareholders and results of ICPFR testing, are regularly the affairs of the Company.
In pursuit of optimal reviewed by the Audit, Compliance & Risk on its more-regular discussions and feedback effectiveness, the following areas were ACR Committee which, along with from the ACR Committee, the Board reflects recommended for Board focus during the management, assesses the ongoing on key matters that have arisen during the forthcoming year: effectiveness of theICPFR against the year and the Companys ability to respond COSO Framework.
Furthermore, an appropriately to internal and external the approach taken to reviewing established process of escalation enables developments as they arise.
Together, this corporate strategy and how this might be the ACR Committee and the Board to enables the Board to evaluate the principal enhanced review material matters on a timely basis as features of the risk management and internal a continued focus on succession they arise.
As part of the integration efforts control systems, consider their composition planning for both management and relating to the acquisition of Baxalta, relative to Shires strategic direction and Non-Executive Directors management has commenced the draw conclusions as to their overall harmonization of risk management and effectiveness.
Following its review in internal control systems across the respect of the 2016 financial year and the enlarged Group.
These efforts will continue period up to the approval of this Annual into 2017.
Report, the Board neither identified, nor 74 Shire Annual Report 2016 was advised of, any deficiencies within the Ongoing viability within the LRP as well as brand and business planning horizons.
The Board also Companys risk management and internal On an annual basis the Company keeps the Companys solvency and liquidity control systems that were considered material undertakes a long-range planning exercise under review through regular reporting from to the Group as a whole.
Further details on the LRP as part of its strategic review.
the ACR Committee, management and Shires risk management framework can be The LRP includes the evaluation of key from the Groups external auditor.
sensitivities and scenarios that relate to Board continually evaluates the assurance certain of the Companys principal risks Going concern it receives and considers the impact of and uncertainties as outlined on pages 54 The Directors Report covering pages 2 to significant projects, strategic developments to 65 with a view to determining their 118 includes the following information and other significant commitments on the potential impact on the Companys financial relating to the Group: Companys risk profile and ultimately its position, ability to deliver on strategy and, ongoing viability.
Having regard to the ultimately, its viability.
The scenarios financial position including cash flows, strategic review including the LRP and the considered during the year included liquidity position and borrowing facilities Companys principal risks and increased pricing pressure, lower market business activities together with factors uncertainties, the Board has a reasonable share for key products, generic competition likely to affect future development, expectation that the Company will be able and the failure of key pipeline programs.
performance and financial position to continue in operation and meet its The LRP also considers the Companys objectives, policies and processes for liabilities as they fall due over the four-year future cash flows and funding managing capital period of its assessment.
requirements, including the ability to repay financial risk management objectives outstanding debt obligations and details of hedging activity and exposures Relations with shareholders maintaining compliance with ongoing loan to credit and liquidity risk The Board is committed to maintaining covenants.
Analysis of the LRP in open and constructive dialog with Details of the Groups financial instruments conjunction with the Boards robust shareholders, helping to ensure a common are disclosed in Note 16 to the consolidated assessment of principal risks, including the understanding of strategic objectives, financial statements.
The Directors have realistic availability and likely effectiveness matters of governance and of the areasonable expectation that the Group of mitigating actions, underpins the Groups Companys performance.
The principal has adequate resources to continue in planning processes and contributes to the points of contact for major shareholders operational existence for the foreseeable determination and implementation of the arethe Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, future.
Thus, they consider it appropriate Companys strategy.
ChiefFinancial Officer and the Companys toadopt the going concern basis of For the purpose of assessing ongoing Investor Relations team, with the views of accounting in preparing the annual viability the Board considered the investors communicated to the Board as a financialstatements.
Companys prospects over a four-year whole.
During the year the Group engaged period, consistent with the relative focus with shareholders through the media below: Relations with shareholders Meetings with shareholders The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and members of management engaged with many of Shires major shareholders to receive views on matters material to the Company and its operations.
Such matters included the combination with Baxalta, the Companys strategy, financial targets and executive remuneration.
Healthcare conferences Representatives of the Company engaged with shareholders and potential investors at many conferences held throughout the year at which presentations and other reference materials were made available.
Investor day Shire hosted an investor day in New York on November 10, 2016, at which its commercial portfolio and innovative R&D pipeline, including late-stage clinical portfolio highlights, were showcased, supporting Shires long-term growth aspirations.
Results announcements and The Company communicated its performance to shareholders and analysts through quarterly financial results presentations announcements, each accompanied by an explanatory webcast and Q&A session provided by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
Financial reporting The Company published half and full-year reports and filed quarterly Form 10-Qs and an annual Form 10-K in accordance with obligations arising from its listing on the London Stock Exchange, New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
Annual General Meeting and General The Companys Annual General Meeting was held in Dublin on April 28, 2016.
Shareholders were invited to attend and Meeting vote on resolutions and also to meet with members of the Board.
In addition, on May 27, 2016, the Company held a General Meeting at which shareholders were able to cast their votes in respect of the then-proposed combination with Baxalta, and other related matters.
Website The Companys website www.
com provides information about the Group and is regularly updated with corporate and regulatory news, IR events, broker forecasts and other information related to the Companys operations.
Investor relations The Groups Investor Relations department regularly responds to shareholder communications through its dedicated inbox: InvestorRelations@shire.
com Corporate responsibility reports The Companys website has a dedicated Responsibility section where Shires Annual Responsibility Review is posted andengagement along with regular updates on programs, policies and activities.
Digital application Shires IR Briefcase application is regularly updated with news and presentations and provides access to the Companys latest Annual Report.
Shire Annual Report 2016 75 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board governance continued Board committees To facilitate open and unreserved Audit, Compliance & To ensure effective oversight and control discussion, it is the Committees practice to RiskCommittee over the Groups operations, the Board has set aside time for its private deliberation, constituted the Audit, Compliance & Risk with time also reserved for private Committee, the Remuneration Committee, discussion with each of the Groups the Nomination & Governance Committee, external audit partner, Head of Internal the Science & Technology Committee and Audit and Chief Compliance and Risk the Executive Committee, each of which Officer.
has been delegated specific authorities.
The Role of the Committee Board committees terms of reference, The purpose of the Committee is to which are subject to annual review and oversee Shires accounting and financial approval by the Board, are available on the reporting processes, the audits of its Companys website, with further detail as to Dominic Blakemore financial statements and the effectiveness their operation and activities presented in Committee Chairman of the Companys risk management and the following reports.
In doing so, the Committees principal duties are to: Membership and meetings As at the year end the Audit, Compliance & monitor the integrity of the financial Board of Directors Risk Committee comprised five reports and statements of the Group independent Non-Executive Directors, each and, where requested by the Board, chosen for their knowledge and experience advise on whether, taken as a whole, the of financial matters, financial reporting, risk Annual Report and Accounts is fair, management and internal control.
The balanced and understandable Board is satisfied that at least one member make recommendations to the Board on Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee of the Committee has recent and relevant matters relating to the appointment of the financial experience in accordance with the external auditor, to determine and agree requirements of the Governance Code.
the scope of the external audit engagement and to consider findings Remuneration Committee Date of Meeting and recommendations arising from the Committee member appointment attendance external audit process 1 Dominic Blakemore Jan 1, 2014 5 5 monitor and review the integrity and Gail Fosler Jun 7, 2016 3 3 effectiveness of the Groups internal Nomination & Governance 2 Steven Gillis Dec 3, 2014 5 5 financial controls and internal control and Committee Sara Mathew Sept 1, 2015 5 5 risk management systems review the Groups strategy for the Albert Stroucken Jun 7, 2016 3 3 management of key corporate and Science & Technology Committee Apr 5, 2004 financial risks David Kappler Apr 28, 2016 2 2 review the status of the Groups Note: The number in brackets denotes the number compliance program to ensure of meetings that Committee members were eligible adherence to applicable legal and Executive Committee to attend.
regulatory standards and to the Groups 1.
Dominic Blakemore served as a member of the internal policies Committee prior to his appointment as Committee Chairman on April 29, 2014.
In addition, the Committee is authorized to 2.
Steven Gillis served as an interim member of the investigate any activity included within its Committee prior to his appointment on terms of reference and is responsible for December 3, 2015. the resolution of any disagreement Committee meetings held during the year between management and the Groups typically coincided with key dates in the external auditor regarding financial Groups financial reporting cycle.
The Committee is also invitation of the Committee Chairman, permitted to seek any information it regular additional meeting attendees requires from any employee of the Group, included the Chairman of the Board and and any external professional advice at the other Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Companys expense, necessary to the Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, fulfillment of its duties.
external audit partner and members from Key considerations related to the the following internal Group functions: financial statements Finance The preparation of financial statements Global Compliance and Risk requires management to make estimates, Management judgments and assumptions that affect the Legal and Company Secretariat reported amounts of assets, liabilities and equity at the date of the financial 76 Shire Annual Report 2016 assessing the objectivity and statements, and reported amounts of Tax-related matters independence of the external auditor revenues and expenses during the the amount and timing of tax provisions reporting period.
On an ongoing basis, the related to ongoing operations Additional matters Committee reviews and critiques the critical the amount and timing of deferred assessing the impact of the integration accounting estimates, judgments and taxaccounting matters related to ofthe legacy Baxalta business on methodologies applied by management.
thepurchase accounting for Baxalta managements ability to undertake The Committees review considers reports the nature of tax exposures related ongoing duties in a timely and and discussions with management and totheBaxalta acquisition effectivemanner Deloitte LLP, the Companys external Further information is available in Notes 3, reviewing compliance and audit updates auditor, with the objective of confirming that 22 and 24 to the consolidated from the Chief Compliance and Risk the estimates, judgments and assumptions financialstatements.
Officer and the Head of Internal Audit of management were reasonable and considering the renewal terms of the appropriately applied.
After due challenge and debate the Groups insurance program Committee concluded that, in all of the The significant issues considered by the reviewing the Groups treasury policies aforementioned areas, the estimates, Committee during the year in relation to the and ongoing treasury activities judgments and assumptions of financial statements were: assessing the Groups financing management were reasonable and arrangements including the issuance of Purchase accounting related to the appropriately applied.
Furthermore, as senior notes acquisition of Baxalta and Dyax each of the areas was a prime source of assessing the Groups foreign exchange the valuation of acquired intangible assets audit focus, Deloitte LLP provided related exposure and hedging strategy the valuation of acquired inventory and detailed reporting to the Committee.
maintaining oversight of the Groups the alignment of inventory accounting internal audit program In addition to assessing the critical policies between Shire and Baxalta assessing the Groups principal risks and accounting estimates and key judgments accounting for the termination of the associated mitigation strategy applied by management, the Committee collaboration agreements reviewed and supported the disclosures recoverability of the accounts receivable, External audit within the Groups 2015 full-year and 2016 and alignment of Baxaltas accounting Independence and objectivity quarterly results announcements and practice for sales deductions and rebates The Committee recognizes both the need related financial reports.
to Shires practice for an objective and independent external the valuation of the assumed Baxalta auditor and how such objectivity and Committee activities pension obligations independence might be, or appear, In addition to the key considerations the valuation of the assumed Baxalta compromised through the provision of outlined above, the Committees activities senior notes non-audit services.
Accordingly, the during the year included: the subsequent adjustments to Committee oversees an established policy Financial reporting preliminary acquisition fair values on the provision of non-audit services by reviewing the Companys full-year and the external auditor with a view to Further information is available in Note 4 to half-year results, quarterly earnings safeguarding these core attributes.
The the consolidated financial statements.
releases, key financial reports and policy, which was updated during the year earnings guidance to reflect guidance published by the Revenue recognition reviewing the Groups updated Non GAAP Financial Reporting Council, provides that, the amount of sales deductions and policy, which incorporated guidance amongst other things, the auditor must not rebates recorded as liabilities on the issued by the European Securities and provide a service which: balance sheet Markets Authority, and the application the assumptions related to the return creates a mutuality of interest ofthe policy including with respect to rates for new product launches, most places the auditor in a position where integration and acquisition costs notably those related to XIIDRA they would audit their own work reviewing tax matters impacting the Group results in the auditor acting as a manager Further information is available in Note 3 to External audit or employee of the Company the consolidated financial statements.
reviewing quarterly updates provided by positions the auditor in the role of the external auditor encompassing key Legal contingencies advocate for the Company areas of judgment and risk, audit the amount and timing of legal reserves, In addition, the policy prescribes services planning, governance updates and other most notably the settlement with the which the external auditor is explicitly business-related matters U. S. Department of Justice regarding prohibited from providing, and those the reviewing the 2015 audit and the initial ourformer Dermagraft business provision of which has been pre-approved review of the external auditors the nature, timing and content of the by the Committee subject to individual and performance and effectiveness during information disclosed in the Companys aggregate monetary limits.
All proposed the 2016 financial year, including a review notes to its financial statements services falling outside of the scope of the of managements assessment of the Further information is available in Note 26 policy, or the monetary limits contained performance and effectiveness of the tothe consolidated financial statements.
therein, must receive pre-approval from external auditor theCommittee or from its Chairman reviewing and approving the 2016 Audit subject to Committee approval at its next Plan and audit fee scheduled meeting.
Shire Annual Report 2016 77 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board governance continued contractual obligations that inhibited or Fees relating to non-audit services provided Further factors identified as contributing to influenced the Committees by the external auditor to the Company in Deloitte LLPs objectivity and independence recommendation.
2016 totaled $20.2 million 2015: $4.4 as external auditor include its impartial and million.
Nearly all of these fees $19.8 questioning approach, particularly with In accordance with European and national million relate to the continuation of projects respect to issues of heightened sensitivity, regulation, and the UK corporate the firms prudent attitude to the consideration already underway at Baxalta prior to its governance regime, it is the Companys and undertaking of non-audit services and combination with the Company, and the policy that the external audit contract Shires own policy of not recruiting staff directly reporting accountants services provided to beput to tender at least once in every from the external audit engagement team.
the Company in connection with the ten-yearperiod, with the external audit combination with Baxalta.
Fees incurred in During the year the Committee met with the partner rotating on a five-yearly basis.
2015 principally related to the reporting external auditor to consider independence Notwithstanding such policy, having regard accountants services provided in and objectivity, ensuring that the relationship to transitional arrangements regarding connection with the combination with between the external auditor and members external audit tendering and rotation Baxalta.
Further details on the breakdown of management had not resulted, or provided by the relevant regulatory of non-audit fees paid or due to the external appeared to result, in a lack of independence authorities, it is the Committees intention, auditor as a result of services provided or objectivity.
The Committee considers subject to then-prevailing circumstances, during 2016 can be found in Note 30 to the that, during 2016, the external auditor was toput the external audit contract out to consolidated financial statements.
sufficiently robust in dealings with members tender at a time that would see the The Committee was satisfied throughout of management and that, in their absence, processcomplete in 2020.
This would the year that the objectivity and the external auditor was transparent and result with the preferred external audit firm independence of Deloitte LLP was not decisive in dealings with the Committee.
being appointed for the 2021 financial year.
In forming this view, the The Committee believes that the proposed Effectiveness Committee considered the non-audit timing of audit tender is in the best interests The Committee recognizes the importance services provided by Deloitte LLP that of shareholders as it stands to afford the of having a high-caliber audit and, as such, increased in 2016 as a result of the Company continuity during the forthcoming undertakes an annual assessment of the acquisition of Baxalta.
In particular, the years, particularly given the ongoing effectiveness of the external audit process.
Committee noted that: integration of the legacy Baxalta business.
As part of its evaluation, the Committee It should be noted that, despite the the acquisition of Baxalta was a Class 1 drew upon a survey of members of financial Committees intention regarding the timing transaction pursuant to the Listing Rules management which measured the external of tender, the external auditor is subject to of the UK Listing Authority.
To support auditors performance against ongoing effectiveness review, including with the transaction and facilitate regulatory predetermined critical success factors respect to the level of the annual audit fees, reporting, the Committee approved the which were designed to facilitate continuing and that the Committee may choose to put provision of certain services by Deloitte and measurable improvement in the the external audit contract out to tender at LLP that would ordinarily be provided by effectiveness of the external audit process.
any time it considers appropriate.
In the external auditor in its capacity as The Committee concluded that the critical accordance with best practice, the reporting accountant: and success factors had been substantially Committee confirms voluntary compliance met and that there existed a constructive with the provisions of the Statutory Audit as part of its own independent process working relationship between the external Services for Large Companies Market prior to its acquisition by Shire, Baxalta auditor and members of management.
Investigation Mandatory Use of had selected Deloitte LLP to provide Moreover, the Committee determined that Competitive Tender Processes and Audit consulting services related to certain the audit process was sufficiently robust, Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, as strategic projects.
In order to manage with the external auditor demonstrating published by the UK Competition and transition risk, the Committee approved continued commitment to the performance Markets Authority.
the continuation of certain of these of high-quality audit work.
All necessary Audit quality review development were identified and adjustments to the services to ensure During the year the Financial Reporting communicated to the external audit firm auditor independence were made in Councils Audit Quality Review team which in turn has committed to working advance of the acquisition closing.
The reviewed Deloitte LLPs audit of Shires with management and the Committee in Committee and Deloitte LLP considered 2015 financial statements as part of their addressing these in 2017. the need for additional safeguards and, annual inspection of audit firms.
The focus Appointment and tendering once these had been identified, the of the review and their reporting was on Deloitte LLP has served as Shires external Committee was satisfied that they were identifying areas where improvements are auditor since 2002, with the current audit appropriately implemented.
As approved required rather than highlighting areas partner commencing his appointment in by the Committee, a certain level of performed at or above the expected level.
Following the review of Deloittes permitted consulting and advisory The Chairman of the Committee received a continued objectivity, independence and services relating to one of these strategic full copy of the findings of the Audit Quality performance relating to the 2016 financial projects will continue to be provided by Review team and has discussed these with year, and having received an expression of Deloitte LLP during 2017.
It is intended Deloitte LLP.
The Committee confirms that willingness to continue in office as external that these services will substantially there were no significant areas for auditor, the Committee recommended to cease by the end of that year.
improvement identified within the report.
the Board the re-appointment of Deloitte The Committee is also satisfied that there is LLP as the Companys external auditor for nothing within the report that has a bearing the 2017 financial year.
There existed no on the appointment of the external auditor.
78 Shire Annual Report 2016 Additional matters making recommendations to the Nomination & Governance Internal audit Boardon matters of governance, Committee Internal audit effectiveness is monitored reputation and political activity affecting and reviewed on an ongoing basis by the the Company Committee.
The Internal Audit Plan is maintaining the policy concerning approved annually by the Committee, Directors conflicts of interest and progression against which is reviewed monitoring adherence to that policy quarterly.
In addition, periodically the Key considerations and activities Companys internal audit procedures and During the year and up to the date of this capabilities undergo an independent report, the Committees principal external assessment against global considerations and activities were: standards, with the ensuing report reviewed by the Committee Chairman.
Baxalta appointments Susan Kilsby In anticipation of the Companys Committee Chairman Whistleblowing combination with Baxalta, early in the year Shires compliance effort is focused on the the Committee reviewed the professional prevention and detection of misconduct Membership and meetings profiles of Baxaltas Board members with a through policy development, training, As at the year end the Nomination & view to identifying those individuals whose monitoring and audit.
As part of this effort, Governance Committee comprised three skills and experience would be of most Shire employees are encouraged to report independent Non-Executive Directors and benefit to the Shire Board.
A shortlist was suspected cases of misconduct, the Chairman of the Board.
prepared and selected candidates spoke confidentially and without fear of retaliation, with members of the Committee.
Following through management or through Shires Committee Date of Meeting careful consideration, a recommendation 1 Global Compliance Helpline.
The helpline, member appointment attendance was made to, and subsequently approved the operation of which is overseen by the 2 Susan Kilsby Feb 1, 2014 5 5 by, the Board for Gail Fosler and Albert Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, is William Burns Jun 27, 2011 5 5 Stroucken to be appointed Non-Executive managed by an independent third-party so David Ginsburg Dec 3, 2015 5 5 Directors with effect from completion of the as to preserve anonymity as appropriate.
Anne Minto Feb 8, 2012 5 5 Companys acquisition of Baxalta.
The Concerns and allegations are thoroughly appointment of serving Baxalta Directors to Apr 26, 2006 investigated with disciplinary action taken the Shire Board was a condition of the David Kappler Apr 28, 2016 2 2 where necessary.
Periodically, the Chief merger agreement between the two Compliance and Risk Officer provides Note: The number in brackets denotes the number companies.
Accordingly, neither an external theCommittee with a summary of of meetings that Committee members were eligible search consultancy nor open advertising mattersraised through management to attend.
were used in identifying the prospective andthe helpline as well as details of 1.
Olivier Bohuon and Sara Mathew were Board members.
appointed as members of the Committee on February 15, 2017.
Susan Kilsby served as a member of the In alignment with Shires strategy to Committee prior to her appointment as become a leading global biotechnology Committee Chairman on April 28, 2016. company, and in pursuit of enhancing Committee meetings are typically held relevant expertise on the Shire Board, before scheduled meetings of the Board, during the year the Committee commenced with additional meetings convened as a search for a new Non-Executive Director required.
At the invitation of the Committee that would add experience in this area.
Chairman, regular additional meeting Russell Reynolds Associates, which has no attendees included the Chief Executive other connection with the Company, was Officer and members from the Companys retained to lead the search.
Following an Legal and Company Secretariat functions.
extensive review, Ian Clark was appointed to the Board on January 3, 2017.
Role of the Committee The Committees responsibilities include: Expansion of Committee responsibilities reviewing the size and composition of the During the year the Committee considered Board and its committees and making its remit in light of developments to the recommendations to the Board with Companys structure and operating respect to any changes environment.
Following a review of the identifying, and nominating for the stewardship requirements of the business, approval of the Board, candidates for the Committee recommended to the Board new Board appointments and making that its responsibilities be expanded to recommendations with respect to the encompass matters of a governance and re-election and reappointment of reputational nature affecting the Company.
existingDirectors The Committees Terms of Reference were reviewing succession planning for subsequently updated to reflect the Executive and Non-Executive Directors change, which included the responsibility with a view to ensuring the long-term success of the Group Shire Annual Report 2016 79 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board governance continued for retaining oversight of the conflicts of Role of the Committee Science & Technology Committee interest policy applicable to Directors.
The Committees principal responsibilities are to periodically review and advise the Board Diversity Policy Board on the Companys investment in Committee members participated in the research, development and technology, the wider Board review of Shires Board quality of the R&D pipeline and the quality Diversity Policy in light of the evolving of R&D talent within the Group.
In doing so, diversity environment and developments in the Committee assesses, and advises the practice.
Further details on the review, Board in respect of: including a description of the policy, can be found on page 72.
In undertaking the the Companys R&D strategy relating to review, the Committee and the Board strategically important therapeutic areas Dr. David Ginsburg reaffirmed their commitment to the emerging science and technology issues, Committee Chairman promotion of diversity both in executive and trends and academic partnerships non-executive appointments and in the overall quality and expertise of recruitment practice throughout the Group.
medical and scientific talent within the Membership and meetings Further details on diversity within Shire can R&D organization As at the year end the Science & be found on pages 38 to 39. the quality and competitiveness of Technology Committee comprised four theCompanys R&D programs and independent Non-Executive Directors.
In Board appointments procedure technology initiatives from a scientific accordance with the Committees terms of Board composition is central to the perspective, including the associated reference, the Board is satisfied that at least effective leadership of the Group and riskprofile one Committee member has scientific therefore, prior to commencing any search the scientific, technical and medical expertise relevant to pharmaceutical for prospective Board members, the merits of any potential significant R&D research and development.
Committee reflects on the Boards balance investments of skills and experiences and those that Committee Date of Meeting would be conducive to the delivery of the Key considerations 1 member appointment attendance Companys strategy.
A recommendation is The Committees principal areas of review David Ginsburg Jun 16, 2010 5 5 then made to the Board in respect of the during the year included: 2 Olivier Bohuon Jul 1, 2015 4 5 core attributes desired, following which an the clinical development pipeline and William Burns Feb 8, 2012 5 5 appropriately qualified search firm is theresearch and non-clinical portfolio, Steven Gillis Oct 1, 2012 5 5 engaged and informed, amongst other including key program updates things, of the experience, technical skills Note: The number in brackets denotes the number the R&D budget and productivity of and other capabilities sought, of the time of meetings that Committee members were eligible theportfolio commitment required of any appointee and to attend.
the relevant clinical or material preof Shires Board Diversity Policy.
Ian Clark was appointed as a member of the clinical data identified during due listed candidates are interviewed by as Committee on February 15, 2017. diligence relating to material business many of the Committee members as is 2.
Olivier Bohuon was absent from one meeting development transactions feasible, following which any preferred due to illness.
In addition, Mr. Bohuon stood key clinical trial study data including down as a member of the Committee on candidate meets with other Directors prior February 15, 2017.
BAX930, SHP607 and SHP465 to a decision being made by the Board.
integration activities concerning Dyax The Committee typically meets before and Baxalta scheduled meetings of the Board.
At the the Companys compassionate use invitation of the Committee Chairman, program and related policy development regular additional meeting attendees during ongoing strategy relating to Oncology the year included the Chairman of the Board and other Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and members of the following internal Group functions: Research and Development Corporate Development Legal and Company Secretariat 80 Shire Annual Report 2016 Committee Date of supervising the preparation of financial Executive Committee member Position appointment plans and budgets to be recommended to the Board and monitoring the performance Flemming Chief Executive Ornskov Officer Jan 2, 2013 of the Groups In-line products and Pipeline projects against budget Jeffrey Chief Financial 1 Poulton Officer Jan 1, 2015 managing internal talent and senior leadership succession planning and Ginger Chief Human Gregory Resources Officer Mar 1, 2014 directing the Groups human resources approach within parameters agreed with Bill General Counsel and Mordan Company Secretary Oct 1, 2015 the Remuneration Committee, including the reward framework Perry Head of U. S. Sternberg Commercial Jun 3, 2016 Key considerations Dr. Flemming Ornskov Kim Head of International The Committees principal considerations Committee Chairman Stratton Commercial Jul 1, 2016 during the year included: Philip Head of Research Vickers and Development Mar 1, 2014 financial and operational matters, Membership and meetings Matt Head of Technical including budget tracking and product Chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, the Walker Operations Jun 3, 2016 performance reviews Executive Committees membership is matters of corporate strategy drawn from Shires Executive Directors and 1.
Jeffrey Poulton served as Interim Chief Financial business development opportunities management.
As at the year end the Officer and as a member of the Executive the integration of Baxalta and recognition Committee prior to his appointment as Chief Committee comprised the Chief Executive Financial Officer on April 29, 2015. of synergies Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General compliance updates from across Counsel and Company Secretary, Head of Role of the Committee theGroup U. S. Commercial, Head of International The Committee is charged with managing the Companys risks and associated Commercial, Head of Technical Operations, Shires business including: mitigation activities and initiatives Chief Human Resources Officer and the updates on material litigation ensuring that the Group is run within Head of Research and Development.
andinvestigations thegovernance framework agreed by The Committee typically meets on a objectives and proposed budget for 2017 theBoard monthly basis to deliberate significant items human resource matters including talent making strategic recommendations to of business, scheduling additional meetings assessment, talent management the Board and implementing the strategy as required.
During the year there were 11 principles, remuneration policy and approved by the Board meetings of the Committee, each of which employee survey results considering matters referred from was attended by the Chief Executive Officer management committees that are and the Chief Financial Officer.
In addition material from a risk, financial, reputational to its members, other members of or strategic perspective, referring management attended Committee meetings decisions to the Board as appropriate at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Shire Annual Report 2016 81 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
