Shire Annual Report 2016 23 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Therapeutic areas Managing my household, Neuroscience job, family, and volunteer Donna commitments is important Living with ADHD and can be challenging.
She was to find time to calm my mind diagnosed with ADHD in 2011. by taking walks, reading, and She works long hours at a hospital.
When not working, she enjoying the fresh air.
loves spending time at the park with her two children her six-year-old son and her 11-year-old daughter, who alsohas ADHD.
24 Shire Annual Report 2016 Our focus on Neuroscience Key products We develop and sell leading treatments for three key areas of neuroscience: ADHD, BED and epilepsy.
Our products include VYVANSE, a treatment for ADHD and moderate to severe BED in adults.
On October 17, 2016, we announced the approval of a supplemental NDA by the FDA.
The VYVANSE label now includes the new longer-term maintenance of efficacy data in adults with moderate to severe BED.
VYVANSE received Prolonged-Release Tablets approval from Health Canada for the treatment of BEDin adults in September 2016 and was launched inQ1 2017.
Epilepsy Epilepsy is a chronic neurobiological disorder characterized by unpredictable seizures.
A seizure is a sudden burst of excessive brain electrical activity leading to the disruption of normal communication between nerve cells in the brain.
Ifa seizure is not stopped rapidly it Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity could lead to brain damage.
Disorder ADHD Active epilepsy affects 0.4-1 percent of the population with higher prevalence in younger ADHD is a neurodevelopmental disorder.
Despite treatment, Itmanifests as a persistent pattern of approximately 30 percent of patients with inattention and or hyperactivity impulsivity epilepsy have uncontrolled epilepsy and suffer that interferes with patients functioning from seizures.
It may continue from childhood into adulthood.
ADHD can occuralongside other conditions and Binge Eating Disorder BED itssymptoms may overlap with those ofother psychiatric disorders.
BED is a DSM-5 recognized eating disorder.
It is ADHD affects an estimated 11 percent characterized by regularly consuming an abnormally ofschool-aged children and 4.4 percent large amount of food in a short period of time, ofadults in the U. S. experiencing a loss of control over eating and feeling significant distress about binge eating.
BED is associated with significant psychiatric comorbidity.
BEDs lifetime prevalence in U. S. adults is approximately 2.6 percent.
It affects both men and women, with twice as many U. S. women affected than men.
Total sales $2,490m 23% of total product sales Shire Annual Report 2016 25 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Therapeutic areas Hematology Jonus Living with hemophilia Jonus is now in elementary school.
His mum Athena and therest of his family are doing everything they can to make sure Jonus gets to be a kid.
Whether thats riding the blue bike he chose for his fourth birthday orlearning the viola.
26 Shire Annual Report 2016 Our focus on Hematology Key products We are one of the leading providers of treatments forhemophilia and von Willebrand disease VWD.
ADYNOVATE was approved in Switzerland in September 2016 and launched in October.
BAXJECT III reconstitution system gained U. S. approvalin July.
We launched myPKFiT the first and only registered medical device to enable personalization of ADVATE prophylaxis in France in September.
We sell RIXUBIS in 17 markets around the world and plan launches in over ten more countries over the next 18 months.
OBIZUR is approved in eight countries and we plan to launch it in an additional 11 countries in 2017.
FEIBA is the only bypass therapy with a differentiated label indicated for prophylaxis.
We launched VONVENDI in the U. S. in August.
VONVENDI is the only recombinant treatment for adultsliving with VWD.
Hemophilia Hemophilia is a rare genetic disorder caused by a missing or defective factor, leading to a bleeding problem.
People with hemophilia do not bleed any faster than normal, but they can bleed for longer.
Their blood does not have enough clotting Von Willebrand Disease VWD factor, a protein in blood that controls bleeding.
About 1 in 10,000 people are Von Willebrand disease VWD is the born with hemophilia.
Although it is most common type of bleeding disorder.
passed down from parents to children, People with VWD have a problem with a about 1 3 of cases are caused by a protein in their blood called von spontaneous mutation in a gene.
Willebrand factor VWF that helps The most common type of hemophilia control bleeding.
When a blood vessel is ishemophilia A.
This means the person injured and bleeding occurs, VWF helps does not have enough clotting factor cells in the blood, called platelets, mesh VIII factor eight.
Around 80 to 85percent together and form a clot to stop the of hemophilia sufferers have Hemophilia bleeding.
People with VWD do not have A.
The less common form is Hemophilia enough VWF, or it does not work the way B, also called factor IX FIX deficiency it should.
It therefore takes longer for orChristmas disease.
A person with blood to clot and for bleeding to stop.
hemophilia B does not have enough VWD is generally less severe than other factorIX factor nine.
Many people with Approximately 400,000 people worldwide VWD may not know that they have the are living with hemophilia: many are disorder because their bleeding infants and young children.
Less than symptoms are very mild.
For most people halfare diagnosed.
Only one quarter with VWD, the disorder causes little or no arereceiving adequate treatment and disruption to their lives except when there onlyone third receive prophylaxis.
is a serious injury or need for surgery.
Lessthan 5percent achieve zero Total sales However, with all forms of VWD, there can bleeds.
Approximately 15-20 percent be bleeding problems.
It is estimated that ofhemophilia sufferers will develop up to 1 percent of the worlds population antibodies inhibitors to the factor therapy $2,241m suffers from VWD.
Research has shown used to treat or prevent bleeding that as many as 9 out of 10 people with 21% of total product sales episodes.
This is one of the most VWD have not been diagnosed.
Shire Annual Report 2016 27 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Therapeutic areas Internal Medicine Kevin Living with Short Bowel Syndrome Kevin had a tough start to life because of his condition.
He is now married with two daughters, including his youngest Nora.
After careers in the restaurant industry and as an emergency worker, Kevin is now a dedicated caretaker for his children.
He devotes his time to supporting his wife who works at the local hospital, looking after his daughters, and maintaining his health.
28 Shire Annual Report 2016 Our focus on Internal Medicine Key products GATTEX REVESTIVE continued to perform well in 2016, with sales increasing 55 percent, primarily due toan increase in the numbers of patients on therapy.
Strong uptake in the U. S. continues and the rollout across Europe and Canada has also seen strong uptake.
We achieved pediatric label extension in Europe.
Looking ahead, we are focusing on bringing access to more SBS patients around the world.
NATPARA also continued to perform well with sales increasing 250 percent, primarily due to an increase inthe numbers of patients on therapy.
We launched anew campaign in the U. S. We anticipate receiving EMA Marketing Authorization in 2017.
In September 2016, LIALDA was approved in Japan forthe treatment of adults with ulcerative colitis UC.
LIALDA MEZAVANT sales rose 16 percent due to increased prescription demand.
Short Bowel Syndrome SBS In adults, SBS is a clinically significant reduction in intestinal absorptive capacity as a consequence of surgical resection of the intestine due to disease, trauma, congenital defects or complications of surgery.
People with SBS are unable to maintain protein energy, fluid, electrolyte or micronutrient balances when ona conventionally accepted normal diet.
The prevalence of SBS is estimated to be 0.4 to 6.0 per1,000,000 in Europe.
In the U. S. approximately 10,000 to20,000 patients receive home-delivered total parenteral nutrition TPN for SBS.
Hypoparathyroidism HPT HPT is a rare disorder that mainly occurs when the parathyroid glands are damaged either due Total sales to surgery, an autoimmune disease or a genetic disorder and are therefore not able to produce enough parathyroid hormone PTH.
$1,756m DiminishedPTH results in hypocalcemia andhyperphosphatemia.
Symptoms of 16% of total product sales hypocalcemia include muscle spasms, crampsand brain fog.
The prevalence in the U. S. is estimated to Ulcerative colitis UC be25-37 per 100,000.
The total number ofindividuals with hypoparathyroidism is UC is an inflammatory bowel disease IBD that estimated at about 77,000.
In Europe the causes long-lasting inflammation and ulcers sores prevalence is estimated at 24 per 100,000 inthe digestive tract.
UC affects the innermost lining inDenmark and 10.2 per 100,000 in mucosa of the large intestine colon and rectum.
The majority of patients are female.
Sufferers typically experience UC flares separated byperiods of remission.
UC is thought to affect 120 to 200 per 100,000 people throughout the Western world.
It has the highest incidence in Northern Europe, the United Kingdom andNorth America.
UC usually affects people aged 15to 30 and men and women equally.
Shire Annual Report 2016 29 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Therapeutic areas Our focus on Immunology Immunology We are currently targeting four main areas of immunology: Primary Immunodeficiency PI, Grace Hypovolemia Hypoalbuminemia, AAT Deficiency, Living with a primary andSevere Congenital Protein C Deficiency SCPCD.
immunodeficiency In 2016, CUVITRU was launched in the U. S. for the treatment of PI in adult and pediatric patients two Five-year old Grace loves all yearsof age and older, and CUVITRU was approved kinds of art, from painting to inthe EU.
She also loves learning We launched a new FDA approved self-infusion and when she grows up, she indication for AAT Deficiency GLASSIA is the first wants to be a veterinarian who and only AAT deficiency treatment with this indication.
Grace has lots of support from her three older Key products siblings who alsohave a primary immunodeficiency.
Human Normal Immunoglobulin IVIg, IVIg, 10 % Solution 10% Hypovolemia Hypoalbuminemia Hypovolemia is the reduction in Total sales circulating blood volume through loss orredistribution of fluid.
It is a major cause of shock.
Causes of hypovolemia $1,516m include blood loss external or internal haemorrhage, plasma loss burns, 14% of total product sales lossof fluids and electrolytes diarrhoea, vomiting, and redistribution pancreatitis, sepsis.
Severe Congenital Protein C Hypoalbuminemia is a decrease in Deficiency SCPCD albumin concentration in the plasma AAT Deficiency below normal levels.
It can be due to Protein C PC is a natural antiloss or reduced production of albumin.
AAT deficiency is a natural coagulant that is essential for ensuring Causes of hypoalbuminemia include anti-inflammatory protein that effective and controlled blood acute or chronic inflammation, nephrotic inactivates proteases released coagulation.
PC deficiency can be syndrome, enteropathies, malnutrition, during inflammation.
Patients caused by mutation of the PC gene heart failure, and liver cirrhosis with congenital AAT deficiency congenital PC deficiency or as a develop lung and liver damage.
result of other conditions acquired Of the estimated 100,000 people PCdeficiency.
The severity of the with AAT Deficiency worldwide, deficiency is determined by the 90 percent are currently remaining plasma activity of PC.
Severe congenital PC deficiency SCPCD is very rare, with an incidence rate of 1 in 500,000- Primary Immunodeficiency PI 4,000,000 births.
It is associated with serious clinical manifestations that are PI includes more than 300 inherited disorders primarily caused by excessive blood affecting the antibodies of the immune system.
For example, purpura The estimated prevalence of PI is 1:10,000.
It occurs fulminans PF a life-threatening equally in men and women and can be diagnosed at any condition characterized by thromboses age.
Less than 30 percent of PI sufferers are diagnosed within small vessels and capillaries globally.
On average, PI patients experience symptoms often presents within hours of birth.
for 15 years before being diagnosed.
Currently, more than SCPCD can also result in venous half of PI patients are not diagnosed until age 30 or older.
Both PF and VTE can be fatal.
30 Shire Annual Report 2016 Shire Annual Report 2016 31 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Therapeutic areas Oncology Advancing science We are pursuing cutting-edge science to deliver innovative therapeutics to oncology patients.
In 2017 we plan to reach more cancer patients thanever before, through both international and indication expansion.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ALL ALL is a heterogeneous group of lymphoid neoplasms that result from monoclonal proliferation and accumulation of lymphoblasts inthe bone marrow, peripheral blood and other organs.
It is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in children, representing approximately 25 percent of diagnoses in children younger than15 years.
Symptoms include anemia, fever, weakness and fatigue, bleeding from gums, bone or joint pain, and swollen lymph nodes inthe neck, underarm, abdomen or groin.
An estimated 60-70,000 people suffer from ALLworldwide.
Metastatic Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas Pancreatic cancer accounts for 3 percent of all cancers worldwide.
It is currently the fourth leading cause of cancer death and its incidence is growing.
This aggressive form of cancer has non-specific signs and symptoms.
As a result, it is rarely detected Total sales in early stages.
Moreover, itisdifficult to treat and existing therapies are modestly effective.
The majority of patients $131m diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic cancer do not receive second-lineor 1% of total product sales further treatment.
32 Shire Annual Report 2016 Key products Our focus on Oncology In Europe, ONCASPAR is a component of antineoplastic combination therapy in ALL in pediatric patients from birth to 18 years, and adult patients.
It is the only FDA and EMA approved pegylated L-asparginase.
We are continuing to increase the brand awareness and availability of ONCASPAR around the world.
In 2016 forexample, marketing authorizations were submitted for Brazil, Taiwan and New Zealand.
In 2016, the European Commission EC granted Marketing Authorization of ONIVYDE, for the treatment of metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, in combination with 5-fluorouracil 5-FU and leucovorin LV, in adult patients who have progressed following gemcitabine-based therapy.
ONIVYDE is the first and only approved treatment option for this patient population based on pivotal Phase 3 data NAPOLI-1 showing increased overall survival.
Shire Annual Report 2016 33 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Therapeutic areas Ophthalmology Christine Living with Dry Eye Disease Christine is a registered nurse and writer.
She loves going for long country walks with her family and their pet dog.
She also loves a good book as well as traveling, concerts and yoga.
In 2011 Christine was diagnosed with Sjogrens syndrome, whichis a risk factor for DryEyeDisease.
34 Shire Annual Report 2016 Our focus on Ophthalmology My symptoms make We are leading the way in an important area of ophthalmology: treating the signs and symptoms of vision-related things in life DryEye Disease DED.
Dryness XIIDRA, designed to treat both the signs and symptoms of DED, received FDA approval on July 11, and photophobia extreme 2016.
We successfully launched the product in the sensitivity to light make it U. S. on August 29, 2016, generating $54 million in product sales and 19 percent U. S. market share.
difficult when I spend time outside doing the things Key product Ilove to do like gardening and traveling.
Dry Eye Disease DED DED is a multifactorial disease of the tears and ocular surface.
It is associated with inflammation that may eventually lead to damage to the surface of the eye.
Patients report symptoms such as eye dryness, overall eye discomfort, stinging, burning, a gritty feeling or fluctuating blurry vision.
Eye care professionals can use various tests to determine the presence of DED.
Nearly 30 million U. S. adults report symptoms consistent with DED.
An estimated 16 million adults in the U. S. are diagnosed with the disease.
Aging and gender are recognized astraditional risk factors of DED while modern risk factors include prolonged digital computer screen time, wearing contact lenses and cataract or refractive surgery.
Total sales $54m 0.5% of total product sales Shire Annual Report 2016 35 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
