Executive Committee Flemming Ornskov, MD 59 Jeffrey Poulton 49 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed: January 2, 2013 Appointed: January 1, 2015 For biographical details, see page 66.
For biographical details, see page 66.
Ginger Gregory, PhD 49 Bill Mordan 47 Perry Sternberg 48 Chief Human Resources Officer General Counsel and Company Secretary Head of U. S. Commercial Appointed: March 1, 2014 Appointed: October 1, 2015 Appointed: June 3, 2016 Ginger joined Shire in 2014 and serves as Chief Bill joined Shire in 2015 and serves as General Perry joined Shire in 2013 and is Head of U. S. Human Resources Officer.
She was previously Counsel and Company Secretary.
He was previously Vice President Chief Human Resources Officer at Dunkin served as General Counsel and Company &General Manager, U. S. & Canada Brands Group, Inc. prior to which she held Secretary at Reckitt Benckiser Group plc in the Pharmaceuticals at Bausch & Lomb.
Prior various roles at Novartis, Novo Nordisk and UK, prior to which he held various roles at tothat, Perry held various roles at Novartis Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Ginger holds a Procter & Gamble in the U. S. Mexico and Brazil.
Ophthalmics, Novartis Pharmaceuticals and PhD in Industrial Organizational Psychology from Earlier in his career, Bill served as a clerk in the Merck & Co. Inc.
He holds a Bachelors degree The George Washington University.
U. S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
He in Animal Bioscience from Pennsylvania holds a Juris Doctor degree from the University StateUniversity.
Kim Stratton 54 Philip Vickers, PhD 57 Matt Walker, BSCHE 53 Head of International Commercial Head of Research and Development Head of Technical Operations Appointed: July 1, 2016 Appointed: March 1, 2014 Appointed: June 3, 2016 Kim joined Shire in 2013 and is Head of Philip joined Shire in 2010 and is Head of Matt joined Shire in 2016 and is Head of International Commercial.
She was previously Research and Development.
He previously led Technical Operations.
Previously he worked at Global Head of Group Country Management & Research and Development for Shires Rare Pfizer for over 20 years in engineering and External Affairs for Novartis.
Prior to that, Kim Diseases Business Unit, prior to which he held operations roles within the supply organization held various roles of increasing responsibility at various roles at Resolvyx Pharmaceuticals, his last two positions being Operations Lead Novartis, Bristol Myers Squibb and AstraZeneca.
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer for Sterile Injectables and Operations Lead for She qualified as a State Registered Nurse at the and Merck & Co.
He holds a PhD in Biochemistry Biologics Vaccines.
Prior to Pfizer, Matt worked Royal North Shore Hospital.
from the University of Toronto.
as a Project Director for John Brown Engineering and Construction.
He holds a Bachelors degree in Chemical Engineering from Tufts University.
Shire Annual Report 2016 69 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
