Our business model Our way of leading in rare diseases We maintain a sharp focus on rare diseases todeliver high impactfor patients, sustained corporate growthand increased value forsociety.
We are focused on developing and community, and there may be few or no corearea of highest emphasis, we often see delivering life-changing medicines for effective therapies.
We bring unique expertise additional opportunities to apply our expertise underserved patients with rare diseases.
and innovative technologies to select and therapeutic area leadership to certain We are sharply focused on patient therapeutic areas where we see tremendous highly specialized, non-rare indications where populations with extraordinarily high unmet opportunity to enhance patients lives and we see the opportunity to bring innovation to needs often, their conditions are not well establish a durable leadership position in the enable patients to live fuller lives.
understood, even within the healthcare industry.
While rare conditions form the Immunology 2 SHP640 Infectious 2 SHP647 conjunctivitis Internal UC Crohns Ophthalmics Medicine 1,2 SHP630 2 2 SHP621 SHP620 adRP EoE CMV Core of raredisease Hematology Neuroscience 2 SHP609 therapies Hunter IT select products shown 2 2 SHP631 SHP623 Hunter CNS NMO Genetic 2 Oncology SHP645 Diseases ADHD 2 Calaspergase SHP643 2 pegol ALL HAE Specialty therapies inselect areas 1 Preclinical program 2 select products shown Subject to regulatory approval 12 Shire Annual Report 2016 We build a portfolio of products through a sophisticated business development standards of treatment, andpioneering combination of focused internal research capability that enables us to continually unprecedented regulatory pathways.
Similarly, and development, collaborations with surveythe landscape, identify promising once new therapies areapproved, we then leading institutions, and strong business approaches, and rapidly strike agreements apply sophisticated approaches to increase development capabilities.
toadvance these potential next-generation diagnosis rates, support patients as they We begin by identifying gaps in current therapies.
Wethen apply our specialized, initiate therapy, andproductively engage medical care where patients with serious world-class development and withpatients, leadingtreatment centers and illnesses are significantly impacted by either commercialization resources to rapidly advocacy organizations.
Our nimble global the lack of effective therapies or shortcomings deliverthese innovations to patients.
supply network is also tailored to the unique in the available treatments.
We listen carefully challenges of reliably delivering potentially As the leader in rare diseases, we invest to patients, advocacy groups, and our life-saving rare disease therapies to often inand develop the unique capabilities network of leading clinicians to deeply diffuse global patient populations.
required for successful development and understand patient needs.
We seek to match commercialization of high-impact products.
Our scale and focus specifically on rare these opportunities with promising scientific We have built a broad constellation of unique, diseases enables us to invest deeply in these innovations which offer the potential to deliver industry leading capabilities that allows us to capabilities, with high impact.
We apply our a meaningful therapeutic advance.
We are maintain our leadership in rare diseases, and expertise and skills to the task of bringing agnostic to the specific technologies involved that positions usasthe partner of choice in new, cutting-edge therapies for conditions and where they originate we are exclusively this area.
For example, within our R&D where, in many cases, no therapy has existed.
focused on identifying the most promising organization we havespecialized expertise Combined with our sharp focus on execution, ways to address patient needs.
Frequently, that enables us toaddress the challenges of we ensure that the most underserved patients this mindset leads us to collaborate and developing new medicines in rare disease around the world have access to the critical partner with leading research institutions and indications, such asrecruiting hard-to-find therapies they need.
emerging start-up companies with novel patients, navigating ill-defined current therapeutic approaches.
We employ a Cutting-edge, flexible manufacturing Specialized High-touch research and go-to-market development model expertise including patient services High talent, Patients with Global entrepreneurial rare diseases commercial organization infrastructure Focused and Broad channel disciplined BD management capability capabilities Lean general & administrative model We bring unique expertise and innovative technologies to select therapeutic areas wherewe see tremendous opportunity toenhance patients lives and establish a durableleadership position in the industry.
Shire Annual Report 2016 13 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
