Governance Board of Directors N E E Susan Kilsby 58 Flemming Ornskov, MD 59 Jeffrey Poulton 49 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed: September 1, 2011 Appointed: January 2, 2013 Appointed: April 29, 2015 Susan served as an independent Non-Executive Flemming served as Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Jeff served as Interim Chief Financial Director prior to her appointment as Chairman Designate prior to his appointment as Chief Officer from January 1, 2015, prior to his on April 29, 2014.
Executive Officer on April 30, 2013. appointment as Chief FinancialOfficer.
Skills & experience: Susan brings to her role Skills & experience: Flemming brings to his role Skills & experience: Jeff brings to the Board his extensive M&A and finance experience having his operational and medical knowledge and his financial, commercial and strategic acumen.
enjoyed a distinguished global career in extensive international, strategic and operational Since joining Shire in 2003 he has held investment banking.
She held senior positions experience in the pharmaceutical sector.
He leadership positions in finance supporting the with The First Boston Corporation, Bankers formerly held the position of Non-Executive Neuroscience, Gastrointestinal and Rare Trust, Barclays fide Zoete Wedd and most Chairman of Evotec AG and was Non-Executive Diseases business units as well as the positions recently Credit Suisse where she was Chairman Director of PCI Biotech Holding ASA.
From 2010 of Interim Chief Financial Officer and Head of of the EMEA Mergers & Acquisitions team until to 2012 he was Chief Marketing Officer and Investor Relations.
In addition, Jeff oversaw the 2009 and a part-time senior advisor until 2014.
Global Head, Strategic Marketing for General operations of the Rare Diseases business unit in Susan is also a former Director of Keurig Green and Speciality Medicine at Bayer.
From 2008 North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific, Mountain, Inc. LOccitane International S. A. to2010 Flemming served as Global President, as well as leading the integration of the andCoca-Cola HBC AG.
She holds a BA in Pharmaceuticals and OTC at Bausch & Lomb, legacy-Viropharma rare disease products into Economics and a MBA.
He also served as Chairman, and later the Shire portfolio.
Prior to joining Shire, Jeff asPresident and Chief Executive Officer, of spent time at Cinergy Corp. and PPG Industries Key appointments: BBA Aviation plc NonLife-Cycle Pharma A S from 2006 to 2008, in a variety of corporate finance and business Executive Director, Goldman Sachs International andas President and Chief Executive Officer development roles, in addition to serving as a Non-Executive Director and Fortune Brands ofIkaria, Inc. from 2005 to 2006.
Earlier in his commissioned officer in the U. S. Navy.
He Home & Security, Inc. Non-Executive Director.
pharmaceutical career Flemming held roles of received a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from increasing responsibility at Merck & Co. Inc. and Duke University and a Master of Business Novartis AG, following a distinguished period Administration in Finance from the Kelly School spent in hospitals and academic medicine.
of Business at Indiana University.
Flemming received his MD from the University ofCopenhagen, MBA from INSEAD and Master of Public Health from Harvard University.
Key appointments: Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce Non-Executive Director.
Board committee appointments A Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee Chairmanship R Remuneration Committee Membership N Nomination & Governance Committee S Science & Technology Committee E Executive Committee 66 Shire Annual Report 2016 R N A R N S R William Burns 69 Dominic Blakemore 47 Olivier Bohuon 58 Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: March 15, 2010 Appointed: January 1, 2014 Appointed: July 1, 2015 Skills & experience: Olivier brings to the Board Skills & experience: William Bill brings tothe Skills & experience: Dominic brings his extensive international business and Board extensive international R&D, commercial, totheBoard his strategic and financial leadership experience gained through roles held business development and operational experience.
He holds the position of Executive in pharmaceutical and healthcare companies experience in the pharmaceutical sector.
He Director and Group Chief Operating Officer, across Europe, the Middle East and the U. S. He worked for Roche from 1986 until 2009: most Europe at Compass Group PLC, having currently holds the position of Chief Executive recently holding the position of CEO of its previously served as Chief Financial Officer.
Officer at Smith & Nephew plc, having previously pharmaceuticals division and serving as a Hehas also held thepositions of Chief Financial served as Chief Executive Officer and President member of the Roche Group Corporate Officer at Iglo Foods Group and European of Pierre Fabre Group and as President of Abbott Executive Committee.
Bill is a former NonFinance &Strategy Director, Corporate Finance Pharmaceuticals: a division of U. S. -based Abbott Executive Director of Roche Holding AG and Director, and Group Financial Controller at Laboratories.
Olivier also held diverse Chugai Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, and former Cadbury plc.
Earlier in his career Dominic commercial leadership positions at Chairman of Biotie Therapies Corp. Bill holds worked at  where GlaxoSmithKline and its predecessor companies aBA Hons in Business Economics from the headvised pharmaceutical sector clients.
He hasan MBA from HEC Paris University of Strathclyde.
Key appointments: Compass Group PLC School of Management and a doctorate in Executive Director and Group Chief Operating Key appointments: Mesoblast Limited Vice Pharmacy from the University of Paris.
Officer, Europe and AcademicCouncil of Chairman, Vestergaard Frandsen Vice Chairman, University College London Member.
Key appointments: Smith & Nephew plc Wellcome Trust Governor and Trustee, Institute ChiefExecutive Officer, Biotech Promise of Cancer Research Trustee and University of Non-Executive Director and Virbac SA Cologne Bonn Center for Integrated Oncology Non-Executive Director.
A R R S A S Ian Clark 56 Gail Fosler 69 Steven Gillis, PhD 63 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: January 3, 2017 Appointed: June 3, 2016 Appointed: October 1, 2012 Skills & experience: Ian brings to the Board his Skills & experience: Gail brings to the Board her Skills & experience: Steven brings to the Board extensive leadership and biotechnology sector commercial, public policy and economics his extensive technical and scientific knowledge experience.
Ian served as Chief Executive Officer experience.
She is President of The GailFosler and commercial experience.
He is currently a and Director of Genentech Inc. part of the Group LLC, a strategic advisory service for Managing Director at ARCH Venture Partners: a Roche Group and Head of North American global business leaders and public policy provider of venture capital for technology firms.
Commercial Operations for Roche until 2016. makers, which she has led since 2010.
Prior to Prior to this Steven was a founder and Director of From 2003 to 2010 he held the positions of Head this, Gail spent over 20 years at The Conference Corixa Corporation, acquired by GlaxoSmithKline of Global Product Strategy and Chief Marketing Board where she served as President and in 2005, and before that a founder and Director Officer, Executive Vice President Commercial Trustee, Executive Vice President and Chief of Immunex Corporation.
An immunologist by Operations and Senior Vice President and Economist.
Gail is a former Director of Baxter training Steven has authored more than 300 General Manager BioOncology at Genentech.
International, Inc. Baxalta, Inc. Swiss peer-reviewed publications in the areas of Prior to this Ian was appointed President of Reinsurance America Corporation and molecular and tumor immunology.
He is credited Novartis Canada, having previously served as Caterpillar, Inc. She holds a Master of Business as being a pioneer in the field of cytokines and Chief Operating Officer for Novartis United Administration degree in Finance from New York cytokine receptors, directing the development of Kingdom.
He also held various sales and University and a Bachelor of Arts Degree in multiple marketed products including Leukine, marketing roles at Sanofi and Ivax.
Ian holds a Economics from the University of Southern GM-CSF, Prokine IL-2 and Enbrel soluble TNF Bachelors degree in Biological Sciences from California.
receptor-Fc fusion protein as well as the the University of Southampton.
regulatory approval of Bexxar radiolabeled Key appointments: The GailFosler Group LLC anti-CD20 and the novel vaccine adjuvant, MPL.
Key appointments: TerraVia Holdings Inc. President and Deschner Corporation NonSteven received his BA from Williams College Non-Executive Director, Agios Pharmaceuticals, Executive Director and Chair.
and his PhD from Dartmouth College.
Inc. Non-Executive Director, Corvus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Non-Executive Director, Key appointments: ARCH Venture Partners Kite Pharma, Inc. Non-Executive Director and Managing Director, Pulmatrix, Inc. NonGladstone Institute Member.
Executive Director, PhaseRx Inc. Chairman and Non-Executive Director and VBI Vaccines Inc. Chairman and Non-Executive Director.
Shire Annual Report 2016 67 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board of Directors continued S A R N N N David Ginsburg, MD 64 Sara Mathew 61 Anne Minto OBE 63 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: June 16, 2010 Appointed: September 1, 2015 Appointed: June 16, 2010 Skills & experience: David brings to the Board Skills & experience: Sara brings to the Board Skills & experience: Anne brings to the Board his clinical medical experience in internal her financial, strategic and technological her extensive legal, commercial and medicine, hematology-oncology and medical experience having held various corporate remuneration experience.
She held the position genetics, as well as his extensive basic leadership roles.
She served as Chairman, of Group Director, Human Resources at Centrica biomedical laboratory research expertise.
David President and Chief Executive Officer of Dun & plc from 2002 to 2011 and was a member of the obtained his BA at Yale University, MD at Duke Bradstreet, Inc. until 2013, having spent 12 years Centrica Executive Committee.
Her extensive University and completed his medical and at the company.
Prior to this, Sara worked for business career includes senior management research training at Harvard Medical School.
18years at Procter & Gamble where sheheld roles at Shell UK, the position of Deputy David is the recipient of numerous honors and avariety of global finance and management Director-General of the Engineering Employers awards, including election to membership at positions including Vice President, Finance, Federation and the position of Group Director theNational Academy of Sciences, the National Australia, Asia and India.
She is also a former Human Resources at Smiths Group plc.
She is Academy of Medicine and the American Non-Executive Director of Avon Products, Inc. also a former Director of Northumbrian Water plc Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Sara received her MBA from Xavier University, and SITA UK.
Anne holds a Law degree, a her Accounting degree from the Institute ofCost postgraduate diploma in Human Resources and Key appointments: University of Michigan & Works Accountants and her Bachelors degree is a qualified lawyer.
She is also a Fellow of the James V. Neel Distinguished University in Physics, Mathematicsand Chemistry from Chartered Institute of Personnel & Development, Professor of Internal Medicine, Human Genetics theUniversity of Madras.
the Royal Society of Arts and the London City and Pediatrics and Howard Hughes Medical and Guilds, and is a member of the Law Society Institute Investigator.
Key appointments: Campbell Soup Company of Scotland.
Non-Executive Director and Freddie Mac Non-Executive Director.
Key appointments: Tate & Lyle PLC NonExecutive Director, ExlService Holdings, Inc. Non-Executive Director, University of Aberdeen Court Non-Executive Director and University of Aberdeen Development Trust Vice Chairman and Trustee.
A N R A Albert Stroucken 69 David Kappler 69 Non-Executive Director Former Deputy Chairman and Senior Appointed: June 3, 2016 Independent Director Appointment: April 5, 2004 April 28, 2016 Skills & experience: Albert Al brings to the Board his manufacturing, commercial and David was appointed Senior Independent international experience.
He served as Executive Director in July 2007 and Deputy Chairman in Chairman of Owens-Illinois, Inc. until 2016, June 2008. having served as Chairman, President and Chief Skills & experience: David brought to the Board Executive Officer from 2006 until 2015.
From his extensive knowledge and experience in 1998 to 2006 Al held the position of President financial reporting, risk management and internal and Chief Executive Officer of H. B. Fuller financial controls.
He served on the Board of Company, adding the role of Chairman in 1999.
InterContinental Hotels Group plc until 2014, He served as General Manager of the Inorganics wasChairman of Premier Foods plc until 2010 division of Bayer AG from 1997 to 1998, serving and held directorships at Camelot Group plc as Executive Vice President and President of the andHMV Group plc.
David retired from Cadbury Industrial Chemicals division of Bayer Corporation Schweppes plc in 2004 after serving as Chief from 1992 to 1997.
Al served as a Non-Executive Financial Officer since 1995.
He worked for the Director of Baxalta Incorporated until 2016.
Cadbury Schweppes Group between 1965 Key appointments: Baxter International, Inc. and1984 and re-joined the company in 1989 Non-Executive Director.
following its acquisition of the Trebor Group, where he was Financial Director.
David is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of .
Key appointments: Flybe Group plc Non-Executive Director.
