Governance Additional statutory information concerning interests in those shares Directors that they may potentially incur to third required to be provided under the Articles.
Appointment and replacement parties in the course of their duties.
These Directors may be appointed by the Company remain in force at the date of this report.
Shire has put in place income access share by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
Interests in material contracts arrangements that enable shareholders to Non-Executive Directors are appointed Other than the insurance indemnity elect to receive their dividends from a Group ordinarily for a term of two years, subject provisions disclosed under Liability company resident for tax purposes in the UK.
Re-appointment insurance and indemnification above, and Further information is available in Note 27 to ofNon-Executive Directors following the Dr. Ginsburgs stated interest below, none the consolidated financial statements.
expiry of their term of appointment is of the Directors had a material interest in subject to Board approval.
The Board may, In respect of the six months to December any contract of significance to which the from time to time, appoint one or more 31, 2016, the Board resolved to pay an Company or any of its subsidiary Directors for such period and on such interim dividend of 25.70 U. S. cents undertakings was a party during the terms as it may determine and may also 2015:22.16 U. S. cents per Ordinary Share.
revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Together with the first interim dividend David Ginsburg royalty payments payment of 4.63 U. S. cents 2015: 4.21 The Companys Articles of Association relating to co-invention of patents U. S. cents per Ordinary Share, this theArticles provide that at each Annual merger agreement with Baxalta represents total dividends of 30.33 U. S. General Meeting AGM all those Directors Dr. Ginsburg, a Non-Executive Director of cents 2015: 26.37 U. S. cents per Ordinary who have been appointed by the Board the Company, is the co-inventor of two Share for the year ended December 31, 2016. since the last AGM, or who held office at patents: i no.
US8597910 relating to the the time of the two preceding AGMs and ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services von Willebrand Factor : and ii no.
who did not retire at either of them, or who Guernsey Limited the Trustee, trustee US8394373 relating to ADAMTS13.
As held office with the Company, other than of the Shire Employee Benefit Trust the such, he is entitled to receive royalties for executive office, for a continuous period of Trust, has waived its entitlement to any the use of those patents.
Dr. Ginsburg nine years or more at the date of the meeting, dividends that become due and payable, assigned the von Willebrand Factor patent shall retire from office and may offer from time to time, in respect of shares or to the Boston Childrens Hospital and the themselves for re-election by the members.
other securities which are registered in ADAMTS13 patent to the University of Notwithstanding the provisions in the Articles, thename of the trustee or its nominee s. Michigan.
These assignments are subject in accordance with the UK Corporate Total dividends waived by the Trustee to ordinary course commercial terms.
The Governance Code, all Directors will during the year amounted to 200,980.59. assignee institutions on-licensed the besubject to annual re-election.
patents to a subsidiary of Baxalta, prior to Shares Powers its acquisition by the Company, which in Share capital Subject to the provisions of the Companies return paid royalties to both institutions.
As at the year ended December 31, 2016, Jersey Law 1991, as amended the Theinstitutions paid a proportion of those the Companys issued share capital Companies Act, the Articles and royalties to, among others, Dr. Ginsburg.
comprised 912,173,612 Ordinary Shares of directions given by the Company in general Following Shires acquisition of Baxalta, 5 pence each of which 7,971,461 Ordinary meeting by special resolution, the business asubsidiary of the Company is now the Shares were held in treasury.
of the Company is managed by the Board originator of the royalty payments received Rights and obligations attaching which may exercise all the powers of the by Dr. Ginsburg.
Moreover, as a result of toshares Company whether relating to the receiving the royalty payments, Dr. Ginsburg The rights and obligations attaching to the management of the business of the was considered to be interested in the Ordinary Shares are set out in the Articles, Company or not.
In particular, the Board merger agreement pursuant to which Shire which are available on the Companys may exercise all the powers of the acquired Baxalta on June 3, 2016.
The Articles may only be amended Company to borrow money and to interest was disclosed to shareholders by special resolution of the members of mortgage or charge all or any part of the priorto completion of the transaction.
undertaking, property and assets present Dividends and future and uncalled capital of the Variation of rights Subject to the provisions of the Companies Company and, subject to the Companies Subject to the Companies Act, rights Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution, Act, to issue debentures and other attached to any class of shares may be from time to time, declare dividends not securities, whether outright or as collateral varied with written consent of the holders exceeding the amount recommended by security, for a debt, liability or obligation of ofnot less than two-thirds in nominal value the Board.
Subject to the Companies Act, the Company or of a third-party.
of the issued shares of that class the Board may pay interim dividends, and calculated excluding any shares held in also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the Liability insurance and indemnification treasury or with the sanction of a special financial position of the Company, in the In the year under review, the Group resolution passed at a separate meeting of opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
maintained an insurance policy for its the holders of those shares.
At each such Directors and Officers in respect of liabilities The Board may withhold payment of all or separate general meeting, except an arising out of any act, error or omission any part of any dividends or other monies adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be whilst acting in their capacity as Directors payable in respect of the shares from two persons holding or representing by or Officers.
Qualifying third-party indemnity aperson with a 0.25percent interest proxy not less than one third in nominal provisions were also in place during the asdefined inthe Articles if such person value of the issued shares of that class year under review for the benefit of Directors has been served with a restriction notice calculated excluding any shares held in relation to certain losses and liabilities as defined in the Articles after failure to intreasury.
provide the Company with information Shire Annual Report 2016 115 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Additional statutory information continued Issuance of shares As at December 31, 2016, the Trust held votes at a general meeting of the Company Subject to applicable statutes and subject 0.11percent of the issued share capital of or holds more than half the equity share to and without prejudice to any rights theCompany excluding treasury shares capital of the Company.
A waiver of the on trust for the benefit of participants in the attached to existing shares, shares may be mandatory prepayment provision would Companys employee share plans.
The issued with such rights and restrictions as require the consent of each lender under voting rights in relation to these shares are the Company may by special resolution the agreement.
As at February 22, 2017, exercised by the Trustee.
The Trustee may decide or, if no such resolution has been an amount of $370 million was vote or abstain from voting in any way it passed or so far as the resolution does not outstanding under the agreement.
thinks fit and in doing so may take into make specific provision, as the Board may Under the $5,600 million term facilities account both financial and non-financial decide.
Subject to the Articles, the agreement dated November 2, 2015, interests of the beneficiaries ofthe Trust or Companies Act and other shareholders between, amongst others, the Company, their dependents.
Historically the Trustee rights, unissued shares are at the disposal Morgan Stanley Bank International has not exercised its right tovote.
Limited and Deutsche Bank AG, London Restrictions on transfer of shares Purchase of own shares Branch acting as mandated lead There are no restrictions on the transfer of At its General Meeting held on May 27, arrangers and bookrunners, upon shares in the Company, except i that 2016, the Company was authorized, until achange of control any lender may, certain restrictions may, from time to time, the earlier of July 27, 2017, or the following not less than 30 days notice, be imposed by laws and regulations conclusion of the 2017 AGM, to make cancel its commitments and require forexample insider trading laws : and market purchases ofup to 89,697,280 of its prepayment of its participation in any ii pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UK own Ordinary Shares.
For these purposes, Financial Conduct Authority whereby certain regarding purchases by the Company of its achange of control occurs if any person Directors and employees of the Company own shares can be found in Note 27 to the or group of persons acting in concert require the approval of the Company to consolidated financial statements.
gains the ability to control more than deal in the Companys Ordinary Shares.
halfthe votes at a general meeting of the Substantial shareholdings Company or holds more than half the Voting As at the year ended December 31, 2016, the equity share capital of the Company.
It is the Companys practice to hold a poll Company had been notified of the following Awaiver of the mandatory prepayment on every resolution at general meetings.
interests in its issued Ordinary Share capital provision would require the consent Every member present in person or by pursuant to DTR 5 of the Disclosure ofeach lender under the agreement.
proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every Guidance and Transparency Rules: AsatFebruary 22, 2017, an amount of share held by him.
In the case of joint $4,600million was outstanding under Percentage holders of a share the vote of the senior theagreement.
Number of issued who tenders a vote, whether in person or of Ordinary share by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion The $5 billion Baxalta Inc. notes are 1 Shares capital of the votes of the other joint holders and, senior unsecured obligations and, with BlackRock, Inc. 71,248,018 7.92% for this purpose, seniority shall be the exception of the $375 million Floating determined by the order in which the Rate Notes due 2018, may be redeemed 1 Excluding treasury shares names stand in the register of members at Baxalta Inc. s option at the greater of inrespect of the joint holding.
No further interests have been disclosed 1 100percent of the principal amount tothe Company as at the date of this plus accrued and unpaid interest or Restrictions on voting Annual Report.
2 the sum of the present values of the No member shall, unless the Board remaining scheduled payments of Significant agreements otherwise decides, be entitled to attend interest and principal discounted to the The following significant agreements orvote at any general or class meeting in date of redemption on a semi-annual contain provisions entitling counterparties respect of any shares held if any call or basis at the applicable treasury rate to exercise the following rights in the event other sum payable by that member remains asdefined plus an incremental margin, of a change of control of the Company: unpaid.
Also, a member may not be entitled plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid to attend or vote if served with a restriction interest.
The Baxalta Inc. notes also Under the $2,100 million credit facility notice as defined in the Articles.
contain a change of control provision agreement dated December 12, 2014, thatmay require that Baxalta Inc. offer The Company is not aware of any between, amongst others, the Company topurchase the Baxalta Inc. notes at agreements between holders of securities and a number of its subsidiaries, aprice equal to 101percent of the that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Barclays Bank PLC as the facility agent principal amount plus accrued and and the banks and financial institutions The Company maintains an American unpaid interest to the date of purchase named therein as lenders, upon a Depositary Receipt ADR program in the under certain circumstances.
change of control any lender may, U. S. Each American Depositary Share following not less than 30 days notice, On September 23, 2016, Shire ADS represents three Ordinary Shares.
cancel its commitments and require Acquisitions Investments Ireland An ADS is evidenced by an ADR issued by prepayment of its participation in any Designated Activity Company SAIIDAC, Citibank, N. A. as Depositary, and is listed outstanding loans.
For these purposes, a issued senior notes with a total aggregate on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
change of control occurs if any person or principal value of $12,100 million Each ADS holder is entitled to the financial group of persons acting in concert gains SAIIDAC Notes, guaranteed by rights attached to such shares although the the ability to control more than half the Shireplc and, as of December 1, 2016, ADR Depositary is the registered holder of the underlying Ordinary Shares.
116 Shire Annual Report 2016 by Baxalta.
SAIIDAC used the net The realized earnings in respect of the 2016 Political donations proceeds to fully repay amounts financial year were: During the year ended December 31, 2016, outstanding under the January 2016 Shire made political donations equal to an 1 Full Year 2016 US GAAP Non GAAP Facilities Agreement which was used to aggregate amount of $34,250 2015: $nil.
finance the cash consideration payable Diluted earnings These donations were made only to per ADS $1.27 $13.10 related to the Companys acquisition of committees of various political state Baxalta.
The SAIIDAC Notes are senior Growth against candidates within the U. S. who had 2015 financial year 81% 12% unsecured obligations and may be demonstrated support for improving patient redeemed at SAIIDACs option at the access to medicines and other medical The US GAAP diluted earnings per ADS greater of 1 100percent of the principal treatments.
The donations were made growth was 281 percentage points ahead amount plus accrued and unpaid interest pursuant to commitments and of the most recently published guidance, or 2 the sum of the present values of the arrangements already in place at Baxalta with the variance primarily due to the remaining scheduled payments of prior to its acquisition by Shire.
In impact of acquisition accounting.
The Non interest and principal discounted to the accordance with Shires policy concerning 1 GAAP diluted earnings per ADS growth date of redemption on a semi-annual political donations and expenditure, it is was in line with the most recently published basis at the applicable treasury rate as intended that no further political donations guidance.
Further commentary on the defined plus an incremental margin, will be made.
performance of the Company during the plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid Information required under 9.8.
4 R of year can be found starting on page 43. interest.
The SAIIDAC Notes also contain the Listing Rules LR 1 a change of control provision that may For a reconciliation of Non GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable require that SAIIDAC offer to purchase Location within measure under US GAAP, see pages 185 to 187. the SAIIDAC Notes at a price equal to Annual Report 101percent of the principal amount plus Information requirement 2016 Post year-end events accrued and unpaid interest to the date The following important events affecting the Details of information required of purchase under certain byLR 9.2.
18 R. Page 117 Company or its subsidiaries occurred circumstances.
between December 31, 2016, and the date Details of any contract of significance in which a Director of this report: Earnings guidance is, or was, materially interested.
Page 115 The following extracts were published by ELAPRASE Details of any arrangement the Company during the year in its quarterly On September 24, 2014, Shires Brazilian under which a shareholder has earnings releases: affiliate, Shire Farmaceutica Brasil Ltda, waived, or agreed to waive, was served with a lawsuit brought by the anydividends.
Page 115 February 11, 2016 We expect Non State of Sao Paulo and in which the Where a shareholder has agreed GAAP diluted earnings per ADS growth Brazilian Public Attorneys office has to waive future dividends, details in the 7percent to 10percent range in of such waiver together with intervened alleging that Shire is obligated to 2016 9percent to 13percent on a Non those relating to dividends which 1 provide certain medical care including GAAP CER basis.
are payable during the period ELAPRASE for an indefinite period at no under review.
Page 115 April 29, 2016 For Non GAAP diluted cost to patients who participated in earnings per ADS, we expect 2016 ELAPRASE clinical trials in Brazil, and Other information requirements set out in growth in the 7percent to 10percent seeking recoupment to the Brazilian LR 9.8.
4 R are not applicable to the range 9percent to 13percent on a Non government for amounts paid on behalf of 1 Company.
these patients to date, and moral damages associated with these claims.
Branches August 2, 2016 Following the strong Details of branches of group subsidiaries performance in the first half of the year, On May 6, 2016, the trial court judge ruled can be found in Note 31 to the consolidated we are updating our guidance for 2016. on the case and dismissed all the claims financial statements.
under the class action, which was 1 US GAAP Non GAAP appealed.
On February 20, 2017, the Court Full Year 2016 Outlook Outlook of Appeals in Sao Paulo issued the final Diluted earnings $0.40 $12.70 decision on merit in favor of Shire and per ADS $0.00 $13.10 dismissed all the claims under the class action.
The final decision can be appealed November 1, 2016 After our first full through the Superior Court of Justice or quarter following the acquisition of through the Supreme Court, however, the Baxalta, we are reiterating our Non likelihood of one of those courts accepting GAAP guidance from Q2 2016 and the appeal is remote.
updating our US GAAP guidance.
1 US GAAP Non GAAP Full Year 2016 Outlook Outlook Diluted earnings $1.10 $12.70 per ADS $0.70 $13.10 Shire Annual Report 2016 117 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
