Key industry trends Increasingly innovative and specialized Biopharma companies are under increased pressure by a wide range of stakeholders to deliver innovative and cost-effective therapies which address key unmet medical needs.
There is an increased emphasis on established as a world leader.
In parallel, companies focusing on new ways of advances in our knowledge of the maximizing impact in well-defined molecular basis of disease are generating therapeutic areas.
an increasingly diverse range of potential therapeutic modalities beyond classic Consequently, business models in the smallmolecules, including protein, antibody biopharma industry are going through a and RNA-based therapeutics, gene and period of rapid and unprecedented change.
cell therapy, and gene editing.
These New ways of engaging partners in the approaches are intersecting with novel pharma ecosystem arebeing implemented.
clinical trial designs and increasingly Technological advances are being exploited sophisticated use of biomarkers which across the life sciences.
And there is an serve to stratify patients, identify increasing demand for demonstration of So what does this mean responders, and ultimately may lead to real-world value of approved drugs.
In this for industry players?
Taken new environment, emerging leaders will be together, these advanced approaches to Companies across biotech nimble companies that focus on targeting drug development are ushering in a new and pharma are generally specific unmet therapeutic needs, and era of healthcare innovation.
doing so on aglobal level.
responding to these Constantly advancing standards of care challenges by focusing on Unprecedented innovation Increasing demand for value and efficacy developing products with Innovation has always been a key from all stakeholders, combined with the particularly high therapeutic characteristic of the pharma industry, already high quality of products available impact and or targeting buttoday there are unprecedented for many diseases, is fueling an everspecific patient segments with expectations by all stakeholders in stronger expectation of excellence in therapeutic advancements, including the highest unmet medical therapeutic products.
Treatments must patients, regulators and payors.
To address needs where significant value notonly exhibit medical breakthroughs, this need, geographic innovation hubs have can be demonstrated.
butalso demonstrate concrete value to been established which are operating in payers and society as a whole.
As a result, new ways to bring together academics, new products compete to demonstrate biotech start-ups, venture capital, teaching improvement against an ever-rising bar hospitals, technology companies and setby current and future standard of biopharma companies.
theBoston Cambridge hub has become Rare diseases is a unique and attractive area in the biopharma sector Why rare diseases?
Unique capabilities required Large opportunity for innovation Commercial Over 7,000 diseases, of which only 5percent have treatments Ability to leverage global commercial infrastructure Increasing share of approvals in U. S. EU and Japan Best-in-class patient support initiatives Often accelerated development due to priority review and phase-skipping Strong voice with payors, governments, and advocacy initiatives Significant medical burden for patient and healthcare systems R&D Life-altering conditions for patients and their caregivers Broader base of therapeutic areas, relationships and expertise Large demands on healthcare systems due to repeated hospital expandsoptionality visits, symptomatic treatments and ongoing care Specialized research and development expertise Societal economic burden due to patient and caregiver leave and Expanded experience base in dealing with unique challenges of lossofproductivity rarediseaseR&D Manufacturing Broader base of therapeutic areas, relationships and expertise expandsoptionality Specialized research and development expertise Expanded experience base in dealing with unique challenges of raredisease R&D 10 Shire Annual Report 2016 Increasing breadth and depth of collaboration Working together has never been more important in biopharma, as increasingly innovative modes of treatment require relationships among all the parties who Targeting specific contribute to generating novel and patientsegments effective therapies.
Mature biopharma companies are partnering with innovative Rather than relying on broad early stage companies to access approaches to all patients with a cutting-edge science and technologies, specific disease, companies are and contributing their know-how in targeting therapies for specific regulatory, clinical trial execution and patientsegments.
This involves a development ofcombination therapies.
number of activities: R&D efforts Long-term relationships with contract tobetter understand the range Focusing on patient impact organizations with global research, ofpathologies present within clinical development, and manufacturing Products that make a particularly high heterogeneous diseases: stratifying capabilities are being forged, providing impact on the lives of patients not only patient populations via companion flexibility, expertise, and reach.
Frequent demonstrate improvement on classical diagnostics: sophisticated development and collaborative interactions with scientific or clinical measures of safety strategies to demonstrate benefit regulators, open dialog with relevant and efficacy, but further demonstrate inspecific patient types: and an payers and health technology progress on the measures that matter increasing need for effective assessment HTA bodies, and most to patients, for example quality of educational programs to clarify engagement with patient advocacy life or ability to maintain independence.
groups are all key aspects of this age In many cases, developing this type of ofcollaboration.
evidence requires novel trial designs, new endpoint measurements, and post-approval commitments.
The rising value of categoryleadership As innovation, focus and collaboration increasingly become the watchwords of the industry, category leadership comes to the fore.
The big opportunity Leading in rare diseases is to be the hub in a network of The winners in this new world will be expertise and technology focused on highly focused, highly collaborative delivering innovation to a specific set Rare diseases and determined to lead in their chosen ofpatients.
Category leadership yields a big opportunity area.
This plays well to Shires strategy numerous advantages, including of being the leading global biopharma increased opportunity and capability It is estimated that 350 million people company focused on rare diseases.
toidentify and develop innovative, worldwide suffer from the approximately We are determined to build on our market-changing therapies: greater 7,000 known rare diseases and only leadership, and to deliver ever-greater access to markets: operating as a 5percentof these diseases have impact and value for all our stakeholders.
partner of choice: stronger therapies available today.
Frequently, engagement with physicians and correct diagnosis can take five years or patients: and the ability to apply more, and multiple incorrect diagnoses theseleadership advantages across often occur before the disease is numerous products in the accurately identified.
providers frequently do not recognize thesigns andsymptoms of rare diseases, and patients and caregivers lack information and struggle to get proper treatment.
Rare diseases isour chosen area of focus.
It is where we lead: where we are strongest: wherewe are determined to make the biggest difference and create the greatest value globally.
Shire Annual Report 2016 11 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
