Responsibility Championing responsible leadership We are a responsible leader dedicated to delivering innovative medicines that improve thelives of patients with rare diseases.
As the leading global biotech company A comprehensive study inrare diseases, we address significant The comprehensive assessment included unmet needs and transform peoples more than 50 interviews with Shire leaders livesthrough the breakthrough medicines and external stakeholders, including patient we develop.
We attract and nurture groups, investors, supply chain specialists, outstanding talent, encouraging people media and policy experts, and industry and tocontribute in our local and global nonprofit leaders.
We take this responsibility extensive research into industry practices very seriously.
and priorities, and conducted a survey of our approximately 24,000 Shire employees Corporate responsibility has long been to include their viewpoints in the study.
embedded across our company and runs through every aspect of our business.
It is In determining our priorities, we looked at acommitment that is supported by Shires what is important to Shires business and Board of Directors, championed by the what is important to our stakeholders.
We Responsibility is Chief Executive Officer, driven forward by assessed both the degree of importance integralto Shires Shires senior leaders and shared by our ofan issue to Shires strategic drivers, approximately 24,000 employees.
It is at operations, customers, and manufacturing success.
As a the heart of how we lead and seek to and sourcing footprint, as well as the extent deliver high patient impact, sustained to which Shire has the ability to directly Company we will growth, and societal value.
continue to champion FTSE4Good Top 20 issues what it means to be a In 2016, Shire remained in We started with a list of more than theFTSE4Good Index Series, 300topics relevant to Shires core leader inresponsibility aleading responsibility operations and broader value chain and investment index that narrowed them down to Shires top 20 while operating an recognizes positive Responsibility issues.
environmental, social and ethical, responsible, Six highest priority issues governance practices.
We identified six highest priority issues and sustainable Focusing on what matters thathave relevance to Responsibility: business.
As a responsible leader in rare diseases, Access to medicines we focus on what matters for maximum Innovation and R&D long-term positive impact.
Product quality, safety and efficacy Talent attraction and development To this end, in 2016, we carried out a Kim Stratton Governance, accountability and Responsibility Materiality Assessment to Head of International Commercial & transparency identify and prioritize the most important Executive Sponsor, Responsibility Ethical business conduct Responsibility issues to Shire and Sponsor Network ourstakeholders.
These issues range across our four areas Going forward, this assessment will guide of Responsibility: supporting our patients, our Responsibility strategy and help us our people and culture, sustainable focus our resources for maximum effect, operations, and ethics and transparency.
aswell as set ambitious goals.
A key Over the coming months, we will work principle here is to be most strategic with tounderstand our key challenges and the issues that are most material to our opportunities in these areas and define a business and stakeholders.
longer-term Responsibility strategy for Shire with clear metrics and goals.
We will also continue to monitor other issues that maygrow in significance and become increasingly important in terms of Responsibility to our business and key stakeholders.
Additional information on the Responsibility Materiality Assessment can be found in Shires Annual Responsibility Review.
36 Shire Annual Report 2016 Supporting our patients From championing early diagnosis ofrarediseases to investing in the next generation of medical geneticists we arededicated to supporting our patients.
Championing early diagnosis Investing in the future As our 2016 Responsibility Materiality Addressing the need for more physicians Assessment confirmed, access to trained in disciplines associated with the medicines remains a top priority for us.
diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases is Oneof the key ways we live up to this one of the ways we prepare for the future.
responsibility is by championing early In 2016, we announced a partnership with diagnosis.
Working with physicians, the ACMG Foundation for Genetic and patients, their families and caregivers, Genomic Medicine to begin a three-year weraise awareness of the signs of many fellowship program supporting the next rare diseases and providethe extra support generation of medical geneticists.
The often required with this type of diagnosis.
Shire ACMG Foundation Medical Genetics These efforts include an increasing focus Training Awards are funding ten muchon expanding diagnostic testing.
needed genetic fellowships to support research advances, diagnosis and Exploring new treatments Patient Brotherhood patientcare.
One of our core responsibilities is to In rural India, where nearly 80 develop therapies that address the unmet Ensuring clinical trial transparency percent of people with hemophilia needs of patients with rare diseases.
In Safeguarding the human rights of those are undiagnosed, we have a unique 2016, we have 37 clinical programs in our taking part in our clinical trials is of program called Bhaichara, which in pipeline testing innovative treatments for paramount importance.
We achieve this Hindi means Patient Brotherhood.
Shire Trained patient brothers from local adheres to the International Conference on communities go doorto-door in Improving access to existing treatments Harmonization ICH Good Clinical rural areas to identify probable and patient support Practice GCP Guidelines.
We recognize patients for hemophilia and case We work to improve access to our existing the importance of transparency in clinical managers from the community treatments by reducing barriers, such as studies and are committed to sharing provide support in enabling and affordability and access to therapies.
We clinical data responsibly with patients, facilitating treatment for all patients, have several programs to assist patients physicians and researchers.
Through ultimately improving the quality of with affordability challenges in the U. S. shiretrials.
com, we provide a single portal lifefor those in need.
Once including OnePath and Shire Cares to access easy-to-understand information diagnosed, patients and their patient assistance programs.
Outside the on our current and past trials.
families are educated on treatment U. S. we have numerous programs to options.
It is an innovative increase access, while helping build Our work in this area has been recognized grassroots way to increase disease capacity and support patients.
by AllTrials, the global campaign for clinical awareness and access to treatment trial transparency supported by more than In Brazil for example, we increased the in remote areas.
700 organizations including patient groups, number of patients who have access to pharmaceutical companies and medical recombinant therapy in hemophilia associations.
As AllTrials noted in througha public-private partnership Increasing disease awareness November, Shire was the only company to withthe government.
We aim to share our expertise and provide have published results for all its 96 clinical balanced, reliable and scientifically sound trials completed during the past 10 years.
We have long-running charitable access information to help improve understanding programs with NGOs Direct Relief and and appreciation of rare diseases.
This Project HOPE, donating enzyme happens across multiple therapeutic areas replacement therapies for patients with in a variety of programs developed for lysosomal storage disorders LSDs patients, caregivers, healthcare providers, in15countries.
Working with these and the general public.
organizations, as well as with patient advocacy organizations and medical We also continue to encourage responsible experts, we also partner to raise disease use of our ADHD products through a awareness and build treatment capabilities coalition of medical, mental health, higher in several least developed countries.
education, students and industry experts.
Shire Annual Report 2016 37 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Responsibility continued Valuing our people and culture We are proud of our people and oftheopen, entrepreneurial culture at the heartofourcompany.
Attracting and developing top talent Holding a Global Day of Service Our 2016 Responsibility Materiality On October 7, 2016, we held our second Assessment highlighted talent attraction Global Day of Service.
Building on the and development as a top priority.
We achievements of the inaugural event, it focus on recruiting, developing and was an outstanding success.
Over 6,500 supporting highly trained, flexible, engaged, employees dedicated more than 25,000 high-performing employees who can hours of their time to community projects continuously learn and grow while doing across over 150 locations around the their best work.
These are people who world from New York to Norway, from thrive in our open, entrepreneurial, India to Idaho.
Once again, the focus was patient-focused culture.
on helping children, for example by Investing in our people hosting science fairs and renovating In 2016, we invested a great deal in training school playgrounds.
For everyone in line with our ongoing commitment to involved, it was a very satisfying way to helpemployees perform and progress give back to local communities by making throughout Shire.
Focus areas included a lasting and meaningful difference.
professional and leadership development, organizational effectiveness and performance management.
Providing equal opportunities Having SeriousFun We are an equal opportunity employer that Our first year of partnership with Encouraging diversity strives to ensure there is no discrimination SeriousFun Childrens Network was Our success continues to be driven by our against anyone applying for a job or employed incredibly successful.
SeriousFun diverse employee talent around the world.
by us for reasons related to race, religion, Childrens Network is a global community We value all genders, ages, cultures, national origin, gender, disability or sexual of 30 camps and programs around experiences and backgrounds as we build orientation.
We are committed to the fair theworld that provide transformative and grow our global organization.
treatment and reasonable accommodation campexperiences to children living with The benefit of our diverse workforce comes ofapplicants or employees disabilities in seriousillnesses and their families.
Shires from respecting, considering and including accordance with all applicable laws in the $3million commitment, $1 million annually, different views into our work every day.
respective locations of all Shire facilities.
enables nearly 1,000 children to attend Ourgrowing global reach gives us the these life-changing camps.
In addition, this Recognizing and rewarding opportunity to bring to our business, for year Shire employees dedicated over 5,000 Our pay for performance philosophy thebenefit of our patients, greater depth hours of volunteering with SeriousFun.
provides managers with a variety of ofexperiences and capabilities.
Through our volunteer program, 25 programs to recognize and reward employee employees volunteered as camp Our commitment to diversity and inclusion contributions.
Our employee share purchase counselors at seven different camps.
has been given a major boost by the plans enable employees to have a vested Additionally, during our Global Day of combination with Baxalta.
We now have interest in Shires success.
Service, over 350 employees volunteered approximately 24,000 employees across across six countries working on camp Focusing on communication 68countries around the globe, bringing enhancement.
And we were proud to We focus on communicating to drive together a wealth of diverse talent.
A sponsor two family weekends, allowing performance at every level of the business, greatinitiative from Baxalta that we are 44families to spend quality time together for example through one-on-one expanding across Shire is our employeeatcamp.
performance discussions between organized Business Resource Groups managers and employees and all-employee BRGs.
Each one is focused on a unique meetings held at our major sites.
We community of our employees: B-Equal communicate with all employees via LGBTQ, Black Leadership Council, Building periodic all-company meetings, the Asian Leaders, Early Career Professionals, intranet, all-employee emails from the EnAbles Disability, Impacto Latino, VETS CEOand other executives, social veterans, and Women@Shire.
networking platforms, and leadership briefings and cascades.
38 Shire Annual Report 2016 4 3 12 Employment by region as at December 31, 2016 Shire plc Directors gender split as at December 31, 2016 1 North America 58% Total employees 2 2 Europe 35% 8 67% 2016 23,906 4 33% 3 Latin America 2% 8 73% 2015 3 27% 4 Asia 5% 1 271 3 Shire senior managers gender split as at December 31, 2016 U. S. employee ethnic minorities 2 as at December 31, 2016 180 66% 2016 91 34% 1 Non-minority 67% Total U. S. employees 133 70% 2015 2 Minority 32% 57 30% 13,769 3 Unstated 1% 1 23,906 Shire global employees gender split as at December 31, 2016 11,583 48% 2016 12,323 52% 2,789 50% 2015 2,759 50% Male Female Shire Annual Report 2016 39 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Responsibility continued Ensuring sustainable operations As a responsible leader committed tolong-term positive impact, wefocus onensuring sustainable operations throughout our business.
Looking after our planet We have initiatives in place to reduce our aresponsible supply chain.
A core aspect of our approach to responsible supply We strive to operate a sustainable environmental impact through activities chain management is supplier diversity.
organization that protects our employees, such as site-specific recycling and energy Weactively seek and select qualified the environment, our partners and the reduction programs.
To reduce greenhouse suppliers from all segments of the business communities in which we live and work.
gas GHG emissions, several sites use community, in all markets where we green energy purchasing agreements We promote the sustainable and efficient operate.
In the U. S. we employ our suchas our operations in Orth and Vienna, use ofnatural resources, waste Supplier Diversity Program to ensure Austria: Neuchatel, Switzerland: and minimization, recycling, energy efficiency thatMinority-Owned, Women-Owned, Lessines, Belgium.
We have incorporated and responsible product stewardship.
We Veteran-Owned, Service-Disabled green building design principles and have work to minimize adverse environmental Veteran-Owned Small Businesses, achieved U. S. Green Building Council impacts and risks that may be associated businesses located in Historically Leadership in Energy and Environmental with our products, facilities and operations.
Underutilized Business Zones HUBZone Design LEED certification within several As a world-class organization, we strive for and Small Disadvantaged Businesses are sites including locations in Lexington, excellent performance to fulfill our aim to be afforded a fair and equal opportunity to Massachusetts: Los Angeles, California: a responsible corporate citizen.
participate in the awarding ofcontracts.
Vienna, Austria: and Rieti, Italy.
In2016, we met our annual goal of Global approach, local focus Promoting health and safety spending 13percent of our U. S. spend We apply the same approach and policies We provide a safe work environment as withthese smallbusinesses.
to all our facilities worldwide.
Nearly all of well as promote healthy lifestyles and our manufacturing and research and behavior.
We train, empower and require Greenest company development sites are certified to the ISO our employees to take individual We were proud to be ranked as 14001 Environmental Management System responsibility for health and safety.
1 greenest company in Standard and the Occupational Health engage and consult with our employees the world in Newsweeks 2016 andSafety Assessment Series OHSAS when developing and improving our Green Rankings based on 18001 Standard, with additional sites processes, and encourage them to corporate sustainability and recommended for certification in 2017. integrate health and safety considerations environmental impact.
The prior Adhering to these standards helps ensure into their everyday activities.
2. that effective processes are inplace to minimize impact on the environment with Responsible manufacturing and Sustainable performance priority consideration for the health and supplier diversity In 2016 we received a climate safety of employees and contractors.
As a newly combined company, we are score of a B for our 2016 keenly aware of the importance of working performance in the CDP, above closely with our manufacturing and the CDP climate change sourcing partners and suppliers to build program average.
40 Shire Annual Report 2016 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment parameters 1 Baseline Year January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 FY2016 Consolidation Approach Operational Control Boundary Summary Emissions data includes all Shire plc consolidated entities over which the Company has operational control.
All manufacturing and plasma collection facilities included in Scope 1 and 2 reporting of emissions from natural gas, fuel oil, and electricity.
Scope 1 emissions from global fleet fuel usage are included.
Scope 2 emissions from commercial offices are included and approximated based on occupied square footage when primary consumption data was not available.
Consistency with the Financial Statements By following the operational control approach, our GHG disclosures include data from leased assets that are not included in the consolidated financial statements.
Assessment Methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol 2004 Intensity Ratio GHG Emissions per unit revenue metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents per million U. S. Dollars ofrevenue 1 Due to significant structural changes in Shires operational boundary as a result of the Baxalta Inc. acquisition in 2016, Shire has reset its baseline year to FY2016 to better reflect the newly combined organization.
These figures do not include GHG emissions associated with the Baxalta Inc. acquisition in 2016.
See Shires 2015 Annual Report for additional details on Shires 2015 GHG emissions data.
2 Emissions factors were sourced from UKs DEFRA database, the WRI GHG Protocol, and the U. S. EPA.
3 GHG emissions reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
GHG intensity emissions reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents per million U. S. Dollars of revenue.
4 For Scope 1 fleet usage, an annual mileage of 20,000 kilometers was used to approximate fleet emissions for vehicles without annual mileage data.
5 For Shire occupied commercial office locations where electricity consumption data was not available, electricity consumption was approximated using U. S. Energy Information Administration 2012 intensity factors.
6 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions calculated using the market-based Scope 2 total.
7 While Shire supports the voluntary reporting of Scope 3 emissions, Shire was unable to complete an evaluation of its 2016 Scope 3 emissions due to the changes in Shires operations as a result of the Baxalta Inc. acquisition in 2016.
Shire Annual Report 2016 41 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Responsibility continued Ethics and transparency We are committed to leading the way in adopting and applying the highest standards of good governance, ethics and transparency in our industry.
Ethical business conduct was another top priority identified inour 2016 Responsibility Materiality Assessment.
Engaging with our stakeholders Organized to lead We commit to the principles articulated in We communicate widely and regularly Following the acquisition of Baxalta, we the International Labor Organizations onResponsibility with all our stakeholders, formed a new cross-functional, global ILO Declaration on Fundamental for example through our website.
Through Principles and Rights at Work.
always interested tohear feedback and this network, senior leaders play a We also commit to the protection of human suggestions onhowwe can be an even fundamental role in reviewing and directing rights of our partners and suppliers, and in more .
Shires Responsibility strategies, activities turn, expect them to do the same in their and policies to ensure the company is operations and to their employees around Find out more aligned to maintain high standards and the world.
We do this through our Supply You can find out more about our enduring highimpact.
Members of the network Chain Management policy which explicitly commitment to responsibility here: alsoserve as Responsibility champions states our expectations of suppliers to throughout the organization and with https: www.
com who-we-are uphold the ILO principles.
This policy can external stakeholders.
They meet as a responsibility be found on our website, shire.
group at least twice a year to monitor Every year we publish a detailed Annual progress and more frequently in smaller Shire also supports the UKs Modern Responsibility Review that captures Shires working groups.
Shires Responsibility team Slavery Act which came into effect in approach to responsibility, sets forth goals facilitates the working groups, partners with October 2015 and believes it is a significant in key focus areas and provides progress sponsors, and drives communications and step in helping companies identify and tackle made to date.
You can find it here: reporting efforts.
the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking across business operations and https: www.
com who-we-are Upholding human rights supply chains.
Shires Board of Directors responsibility We support the UN Universal Declaration has approved aModern Slavery ofHuman Rights http: www.
org en You can also find copies of our policies Transparency Statement in compliance with documents udhr and recognize the andposition statements on issues such section 54 of the Act, which can be found obligation to promote universal respect ashuman rights, bioethics and animal on our website.
Formore information, forand observance of human rights and welfare here: goto: fundamental freedoms for all, without https: www.
com who-we-are distinction to sex, age, race, religion, or https: www.
com who-we-are how-we-operate  other characteristics protected by law.
how-we-operate  Employment Grants and donations We are committed to protecting the human We publish details on our website regularly rights of our employees in our offices and about our educational grants as well as manufacturing facilities around the world.
donations made to patient groups and We recognize that commercial success charitable organizations.
In 2016, Shire depends on the full commitment of all our provided $11 million in educational grants, employees.
We commit to respect their an increase of $2.4 million from 2015, and human rights, to provide them with safe made more than $25.9 million in donations and favorable working conditions that are to U. S. charitable organizations, an free from unnecessary risk, and to increase of more than $12 million from maintaining fair and competitive terms theyear prior.
andconditions of service at all times.
Looking ahead We seek to comply fully with all relevant Looking ahead, we will draw on our 2016 laws, rules and regulations governing Responsibility Materiality Assessment to labor, employment, and the employment help us focus strategically on what really relationship in all of the countries where matters to our stakeholders and our Shire does business.
We aim to put even more resources, people and investments behind key areas.
As a responsible leader in rare diseases, we are focusing with ever-greater intensity on making sure we organize and apply ourselves for maximum long-term positive impact.
