com I Stock code: SHI Critical Accounting Judgments and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS described on pages 93 to 98, the Directors are required to make The Group tests goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and judgments, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts equipment annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other indications that an impairment may be required.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of historical experience and other factors that are considered to be the value in use of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key estimates made in the value in use calculation are those The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an regarding discount rates, sales growth rates, and expected changes ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised to selling prices and direct costs to reflect the operational gearing in the period in which the change takes place if the revision affects of the business.
The Directors estimate discount rates using pre-tax only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of the revision affects both current and future periods.
For those businesses not based in the UK or Western Europe, the cash flows are further risk-adjusted to reflect The critical judgments, estimates and assumptions that have the the risks specific to that individual CGU.
most important significant impact on the carrying value of the assets and liabilities recognised in the Group Accounts, and will have the For the majority of the CGUs, the Group performs goodwill most significant impact in the next financial year, are detailed below.
impairment reviews by forecasting cash flows based upon the All of the below are estimates made by the Group apart from postfollowing years budget, which anticipates sales growth, and a employment benefits which is an item that requires both judgment projection of cash flows based upon industry growth expectations and estimation.
0%-4% over a further period of four years.
Where detailed five year forecasts for a CGU have been prepared and approved by REBATES RECEIVABLE the Board, which can include higher growth rates or varied results At 31 December 2016 trade payables is presented net of 73.4m reflecting specific economic factors, these are used in preparing 2015: 72.7m due from suppliers in respect of supplier rebates cash flow forecasts for impairment review purposes.
After this where the Group has the right to net settlement.
Included within period, the sales growth rates applied to the cash flow forecasts are prepayments and accrued income is 56.1m 2015: 53.2m due in no more than 1% and operating profit growth no more than 4% in relation to supplier rebates where there is no right to offset against perpetuity.
The discount rates applied to all CGUs represent pre-tax trade payable balances.
Supplier rebate income is significant to the rates.
Groups result, with a substantial proportion of purchases covered Assumptions regarding sales and operating profit growth, gross by rebate agreements.
Supplier rebate income affects the recorded margin, and discount rate are considered to be the key areas of value of cost of sales, trade payables, trade and other receivables, estimation in the impairment review process, and appropriate and inventories.
Customer rebates affect the recorded value of sensitivities have been performed and disclosed in Note 12. revenue and trade receivables.
The amounts payable and receivable under rebate agreements are often subject to negotiation after the Impairments are allocated initially against the value of any goodwill balance sheet date.
A number of agreements are non-coterminous and intangible assets held within a CGU, with any remaining with the Groups financial year, requiring judgment over the level of impairment applied to property, plant and equipment on a pro rata future purchases and sales.
At the balance sheet date the Directors basis.
estimate the amount of rebate that will become payable by and due The carrying amount of relevant non-current assets at 31 December to the Group under these agreements based upon prices, volumes 2016 is 556.9m 2015: 668.4m.
The most recent results of the and product mix.
impairment review process are disclosed in Note 12 and indicated that the carrying value of non-current assets associated with the POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Groups Larivire, Poland, Carpet & Flooring and Drywall Qatar The Group operates six defined benefit pension schemes.
All postCGUs were no longer supportable.
Impairment reviews performed employment benefits associated with these schemes have been during the year indicated that the carrying value of the Groups accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
As other non-current assets at 31 December 2016 were considered detailed within the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies on supportable.
page 98, in accordance with IAS 19, all actuarial gains and losses have been recognised immediately through the Consolidated PROVISIONS AGAINST RECEIVABLES Statement of Comprehensive Income.
At 31 December 2016 the Group has recognised trade receivables For all defined benefit pension schemes, pension valuations have with a carrying value of 417.0m 2015: 386.9m.
Using been performed using specialist advice obtained from independent information available at the balance sheet date, the Directors make qualified actuaries.
In performing these valuations, significant judgments and detailed estimates based on experience regarding actuarial assumptions and judgments have been made to determine the level of provision required to account for potentially uncollectible the defined benefit obligation, in particular with regard to discount receivables.
At 31 December 2016 the Groups retirement benefit obligations were 37.1m 2015: 23.8m.
Appropriate sensitivities have been performed and disclosed in Note 29c.
