Building on our potential The Group delivered an underlying PBT of 77.5m in 2016, in line with its previously stated 75-80m range.
However, SIG recognises that its transformational change programme, while taking the Group in the right strategic direction, distracted the business during 2016.
This resulted in a loss of customer focus and impacted performance.
Leverage has risen above an acceptable level and specific performance challenges were seen in SIG Distribution SIGD, the UK insulation and interiors business, and in the Offsite Construction business in the UK.
SIG has identified that it needs to balance better its change programme with the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Since November, therefore, SIG has reassessed its internal initiatives in order to free time so that branches can refocus on customers and drive sales growth.
As a result, SIG has slowed or stopped a number of initiatives.
SIG has reviewed its UK eCommerce programme, suspended its Regional Distribution Centre RDC programme, and is targeting to complete substantially the roll-out of its new UK ERP system in April.
SIG has also reviewed its cost base to eliminate duplication and reduce discretionary expenditure.
With some supplier price inflation being seen, particularly in SIGD, the Group will continue to drive its procurement programme in order to help mitigate margin pressures.
SIGs supply chain initiative is being embedded fully into business as usual and will continue to support ongoing improvement in the Groups cost to serve.
Driving improved performance in SIGD During 2016 the market for specialist insulation and interiors products remained competitive, with other market participants investing in an attempt to grow market share.
While SIGD achieved like-for-like sales growth of 1.1%, this was at the expense of margin, with operating profit declining by 6.8m to 19.2m 2015: 26.0m on revenue of 769.5m 2015: 736.5m.
Since November the Group has targeted improved business performance by refocusing on its customers and improving its service proposition, upgrading its sales and pricing capabilities, and by better exploiting logistics and warehouse efficiencies using data now available from its newly implemented UK ERP system.
There are some positive early signs that this strategy is beginning to make a difference and sales momentum is improving, with the business delivering positive LFL sales growth since November.
Expanding capacity in Offsite Construction Offsite Construction increased revenue by 20.7% to 27.4m in 2016 2015: 22.7m, but the business made an operating loss of 4.2m 2015: profit of 0.3m, reflecting production challenges in the modular housing part of its Building Systems division.
SIG has already doubled daily production of modular housing compared to 2016 and is expecting Offsite Construction to return to profitability by the end of this year.
In order to achieve this SIG is re-engineering and streamlining its production line and has recently appointed a new Managing Director with significant offsite manufacturing experience.
Offsite Construction continues to have a strong order book and is benefiting from high levels of demand due to the UK housing shortage and as traditional construction methods are displaced.
