The specialist insulation and interiors market in the UK, however, remained competitive, with other market participants investing in new branches and price in an attempt to grow market share.
In this environment SIGD continued to grow LFL sales up 1.1% in the year, but this growth was at the expense of gross margin.
The Groups response has been to slow or stop a number of its internal initiatives so that its branches can refocus on customers and drive sales growth.
In addition it has upgraded its sales and pricing capabilities and is improving its warehouse and logistics efficiency using improved management information from its newly implemented ERP system.
In December SIGD opened its first RDC in Manchester.
This new facility provides customers with a wide range of SIGs product range including structural and technical insulation, interiors, construction accessories and fixings.
Having suspended the roll-out of other RDCs, at least temporarily, SIG will now monitor progress on this new site, along with its other recently opened RDC in Dublin, before deciding on the next appropriate steps for this programme.
In 2016 revenue in SIG Exteriors SIGE, the market leading and only national specialist UK roofing business, benefited from acquisitions and was up 4.7% to 477.8m 2015: 456.4m.
SIGEs LFL sales declined by 0.9% due to ongoing challenging trading conditions in the UK Repairs, Maintenance and Improvement sector, to which the business has a relatively high degree of exposure, accounting for 64% of revenue, and due to weaker demand for building products in the public sector.
Notwithstanding these market dynamics, SIGE continues to be one of the highest margin businesses in the Group, reflecting its strong position as the largest and only national player in the UK market.
In Ireland SIG grew revenue by 18.6%, benefiting from foreign exchange movements, and by 3.8% on a LFL basis.
The construction market in Ireland continues to recover and, having begun in the residential sector, this recovery is now spreading into the commercial market.
The Groups Irish business is also benefiting from efficiencies gained from the new Dublin RDC, which opened in April 2016.
Although revenue in Offsite Construction increased by 20.7% to 27.4m, the business made an operating loss of 4.2m 2015: profit of 0.3m due to a significant production shortfall in its volumetric housing business.
The Group is addressing its production challenges in this business and expects Offsite Construction to return to profitability by the end of 2017.
Other revenue, which largely relates to the Groups business in the Middle East, increased by 45.7% to 31.9m 2015: 21.9m.
