SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Our strategy SIG HAS A CLEAR STRATEGY TO GROW IN ITS THREE CORE MARKETS OF INSULATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT, EXTERIORS AND INTERIORS BY COMBINING THE REPUTATIONAL STRENGTHS OF ITS LOCAL BRANDS WITH THE SCALE EFFICIENCIES AND KNOW-HOW OF A MULTINATIONAL GROUP.
Furthermore, by working together more as a However, while enacting our transformation Above all, Health and Safety remains our top Group, and by fully leveraging our scale and programme, we need to ensure that we priority at all times.
Through our Zero Harm presence in the marketplace, our aim is to balance business change with the day-toprogramme we have developed a strong make SIGs whole greater than the sum of day operations of the Group, and that we health and safety culture, but we recognise the parts, for example by improving the way remain focused on our customers.
that there is still room for improvement.
OUR PRIORITIES IMPROVING OUR INNOVATION AND CUSTOMER FOCUS VALUE ADDED SALES 2 1 5 Historically SIG has had a very strong and We can improve our business through IN DELIVERING ITS clear customer focus, with its branches innovation and by moving the Group up the highly engaged with clients at a local level.
value chain, thus increasing margin.
STRATEGY, SIG IS We recognise however that, while taking In particular we are innovating across the FOCUSING ON the Group in the right strategic direction, range of products and services we offer, our business transformation programme through our value added sales offering.
As FIVE PRIORITIES TO has distracted us somewhat from our well as being higher margin for the Group, IMPROVE BUSINESS customers.
These initiatives have taken time our value added products are increasingly and resources away from local branches being demanded by customers as they PERFORMANCE.
and we need to get the business back in save them time, money or reduce their balance.
Therefore we will free up time by prioritising Two important growth areas for this our strategic initiatives, which will enable category are Air Handling, which covers us to improve our customer focus.
Our key the ventilation segment of the Heating, focus areas for 2017 are: Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC market and Offsite Construction, which is z sell more proactively and effectively the pre-assembly of building products in a z leverage our current sales resources factory environment for onsite installation.
better z sell more value added products to improve our sales mix.
com I Stock code: SHI SUPPLY CHAIN PROCUREMENT PEOPLE 3 4 5 The Group has already made some supply SIG has significantly reshaped its SIG has committed and talented people.
We chain improvements, but there is more procurement function over the last two work to continuously develop our people, that can be achieved.
While doing so, we years and is working towards a world-class structure and culture across the Group, so are reprioritising some of our supply chain procurement function.
we can further improve performance.
ambitions in order to give time back to the Our key priorities for 2017 are: In doing so we must ensure that our people branches, so they can increase their focus have the right environment and skills, and on the customer.
z better leveraging our scale that they are properly motivated through z For example, we are suspending the roll-out improving our procurement of incentives, recognition and reward.
of our Regional Distribution Centres while commodity products Through our Zero Harm programme our we assess the performance of recently z strengthening our role in the construction people have developed a strong health and opened sites in Manchester and Dublin.
value chain safety culture, although we recognise that However, we still believe that there are there is still more to do.
z creating new supplier relationships significant efficiencies to be gained from z growing own label.
We are focusing on four key areas going forward, which are: z optimise our stock holding z improve the utilisation of our fleet z improve the way we work with suppliers z instil operational excellence.
