In France SIG operates three businesses: Larivire, its market leading specialist roofing business: LiTT, its leading structural insulation and interior business: and Ouest Isol Ouest Ventil, which is the leading supplier of technical insulation in the country and a leading air handling distributor.
Market conditions in France were challenging, with the LFL sales decreasing by 1.9% in the year.
This decline, along with more cautious market forecasts, has resulted in an 100.4m impairment of Larivire.
However, SIG recorded an improved second half performance, with LFL sales flat compared to a decline in H1 2016 of 3.6%.
Reported revenue however benefited from foreign exchange and acquisitions, growing by 13.9%.
SIG also maintained gross margin in France compared to prior year.
The Group anticipates that the improving market conditions in France, particularly in the residential sector, which accounts for 53% of its revenue in the country, may benefit SIG in 2017, particularly as many of the products it sells are used in the later stages of the building cycle.
SIG operates two businesses in Germany: WeGo, a leading insulation and interiors business: and vti, which is the largest supplier of technical insulation in the country.
SIG grew revenue in Germany by 12.2% in 2016 as it benefited from movements in foreign exchange.
While LFL sales declined by 1.2%, similar to France, the German business recorded an improved second half performance, with LFLs only down 0.6%.
During 2016 the Group appointed a new management team to improve its performance and reposition the business towards the higher growth segments of the German market.
In Poland SIG grew LFL sales by 2.1% and reported revenues by 11.1%.
Construction markets were subdued due to political and economic uncertainty, which led to lower public expenditure as well as in the private sector.
This resulted in weak demand in the nonresidential and industrial markets, which account for 75% of the Groups revenue in Poland, and impacted gross margin.
Although there is some evidence that construction markets stabilised and begun to improve in the first two months of 2017, the reduction in profitability and slower than originally anticipated recovery resulted in an impairment of 10.2m.
In the Benelux the Group delivered revenue growth of 16.3%, with LFL sales increasing by 2.5% and gross margin improving.
The construction market in The Netherlands has continued to recover, led by the residential sector, and the non-residential sector has also improved compared to prior year.
Market conditions in Belgium also stabilised during 2016, both in the residential and non-residential sectors.
