Board of Directors Key: BP GN A Audit Committee BP Bigger Picture Committee R Remuneration Committee Corporate Governance GN and Nominations Committee Committee Chairman James Murdoch 43 Jeremy Darroch 54 Andrew Griffith 45 Membership Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Appointed: James became Chairman in April Appointed: Jeremy joined Sky as Chief Appointed: Andrew was appointed Group 2016, having joined the Board in February Financial Officer and Executive Director Chief Operating Officer in March 2016.
James served as Chief Executive in 2004 and was appointed to his current In addition to his role as Chief Financial Officer Officer from 2003 to 2007 and as Chairman role in December 2007. he is responsible for the Groups overall future from 2007 to 2012. growth plans as well as the Groups advertising Skills and experience: Jeremy has extensive businesses across Europe including AdSmart.
Skills and experience: James brings experience in the retailing and fast-moving significant media sector knowledge and consumer goods sectors.
Prior to joining Sky, Skills and experience: Andrew joined the experience through his role at 21st Century Jeremy was Group Finance Director of DSG Company in 1999 from Rothschild, the Fox.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive International plc, formerly Dixons Group plc.
investment banking organisation, where he Officer of Star Group Limited from 2000 He has also spent 12 years at Procter & provided financial and strategic advice to to 2003, and held Non-Executive Director Gamble in a variety of roles in the UK and corporate clients in the technology, media and roles at GlaxoSmithKline plc from 2009 Europe.
Jeremy is a former Non-Executive telecommunications sector.
He held a number to 2012 and Sothebys from 2010 to 2012.
Director and Chairman of the Audit of senior finance roles prior to his appointment Committee of Marks and Spencer Group plc as Chief Financial Officer and member of the External Appointments: James was from 2006 to 2013.
Board in 2008, has a Bachelor of Law degree appointed as Chief Executive Officer at 21st from Nottingham University and is a qualified Century Fox in June 2015.
He also serves as External Appointments: In February 2014, chartered accountant.
a member of the Board of News Corporation Jeremy was appointed Non-Executive and is a Non-Executive Director of Yankee Director of Burberry Group plc and serves External Appointments: In March 2014, Global Enterprises, Vice Media, and a as a member of the Audit, Remuneration Andrew was appointed Senior Independent member of the Board of Trustees of the and Nomination Committees.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc and is Ghetto Film School.
Business Member of the National Centre also a Chairman of the Audit Committee and for Universities and Business.
member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He is a Trustee of Riverside Studios in West London, a registered charity.
R BP A GN Chase Carey 62 Tracy Clarke 49 Martin Gilbert 61 Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman Appointed: January 2013 Appointed: June 2012 Appointed: November 2011 Skills and experience: Chase has extensive Skills and experience: Tracy brings a wide Skills and experience: Martin has been knowledge and experience of the international range of operational experience having involved in the investment management media and pay TV sectors.
He is a former spent the early part of her career in corporate industry since 1982 and has extensive President and Chief Executive Officer of banking.
She went on to take leadership of investment, finance and executive DirecTV, where he led the operations and corporate affairs, brand and marketing, media leadership experience through his role strategic direction of the DirecTV Group.
relations, human resources, and latterly, global as co-founder and Chief Executive Officer Prior to joining DirecTV, Chase was Co-Chief compliance, all with Standard Chartered Bank.
of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Operating Officer of News Corporation She served as a Non-Executive Director of He has served as Chairman of FirstGroup plc, subsequently renamed 21st Century Fox Standard Chartered First Bank in Korea from Chaucer PLC and was Non-Executive and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2005 to 2007 and Non-Executive Director of Director of Dynmark International Limited, of the Fox Television Group.
Eaga plc from 2007 to 2011, where she chaired a mobile messaging and data applications the Remuneration Committee.
External Appointments: Chase was the former President, Chief Operating Officer External Appointments: Tracy is a member External Appointments: In addition to his and Deputy Chairman of 21st Century Fox of the Management Team and a Director role as Chief Executive Officer of Aberdeen from 2009 to 2015.
From July 2015 to July 2016 of Standard Chartered.
On 1 October 2015 Asset Management PLC, Martin is Chairman Chase was Executive Vice Chairman of she was appointed Regional Chief Executive of the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA 21st Century Fox and from July 2016 Americas and Europe.
Tracy is a trustee of Practitioner Panel.
WORKing for YOUth: is a Board member for England Netball: a co-opted member on the CBBC Board: member of the Institute of Financial Services and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
Sky plc 36 Governance A R A BP Adine Grate 55 Dave Lewis 51 John Nallen 59 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: July 2013 Appointed: November 2012 Appointed: November 2015 Skills and experience: Adine brings a Skills and experience: Dave is an Skills and experience: John is a highly wealth of executive, finance and investment experienced executive with strong experienced executive with strong media management and communications technology operational expertise.
He is Chief Executive and finance industry expertise.
He previously experience having operated at the top tiers Officer of Tesco plc and prior to that he was served as Senior Executive Vice President of Nordic-based international business for President, Personal Care for Unilever plc, and Deputy Chief Financial Officer of 21st the past two decades.
Formerly Executive Vice where he sat on the Unilever Leadership Century Fox from 2001 to 2013.
John joined President and Managing Director of Investor Executive.
He has held a variety of leadership News Corporation in 1995 after working at AB, owner of a number of Nordic-based roles at Unilever in Europe, South America Arthur Andersen for the previous 16 years.
and Asia including President for the Americas External Appointments: John is Senior and Chairman of Unilever UK and Ireland.
External Appointments: Adine is a Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Chairperson of NASDAQ OMX Swedish Listing External Appointments: Dave was Officer for 21st Century Fox, a role which he Committee and Vice Chairperson of AP7, appointed as Chief Executive Officer assumed on 1 July 2013. a Swedish pension and savings asset of Tesco plc in September 2014. management company.
She is Director of: Three Scandinavia, a mobile telecommunications and broadband operator: Sampo OY, a leading financial and insurance institution: and Swedavia AB, an airport operator.
A GN GN R Matthieu Pigasse 48 Andy Sukawaty 61 Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed: November 2011 Appointed: June 2013 Skills and experience: Matthieu brings Skills and experience: With over 30 years significant knowledge of the European media of telecommunications media technology sector and finance expertise to the Board.
experience Andy brings strong industry He is CEO for Lazards, France and Vice knowledge to the Board.
He has led companies Chairman of Lazard Europe.
He is also the in the mobile phone, Cable TV and satellite Global Head for Mergers and Acquisitions industries in the US and Europe and serves and the Global Head for Sovereign Advisory as Non-Executive Chairman of Inmarsat plc, of Lazard.
He has also served in the French a global mobile satellite communications Ministry of Economy and Finance.
External Appointments: In addition to External Appointments: In addition to his his role at Lazard, Matthieu has a number role as Non-Executive Chairman of Inmarsat of personal interests in media and plc, Andy has previously held a number publishing, notably Le Monde and the of senior management positions in the Huffington Post France.
He is a Board telecommunications industry including: member of Group Lucien Barrire SAS, Chairman of Ziggo N. V. a Dutch cable TV an operator of luxury hotels and restaurants and communications company, resigning and Derichebourg a recycling and in December 2014.
He has also previously maintenance services business.
served as Chief Executive Officer and President of Sprint PCS, a NYSE listed global national wireless carrier.
Andy is also an Executive in Residence for Warburg Pincus.
