Regulatory matters in practice the evidence shows that Sky is supplying its sports channels Below is an overview of the ongoing widely and Ofcom has not seen evidence to show that the terms of this supply amount to practices prejudicial to fair and effective competition investigations and reviews of regulatory which warrant the imposition of regulation.
Ofcom therefore decided that and competition matters involving it was appropriate to remove the WMO condition from Skys broadcast licences, and proceeded to do so on 27 November 2015.
Ofcom has stated the Group.
that it will continue to monitor Skys practices to determine whether regulation might be appropriate in the future.
On 18 December 2015, the appeals remitted to the CAT relating to Ofcoms 2010 decision to impose the WMO Obligations were withdrawn by order of the CAT on agreement between the parties.
European Commission investigation On 19 January 2016, BT filed an appeal against Ofcoms decision to remove On 13 January 2014, the European Commission the EC opened a formal the WMO condition with the CAT.
On 25 February 2016, Sky was granted antitrust investigation into cross-border provision of pay TV services in the permission to intervene in support of Ofcoms defence of its decision, European Union.
The EC is examining certain provisions relating to territorial and on 10 June 2016, Sky filed and served its Statement of Intervention.
protection in licence agreements between major US film studios Twentieth The hearing is currently listed for October 2016.
The Group is unable Century Fox, Warner Bros. Sony Pictures, NBC Universal, Paramount and to determine whether, and to what extent, the appeal will be successful Disney and key European pay TV broadcasters Sky UK, Canal Plus, Sky or its financial impact.
However, should the outcome of these processes ltalia, Sky Deutschland and DTS, operating under the Canal Plus brand in be adverse to the Group, this may have a significant effect on the financial Spain.
On 23 July 2015, the EC adopted a Statement of Objections SO, position or profitability of the Group.
setting out its preliminary finding that there has been an infringement of EU Competition law involving Sky UK.
Sky UK and the Studios, have Ofcom Competition Act Investigation responded to the ECs case, both in written responses October 2015 into wholesale supply of Sky Sports 1 and 2 and at an oral hearing January 2016.
In addition, Paramount has proposed Following receipt of a complaint from BT, on 14 June 2013, Ofcom opened an commitments which the EC accepted in July 2016.
The EC has not yet investigation into whether Sky UK had abused a dominant position contrary reached its final views and the Group is not yet able to determine the to Chapter II of the Competition Act 1998 and or Article 102 of the Treaty outcome of the investigation or its financial impact.
However, should on the Functioning of the EU.
The complaint alleged that Sky UK was the outcome be adverse to Sky UK, this may have a significant effect making wholesale supply of Sky Sports 1 and 2 to BT for its YouView service on the financial position or profitability of the Group.
conditional on BT wholesaling BT Sports channels to Sky UK for retail on Sky UKs satellite platform, and that constituted an abuse of dominance.
Wholesale must-offer WMO obligations Ofcom decided to close the investigation on 16 February 2016 for reasons On 31 March 2010, Ofcom published its decision to impose wholesale of administrative priority.
must-offer obligations on the Group the WMO Obligations for the channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 1 HD and Sky Sports 2 HD Ofcom Competition Act investigation into Virgin Media the Affected Channels.
The WMO Obligations required Sky UK, amongst other things, to offer the Affected Channels on a wholesale basis to third complaint to Ofcom concerning the collective selling parties which satisfied various minimum qualifying criteria.
of live UK television rights by the Premier League On 8 August 2012, the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT handed down In September 2014, Ofcom received a complaint from Virgin Media VM its judgment on Sky UKs appeal against Ofcoms decision to impose the alleging that the arrangements for the collective selling of live UK television WMO Obligations the Pay TV Judgment.
The CAT found that Ofcoms rights by the Premier League PL for matches played by its member clubs core competition concern is unfounded Ofcom had found that Sky UK are in breach of competition law.
On 18 November 2014, Ofcom opened an deliberately withheld wholesale supply of its premium channels and that investigation under section 25 of the Competition Act 1998 into how the accordingly Sky UKs appeal must be allowed.
PL sells live UK audio-visual media rights for PL football matches.
BT appealed the Pay TV Judgment to the Court of Appeal.
On 17 February Ofcoms investigation is continuing.
The Group is currently unable to 2014, the Court of Appeal allowed BTs appeal, finding that Ofcoms decision determine whether, or to what extent, VMs complaint will be upheld by contained a further competition concern in relation to Sky UKs rate Ofcom and it is not possible for the Group to conclude on the financial card prices and discounts to those prices, and that the CAT should have impact of the outcome at this stage.
It therefore remitted that issue to the CAT for further consideration.
On 19 December 2014, Ofcom began a review to determine whether the WMO Obligations remained appropriate.
On 19 November 2015, Ofcom announced its decision to remove the WMO Obligations.
In its statement concluding its review of the WMO Obligations, Ofcom stated that it does not consider it appropriate to impose regulation in relation to the supply of channels containing key sports content at this time.
In Ofcoms view, whilst there may be concerns in principle given Skys strong position in the market, Sky plc 32 Strategic report Regulatory matters continued Ofcom investigation into Skys compliance with rules Forward-looking statements about cancellation and termination arrangements This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and business, and our On 6 August 2015, Ofcom opened an investigation on whether there are strategy, plans and objectives.
reasonable grounds for believing that Sky has failed to comply with its obligations under the Ofcom General Conditions of Entitlement which These statements include, without limitation, those that express forecast, require communication providers to ensure that their conditions or expectations and projections, such as forecasts, expectations and procedures for contract termination do not act as a disincentive for projections with respect to new products and services, the potential for end-users changing their communication providers.
Ofcoms investigation growth of free-to-air and pay television, fixed-line telephony, broadband is continuing.
The Group is currently unable to determine whether, and bandwidth requirements, advertising growth, DTH and OTT customer or to what extent, Ofcom will find that Sky has failed to comply with growth, Multiscreen, On Demand, NOW TV, Sky Go, Sky Go Extra, Sky HD, its obligations and it is not possible for the Group to conclude on Sky Q, Sky Store, Sky Online, IPTV, mobile, Multiscreen and other services, the financial impact of the outcome at this stage.
churn, revenue, profitability and margin growth, cash flow generation, programming costs, subscriber management and supply chain costs, Competition law investigation administration costs and other costs, marketing expenditure, capital expenditure programmes and proposals for returning capital to into 2014 Serie A auction shareholders.
On 19 April 2016, the Italian Competition Authority the ICA made its final Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such decision in relation to the award of Serie A TV Broadcasting Rights for the forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements and all 2015-18 seasons.
According to the ICA, Lega Nazionale Professionisti Serie A, other forward-looking statements contained in this document are not its advisor Infront Italy S. r. l. and TV broadcasters Sky Italia, Reti Televisive guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties Italiane S. p. A. and its subsidiary Mediaset Premium S. p. A. entered into and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, are difficult an anticompetitive agreement in breach of Art.
101 of the Treaty on the to predict and could cause actual results to differ materially from those Functioning of the European Union to change the award of TV broadcasting expressed or implied or forecast in the forward-looking statements.
rights for the 2015-18 seasons Serie A matches.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those risks that are highlighted With respect to Sky Italia, the ICA concluded that it had played a marginal in this document in the section entitled Principal risks and uncertainties, and defensive role in the infringement in order to obtain the award of at and information on the significant risks and uncertainties associated least one of the two packages that should have been assigned to Sky Italia with our business is described therein.
based on the tendered offers.
Moreover, Sky Italia extensively co-operated No part of this document constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, with the ICA during the proceedings.
Accordingly, the ICA imposed a fine an invitation or inducement to invest in the Company or any other entity equal to 4 million on Sky.
On 18 June 2016, Sky Italia filed an appeal and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment seeking the annulment of the decision.
All forward-looking statements in this document are based on information known to us on the date hereof.
Except as required The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by law, we undertake no obligation publicly to update or revise any by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
By order of the Board Jeremy Darroch Group Chief Executive Officer 27 July 2016 Annual Report 2016 33 The Tunnel: Sabotage Governance 36 Board of Directors 64 Directors report and statutory disclosures 38 Corporate governance report 49 Directors remuneration report Image tbc
