Our marketplace, strategy and business model Our marketplace The markets in which we operate are Opportunities in adjacent markets represent 65m constantly changing and evolving.
significant further areas of growth.
households have Consumers are demanding more of the yet to take pay TV Customers are increasingly consuming very best content on their terms, be it live content in digital formats, with the on the main television set in the home, transactional home video market valued or on demand when on the move.
However, at around 2.6 billion across our markets.
daily viewing to television remains high, We are able to exploit this opportunity with consumers continually wanting 22m through our own transactional video to be entertained on a big screen.
customers to sell service, Sky Store.
When looking at our business and more products to In addition, our advertising sales house, the markets we are in today, we see a Sky Media, operates in the advertising significant growth opportunity ahead.
market worth 10 billion across the group.
We have 22 million customers who we can offer more products.
In addition, With strong global demand for high-quality around 65 million households have yet 2.6bn content, Sky Vision, our production and to take pay TV in our core markets, giving distribution arm, goes from strength to value of us substantial headroom to address strength.
Our growing slate of Sky original transactional with our multi-platform and streaming home video programming has been popular with TV services.
And we continue to look at markets broadcasters around the world, with sales other opportunities to grow, which in made in hundreds of territories.
time might include launching products and services in new markets.
10bn value of TV advertising market across the group Our strategy Our strategy is to broaden our business: moving into new markets, opening up new customer segments and expanding our range of products and services.
At the heart of our approach are the steps we This customer proposition enables us to pursue the have taken to build our position as Europes leading significant opportunities for growth in the attractive entertainment and communications business.
Across all our markets we are ensuring Sky is the Our strategy is enabling us to deliver sustained home of more of the best content from around broad revenue growth which, together with our the world, with sustained market-leading innovation focus on operating efficiency, delivers a consistently across multiple platforms, delivered by a trusted stronger, more profitable business and long-term brand that offers best in class customer service.
Sky plc 10 Strategic report Our business model We are focused on delivering the very best content, innovation and service for our customers Our strengths Great content Market-leading Our customer innovation focus We invest to deliver the best and We combine our investment We are a customer-centric organisation, broadest range of content rights in technologies with our deep focused on meeting the needs of across the portfolio of channels and understanding of customers to all our customers in every market.
services we provide to customers, offer a great viewing experience We are able to meet their needs offering something for everyone in the whenever, wherever and however through the strength of our trusted household.
We partner with content our customers want to watch.
brand, by ensuring that we offer owners to secure the very best content a market-leading TV experience from around the world, and produce and our commitment to superior our own original productions.
Growth Growing pay TV Selling more Scaling adjacent opportunities penetration to customers businesses Across our markets there is a We focus on broadening out our range We create and pursue opportunities significant opportunity for growth, with of products and services to offer more in adjacent sectors such as 65 million households yet to take pay to existing customers and address advertising, transactional services TV.
We have further developed our more of their needs.
We will begin and international programme segmented customer offers to ensure offering customers in the UK our new sales to create and grow additional we are well placed to persuade more mobile phone service later this year.
customers to join and stay with Sky.
How we create value Investing for the long term Driving efficiency We invest over the long term because we want to build We underpin everything that we do with a rigorous focus on a business that is durable.
This means ensuring that operating efficiency.
By ensuring that we have an efficient and we create the conditions for sustainable success whilst agile operating model, we consistently drive down costs to also delivering results in the short term.
allow us to invest more where customers see greatest value.
Seeing the Bigger Picture Investing in people We are committed to acting responsibly in all that we do.
We invest in our people because we recognise that their talent Thats because we know that to build a successful business and commitment are critical to our success.
We aim to foster over the long term, how we go about doing business is as a culture which encourages our people to fulfil their potential important as what we do.
We also focus on making a positive and to strive for continual improvement in all that they do, impact on society.
We call this seeing the Bigger Picture.
enabling us all to achieve great things together.
