Seeing the Bigger Picture Responsible sourcing and human rights At Sky we strive to build a business that is We set high social, ethical and environmental standards durable for the long term.
We know that for suppliers and work in partnership to help them improve.
This year we have focused on implementing our responsible simply being good for Sky is not enough.
sourcing approach across the group.
We have doubled the number of suppliers that we assess and continue to work We must also be good for our customers, with suppliers that are deemed high risk and set out action our people, our partners, the environment plans for addressing issues that are flagged, as set out in our responsible sourcing policy.
and the communities in which we live and work.
Sky respects the rights of all those that we impact through This is what we call seeing the Bigger Picture.
our activities and business relationships including our own people, the people in our supply chain and our customers.
We maintain policies which clearly set out our expectations for upholding human rights.
Our annual human rights risk assessment process across our own operations and supply chains helps us identify focus areas.
This assessment, along with our Modern Slavery Statement, forms part of our strategy Focused on what matters to ensure our commitment to the new legislative requirements A list as outlined in the Modern Slavery Act.
Seeing the bigger picture is a core part of our corporate strategy and our Believe in Better ethos, our commitment Carbon Disclosure See our policies at to constant renewal and improvement in everything that www.
com biggerpicture Project we do.
It is part of how we build long-term relationships Environment and earn the trust of our customers, viewers, employees and partners.
We focus our strategy and activity across Sky takes a leadership position on tackling climate change: three areas: making a wider contribution to the countries we focus on reducing our environmental impacts, creating in which we operate, operating responsibly and reaching better, more sustainable products and inspiring our customers Top 10 beyond our business to inspire action and make a and suppliers to take action on environmental issues.
in the In the ten years since Sky became the worlds first carbon Media sector neutral media company, we have set ourselves ambitious Responsible business Dow Jones long-term goals and made significant progress through At Sky, acting responsibly and being successful commercially Sustainability reducing our waste and energy use and by investing in go hand in hand.
22 million customers across Europe choose Index on-site renewables and more energy efficient properties.
They have high expectations of us, As a group we began reporting on our environmental trusting us to do the right thing.
This means, for example, performance in 2015: since then we have reduced our making sure that Sky is an inclusive employer, ensuring we carbon intensity from 11.52tCO e 2015 to 10.57tCO e 2 2 work hard to keep the information customers share with in 2016.
In the UK and Ireland, we have been reporting on us safe and secure, developing products that are accessible our environmental performance since 2008.
Here we have Winner for everyone including families and our customers with reduced our emissions tCO e relative to revenue by 44% 2 disabilities and strengthening our work with suppliers, BITC Award for since our 2008 09 baseline, making significant progress including on human rights.
This year we have focused Inspiring Young toward our target to halve emissions by 2020. on embedding our responsible business strategy across Talent We continue to develop better, more sustainable products, the group.
using less materials within a smaller box.
For example, our Customers new Sky Q box is over 50% smaller than the Sky HD model.
We are proud of what we do to make the Sky experience This also helps to reduce transport emissions and the amount safe and accessible for everyone, including families and our customers with disabilities.
To help make Sky the safest RE100 place for families to enjoy content, this year, we announced committed to that Sky Broadband Shield would be automatically switched Reducing our carbon emissions procuring 100% on for all new customers.
We are making the Sky experience The graph shows the carbon 11.52 renewable energy more accessible through our content, innovative products intensity since the creation and market-leading customer service.
We know that the of the enlarged Sky group.
We have 10.57 way in which our customers are watching TV is changing decreased our emissions by 8% since and we have an ambitious plan to offer subtitling on at last year as a result of our continued least 80% of Sky on demand content.
investment in energy efficiency and We have strong governance in place relating to data renewables.
In addition, we have protection and continue to invest in industry-leading signed up to RE100, committing to security methods.
This year weve continued to embed expand our procurement of renewable our existing approach across the group.
For more information on the Bigger Picture see www.
com biggerpicture 2014 15 2015 16 Sky plc 14 Strategic report Over the past year, we have had a particular focus on Women in Leadership and we are proud that in the UK and Ireland, 157k we have increased the proportion of women in leadership young people roles by 4% to 38%, and the proportion of women in our supported across most senior leadership team by 3% to 30%.
We plan to roll the group in 2016 out similar initiatives across all our territories with a view to consolidating the progress we have made in the UK and Ireland across the whole group.
For more on the diversity of our workforce see page 65 38% Inspiring action Sky Rainforest Rescue of our Top 400 We use our position as Europes leading entertainment employees in the company to make a positive impact on society and weve UK and Ireland of packaging.
Across the group we also ensure that all of the chosen to focus on supporting young people, working are women products returned to us are reused or recycled.
Our new alongside schools and youth organisations to help them ownership model for Sky Q means that more products than unlock their potential.
Given the power of our brand, it is ever before come back to us, helping to close the loop.
an area where we believe we can make a real difference.
This year, more than 157,700 young people have taken part In September 2015, we celebrated the completion of Sky in opportunities across the Sky group, including: Sky Academy Rainforest Rescue, our six-year partnership with WWF through 10.57 in the UK and Ireland, Sky Foundation in Germany and which we helped to raise over 9 million, save one billion trees Sky TG24 for Schools in Italy.
in the Amazon and raise awareness of deforestation among tCO e, carbon 2 7.3 million people.
In the Spring we supported WWFs Earth Hour, intensity in 2016 Sky Academy uses the power of TV, creativity and sport to reaching out to more than 24 million people across Europe 2015: 11.52 unlock the potential in young people.
Since the launch of through the first ever Earth Hour TV advert and a social our Sky Academy in the UK and Ireland in 2013, more than media campaign encouraging people to turn off their lights.
370,000 young people have taken part.
Through our initiatives: Sky Sports Living for Sport, Sky Academy Skills Studios, For more on our carbon emissions Sky Academy Careers Lab, Sky Academy Starting Out, and Sky see tables on page 66 Academy Scholarships, we are not only making a difference 10 Inclusion to young people, but also to the future of our business and, years of being we believe, to the media and technology sector as a whole.
We want to make sure that Sky is an inclusive employer and carbon neutral that our business reflects the societies in which it operates.
In Italy, we are focusing on supporting young people through Sky promotes a culture of opportunity for all decisions about art, TV and sport.
This year more than 10,300 young people peoples employment, development, promotion, pay and have taken part in opportunities including Sky TG24 for benefits are based on ability, qualifications and performance.
Schools, which helps young people build skills including communication, teamwork and media literacy.
Sky Foundation The Company delivers some of the most diverse content and Top 8 in Germany supports young people, particularly those who are services available to a wide range of consumers and we know disabled or from disadvantaged backgrounds, to develop their that we will be better placed for success if we have a balanced sustainable skills and lead an active life.
More than 5,400 young people and diverse workforce.
business in took part in Sky Foundation opportunities across Germany Newsweeks Green throughout the year.
Rankings Sky Academy Skills Studios Annual Report 2016 15 Sky Sports F1 Operational and Financial review Operational review 24 Financial review 18 UK and Ireland 28 Principal risks and uncertainties 20 Germany and Austria 32 Regulatory matters 22 Italy UK and Ireland Weve continued to reach more and more customers with Sky delivered another strong year of growth our flexible, no contract streaming service, NOW TV.
The launch of the Sky Sports monthly pass in the Summer has led to a in the UK and Ireland.
Our investments in 42% increase in sports passes sold year on year.
In June we world-class programmes and market-leading extended our portfolio further with the launch of a new NOW TV Kids pass, offering access to top kids programmes for just innovation continue to attract both new 2.99 a month.
We have now taken the very exciting step of launching the NOW TV Combo, the UKs first ever contract-free customers to Sky, as well as giving existing triple play bundle, giving customers contract-free TV, broadband and call packages.
The unique NOW TV Combo customers more reasons to stay with us.
includes a brand new NOW TV Smart Box, giving customers This enabled us to pass 8 billion in revenue seamless access to over 60 free-to-air channels alongside the TV thats right for them.
Our mobile platforms provide customers with engaging and relevant ways to enjoy our programmes wherever and whenever they choose.
Sky Go had its biggest update since launch, making the user interface more engaging and intuitive using many learnings from Sky in Germany.
Weve also launched a fantastic new Sky Kids app, giving kids a choice of over 4,500 of their favourite episodes on demand in a fun app designed especially for them.
Content We have had an excellent year on screen.
Our strategy of acquiring the best programmes from around the world, complemented with more of our own original content, is delivering the entertainment customers want.
In entertainment, we launched our critically acclaimed crime drama The Last Panthers simultaneously across all markets in November.
In the UK and Ireland, Stan Lees Lucky Man became our most watched drama series ever on Sky 1 with an average cumulative audience of almost two million.
We also Lucky Man saw the return of successful shows including The Tunnel, Stella, Our strategy of segmenting the market, ensuring we have Penny Dreadful and Mid-Morning Matters, demonstrating the the very best range of products to suit the needs of different growing maturity of our original productions.
customers, helped attract 445,000 new customers.
Our customers benefit from our long-term partnerships This took our total retail customer base to over 12.4 million.
with some of the worlds leading content producers.
The sixth At the same time, we added 2.3 million new products, taking series of HBOs Game of Thrones broke all records to become us past the major milestone of 40 million products in UK and the most watched Sky entertainment programme ever in Irish households.
This performance reflects strong demand for the UK and Ireland.
Billions, the new drama from our exclusive both our TV and home communications products and services.
partner Showtime, also broke records.
Within the first 24 hours alone, Billions was downloaded 500,000 times, Innovation a record for any show on Sky Box Sets.
Its been a big year for new product launches.
In February we launched our groundbreaking new product, Sky Q.
Customers can enjoy a whole range of fantastic features which make TV viewing seamless around and outside the home.
These The Open include the ability to pause viewing on one TV screen and pick up in another room, as well as saving recordings onto a tablet to watch anywhere.
And it will keep getting better including the launch of voice search.
Soon we will launch our new Sky Q Ultra HD service giving customers the widest range of ultra HD content in the market.
Sky plc 18 Strategic report Sky Q 12.4m customers 40.4m products 7% revenue growth In movies, we achieved record viewing numbers, with the Customer highest ever weekly audience to Sky Movies over Christmas.
We want our customers to have the very best TV and On demand downloads surpassed 290 million as customers communications experience: we are therefore focused on choose from our high-quality library of over 1,000 of the delivering excellent customer service.
We are proud that this latest blockbusters and classic films.
year Sky once again led the industry, coming in at the top of At the beginning of July, Sky Movies was relaunched as Sky Ofcoms regular customer satisfaction reports.
Were Cinema in the UK and Ireland in line with all our movie channels particularly pleased that our engineers earnt their highest across Europe.
The improved service gives customers even ever level of customer satisfaction scores this year.
more of the biggest and best movies closer to cinema release Customers increasingly want to be able to interact with us than any other subscription service.
With our Digital First programme we now receive over can enjoy a new movie premiere every day, an even bigger four million visits per week to our online help and account library of the most popular films on demand, more pop up management sites.
We are also focused on resolving customer channels, as well as better HD picture and sound quality.
issues the first time we are contacted.
This approach has led In sport, we drew record audiences right across the portfolio, to a 10% reduction in the number of calls year on year.
Since demonstrating the strength and breadth of our offer.
For the 2010 we have halved the amount of calls we receive from third season in a row, Sky Sports showed 49 of the top 50 customers, during a period when we have doubled the number most watched Premier League matches.
Taken together this of products our customers are using.
This is great for means that of the 200 biggest and most watched Premier customers but also means we have more to invest in great League matches over the past three seasons, 97% have shows and further innovation.
been exclusively live on Sky Sports.
In golf, the British Masters was the most watched European Tour event of the season, Bigger Picture and the rugby Super League Grand Final achieved its As part of our commitment to responsible business were highest UK audience for five years.
minimising our environmental impacts and have achieved a At the same time, we secured a number of important 44% reduction in carbon emissions across the UK.
Throughout long-term rights agreements, ensuring we remain the home the year weve been continuing the redevelopment of our Sky of the very best sport for many years to come.
From 2019, campus in Osterley with international industry standard, Sky Sports in the UK and Ireland will be the exclusive home BREEAM Excellent.
of Formula 1, providing customers with live coverage of every This year over 141,000 young people took part in Sky Academy Grand Prix until 2024.
We also agreed deals with the ICC for initiatives.
Our Sky Academy Skills Studios invited young all mens and womens cricket world cups to 2023, La Liga, people to Sky every weekday to create their own news reports The Open, championship golf and all international Rugby with over 25,000 young people taking part throughout the Union from the southern hemisphere.
Our Sky Sports Living for Sport initiative now has a team Furthermore, we are giving millions of viewers in the UK of over 135 athlete mentors, inspiring students in a third of and Ireland access to selected moments from some of the secondary schools.
Were also immensely proud of our 11 Sky worlds biggest sporting events following the launch of Sky Sports and five Sky Arts Scholars.
Available at no extra cost to all Sky TV customers, the channel will help them get even more value from their subscription.
Annual Report 2016 19 Germany and Austria During the 12-month period we added over 340,000 Sky has had a record year in Germany and more customers with the total base now 4.6 million.
Total paid-for products reached eight million with almost Austria, attracting more customers and one million products added during the year, driven by seeing even more demand for our products strong demand for our HD channels.
This strong operating performance reflects the continued in what is Europes fastest-growing pay TV progress we are making as we deliver our growth strategy, market.
This has led to a strong financial focused on broadening our content offer beyond our heartland of sports and movies and improving our customer performance, with our first ever full year experience across platforms.
By sharing capabilities and resources across the group and implementing successful profit in this territory.
initiatives from other markets, we are pursuing the significant headroom for growth in this market.
Customers are responding positively, with strong take up of the new Entertainment package we launched in November and growing numbers of connected customers who are enjoying our rich on demand library.
Innovation We are investing to enable customers in Germany and Austria access to a broader range of content whenever and however they want to watch.
More than one million customers have now connected their boxes to the internet, giving them access to Sky On Demand including the hugely popular Sky Box Sets, which is drawing over 800,000 views per week.
This growth in connected homes, up from just 250,000 one year ago, means that one in four Sky households are now connected.
This has driven a rapid growth in on demand downloads, to 132 million across the year, as customers benefit from this richer entertainment experience.
Sky Sport News HD Our market-leading online TV service, Sky Go, also saw a record number of users across the year, led by major series like Game of Thrones and the fourth series of House of Cards, with 50% of viewers choosing to access the show via this mobile platform.
In June, we also launched the Sky Kids Babylon Berlin app following its successful roll out in the UK and Ireland allowing TV customers to access over 2,000 episodes of their favourite kids shows on Android and iOS tablets.
At the same time, we are broadening our distribution with our streaming service, Sky Online, offering customers flexible, contract-free access to our content through a range of connected devices.
In the year we expanded the availability of Sky Online to over 200 devices, including LG and Samsung smart TVs and Chromecast.
Content Our broader content offering is enabling us to attract more customers who had not previously considered Sky.
In entertainment, we introduced a new Entertainment Pack offering live and on demand access to channels including Fox, SyFy, RTL Crime, TNT Serie and Sky Atlantic all in HD as well as Sky Box Sets.
Supported with a strong marketing campaign, we have seen positive early success with 50% of customers joining on this new pack since its launch.
We relaunched our on demand offering, rebranding Sky Anytime to Sky On Demand.
The new service has a dedicated Sky Box Sets section that includes hit series such as The Walking Dead, The Leftovers and The Sopranos.
In addition, Sky Arts HD launched in July with Richard Wagners iconic Ring Cycle broadcast live from the world renowned Bayreuth Festival.
Sky plc 20 Strategic report The growing scale and ambition of our own original TV Customer programmes alongside the continued success of our acquired We have continued to invest and improve our service to 4.6m content is a major strength of our enhanced entertainment customers, with satisfaction scores reaching all-time highs offer.
Production is well underway on our first major original customers this year.
We have been focusing on improvements across commission in Germany, Babylon Berlin, due to air in 2017 our contact centre estate, resulting in a significant decrease and production is set to start in the coming year on a series in average customer handling times, at the same time adaptation of Das Boot, the Oscar nominated film by as reducing calls by 16% year on year driven by improved Wolfgang Peterson.
Our Sky Atlantic channel went from strength to strength 8.0m As we seek to continually improve our service we have with Season 6 of HBOs Game of Thrones generating established a Customer Advisory Council, consisting of 20 record audiences, with viewing up 31% versus Season 5. products retail customers from Germany and Austria across all age In movies, our pop up channels Sky 007 HD and Sky Disney groups.
We will work closely with these customers on a range Prinzessinnen HD were hugely successful, with the latter of topics, from products and innovations through to service.
reaching millions of customers in just two weeks from launch, becoming the best special programming format in the Bigger Picture companys history.
12% Skys Austrian headquarters are now the first building in In sport, we extended our leadership position as the home the country to be awarded the international LEED Leadership revenue growth of sport in Germany and Austria by securing the Bundesliga in Energy and Environmental Design Gold Standard.
These and Bungesliga 2 contract through to 2021.
Sky will show offices and our TV studios run solely on renewable energy.
93% of all live games under the new contract which starts More than 5,000 young people took part in opportunities in 2017.
We also extended our contract with DFB-Pokal for through Sky Foundation, joining year round sports another three years, as well as exclusive live rights to key programmes including swimming, football, basketball and golf tournaments including the US PGA Tour and The Open.
climbing with partners such as street football league, These complement our other key rights such as Formula 1, Buntkickgut.
Sky Germany employees continue to support UEFA Champions League and ATP tennis and means we Sky Foundation activity through volunteering and fundraising.
have certainty on our proposition and excellent visibility on sports costs for the next five years.
During the year, Sky Sport News HD recorded its highest ever level of viewers, reaching an average of over 600,000 viewers per day.
Viewing to the Bundesliga also reached record levels, with Borussia Dortmund versus Bayern Munich in March delivering an all-time record audience of over 3.5 million viewers.
Sky Box Sets Annual Report 2016 21 Italy Sky in Italy had a positive 12 months, with our customer base returning to growth for the first time in five years.
Customers responded to the investments we made, providing them with the very best TV experience, while reaching new market segments with our choice of platforms.
This, coupled with strong growth in advertising revenues, resulted in 2% growth in revenue year on year.
MotoGP We added 17,000 retail customers in the year, taking our the US and broke records in France as the most successful total customer base to 4.7 million.
Our improved content non-French European debut on Canal.
Earlier this year we and product proposition helped to drive product growth announced the commissioning of a third and fourth series, of 26,000 to a total of 8.6 million.
demonstrating the growing maturity of our portfolio.
Sky original TV programmes are reaching scale, enabling us Innovation to offer differentiated content in terms of range, quality and We are rolling out our connected home strategy at pace in exclusivity.
This year will see the launch across all our markets Italy, with almost 50% of all customers boxes connected to of The Young Pope, a major new co-production with HBO the internet.
The launch of Sky Box Sets in March completed and Canal, starring Jude Law.
Filmed in Italy by Academy the full suite of on demand services, leading to a 44% increase Award-winner, Paolo Sorrentino, The Young Pope is a great in total downloads year on year, driven by major shows such example of the world-class talent were working with across as Gomorrah, Game of Thrones, and House of Cards.
the industry as we build our reputation as a content creator and sell our programmes around the world.
In June, we announced the rebranding of Sky Online to NOW TV, providing customers with an even broader and In arts, we have opened our new Sky Arts Production Hub, more flexible offer, along with a brand-new content-based based in Milan, with its latest multi-country project, interface to further enhance the viewing experience.
Master of Photography, airing in July 2016.
Customers in Italy have an exciting year to look forward to.
2016 also saw the expansion of our free-to-air offering, Plans are underway for the launch of Sky Go Extra in the with the addition, following the acquisition of Nuova Societ coming months, along with the Sky Kids app, following its Televisiva Italiana S. r. l. by Sky Italia Group, of a generalist successful launch in the UK, Ireland, Germany and Austria.
channel in the important LCN position 8 TV8 and were In addition, we will roll out our targeted advertising service, pleased with the initial performance with share of total Sky AdSmart, in the coming months, extending our innovation viewing growing steadily and driving a strong growth in to the service we offer our commercial partners.
In sport, we secured the UEFA Euro 2016 rights and all Content 32 games of the Copa America Centenario tournament this We are continuing to strengthen our TV offering in Italy as we summer.
In July, the UEFA Euro 2016 match between Italy invest in giving our customers the best content across all of and Germany hit an all-time record viewing with over three our genres.
These rights also contributed to the strengthening of our broader football offering, which In entertainment, the huge popularity of some of our includes Serie A, Serie B, Europa League and English established shows continues to drive on-screen success.
The final of the ninth series of X Factor achieved record audiences, up over 30% on the previous year and the Our coverage of this summers international football latest series of MasterChef Italia became the most tournaments round off a year of exceptional sport on watched programme on Sky Uno.
In motorsport, we again saw record-breaking performances on screen as the MotoGP 2015 season finale Were increasing our investment in high-quality original shows.
set an all-time record with over ten million viewers and a 48% The second series of crime drama Gomorrah premiered share of total viewing.
Formula 1 also continued to grow its simultaneously across all our markets in May, drawing a record ratings, with viewing to the latest season up 12% year on year.
2.3 million average viewers to each episode and becoming the most-viewed series ever on Sky Italia.
The first series of Gomorrah has now been sold in over 130 countries including Sky plc 22 Strategic report 4.7m customers 8.6m products 2% revenue growth MasterChef Italia Customer Across Sky we continue to invest in supporting our marketleading content and innovation with the best possible service for all our customers.
In November, we launched our innovative Extra loyalty scheme in Italy, offering rewards to customers based on their tenure, and weve seen a fantastic response.
Since launch over one million customers have signed up to the scheme, driving a 10% year-on-year improvement in customer satisfaction scores to record levels.
Were also benefiting from sharing best practice across the group.
By adopting a similar model to that in the UK, we have improved sales call conversion by 10 percentage points year on year.
Weve also optimised our digital channels, with downloads Master of Photography of our self-service mobile app surpassing 2.7 million downloads by the end of June.
Bigger Picture The groups responsible business approach has been adopted in Italy too, where as part of our effort to reduce our environmental impact we are investing in on-site renewables including a combined cooling, heating and power generation system.
This highly efficient way of producing electricity and heat simultaneously, will go online in the coming year.
We have been working towards the launch of Sky Academy in Italy, applying learnings from the group and building a creative studio in Milan.
Opening by the end of 2016, this initiative will be open to thousands of young people each year.
