Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance withapplicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit orloss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether the consolidated accounts comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, and the Parent Company accounts comply with applicable UK Accounting Standards, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue inbusiness.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors responsibility statement The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors who are listed on pages 72 to 74 confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: the Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and give a true and fairview of the Groups assets, liabilities and financial position as at 31 July 2016 and of its profit for the financial year then ended: and the Group directors report and Strategic report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position and performance of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces.
"Signed on behalf of the Board of directors: Andy Reynolds Smith Chris OShea Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 27 September 2016 124 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Smiths Group plc's Group accounts the ""financial statements"" : give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's affairs as at 31 July 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ""IFRSs"" as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation."
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report 2016 the Annual Report, comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 July 2016: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated cash-flow statement for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Theseare cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality of 17 million.
Audit scope We conducted audit work in 13 countries covering 40 reporting units.
The reporting units where we performed audit work accounted for 75% 2015: 75% of the Groups revenues and 79% 2015: 78% of the Groups headline operating profit.
Areas of focus Revenue recognition occurrence and cut off, together with accounting for complex programmes and contract accounting in the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Divisions.
Working capital and associated provisions.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, particularly for the Smiths Interconnect, John Crane Production Solutions and Detection CGUs.
Product litigation provisions for asbestos in John Crane, Inc. and flexible gas piping product inTiteflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the Flex-Tek Division.
Taxation provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Defined benefit pension plan net assets and liabilities.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
Each of the areas of focus below is referred to in the Significant Judgements and Issues section of the Audit Committee Report on page90 and in the Significant judgement, key assumptions and estimates section of the Accounting Policies on pages 137 to 138.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 125 Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc Continued Revenue recognition occurrence and cut off, together with accounting for complex programmes and contract accounting in the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Divisions Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We focused on revenue recognition for all divisions in the For all the divisions we assessed whether the Groups revenue recognition final month of the financial year to check that revenue was policies complied with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and tested the recorded in the correct period.
Specifically we considered whether revenue was recognised based on the transfer of the risks and rewards In the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect divisions of ownership of goods to the customer or the accounting period in which we focused on the accounting for complex programmes services were rendered by testing a sample of revenue items to contract and and contract accounting.
The recognition of revenue is shipping documents, with a specific focus on transactions which occurred largely dependent on the terms of the underlying contract near 31 July 2016. with the customer, including the nature of separate deliverables within the contract, achieving milestones Where appropriate we evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the within those contracts and the mechanisms in the operating effectiveness of the internal controls over the recording of revenue contract by which risks and rewards of goods and services in the correct period.
are transferred to the customer.
We also tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify any These contracts are usually long term in nature, unusual or irregular items, and the reconciliations between the systems sometimes spanning a number of reporting periods.
This used by the Group and its financial ledgers.
means that the final profitability of a contract, which will In the case of the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect divisions, be based upon forecast revenues and costs to complete, for a sample of contracts, we read extracts of the relevant customer can be uncertain during the earlier phases.
Judgement agreements and tested the accounting for separate deliverables and must therefore be applied in order to estimate the profit contractual milestones.
This testing included evaluating customer margins to recognise on revenue that is recorded.
acceptance of the work done to establish whether contractual milestones Changes in conditions and circumstances over time can had been achieved, assessing the impact of any ongoing disputes, and result in variations to the original contract terms or to assessing the reasonableness of the directors estimates of costs to the overall profitability of the contract.
This can include complete the contract by comparing them to actual historical costs incurred cost overruns which require further negotiation and .
settlements resulting in the need for provisions.
We did not identify any material exceptions from the audit work performed and we found estimates to be in line with our expectations.
Working capital and associated provisions Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 13, 14 and 15 Where appropriate, we evaluated the directors forecasted sales for We focused on this area because inventory provisions each significant category of slow moving inventory by comparing them include subjective estimates and are influenced by tohistorical sales and orders for future sales.
assumptions concerning future selling prices and the level We compared the historical provision for bad debts to the actual amounts of sales activity, and the Group also has material amounts written off, to determine whether the directors estimation techniques were of trade receivables that are overdue and not impaired reasonable and considered the adequacy of provisions for bad debts for asdisclosed in note 14 to the financial statements.
significant customers at reporting unit level, taking into account specific We focused in particular on inventory levels in those credit risk assessments for each customer.
parts of the business experiencing challenging trading In addition, we performed the procedures documented above for revenue environments.
We also focused on divisions with inherent recognition in relation to the key long term revenue contracts.
judgements associated with large programmes and complex contractual terms.
As a result, we satisfied ourselves that both inventory and receivables provisions have been prepared in line with Group policy and we found The key associated risks were recoverability of billed and theestimates to be in line with our expectation.
unbilled trade receivables and the valuation of inventory.
126 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, particularly in the Interconnect, JCPS and Detection CGUs Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 11 We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process The Group holds significant amounts of goodwill and bywhich they were drawn up, including testing the underlying calculations intangible assets on the balance sheet, as detailed in andcomparing them to the latest Board approved divisional budgets.
note 10 to the financial statements.
The risk is that We challenged: thesebalances are overstated.
the directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets must by comparing them to historical results, and economic and industry be tested for impairment on at least an annual basis.
forecasts: and Thedetermination of recoverable amount, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs to dispose, the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group.
requires judgement in both identifying and then valuing We found the assumptions to be consistent and in line with our expectations.
We evaluated the reasonableness of the directors forecast performance The impairment assessment for these assets by performing a sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow involves subjective judgements about future business forecasts, in particular: performance, with key assumptions including cash flows, the overall long-term growth rates, discount rates the current order book: used and to the extent relevant, the fair value less costs the proportion of recent tenders which have been successful: and todispose.
independent projections of the expected growth of key markets.
In the year ended 31 July 2016, an impairment charge of 23m was recognised in relation to the John Crane We also evaluated the directors assessment of the fair value less costs Production Solutions, Microwave Components and ofdisposal by comparing it to external analyst valuations.
Microwave Telecoms cash generating units CGUs.
In respect of the John Crane Production Solutions and Microwave We focused, in particular, on the recoverable values Components CGUs, we sensitised each key driver of the cash flow forecasts, of each of these CGUs in the context of challenging including the underlying assumptions listed above, by determining what tradingconditions.
we considered to be a reasonable possible change in assumption, based We also focused on the estimated values in use of the on current market data and historical and current business performance.
Power CGU, which has a combined net book value of Through this we determined an appropriate range of value in use.
As this CGU has a lower headroom of the Microwave Telecoms CGU, we assessed the fair value less costs between its carrying value and value in use, judgements to sell assessment referencing analyses of peer companies and broker inthe valuation models are even more important.
We found the assumptions used in determining the 5m, 7m and11m impairments to be within an appropriate range.
For the Power CGU, having ascertained the extent of change in the assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for thegoodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions and resulting sensitivity analyses setout in note 11.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 11 of the financial statements, including sensitivities provided with respect to the Power CGU.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 127 Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc Continued Product litigation provisions for asbestos in John Crane, Inc. and flexible gas piping product in Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the Flex-Tek Division Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 22 In John Crane Inc. we used our own internal experts to challenge John Crane, Inc. a US based subsidiary of the Group, managements assumptions underlying the adverse judgement and is currently one of many co-defendants in litigation defence cost provisions.
This included an examination of the model relating to products previously manufactured which maintained by managements valuation expert and evaluation of the work containedasbestos.
of the expert, by considering the appropriateness of the methodology used, the reasonableness of assumptions including the use of a rolling 10 year A provision of 252m has been made for the future horizon and considering alternative outcomes.
In addition we tested the defence costs which the Group is expected to incur and mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations and the input data.
the expected costs of future adverse judgments against John Crane, Inc. At Titeflex Corporation we challenged managements underlying assumptions supporting their provision.
This included an evaluation of the Titeflex Corporation, another US based subsidiary of the valuation model, by testing the mathematical accuracy of the underlying Group, has received a number of claims from insurance calculations and the input data such as the average amount of settlements, companies seeking recompense on a subrogated basis for the number of future settlements and the period over which expenditure the effects of damage allegedly caused by lightning strikes can be reasonably estimated by testing them to historic claims.
in relation to its flexible gas piping product.
We also discussed these matters with the Companys internal legal counsel, It has also received a number of product liability claims obtained letters from external counsel and evaluated the appropriateness regarding this product, some in the form of purported ofthe disclosures made in the Group financial statements.
A provision of 94m has been made for thecosts which the Group is expected to incur in respect We found the assumptions to be consistent and in line with historical of these claims.
claims, that the provisions have been recognised in line with IAS 37 and that appropriate disclosures have been provided within the financial statements.
We focused on these areas because there is significant judgement involved in the assumptions used to estimate the provisions, in particular those relating to the US litigation environment such as the future level of claims and the cost of defence.
As a result the provision may be subject to potentially material revisions from time to time.
Taxation provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 6 We evaluated the directors assessment as to whether there will be The Group has recognised 246m deferred tax assets sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support the recognition of on the balance sheet, the recognition of which involves deferred tax assets by evaluating the directors future cash flow forecasts, judgement by management as to the likelihood of the and the process by which they were drawn up, including testing the realisation of these deferred tax assets.
The expectation underlying calculations and comparing them to the latest Board approved that the benefit of these assets will be realised is divisional budgets.
We challenged: dependent on a number of factors, including appropriate the directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts taxable temporary timing differences, and whether by comparing them to historical results, and economic and industry there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods forecasts: and tosupport recognition.
the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group.
The Group has recognised provisions against uncertain tax positions, the valuation of which is an inherently We found the assumptions to be consistent and in line with our expectations.
The Group has a wide geographic We used our tax specialists to challenge managements assumptions footprint and is subject to tax laws in a number underlying the provisions for uncertain tax positions.
management the known uncertain tax positions and read communications from taxation authorities to identify uncertain tax positions.
We assessed the adequacy of the directors taxation provisions by considering factors such as whether the matter represents a permanent or temporary difference, and whether the provision addresses possible penalties and interest.
We did not identify any material exceptions from our audit work.
128 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Defined benefit pension plan net assets and liabilities Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 8 We evaluated the directors assessment of the assumptions made in The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net relation to the valuations of the liabilities and assets in the pension plans post-retirement assets of 328m and net post-retirement and the assumptions around salary increases and mortality rates by liabilities of 249m, which are significant in the context comparing them to national and industry averages.
ofthe overall balance sheet of the Group.
We also focussed on the valuation of pension plan liabilities and the pension The valuation of the pension liabilities requires assets as follows: significant levels of judgement and technical expertise We agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the in choosing appropriate assumptions.
A number of the pension liability to our internally developed benchmarks.
key assumptions including salary increases, inflation, discount rates and mortality can have a material impact We obtained third party confirmations on ownership and valuation of on the calculation of the liability.
The pension assets include significant pension asset We checked that the recognition of post retirement plan net assets investments, the fair value measurement of which complies with the Groups investment principles.
Where new census data was available in the year we tested the controls The recognition of post-retirement plan net assets for at the scheme administrators and tested it on a sample basis to assess accounting purposes is dependent on the rights of the whether this data is accurate.
employers to recover the surplus at the end of the life We verified the basis of recognition of UK pension surplus.
Where there was no new census data in the year we assessed the assumptions used by the actuaries.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised into five divisions: John Crane, Smiths Medical, Smiths Detection, Smiths Interconnect and Flex-Tek and is a consolidation of over 250 units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group Engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
The Groups operating reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 21 reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 19 reporting units, to give appropriate coverage of material balances at both divisional and Group levels.
Ofthese, one reporting unit has been determined to be financially significant based on its contribution to Group revenue or headline operating profit.
We conducted work in 13 countries and the Group engagement team visited multiple reporting sites in North America and Europe, andparticipated in each of the divisional audit clearance meetings.
Together, the reporting units subject to audit procedures accounted for75% 2015: 75% of the Groups revenues and 79% 2015: 78% of the Groups headline operating profit.
Further specific audit procedures over IT controls, central functions such as treasury and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, post-retirement benefits and material litigation, were performed at the local headquarters of each of the divisions and at the Groups Head Office.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 17 million 2015: 18 million.
How we determined it Approximately 3.5% of headline operating profit.
Headline operating profit is operating profit adjusted formaterial non-recurring items or items considered non-operational in nature.
Rationale for benchmark Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark because, in our view, this is the metric against which applied the performance of the Group is most commonly measured.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.5 million and 15 million We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5 million 2015: 0.5 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 129 Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc Continued Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 116, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Group directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 86 in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions to report.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 90, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work We have no exceptions ofthe Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity ofthe group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 52 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing material to add or to draw thatthey have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that attention to.
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing material ormitigated.
to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 52 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, We have nothing material to add or to draw as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they attention to.
consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications orassumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
130 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified bylaw are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 124, the directors are responsible for the preparation ofthe financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 ofPart 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors' judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Smiths Group plc for the year ended 31 July 2016 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Andrew Kemp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 September 2016 a The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 131
