Operational review Continued Smiths Detection Contribution to 2016 Contribution to 2016 Group revenue Group headline operating profit 18% 13% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Principal operating regions Smiths Detection Revenue by sector We manufacture in Germany, France, Transportation 45% designs and manufactures Malaysia, US and the UK.
We sell to over Ports and borders 17% technology solutions that 200 countries.
Military and emergency responders 15% detect and identify security Critical infrastructure 23% Customers threats and contraband.
The majority of revenues are influenced by over 100 governments and their agencies.
Transportation customers account for 45% of revenues.
Competitors We compete with a wide range of companies in each end-use market.
Thosewith the broadest reach include Revenue performance Rapiscan, L-3 SDS and Nuctech.
m Suppliers 526m up 13% We co-ordinate manufacturing and purchasing activity globally to achieve scale 2016 526 economies and meet stringent quality and 2015 467 delivery standards.
2014 512 Photo courtesy of Kuwait Customs 40 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Markets and trends In the ports and borders market, the Strategy Smiths Detection produces equipment continuing globalisation of trade combined Our primary goal is to provide the best for customers in the air transportation, with increasing regulatory standards solutions for customers, delivered through ports and borders, critical infrastructure, will drive the growth in demand for a strategy of balanced growth supported military and emergency responders end-use security screening equipment.
Operational markets, to help them assure the safety and technologies are required to address a improvements based on value engineering, security of people and critical assets.
variety of threats as governments become better quality, waste elimination and increasingly concerned about the smuggling reduced lead times should deliver savings Demand for detection equipment and of explosives, weapons and radiological which will be reinvested in customerservice is forecast to continue to grow at materials, while continuing to recognise the focused development of products and mid-single digits per annum over the near strong revenue-generating potential from software systems, as well as improvements term, driven by ongoing geopolitical unrest contraband detection.
in aftermarket coverage and service levels.
and the resulting terrorist and criminal Revenue growth from the aftermarket threats, but there is considerable variation The critical infrastructure market is large, and digital solutions help to smooth out by geography and end-use market.
The but fragmented and unregulated.
Growth the volatility of prime contracting and are growing installed equipment base creates in demand continues as public and private important sources of profitable revenue significant opportunities for aftermarket sector organisations seek to provide better intheir own right.
service and support and upgrade revenues.
protection for their assets and staff.
The heavily regulated air transportation Global demand for chemical warfare agent sector is our largest market.
Rising Competitive strengths detection equipment and other threatpassenger volumes, continuing security specific sensors required by the military threats, a strong replacement cycle and is forecast to grow steadily.
Demand in Strong global brand the increasing globalisation of trade, which theemergency responder end-use market, Operates in regulated markets requiring boosts air freight volumes, are expected to asubset of the military market, is driven by rigorous product certification continue to support market growth and new customers needing to deploy equipment airport investment.
Systems which help to as a consequence of both terrorist and Technologies leveraged across many integrate screening equipment with other non-terrorist events.
markets and applications forms of airport information are being used Investment in continuous improvement to improve the efficiency and effectiveness driving division-wide efficiencies ofthe security process.
Growing aftermarket revenues 37%oftotal revenues Did you know Smiths Detection equipment In 2015 Smiths X-ray machines helped screen helps assure the safety an estimated 1.6 billion carry-on bags a day at and security of people and USairportsalone.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 41 Operational review Continued Smiths Detection 2016 2015 Reported Underlying Growth drivers m m growth growth Revenue 526 467 13% 9% Persistent and evolving terror threats Headline operating profit 69 55 24% 20% Headline operating margin 13.0% 11.9% 110bps Changing security regulations for air cargo Statutory operating profit 63 45 40% and passengers Return on capital employed 11.9% 9.6% 230bps Equipment replacement cycle typically 7-10 years Software-driven solutions providing Performance Kuwait and for the US Customs and Border 1 functionality, networking and systems Revenue grew 9% on an underlying Protection Agency.
Ongoing success in integration basis with growth in all businesses other the US under the long-running JCAD and than transportation.
Initiatives to drive CBPS programmes, in addition to deliveries Growth of security infrastructure service attach rates and sales of premium of RadSeeker detectors to the Domestic inemerging markets service contracts led to a 14% increase in Nuclear Detection Office, led to underlying 1 1 underlying aftermarket revenue, which Military revenue growth of 9%.
On a reported 1 Operating profit grew 20% on an underlying basis, revenue grew 13%, boosted by basis as increased sales, aftermarket favourable foreign exchange.
strength and business mix were boosted 1 Underlying transportation revenue fell by a number of value engineering and 6% due to a lull in US activity levels, offset programme management initiatives.
by strong sales into EMEA which included The difference between statutory and deliveries to London Heathrow, Abu Dhabi headline operating profit includes a 4m Airport and continued progress in the Middle restructuring charge.
Major contract wins in Saudi Arabia Return on capital employed improved and Egypt were made in the period.
Critical 230 basis points to 11.9%, driven by 1 infrastructure underlying revenue grew higherprofitability.
13%, driven by strength in aftermarket sales.
Our revised product offering contributed to 1 Underlying excludes the impact of acquisitions 1 and divestments, and the effects of foreign 75% underlying revenue growth in Ports exchangetranslation & Borders, including deliveries for major programmes in Indonesia, Nicaragua, Aftermarket and consumables A new focus on software revenue development and value 37% engineering will deliver products better able to compete in cost critical sectors.
Did you know Our Radiation detectors canidentify radiation anomalies behind 13 inches of steelshielding.
42 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Research and development For the military end-use market, Priorities for 2017 Total research and development expenditure thenext generation of chemical warfare of 28m was in line with the prior year, detectiondevices.
Strengthen sales channels in all regions of which 25m was company funded A new focus on software development 2015:25m.
Investment was concentrated Drive R&D investment behind key product and value engineering projects which will on fewer projects to drive a strong product initiatives deliver products better able to compete pipeline that will deliver competitive Launch value engineered products in in some cost-critical sectors, as well as advantages to our customers.
This included: specific end markets country-specific versions of some of our X-ray machines for the aviation market most successful products.
Deliver further growth in aftermarket capable of meeting the new EU ECAC revenues Standard C3, as well as a new version Implement continuous improvement ofour Checkpoint.
Evo remote screening initiatives software and, following the introduction of the IONSCAN 600 this year, the next generation of explosive trace detectors.
com for more information Major US contract win In March, Smiths Detection announced a $65 million five-year agreement to provide X-ray inspection systems to the Federal Protective Service FPS, helping to protect approximately 1,000 Federal Government facilities across the country.
Through our previous working relationship, Smiths Detection has proven to be a reliable partner of FPS and this contract win demonstrates confidence in our continued service andsupport.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 43
