SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 27 THE RESOURCES WE NEED TO DELIVER OUR PRODUCTS RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Our Research & Development R&D strategy is Finally, we will ensure our pioneering innovations at the heart of our business model.
Through it are supported by compelling evidence of clinical RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT we strive to deliver innovation that matters, and economic value.
The global R&D function Innovation is part of our culture and we pioneering products and services that bring includes our Medical and Scientific Affairs team, LQYHVW RI RXU UHYHQXH WR QG QHZ value to our customers and the Company.
led by the Chief Medical Officer, ensuring that, products that will help improve from conception, plans are developed to support peoples lives.
In 2016 we made significant changes to create product launches with the evidence increasingly a single global R&D structure, led by a new See opposite required by our customers both clinicians President of Global R&D, reporting directly to the and payers.
Our products undergo clinical and Chief Executive Officer.
The new global function health economic assessments both during their has moved quickly to sharpen our focus onto ETHICS & COMPLIANCE development and post-launch.
the three areas which will accelerate the value We are focused on doing business the created by R&D.
Science is at the heart of ensuring our right way and apply strict business products are safe and efficacious.
In 2016 we principles to the way we deal with our First, we are refining our R&D roadmap to identify made important investments to support and clients and partners.
and support projects that will make a meaningful develop our scientific expertise.
In Hull, UK, we difference to our customers and their patients.
announced plans to invest $10 million in creating More on page 28 This includes continuing to invest in incremental a new R&D centre.
More than a 100 roles will innovation to improve existing products in a way be based here and the breadth and scale of that improves outcomes.
It also involves driving MANUFACTURING & QUALITY scientific specialties housed in the new centre greater efficiency through innovation, potentially We operate our global manufacturing will make us one of the most capable and well reducing our costs of goods.
By making HIFLHQWO DQG WR WKH KLJKHVW SRVVLEOH equipped centres in Europe for Medical Device instrument sets more procedure and patientstandards, to ensure product quality at R&D.
The new centre will allow us to strengthen specific, we will reduce complexity and cost, sensible pricing.
links with regional universities to support to the benefit of customers and the Company.
The Hull facility Finally, by seeking more meaningfully disruptive More on page 30 will be fully operational by the second quarter products and services, we will harness of 2017. transformational innovation to provide access to TRAINING & EDUCATION new technologies to people across the world.
We also continue to invest in scouting for Every year, thousands of healthcare new technologies, identifying complementary Second, the team is challenging itself to execute professionals attend our training courses opportunities in our core and adjacent flawlessly.
This means developing the right around the world.
We also invest in small companies product at the right cost and quality, supported fundamental part of our vision.
developing compelling technologies in our by clinical evidence, in a timely manner.
Our R&D franchise areas through our incubation fund.
experts in the UK, US, Europe, China and India More on page 31 In addition to funding, we provide our expertise have extensive customer and sector knowledge, to help the development process, including which is augmented by ongoing interaction with supporting clinical studies, and typically secure SALES & MARKETING our marketing teams.
Strict criteria are applied preferred access to technology as it nears We support our customers in over to ensure new products fulfil an unmet clinical market readiness.
FRXQWULHV 2XU FRPPHUFLDO WHDPV DUH need, have a strong commercial rationale, and highly specialised with an in-depth In 2016, we invested $230 million in R&D, in-line are technologically feasible.
The R&D function knowledge across the full range of with our commitment, set out in 2011, to maintain works closely with the manufacturing and product franchises.
our investment level at around 5% of revenue.
supply chain management teams to ensure we We expect to maintain this proportion going can produce new products to clinical, cost and More on page 32 time specification.
forward, but to realise greater benefit through our new structure and strategic focus.
OUR PEOPLE Engaging, developing and retaining our 15,000 employees is important to us and we work hard to be a great place to work as well as a responsible corporate citizen.
More on pages 33 to 35 INVESTMENT IN RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT in 2016 $230m SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 28 7 5 6285& 6 : 1 ' 72 ', 9 5 285 352'8&76 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Through our global intranet, we provide We have continued to recognise employees who CODE OF CONDUCT AND %86,1 6635,1&, 3 6 resources and tools to guide employees to earn trust with their actions with our Spotlight on make decisions that comply with the law, Trust Programme, whereby employees nominate Smith & Nephew earns trust with patients, local industry code and our Company Code their peers for actions that earn trust.
customers, healthcare professionals, of Conduct.
We conduct review and approval government authorities and the public by acting We also began conducting increased follow-up in advance for significant interactions with in an honest and fair manner in all aspects of with internal reporters of potential compliance healthcare professionals or government officials.
The follow-up process includes several We regularly assess existing and emerging risks touchpoints with the reporter during the We expect the same from those with whom we in the countries in which we operate.
investigation process, as well as a follow-up do business, including vendors who provide us Country managing directors are required to call with the reporter approximately 60 days with services and distributors and independent complete an annual certification to the Chief after the close of the investigation.
The goal agents that sell our products.
Our Code of Executive Officer to confirm the implementation of the programme is to ensure that reporters Conduct and Business Principles governs the of required policies.
Managers and employees understand their concerns are being actively way we operate to achieve these objectives.
make an annual compliance certification and investigated, and to confirm after the close of the Smith & Nephew takes into account ethical, conflict of interest disclosure, and executive investigation whether the reporter has feedback social, environmental, legal and financial management, managers and employees have a on the process or any additional concerns considerations as part of its operating methods.
compliance performance objective customised to raise.
We have a robust whistle-blowing system in to their role.
We had positive feedback on our approach to all jurisdictions in which we operate.
We are New distributors and other higher-risk the annual manager certification, so we followed committed to upholding our promise in our third parties are subject to screening and the same model in 2016.
Managers were Code of Conduct that we will not retaliate against are contractually obligated to comply with required to have an ethics compliance anyone who makes a report in good faith.
applicable laws and our Code of Conduct.
conversation with some of their direct reports.
Compliance training and certifications are They were given centrally-created materials 2%$ &203, $1& 352 5$00 included in this process.
In 2016, we made focusing on the importance of earning trust Smith & Nephew has implemented a worldcompliance resources, including customisable and then provided with specific, topic-based class Global Compliance Programme that templates for use by our distributors and agents, scenarios to discuss with their staff actions that helps our businesses comply with laws and available via the Smith & Nephew external would demonstrate this core Smith & Nephew regulations.
Our third parties can use these value.
This model enhanced dialogue on ethics, programme includes: Board and executive resources to develop an appropriate compliance compliance and the importance of earning trust oversight committees: global policies and programme based on their companys size between managers and staff.
procedures: on-boarding and annual training and risk areas.
We also updated the Additional for employees and managers: training for Finally, we continue to improve our controls Compliance Standards, first launched in March distributors and agents and higher risk vendors: testing universe.
We refreshed our programme 2015, to provide more specific compliance monitoring and auditing processes: reporting to require auditors to dig deeper when they restrictions and requirements.
We also channels and recognition for demonstrating encounter potential risks.
We also moved to a continue our oversight of independent agents our values.
new reporting format that allows the auditors to and distributors with on-site assessments to provide more detail about their testing process review compliance controls and audits of books and the results.
We continued with our early and records.
warning Local Monitoring Programme, where In 2016 we expanded the Compliance 5HJLRQDO &RPSOLDQFH 2IILFHUV WHVW KLJKHU ULVN Ambassador Programme into additional activities within their markets.
This programme is a key part of our strategy to embed ethical values and compliance standards in the business.
5HVSHFWHG VDOHV PDQDJHUV DUH QRPLQDWHG WR become Compliance Ambassadors and act as a mentor to their peers and their teams, providing practical solutions to compliance challenges based on real life experience.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 29 7 5 6285& 6 : 1 ' 72 ', 9 5 285 352'8&76 Young professionals driving innovation Smith & Nephew is proud to support young professionals development within our Company.
We recognise that we need to create an environment where our employees have opportunities to grow.
We are actively working to put young professionals at the forefront of our business.
Angela Blackburn, based in Memphis, Tennessee was hired in April 2016 as an Engineer and quickly expressed an interest in networking with her peers across the wider business.
From this, she and two colleagues developed the Young Professionals Organisation that brings together graduates and new starters with the aim of providing networking and career development opportunities in addition to sharing their experiences.
The kick-off meeting, held in Memphis, was attended by over 150 young professionals and continues to be well supported.
5HFRJQLVLQJ $QJHODV WDOHQW DQG GHVLUH WR create opportunities for her peers, she was promoted to become Programme Manager for Graduate Hires.
This is a global role UHVSRQVLEOH IRU PRUH WKDQ QHZO TXDOLHG engineers recruited by Smith & Nephew LQ WR VXSSRUW RXU 5 ' TXDOLW DQG manufacturing programmes.
Angela has relished in connecting diverse young professionals who are all working together to drive innovation in our Company.
My main ambition is to continue engaging, inspiring and educating people helping them to embrace the opportunities they are given and the challenges that come with them.
I take great pride in creating an environment where young professionals can reach their full potential and I enjoy assisting them in turning their great ideas LQWRDFWLRQ SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 30 7 5 6285& 6 : 1 ' 72 ', 9 5 285 352'8&76 0$18 $&785,1 48$, 7 Manufacturing of our Advanced Wound 2%$ 23 5$7,216 285 0$18 $&785,1 $&, 7, 6 %LRDFWLYH SURGXFWV WDNHV SODFH LQ &XUDoDR Smith & Nephew takes great pride in its Our largest manufacturing operation is DQGDWYDULRXV WKLUG SDUW IDFLOLWLHV LQ WKH 86 expertise in manufacturing products to the based in Memphis, Tennessee, USA.
highest quality and ensuring they reach our The Memphis facilities produce key products 352&85 0 17 customers in a timely manner.
We operate DQG LQVWUXPHQWDWLRQ LQ RXU.
QHH, PSODQW LS We procure raw materials, components, manufacturing facilities in a number of countries Implant and Trauma franchises.
These include finished products and packaging materials from across the globe, and a number of central WKH -2851, , DQG, 21 NQHHV WKH suppliers in various countries.
These purchases distribution facilities in key geographical $17 2 2 3ULPDU LS 6 VWHP DQG NH include metal forgings and castings for areas.
Products are shipped to individual 7UDXPD SURGXFWV VXFK DV WKH 3 5, 2& orthopaedic products, optical and electronic country locations which hold small amounts of $QNOH XVLRQ 3ODWLQJ 6 VWHP DQG 75, 1 sub-components for sports medicine products, inventory locally for immediate supply to meet Intramedullary Nails.
In addition to this, Memphis active ingredients and semi-finished goods customer requirements.
is home to the design and manufacturing for Advanced Wound Management as well as SURFHVV RI WKH 9,6, 21$, 5 SDWLHQW PDWFKHG Manufacturing is a dynamic process and our packaging materials across all product ranges.
LQVWUXPHQWDWLRQ VHWV DQG 2:, 1,80 2[LGLVHG Global Operation leadership team is focused on Zirconium, a patented metal alloy available for Suppliers are selected, and standardised successfully supporting delivery of the Groups many of our knee and hip implant systems.
contracts negotiated, by a centralised strategic priorities by ensuring our footprint and procurement team wherever possible, with a expertise is ready to respond to geographical Our Mansfield, Massachusetts, US facility view to ensuring value for money based on the growth, new product development, greater focuses on Sports Medicine related products total spend across the Group.
On an ongoing external regulatory scrutiny and the commercial for minimally invasive surgery including the basis, we work closely with our key suppliers to pressure to be ever more efficient.
$67, : 0HQLVFDO 5HSDLU 6 VWHP ensure high quality, delivery performance and 22735,17 3.
6XWXUH $QFKRU ' 21, &6 In 2016 we made good progress across these continuity of supply.
Highlights included the opening of & 8OWUD DQG WKH $, &2, 3.
VXWXUH DQFKRU We outsource certain parts of our manufacturing D QHZ VWDWH RI WKH DUW IDFLOLW LQ &RVWD 5LFD 2XU QHZ &RVWD 5LFD IDFLOLW PDQXIDFWXUHV processes where necessary to obtain which will provide a more efficient operation for COBLATION technology.
specialised expertise or to lower cost without current products as well as valuable space for undue risk to our intellectual property.
We also created more than 100 The Aarau, Switzerland: Tuttlingen, Germany: Suppliers of outsourced products and services positions for newly qualified graduate engineers Beijing, China: and Devrukh, India facilities are selected based on their ability to deliver across facilities in the US and elsewhere.
manufacture a number of surgical device products and services to our specification, and These individuals, who began their careers with products including key reconstruction and adhere to and maintain an appropriate quality us in 2016, will deliver the pioneering advanced WUDXPD SURGXFWV WKH 3 86 NQHH DQG KLS system.
Our specialist teams work with and medical devices that enable our healthcare UDQJH 7KH :DUZLFN 8.
IDFLOLW SURGXFHV WKH monitor suppliers through on-site assessments professional customers to continue to improve %, 50,1 $0 LS 5HVXUIDFLQJ 6 VWHP and performance audits to ensure the required outcomes for patients during the years to come.
Our Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, USA facility levels of quality, service and delivery.
4XDOLW KDV DOZD V EHHQ SDUDPRXQW WR 6PLWK produces and services electro mechanical 1HSKHZ :H KDYH D XQLILHG 4XDOLW $VVXUDQFH capital equipment as well as single use sterile GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN DQG 5HJXODWRU $IIDLUV WHDP WR HQVXUH devices and also assembles our NPWT devices Our Global Supply Chain function ensures consistency across our country business units.
using components brought in from third parties.
that our products reach our internal and 5HTXLUHPHQWV RI JOREDO UHJXODWRU DJHQFLHV The majority of our wound management external customers where and when they are have become more stringent in recent years and products are manufactured at our facilities in needed, in a compliant and efficient manner.
we expect them to continue to do so.
6X]KRX &KLQD DQG &XUDoDR Bringing together people, knowledge and continuing to expand our portfolio globally expertise helps us meet our objectives and our In Hull we manufacture some of the most through new product development and by customers expectations, driving us to become high-technology wound care products on registering our existing products in new markets.
more competitive, responsive and integrated.
Over the last few years we have In order to meet the expectations of regulators introduced pioneering products such as PICO, We operate three main holding warehouses, and support this added complexity we '85$, % 5 DQG $ 9 1 LIH DOO RI ZKLFK one in each of Memphis Tennessee, US, Baar FRQWLQXHG WR LQYHVW LQ RXU 4XDOLW DQG 5HJXODWRU are manufactured in Hull.
Since 2011, we have Switzerland and Singapore.
These facilities expertise in 2016. invested approximately 50 million in capital consolidate and ship to local country and projects at our Hull site.
This has included distributor facilities.
Our distribution hubs bringing the manufacturing of our complex silver for advanced wound products are located coating technology for ACTICOAT to Hull and LQ 1HXQNLUFKHQ HUPDQ 'HUE 8.
DQG installing a Film Extrusion manufacturing line.
We run second lines for some of our products in Suzhou, China, and this site also manufactures our wound care products for the mid-tier in the Emerging Markets.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 31 7 5 6285& 6 : 1 ' 72 ', 9 5 285 352'8&76 75$, 1,1 '8&$7,21 Smith & Nephew is dedicated to helping healthcare professionals improve the quality of care for patients.
We are proud to support the development of surgeons and nurses by Connecting providing skills training and education on our products and techniques.
experts, Every year, thousands of customers attend our VWDWH RI WKH DUW WUDLQLQJ FHQWUHV LQ WKH 86 8. and China and Smith & Nephew courses at enabling multiple hospitals and facilities around the world.
In 2016, we provided training to more than innovation 40,000 surgeons.
Working under expert guidance, attendees learn new techniques and refine skills, to ensure the safe and effective use Smith & Nephew is proud to support of our products.
These courses are attended by healthcare professionals by connecting them residents, fellows and practicing surgeons who ZLWK RWKHU H[SHUWV LQ WKHLU HOG RI VSHFLDOLW work together to review, discuss and train on We do this at our state-of-the art training current and forward-looking surgical techniques and innovation centres.
We bring healthcare in their areas of clinical expertise.
Our courses professionals surgeons and nurses help up-and-coming surgeons develop trust and across multiple disciplines together to enable gain the experience and confidence necessary them to learn from and with their peers in an to become experts in their field.
We also support nurses across the world, In early 2017 we opened our newest centre in Croxley Park, Watford, on the outskirts with many thousands receiving face-to-face RI RQGRQ 8.
7KLV ZLOO EH D DJVKLS training from our representatives every year.
XURSH For instance, in 2016 we completed our first and the Emerging Markets.
The week long intensive course was a theoretical and practical based learning initiative that aimed to enhance the wound care knowledge of local healthcare professionals.
We also support healthcare professionals through our online resources such as the Global Wound Academy, The Wound 40,000 Institute and, for surgeons, our Education and Evidence website.
In 2016 more than 90,000 In 2016 Smith & Nephew healthcare professionals trained digitally with provided more than 40,000 6PLWK 1HSKHZ instances of surgeon training.
7,1 Our customers are the providers of medical and LQ WKH 8.
ZKLFK UHSUHVHQW OHVV WKDQ RI RXU surgical treatments and services in over 100 worldwide revenue in 2016.
In our Emerging Starting countries worldwide.
Markets we operate through direct selling and marketing operations led by country managing We serve our customers through our conversations directors, and or through distributors.
Our sales representatives are highly trained and skilled individuals.
Smith & Nephew has three global marketing with clinical Becoming a sales representative requires teams who set the strategic direction of our intense training, including passing a strict businesses and develop all the promotional evidence certification programme, before engaging assets and guidance to commercialise our in discussions with, and ultimately selling products in Advanced Wound Management, products to, customers.
Depending on their Sports Medicine and Orthopaedics.
For that In September 2016, Smith & Nephew served area of specialism, representatives must be they utilise a variety of traditional and novel as a Diamond Sponsor at the World Union able to demonstrate a detailed knowledge of means to market to our customers.
For example, of Wound Healing Societies 2016 WUHWS all the surgical instruments used to implant congresses educational conferences or trade FRQIHUHQFH KHOG LQ ORUHQFH, WDO.
QRZQ DV a device, or have specific understanding of shows represent a traditional and efficient way the Olympics of Wound Care, the conference the various surgical techniques a customer for Smith & Nephew to reach a large number of unites the greatest thought-leaders in might use.
In our advanced wound franchises, healthcare professionals at once, often in terms wound management under one roof every four years.
sales representatives will have a detailed of both advertising promotion and education.
understanding of how patients live with wounds From an awareness perspective, Smith & This year, our Sales & Marketing and how clinicians seek to prevent and treat Nephew displays its latest innovative products team combined their efforts with the them, as well as deep knowledge of the clinical and, from an educational standpoint, may also 6FLHQWLF 0HGLFDO $IIDLUV 60$ WHDP conducting hundreds of on-stand product and economic benefits of using our products provide satellite symposia or other forms of demonstrations as well as three wellwithin treatment protocols.
medical education around these products.
attended symposia presented in front of Once a sales representative is certified, they The Global Commercial Organisation also more than 1,000 delegates, each delivering typically spend the majority of their time working includes a global Commercial Excellence team, a strong message based on clinical data directly with and supporting customers, or who support both the commercial teams and the and evidence.
Working together enabled identifying and contacting new customers.
global marketing teams with several expertise us to engage visitors in evidence-based conversations, reinforcing our position as They help to provide in-hospital support to aid groups.
These include strategic planning, thought-leaders in wound healing.
in the effective use of our range of advanced business intelligence and market research, medical technologies and techniques.
digital marketing, pricing, sales force excellence and marketing communications.
Our Global Commercial Organisation, led by We also leverage digital media to connect with the Chief Commercial Officer, oversees all our customers.
Our digital communications commercial activities sales, marketing, market activities have been evolving as technologies access, and commercial strategy across the and user habits evolve.
Content and messaging Group for our full line of business.
Its mission is is currently delivered via global market to define and drive best practice in commercial websites, social media channels and mobile execution across our geographies and in applications.
One core use of digital technology marketing across the franchises.
to communicate and market to our customers Our sales force is structured by region, with has been Education & Evidence, a membershipthree commercial organisations serving driven clinical education website.
the US, Europe & Canada, and Asia Pacific and the Emerging Markets.
Each is led by a regional President, who reports to the Chief Commercial Officer.
Our US sales forces are specialised by channel.
They consist of a mixture of independent :KDW ZDV PRVW SOHDVLQJ IURP D 6FLHQWLF DQG contract workers and employees.
Sales agents Medical Affairs point of view, was the level of are contractually prohibited from selling spontaneous attendance we received at the products that compete with our products.
The team, comprising both internal In most Established Markets outside of the US, and external experts, were challenged with country-specific commercial organisations led inquisitive questions which led to numerous by the country managing director lead employee  RQ LPSURYLQJ sales forces directly.
The largest single customer FOLQLFDO RXWFRPHV worldwide is the National Health Service NHS DQG DVVRFLDWHG SXUFKDVLQJ JURXSV LQ WKH 8.
Our Code of Conduct and Business Principles This culture both endures and evolves, having We innovate defines our expectations for ethical and legal been shaped by thousands of employees over behaviour not only for our employees but to all more than 160 years.
Today, it is framed by our who conduct business on our behalf.
In this values of trust, innovation and performance.
We view innovation as an essential skill to be way we build trust with our customers, and with demonstrated by all employees.
Everyone is Our Chief Executive Officer, Olivier Bohuon, is each other.
All employees review and reaffirm empowered to innovate in their job, to question responsible for ensuring that we support and their commitment to the Code of Conduct on the status quo, to propose new solutions, to encourage our employees to live these values.
The positive impact of clearly continuously improve and to seek the best for This includes the multiple programmes and defined expectations and regular training the benefit of our customers.
actions that align how we work our culture has been evident in the results of our Global with what we do our strategy.
Employee Survey, which shows employees 2%- &7,9 6 77,1 know and understand the expectations for Innovation is captured formally in the annual ethical behaviour and how to report behaviour objective setting process and employees are 9$ 8 that does not meet our high standards.
encouraged to continuously and pro-actively We build trust innovate to improve our costs, processes, 5 &2 1,7, 21 services and products.
To reinforce our core value of trust, we regularly recognise employees who go above and 5 &2 1,7, 21 COMMUNICATION beyond to earn trust through our Spotlight on Our annual CEO Award, open to all employees, Building trust requires open and transparent Trust awards programme.
At the same time, recognises employees who deliver exceptional sharing of information through regular and timely we encourage employees to report incidents results in line with our core values, encouraging communication.
We clearly communicate our of noncompliance or misconduct, and ensure innovation and a spirit of continuous business goals and performance standards and they are protected from retaliation.
This process improvement at all levels.
In 2016 the winners also provide employees with the training and applies to all employees, suppliers, agents, included Bill McGee, who saved the Company information that empowers them to succeed.
$500,000 by suggesting enhancements to We listen to our employees, holding regular our shaver blade manufacturing process in surveys, open dialogue at town hall meetings EMPLOYEE WELLNESS Mansfield, US and Nham Nguyen, who works at and focus groups and small group discussions As a Company we are committed to ensuring our Oklahoma City facility and was instrumental on topics of importance to employees and our employees work in a safe and healthy LQ LPSURYLQJ SURGXFWLYLW E LQ KHU XQLW our business.
Smith & Nephew offers Our global employee recognition programme, Two years ago, Smith & Nephew conducted wellness programmes which include annual Going the Extra Mile GEM, encourages its biennial employee survey.
The Company wellness days, fitness support and healthy employees to recognise the performance had recently reorganised to a less siloed but HDWLQJ VXSSRUW RU H[DPSOH WKH 9LUJLQ 3XOVH of colleagues and the demonstration of our more matrixed structure, moving from Global programme offered to US-based employees, values of Performance, Innovation and Trust.
Business Units to a regional structure with promotes health and wellness by helping The GEM programme includes non-monetary centralised global functions.
The results of the them track their activity, providing fun wellness and monetary options based on the level of survey showed employees wanted a greater challenges and allowing them to earn discounts achievement from a simple note of thanks to feeling of team and connectivity at our major on their healthcare plans.
Going the Extra Mile also sites.
In response to this, site Leadership Assistance Programmes EAPs also support serves as our platform for a global Long Service Councils were formed at our major locations.
wellness by helping employees manage Award programme.
These councils were dedicated to enhancing stress and work life issues and problems.
the Smith & Nephew culture and making our Through EAP, we provide counselling, webinars Company a great place to work.
Each council and web tools and other resources across many includes representatives from various functional work life topics.
Counselling can span from areas across the site location.
Each organises traditional EAP counselling to financial, legal and site and community events, and takes everyday family assistance.
ownership for ensuring that employees at the site feel informed and engaged.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 34 7 5 6285& 6 : 1 ' 72 ', 9 5 285 352'8&76 285 3 23 continued online development programme for female and promotion of our existing employees : &87,9 63216256, 3 professionals and eLearning programmes whenever possible.
Each year we hold a CEO Forum for our Top ZLWKDVSHFLILF IRFXV RQ 9DOXLQJ 'LIIHUHQFH Talent, providing them with the opportunity to Each year Smith & Nephew conducts a work closely with our executive team and with We recruit, employ and promote employees on comprehensive global development and their peers on strategic challenges.
One recent the sole basis of the qualifications and abilities capability review process to identify highoutput from the Forum has been the creation needed for the work to be performed.
We do potential employees and ensure they of the Innovation Task Force to define what not tolerate discrimination on any grounds and have robust career development plans.
innovation looks like in Smith & Nephew and the provide equal opportunity based on merit.
Employees are provided with opportunities to characteristics that we should seek to embed to We do not use any form of forced, compulsory develop their skills and career through new encourage innovation across the organisation.
We support the Universal assignments and on the job experiences.
'HFODUDWLRQ RI XPDQ 5LJKWV RI WKH 8QLWHG In addition, the Board reviews succession plans ', 9 56,7 Nations.
This means we respect the human for key executive roles and succession plans We believe that diversity fuels innovation.
We are rights, dignity and privacy of the individual and are in place for other critical positions across committed to employment practices based on the right of employees to freedom of association, our business.
equality of opportunity, regardless of colour, freedom of expression and the right to be heard.
3 5 250$1& 0$1$ 0 17 creed, race, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation or mental or physical We provide fair recognition and reward based 9$ 8 disability unrelated to the ability of the person on performance.
Our performance management to perform the essential functions of the job.
process ensures all employees set objectives We perform 2XU 9DOXLQJ 'LIIHUHQFH SURJUDPPH LV GHVLJQHG which align to our overall business goals to reinforce this belief and to feature examples of and have clear line-of-sight to how their the value of diversity across our business.
individual contributions benefit the Company.
7$ 17 $1' &$3$%, 7 ' 9 230 17 Our performance management system 2XU ORFDO 9DOXLQJ 'LIIHUHQFH &RXQFLOV DUH assesses and rewards both performance and Attracting the best talent and developing our run by passionate and dedicated people.
behaviour, in line with our Code of Conduct.
employees is critical to achieving our business They meet as a global team quarterly and work All employees have a specific annual objective objectives.
We are committed to working with to translate strategy to local needs, execute to adhere to the Code of Conduct and to employees to develop each individuals talents, specific actions and share best practice.
In 2016 complete training certifying their compliance skills and abilities.
Employee advancement is we implemented Communication Toolkits ZLWKWKLV &RGH merit-based, reflecting performance as well which provide interactive exercises for teams as demonstration of core competencies which to improve their awareness and education, include our values, with an emphasis on ethics along with employee case studies placed on and integrity.
We prioritise the development the Companys intranet.
We also launched an 1 180% 5 2 03 2 6 11 804 15,644 2 Board of Directors Senior Managers and above in 2016 Total employees in 2016 B B B A A A $ MALE 8 $ MALE 594 $ 0$ B 0$ B FEMALE 210 B FEMALE 6,414 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 35 7 5 6285& 6 : 1 ' 72 ', 9 5 285 352'8&76 For information on the composition of our %RDUG VHHSDJH In Canada, a winning attitude, improved 5 $7 3 $& 72 :25. communications and celebrating successes Being a Great Place to Work is one of our A place where have created a team spirit based on trust.
To earn this recognition, RU 'HQPDUN LQLWLDWLYHV VXFK DV PLQXWHV employees in each country must complete the employees enjoy with management and activities focused on Great Place to Work Trust Index survey and day-to-day employee wellbeing and career country management must participate in a their work development have led to a strong culture.
Both evaluate performance on key In Greater China, recognition was achieved GLPHQVLRQV RI HQJDJHPHQW &UHGLELOLW 5HVSHFW through initiatives such as regular town halls, Fairness, Pride and Camaraderie.
a People Development Forum, an employee In the US alone, more than 150 employees Smith & Nephew uses the Great Place to volunteer their time to manage Camaraderie Juice Club and communicating via the Work Institutes Trust Index as the basis for Councils.
These councils lead and uphold WeChat platform.
Our last full the Smith & Nephew culture through various A Family Day, quarterly employee town halls team and charitable activities.
Their primary survey was in 2014, which demonstrated and leadership team lunches with new starters, objective is to make the Company a place improvement from 2012 across all four areas of along with a successful graduate internship where employees enjoy their work, as well as focus: understanding of our Strategic Direction programme and the day to day focus on take pride in the work they do.
LPSURYHG E PSRZHUPHQW E employee wellbeing, are examples of why A critical aspect of the Council is helping &URVV EXVLQHVV FRRUGLQDWLRQ E DQG 6RXWK$IULFD DFKLHYHG WKLV UHFRJQLWLRQ our teams support dozens of local non- &XVWRPHU IRFXV E :H DUH FRQGXFWLQJ RXU SURW RUJDQLVDWLRQV RU H[DPSOH 6PLWK FXUUHQW HPSOR HH VXUYH LQ WZR ZDYHV :DYH For Smith & Nephew, being a Great Place Nephews Fort Worth, Texas site conducted was completed in some countries in 2016 and to Work means having a workplace where a community clean up event where 20 all other countries where Smith & Nephew employees are proud and excited to come employees volunteered on a Saturday to operates will take part in Wave 2 during 2017. to work each day because they are making a paint houses in a local neighbourhood.
difference for customers and patients.
It is not In Andover, Massachusetts, the site In 2016 Canada, Denmark and Greater China about programmes or initiatives, it is about FHOHEUDWHG 9ROXQWHHU 0RQWK LQ 0D ZKHUH joined Spain and Italy as countries where we people and we believe our people make employees could choose from a number of have been recognised.
As the Great Place to 6PLWK 1HSKHZ D UHDW 3ODFH WR :RUN scheduled activities or coordinate their own Work Institute did not have an accreditation HYHQW 7KH VLWH DOVR KRVWHG LWV UVW.
XQ component in South Africa at that time, we 5XQ ZKHUH PRUH WKDQ HPSOR HHV IULHQGV carried out a similar survey there that does and family took part in support of a local have accreditation capabilities Deloittes Best childrens hospital.
Company to Work for Survey following which In Austin, Texas, employees volunteered to South Africa received a Gold Seal from Deloitte.
create a menu, grocery shop, and prepare PHDOV IRU IDPLOLHV VWD LQJ DW WKH ORFDO 5RQDOG 0F'RQDOG RXVH D JOREDO QRW IRU SURW organisation.
Our Memphis, Tennessee employees conducted community focused events every month in 2016 including taking part in a Walk to Cure Arthritis where more than 100 employees attended.
The US Field Camaraderie Council manages community outreach events for Smith & Nephews more than 2,000 sales representatives across the nation.
Since inception in June 2016 it has hosted more than 15 events in support of 15 GLIIHUHQW QRQ SURW RUJDQLVDWLRQV 7KDQNV WR the efforts of the US Camaraderie Councils, we improve morale, promote camaraderie and make a positive impact on the communities where we live and work.
1XPEHU RI HPSOR HHV DV DW 'HFHPEHU LQFOXGLQJ SDUW time employees and employees on leave of absence.
2 Senior Managers and above includes all employees classed DV 'LUHFWRUV 6HQLRU 'LUHFWRUV 9LFH 3UHVLGHQWV DQG [HFXWLYH 2IFHUV DQG LQFOXGHV DOO VWDWXWRU GLUHFWRUV DQG 'LUHFWRUV RI RXUVXEVLGLDU FRPSDQLHV
