Operational review Continued Smiths Medical Contribution to 2016 Contribution to 2016 Group revenue Group headline operating profit 30% 34% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Principal operating regions Smiths Medical supplies Revenue by sector We have operations in over 30 countries, Infusion systems 31% medical devices and with manufacturing located in North Vascular access 33% consumables that are vital America, Europe and Asia.
Specialty products 8% Customers Around three-quarters of our end users are hospitals.
The remainder comprise alternate care and OEM partners.
Competitors Our competitors are diverse and include medical device businesses, as well as single product line companies.
Suppliers Headline revenue performance We work continuously with our supplier m base to reduce product and supply chain 874m up 5% costs, improve delivery performance, ensure continuity of supply and achieve the 2016 874 highest quality.
The majority of our direct 2015 836 spending is on resins, plastic injection mouldings and electronics.
2014 804 36 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Markets and trends Vascular Access Strategy The medical device industry remains Our Vascular Access portfolio protects Our primary focus is on improving patient attractive, driven by numerous favourable healthcare workers and patients from the outcomes and reducing the total cost of and long-term trends.
In turn, procedural risk of infection and injury through the use care by helping healthcare providers solve growth is improving slightly, but constrained of safety-enabled devices.
We pioneered their clinical needs safely, efficiently and by healthcare system and budget reforms.
safety devices, including the first safety economically.
We achieve this by investing peripheral intravenous catheter and the in product development, manufacturing and The global market we serve is estimated first port for delivery of chemotherapeutic supply chain optimisation, and efficiency to be approximately 6bn, with numerous agents, and our portfolio covers a range gains in marketing and distribution adjacent target markets.
We are investing for growth in both of functions, including drawing blood, positioned in lower risk, short-duration, injections and vaccinations Jelco and developed and developing markets, and interventional procedural devices that have are well positioned to take advantage of the Portex, delivery of chemotherapeutic a wide variety of applications.
Our broad agents Deltec, and blood pressure ongoing shift in healthcare delivery from portfolio includes strong brands in hardware hospitals to alternate sites and home care.
monitoring for critically ill patients Medex.
and consumable products, as well as The global market we serve is expected software and services for both hospital to grow as safety and infection reduction and alternate care settings.
We are well positioned Competitive strengths Infusion Systems to capitalise on the advancement of global Our Infusion Systems products deliver initiatives on the use of safety-engineered Strong market positions in chosen medication and biologic therapies via syringes to protect healthcare workers clinicalareas infusion for the treatment of an array of .
Highly recognised and respected brands indications, including acute and chronic Vital Care pain management, cancer, pulmonary Reputation for quality and safety Our Vital Care products help to manage hypertension, and Parkinsons disease patient airways before, during and after Extensive global sales network in hospital and home settings.
We expect surgery Portex, alleviate breathing Innovative pipeline of new products market growth through the increasing difficulties Portex, improve bronchial indevelopment treatment of chronic conditions, and hygiene Acapella, and help maintain continued advancement of digital bodytemperature Level 1. connectivity of medication delivery devices with hospital information technology Specialty systems and remote monitoring systems.
Our products for specialised care areas Smiths Medical has a leading position in improve patient outcomes through in vitro ambulatory infusion CADD and strong diagnostics and fertilisation Wallace, positions in the syringe pump Medfusion animal health and surgery SurgiVet, and Graseby and pain management emergency transport life support ventilation Portex markets.
Pneupac, and monitoring of critical vital signs BCI.
Did you know Our broad portfolio includes In 2016 the length of all ourclosed suction catheters, strong brands in hardware and SuctionPro 72, sold would span more than 220 miles.
consumable products, aswell as software and services for both hospital and alternate caresettings.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 37 Operational review Continued Smiths Medical 2016 2015 Reported Underlying Growth drivers m m growth growth Revenue 874 836 5% 1% Ageing populations with increasing life Headline operating profit 187 166 13% 7% expectancy and quality of life expectations Headline operating margin 21.4% 19.8% 160bps Statutory operating profit 166 142 17% Growing incidence of chronic diseases Return on capital employed 15.7% 14.7% 100bps Increasing need for interoperable and connected systems Growth of alternate site and home-based Performance Sales into emerging markets increased 10% 1 medical care Revenue grew 1% on an underlying basis during the year, with direct sales into China driven in particular by growth in Vital Care and India up 22% and 21% respectively.
Rising healthcare spend in developing revenue of 3%.
Reported revenue grew 5% Sales into distributor markets in South markets, offsetting budget constraints with favourable foreign exchange adding East Asia also performed well, growing 3%.
indeveloped markets to strong business performance.
Smiths Economic challenges in Russia, the Middle Medical is now the largest division of the East and South America led to reduced sales Group by both revenue and profit.
1 Vital Care underlying revenue growth Headline operating profit grew 7% on an 1 was driven by tracheostomy and bronchial underlying basis boosted by revenue gains, hygiene products.
Vascular Access operational efficiencies, tight cost controls 1 underlying revenue was broadly flat as and restructuring programmes, which more sales of cardiothoracic and port products than offset the downward pricing pressure were partly offset by price pressure on in the sector and 5m adverse transactional peripheral intravenous catheters PIVC.
The headline operating 1 Infusion Systems underlying revenue margin of 21.4% was 160bps higher than wasalso flat as increased sales of hospital the prior year, with 8m coming from syringe infusion hardware and ambulatory favourable translational foreign exchange.
infusion disposables were offset by a decline The difference between statutory and in sales of ambulatory infusion hardware headline operating profit reflects 14m of following the strong prior-year performance restructuring charges and 6m amortisation in that segment.
Specialty Products of intangible assets.
1 underlying revenue declined 2% as growth Return on capital employed increased from in vitro fertilisation and animal health 100bps to 15.7%, reflecting improved was offset by declines in patient monitoring profitability that supported greater capital andemergency medicine.
expenditure in new product development, capacity and manufacturing tooling.
1 Underlying excludes the impact of acquisitions and divestments, and the effects of foreign exchangetranslation Research and development Increased investment in R&D 17% has resulted in a robust line-up of new products coming through thepipeline.
Did you know acapella is the most prescribed mechanical secretion mobilisation device in the world.
38 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Research and development CADD Solis VIP and wireless pumps Priorities for 2017 Research and development expenditure fuelled geographic market expansion of 52m 2015: 45m represented 6.0% andwireless connectivity respectively.
Lay the foundation for accelerated growth of sales 2015: 5.4%, of which 30m was Medfusion expansion into Australia, and continued margin expansion expensed 2015: 29m.
This increased NewZealand, UK and the Middle East.
investment, alongside improvements in Build engagement, excitement and loyalty our new product development processes The paraPAC plus transport ventilator with customers and colleagues andproductivity over the past two years, has wasreleased in Japan, contributing to 15% Expand our portfolio of products resulted in a robust line-up of new products growth of Pneupac products inthatmarket.
andservices coming through the pipeline.
In 2016, We continue to focus on streamlining Improve marketing and sales force wesaw an increase in product launches that the R&D organisation while driving excellence will greatly increase our competitiveness and improvements in efficiency, programme expand our served markets.
In particular: Drive operational excellence discipline and execution, and prioritisation The Graseby C8 syringe pump, developed of resources.
Further product launches by Smiths Medicals R&D team in across our portfolio are planned Go to www.
com Shanghai, was launched in China, inthecoming year.
for more information contributing to 22% growth in that market.
New multi-year contract Were delighted that leading US hospitals have chosen Smiths Medical to become a key provider of specialty infusion systems for Vizient formally Novation, the largest member-owned health care performance improvement company inthe US.
As part of a new multi-year contract, well provide Vizient members with our industry-leading devices such as Medfusion syringe pumps, CADDSolis and CADD-Solis VIP ambulatory infusion pumps for acute care, alternate care and home infusion needs.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 39
