Delivering excellence across Smiths Customer Building intimacy with our customers and aligning strategically with their needs is critical to broadening and deepening the level of value weprovide and driving growth.
Smiths Interconnect used its reputation as a technical innovator and trusted supplier to develop its relationship with Space Systems Loral SSL, a major commercial satellite customer.
By focusing additional resources on the account and proving ourselves as a technology partner, we were contracted to provide critical microwave components that enabled SSL to standardise their equipment design and react more quickly totheir own customers needs.
gettyimages 14 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts People People are our one true source of sustainable competitive advantage.
Thats why were building a learning organisation which attracts, retains, engages, develops and inspires all ofouremployees.
Were proud of how Smiths Medicals Womens Leadership Network has grown in reach and depth in recent years.
Starting as a group of 50women leaders, there are now local chapters in every region of the world fostering engagement and collaboration right across Smiths Group, and breaking the barriers that may get in the way of women moving into more senior leadership roles.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 15 Delivering excellence across Smiths Continued Technology Innovation is at the heart of what we do.
Pursuingareas of technological differentiation and accelerating the digital evolution of our business can help us to deliver value to our customers and unlock our growth potential.
John Cranes new diagnostic system Sense is designed to reduce customers operational costs by predicting the maintenance needs of critical components and minimising disruption to their operations.
Currently in customer trials, this marks an exciting milestone as we move beyond simple monitoring to become the industry leader in predictive diagnostics.
16 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Str Strat ategic r egic report eport Go Gov vernanc ernance e Ac Acc count ounts s Production Transforming our operations through new manufacturing techniques and automation is central to how we improve efficiency and deliver competitive advantage for our customers.
Just look at what Smiths Detection has achieved at its site in Wiesbaden, Germany.
By applying LEAN production principles to how we assemble generators and X-ray scanners, we were able to improve productivity, as well as cutting manufacturing lead times for high volume products by more than 50%.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 17 Delivering excellence across Smiths Continued Programme Working closely with customers on complex programmes is one of our core capabilities.
Delivering outstanding value and quality to demanding deadlines is critical to our success.
Smiths Interconnect delivers complex solutions that offer real value to our customers.
Working in partnership every step of the way to provide antenna systems enabling encryption-protected communication for the US Navy, from supporting the customer design phase through prototyping and into full production, shows our strong commitment to programme execution.
18 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Supply Chain We know the value of optimising our supply chain.
Developing deeper relationships with our key suppliers helps us to deliver our own strategic objectives.
Thats why we held our first ever Group-wide Strategic Supplier Conference this year, bringing together nearly 50 select suppliers from across our business.
It was an opportunity to build partnership and engagement in our drive for operational efficiency, innovation and growth.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 19
