Operational review Continued John Crane Contribution to 2016 Contribution to 2016 Group revenue Group headline operating profit 28% 33% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Principal operating regions John Crane provides Revenue by sector We are a global business in more than First-fit 41% engineered products and 50countries, with over 230 sales and Aftermarket: 59% services to global energy service centres and 19 manufacturing sitesin 14 countries.
Customers We serve process industries like refining and chemical, as well as pump and compressor OEMs.
Our customers include Chevron, BP, ExxonMobil, Saudi Aramco, Shell, BASF, Sulzer, GE and Siemens.
Competitors We compete in seals, engineering bearings, Revenue performance filtration and couplings markets.
Examples m include Flowserve, Kingsbury and Danaher.
830m down 8% Suppliers Our global supply chain aligns purchasing 2016 830 activity to leverage regional suppliers.
2015 905 Direct sourcing includes metals, ceramics, and advanced materials and parts.
2014 941 32 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Markets and trends Nearly 60% of John Cranes sales stem Did you know Recognised globally across process industry from the aftermarket servicing and support Our seals can endure sectors, John Crane provides missionof existing installed equipment, which has critical technologies that drive reliability proven to be resilient during the oil and gas extreme conditions, improvements and sustain the effective downturn.
John Cranes global network is withstanding temperatures operation of customers rotating equipment a key asset that allows for quick-response as icy as the coldest town and other machinery.
Our comprehensive and effective aftermarket service close product portfolio includes mechanical to customers operations.
seals, seal support systems, engineered provide a range of value-added services bearings, power transmission couplings including repair and refurbishment, rootand specialised filtration systems.
These cause analysis, alignment and condition technologies are supported by the industrys monitoring, all designed to improve the largest global sales and service network that performance of customers rotating provides  services equipment and to reduce operational utilising expertise developed from decades downtime.
The geographic footprint of technology leadership coupled with continues to expand through opening proven field experience.
additional service centres in key markets, insupport of our growth strategy in selected John Cranes primary end user vertical of high-growth markets.
oiland gas has experienced the most severe market downturn seen in the past 30 years, Strategy with significant cuts or delays to investment To meet our vision of being a market leader in large projects in the sector, resulting in technologies and services for rotating in a large volume impact on our original equipment, John Cranes business strategy equipment business.
While we believe the focuses on delivering above-market growth oil and gas market will remain challenging in selective process industry verticals, in the near-term, we maintain our belief maximising aftermarket performance, that this sector is attractive in the long-term.
enhancing our cost and productivity Megatrends such as the global demand for competitiveness, and accelerating growth energy, an increasing desire for national through bolt-on acquisitions.
John Crane energy independence, and more stringent aims to achieve this through a relentless environmental and safety requirements focus on customer service, improving will continue to generate demand for quality, developing our people, business JohnCrane products.
John Crane also has ethics and safety.
a significant presence in non-oil and gas process industry verticals such as chemical, power generation, and general industries, and we expect these verticals will continue to grow in the near-term.
Competitive strengths Our global network is a Market leader in mechanical seals key asset which allows for Strong proprietary technology and expertise in applied engineering quick-response and effective High degree of customisation to meet specific demands aftermarket service close Global network of c. 230 sales and servicecentres Over half of sales in aftermarket to customers operations.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 33 Operational review Continued John Crane 2016 2015 Reported Underlying During the year the decision was made to m m growth growth sell John Cranes artificial lift business.
John Revenue 830 905 8 % 10 % Crane Production Solutions is held for sale Headline operating profit 181 225 19 % 20 % at the year ended 31 July 2016.
The business Headline operating margin 21.9% 24.8% 290 bps performance of John Crane Production Statutory operating profit 151 165 9 % Solutions is included within the financial Return on capital employed 20.3% 25.8% 550 bps summary and results presented above.
1 Underlying excludes the impact of acquisitions and divestments, and the effects of foreign Performance Revenue from emerging markets exchangetranslation 1 Revenue fell 10% on an underlying basis represented 24% of John Crane sales, in line as difficult market conditions continued with the prior year, as headwinds in certain Growth drivers throughout global energy markets.
Latin American markets and challenging Thedecline was driven by reduced sales conditions in China offset efforts to increase inboth the first-fit and aftermarket business.
our sales into emerging markets.
Growing demand for energy Reported revenue declined 8%, after 13m Headline operating profit fell 20% on an Investment in process industry verticals of foreign exchange benefit.
1 underlying basis driven primarily by lower Expansion in emerging markets 1 Underlying aftermarket revenue declined sales volumes as well as high levels of Developing new products and technologies 4%, with continued economic uncertainty investment in first-fit strategic projects, driving slower customer upgrades and partially offset by favourable foreign retrofits, especially with oil and gas exchange.
Strong cost control actions customers.
Activity levels stabilised in the included a reduction in headcount of more second half and a number of significant than 400 people.
Headline operating profit contract wins led to a growing aftermarket margin fell 290 basis points to 21.9%.
Return order book, reflecting the resilience of on capital declined 550 basis points to this business.
While there were pockets 20.3%, principally due to lower profitability.
of relative strength within certain The difference between statutory and regions, such as Latin America and Asia headline operating profit primarily reflects Pacific, weakness in the sector was fairly a23m charge in relation to John Crane, Inc. 1 widespread.
Underlying first-fit sales asbestos litigation, a 10m impairment of fell 16%, as continued volatility in energy John Crane Production Solutions goodwill prices put pressure on the business across and property, plant & equipment, and 1 most geographies.
Lower underlying 10m of restructuring charges, offset by revenue was driven in particular by a sharp the recovery of 16m through a settlement revenue decline in John Crane Production withinsurers.
Solutions and weakness in North America.
We continued to focus on expanding the installed base and our investment in first-fit projects was higher than any prior period.
Aftermarket revenue John Cranes R&D projects 59% include engineered solutions and technology advancements to meet customers increasing demands for rotating equipment Did you know in extreme environments.
Only liquid particles 1micron wide can pass through our filter elements thats about 1 100th of agrain of sand.
34 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Research and development The launch of 48VBF, a critical boiler Priorities for 2017 John Crane continued to invest in research feedsystem for power generation in large and development projects in 2016.
This utility scale plants or smaller onsite steam Continue expansion in selective process included innovation for engineered solutions plants, reducing costs by eliminating the industry verticals and technology advancements tomeet heat exchanger and preventing leakage.
customers increasing demands for Enhance productivity and cost Customer trials have succeeded in rotating equipment availability in extreme competitiveness proving the value of Sense, a Predictive environments, while providing intelligence Build out selective emerging markets Diagnostics solution.
Manual inspection of about performance and improving energy equipment is now replaced by continuous Maximise aftermarket performance efficiency and cost savings.
Specific performance monitoring, providing developments included: Develop new products and digital intelligence that diagnoses problems, technologies Two additions to the AURA line of guides decisions about maintenance, gas seals the AURA 100 and AURA andhelps to resolve issues with critical 180.
These seals will provide increased pumps and compressors.
com reliability, reduce customers operating for more information costs, extend maintenance intervals .
Improving efficiency, reducing costs Performance Plus is John Cranes premier service offering, helping to improve efficiency and reduce operating costs for our customers.
Already popular in pump-intensive plants such as refineries, we place reliability engineers at customer sites to maintain equipment and analyse root cause failures.
In late 2015, John Crane won a multiyear Performance Plus contract for two agribusiness plants in South America.
Utilising our strong regional footprint we will improve their mean time between repairs on nearly 800 pumps from 17 months to almost 45 months, significantly reducing their operating costs and diversifying our reach into newindustries.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 35
