Strategic report Governance Accounts Group directors report Results and dividends Changes in the Company and its interests during The results for the financial year ended 31 July 2016 are set out the financial year in the Consolidated income statement.
Revenues for the year On 17 November 2015 the Company announced the finalisation amounted to 2,949m 2015: 2,897m.
The profit for the year after ofthe triennial valuation of the Smiths Industries Pension Scheme taxation amounted to 261m 2015: 248m.
as at31 March 2015 under which the actuarial deficit was 285m, 250m lower than the previous triennial valuation.
Following An interim dividend of 13.25p per ordinary share of 37.5p ordinary agreement with the Scheme Trustee, the Companys annual share was paid on 22 April 2016.
The directors recommend for contribution to the Scheme has reduced from 60m per annum payment on 18 November 2016 a final cash dividend of 28.75p on each to 24m per annum.
In August 2015 the Company concluded a ordinary share, making a total dividend of 42p for the financialyear.
partial buy-out of its US pension scheme under which US$527m The Groups progressive dividend policy is described in the CFO of liabilities was transferred to Voya Retirement Insurance and report on page 25.
Annuity Company, thereby insuring around 60% of the of the gross liabilities of that scheme.
On 1 March 2016 the Company announced Directors the finalisation of the triennial valuation of the TI Group Pension Sir George Buckley: Bruno Angelici: Tanya Fratto: Anne Quinn, Scheme under which the actuarial valuation had reduced from CBE:Bill Seeger: and Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG all served as 117m to 16m.
The Company has agreed with the Trustee to pay off directors of the Company throughout the year.
Chris OShea and the remaining deficit over three financial years, with the Companys Andy Reynolds Smith were appointed as executive directors on contributions reducing from 16m in 2015 to 3m in 2017 and 2018.
Mark Seligman was appointed as a non-executive director on 16 May 2016.
Philip On 21 April 2016 the Company announced it had agreed with Bowman resigned as a director and retired as Chief Executive SafranS.
A. to purchase its Morpho Detection business for US$710m.
In accordance with section 430 2B of the The acquisition is subject to customary conditions and regulatory Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, details of the arrangements approvals in several countries and is expected to be completed made in respect of Philip Bowmans retirement are available on inearly 2017. the Companys website www.
com and contained in the On 25 July 2016 the Company moved its headquarters Directors remuneration report on page 94.
David Challen, CBE and its registered office to 4th Floor 11-12 St Jamess Square, retired at the conclusion of the AGM on 17 November 2015 and London SW1Y 4LB.
hasnot received any payment following his retirement.
Post balance sheet events Reappointment of directors On 23 September 2016 the Company announced that it had reached In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the agreement to sell John Cranes Artificial Lift business for a cash directors, apart from Mark Seligman, will retire voluntarily from consideration of US$39.5m.
Completion of the transaction is subject office at the AGM and will seek re-election.
Mark Seligman will retire to customary regulatory approvals.
at the AGM under Article 49 of the Companys Articles of Association, following his appointment during the year, and will seek election.
There have been no other post-balance sheet events.
Separate resolutions to re-elect or elect each of them as a director Interests in voting rights of the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
As at 31 July 2016 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the Biographical details of all the directors at the date of this report Disclosure Guidance & Transparency Rules DTRs of the Financial areset out on pages 72 to 74.
Conduct Authority FCA, of notifiable voting rights in its issued share capital or had received disclosures pursuant to the 2006 Act of Directors remuneration report shareholding interests in excess of 3% of its share capital, as follows: The Directors remuneration report is on pages 94 to 114.
Percentage of Date of An ordinary resolution to approve the report will be put to Number of issued ordinary notification or shareholders at the AGM.
shares share capital disclosure Ameriprise Financial 23.1m 5.9% 11 08 2016 Directors interests in contracts Details of the executive directors service contracts are disclosed BlackRock 26.9m 6.8% 08 08 2016 inthe service contracts section of the Directors remuneration report Dodge & Cox 28.4m 7.2% 12 08 2016 on page 101.
Details of the interests of the executive directors in the Harris Associates LP 28.3m 7.2% 10 08 2016 Companys share option schemes and plans are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 112 and 113.
Percentage of ordinary share capital in issue on 31 July 2016.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 the 2006 Act have remained in force for the directors of the Company and certain other employees in respect of their directorships of some subsidiary companies during the financial year ended 31 July 2016 and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the current directors and certain other employees who are directors of some subsidiary companies in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or may have incurred to third parties in the course of their professional duties for the Company ora subsidiary company, as applicable.
Apart from the exceptions referred to above, no director had aninterest in any significant contract to which the Company oritssubsidiaries was a party during the year.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 115 Group directors report Continued During the period 1 August to 23 September 2016 the Company Branches has received the following notifications or disclosures: The Company does not operate through any branches.
Some Group subsidiary companies have established branch operations outside Percentage of Date of the UK.
Number of issued ordinary notification or shares share capital disclosure Financial instruments Ameriprise Financial 23.0m 5.8% 20 09 2016 The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group: the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for BlackRock 27.8m 7.0% 21 09 2016 which hedge accounting is used: and the exposure of the Group to Harris Associates LP 22.0m 5.6% 22 09 2016 foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, price risk, financial credit Jupiter Asset Management 14.8m 3.8% 22 09 2016 risk, liquidity risk and cash-flow risk is outlined in note 18 of the Group accounts.
Percentage of ordinary share capital in issue on 23 September 2016.
Going concern Note: The DTRs oblige a shareholder to notify to a company when his interests in the voting rights of that companys shares exceed or fall below 3% of the companys issued The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely share capital and every whole percentage point above 3%.
Where the voting rights toaffect its future development, performance and position are set in shares are managed by an investment manager under certain defined schemes, out in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 69.
The financial position the manager is obliged to notify a company when its interests in the voting rights in the shares it manages under such schemes exceed or fall below 5% or 10% of the of the Company, its cash-flows, liquidity position and borrowing companys issued share capital.
facilities are described in the CFO report on pages 25 to 31.
In addition, the notes to the accounts include the Companys objectives, The interests of the directors, their families and any connected policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown management objectives: details of its financial instruments and in the Directors remuneration report on page 111. hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Corporate responsibility On 30 June 2016 the Group paid off 150m of debt on maturity.
The Company has Group policies on environmental, employee Thebond repayment resulted in the decrease of the average and health & safety matters and operates a Code of Business maturity ofgross debt to 4.5 years from 5.1 years at 31 July 2015.
The Company seeks to minimise, as far as is reasonably practicable, any detrimental effects on the environment of its The Group holds its debt in the currency of its underlying assets and operations and products.
The Group HR director has responsibility as such most debt is held in US dollars and euros.
The strengthening for environmental, health and safety matters, which are subject of both these currencies against the British pound inlate June 2016 to preventative, investigatory and consultative systems, overseen contributed to the Groups net debt, as reported in British pounds, by the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee, and increasing.
At 31 July 2016 the net debt of the Group was 978m, reports regularly to the Board on these matters.
Issues relevant a160m increase from 31 July 2015.
At 31 July 2016 the Group tothe Company pension schemes are likewise covered by means had available cash and short-term deposits of 431m.
These liquid ofstructured committees, including representation from recognised resources are immediately available with 98% invested with the trade unions.
Further information on environmental, employee and health and The Group maintains a core US$800m committed revolving credit safety matters, including key performance indicators, is contained facility from these banks which was undrawn at 31 July 2016.
This in the Corporate responsibility summary on pages 61 to 69. committed facility matures in February 2021.
This facility has certain ThefullCorporate responsibility report is available online at financial covenants: however these are not expected to prevent www.
utilisation at the Groups discretion if required.
Corporate governance statement This financial position and debt maturity profile provides confidence The Corporate governance statement is on pages 75 to 93 that the Group has sufficient financial resources for the foreseeable and is incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company is  LLP has reviewed the Companys well placed to manage its business and its liabilities as they fall due.
statements as to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance In coming to this conclusion, the directors have taken account of the Code, to the extent required by the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
Groups risk management process described on pages 52 to 60, and The results of its review are set out in the Independent auditors have paid particular attention to the financial and pension funding report on pages 125 to 131. risks and their mitigation see page 56.
Strategic report The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable The statements and reviews on pages 2 to 69 comprise the Group expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Strategic report which contains certain information, outlined below, resources to continue in operation for a period of at least twelve that is incorporated into this Directors report by reference: months from the date of this report.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts an indication of the Groups likely future business developments: of the Company and the Group.
an indication of the Groups research and development activities: Viability information on the Companys policies for the employment The directors assessment of the long-term prospects of the ofdisabled persons and employee involvement: and Company is described in the Strategic report on page 52. the Groups disclosures regarding greenhouse gas emissions.
116 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Share capital and control The Company has in place credit facility agreements under which a As at 31 July 2016, the Companys nominal issued share capital change in control would trigger prepayment clauses and has bonds was 148,208,652 and comprised 395,223,072 ordinary shares.
in issue the terms of which would allow bondholders to exercise The ordinary shares are listed and admitted to trading on the put options and require the Company to buy back the bonds at Main Market of the London Stock Exchange symbol: SMIN.
The their principal amount plus interest if a rating downgrade occurs Company has an American Depositary Receipt ADR programme atthesame time as a change of control takes effect.
The Companys for which J. P. Morgan acts as Depositary and transfer agent.
One share plans including the buy-out awards granted to the executive ADR equates to one Smiths Group ordinary share.
The programme directors on their appointments contain clauses which may cause trades over-the-counter as a level 1 ADR programme under the options and awards to vest on a change in control, in some cases ticker symbol SMGZY.
At the year-end, 5,580,727 ordinary shares subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at that time.
were heldby the nominee of the programme depositary in respect The Company is not party to any other significant agreements ofthesame number of ADRs in issue at that time.
that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys reports and accounts: to attend and speak at general meetings of the No director or employee is contractually entitled to compensation Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
for loss of office or employment as a result of a change in control except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to ofany class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any vest on a change in control, in some cases subject to the satisfaction transfers.
None of the shares carries any special rights with regard of performance conditions at that time.
to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares other than a 48 hour cut-off Purchase of own shares for the casting of proxy votes prior to a general meeting.
There are No shares in the Company were either purchased or acquired no arrangements of which the directors are aware under which or charged or disposed of by the Company or any nominee of financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the the Company during the financial year ended 31 July 2016. shares and no known agreements relating to or restrictions on Electronic communications at www.
com share transfers or voting rights.
The 2006 Act recognises the growing importance of electronic Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans communication e-communication and enables companies to rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special provide documentation and communications to shareholders via rights.
TheCompany operates an employee benefit trust, with an their websites, except to those shareholders who elect to receive independent trustee, to hold shares pending employees becoming hard printed paper copies by post.
E-communication allows entitled to them under the Companys share schemes and plans.
shareholders faster access to important information about the On31 July 2016 the trust held 852 ordinary shares in the Company.
Company: saves the Company considerable overheads, by reducing The trust waived its dividend entitlement on its holding during the its print production costs and postage: and helps the environment by year: the trust abstains from voting the shares at general meetings.
saving the energy and raw materials that would otherwise be used in producing and dispatching printed documents.
At the Extraordinary The tables on pages 115 and 116 set out the notifications received General Meeting held on 11 June 2007 shareholders approved the by the Company pursuant to the FCAs DTRs and the 2006 Act, adoption of electronic communications.
asat31July2016 and any changes thereto up to 23 September2016, frompersons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Electronic copies of the Annual Report 2016 and the Notice of Companys share capital.
AGM will be posted on the Companys website, www.
The Companys announcements to the Stock Exchange and press The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are releases are available online through the website.
Shareholding contained in the Companys Articles of Association and legislation in details and practical help on share transfers and changes of address force from time to time.
Changes to the Articles of Association must can be found at www.
be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation inforce from time to time.
Shareholders wishing to change their election and receive documents in hard copy form can do so at any time by contacting The powers of the directors are determined by English law and theCompanys Registrar or by logging on to www.
theArticles of Association of the Company in force from time to time.
The directors have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary Annual General Meeting AGM shares, pursuant to Article 5.
The directors have authority to make The 2016 AGM will be held on Tuesday 15 November 2016 at market purchases of ordinary shares.
The powers to issue and 11:00am.
The Notice of the AGM will be published on the Companys allot shares and, subject to specified limits, to allot shares on a non website, www.
com, on or around 13 October 2016. pre-emptive basis and on a pre-emptive basis, are referred to the shareholders at the AGM each year for renewal.
At the AGM the shareholders are also requested to renew the power to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
Any ordinary shares so purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 117 Group directors report Continued Remuneration policy The Pre-emption Resolutions authorise the directors to allot new Details of the Directors remuneration policy as approved at the shares, pursuant to the authority given by the Allotment Resolution, AGM in 2015, are shown on pages 95 to 98.
Under the regulations or to sell treasury shares for cash: which now form part of the 2006 Act, the remuneration policy must a in connection with a rights issue or pre-emptive offer: and or be put to a binding shareholder vote at least once every three years.
All payments to former and current directors must comply with the b otherwise up to a nominal value equivalent to 5% of the total terms of the policy, unless specifically approved by shareholders issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the latest ingeneral meeting.
practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM: and Authority to issue shares c in connection with the financing or refinancing, if the authority At the AGM shareholders will be asked to renew and extend the is to be used within six months after the original transaction of authority, given to the directors at the last AGM, to allot shares in the an acquisition or specified capital investment which is announced Company, or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security contemporaneously with the allotment or which has taken into, shares in the Company for the purposes of Section 551 of the place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the 2006 Act the Allotment Resolution.
announcement of the allotment provided that the nominal value equivalent is no more than 5% of the total issued share capital of The authority in the first part of the Allotment Resolution will allow the Company at the latest practical date prior to the publication the directors to allot new shares in the Company or to grant rights oftheNotice of AGM, to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company up to a nominal value which is equivalent to approximately one-third in each case without the shares first being offered toexisting of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
latest practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
The Board intends to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption The authority in the second part of the Allotment Resolution Groups Statement of Principles, as updated in March 2015, and not will allow the directors to allot new shares or to grant rights to to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis pursuant to the subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company authority in Pre-emption Resolutions: only in connection with a rights issue up to a nominal value which in excess of an amount equal to 5% of the total issued ordinary is equivalent to approximately one-third of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares : or share capital of the Company as at the latest practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
This is in line with in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued ordinary corporate governance guidelines.
The Board has undertaken to share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares within seek the re-election of each director annually by the shareholders, a rolling three-year period, without prior consultation with whetherornot this authority were to be used.
shareholders, There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot in each case other than in connection with an acquisition or specified newshares other than in connection with the Companys share capital investment which is announced contemporaneously with option schemes and plans.
The directors intend to take note of the allotment or which has taken place in the preceding six-month relevant corporate governance guidelines on the use of such period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
powersin the event that the authority is exercised.
The Pre-emption Resolutions also authorise the directors to allot If the Allotment Resolution is passed the authority will expire on the new shares, pursuant to the authority given by the Allotment earlier of 31 January 2018 and the end of the next AGM, due to be Resolution, or to sell treasury shares for cash in connection with held in 2017. a rights issue, without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This is to allow Also at the AGM shareholders will be asked to pass two special the directors to make exclusions or such other arrangements as resolutions to renew the powers granted to directors to disapply may be appropriate to resolve legal or practical problems which, shareholders pre-emption rights under certain circumstances for example, might arise with overseas shareholders.
This is in line thePre-emption Resolutions.
If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities, If the Pre-emption Resolutions are passed, the authorities they or sell treasury shares, for cash other than in connection with an confer will expire on the earlier of 31 January 2018 and the end employee share scheme company law requires that these shares of the next AGM, due to be held in 2017. are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
There may be occasions, however, when the directors need During the financial year ended 31 July 2016, the following ordinary the flexibility to finance business opportunities by the issue of shares shares in the Company were issued: without a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders.
This cannot be 363,068 ordinary shares pursuant to the terms of the Companys done under the 2006 Act unless the shareholders have first waived shareholder-approved share option schemes and share plans.
The purpose of the Pre-emption Resolutions is to enable shareholders to so waive their pre-emption rights.
118 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Authority to purchase own shares Part 14 of the 2006 Act requires companies to obtain shareholders At the AGM the Company will seek to renew the authority, granted authority for donations to registered political parties and other at the last AGM to the directors, to purchase the Companys ordinary political organisations in the EU totalling more than 5,000 in any shares in the market.
twelve-month period, and for any political expenditure in the EU, subject to limited exceptions.
The definition of donation in this The effect of the resolution is to renew the authority granted to the context is very wide and extends to bodies such as those concerned Company to purchase its own ordinary shares until the next AGM with policy review, law reform and the representation of the business due to be held in 2017 or 31 January 2018 whichever is the earlier.
It could include special interest groups, such as those This authority is limited to 10% of the ordinary shares in issue as involved with the environment, which the Company and its UK at the latest practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of subsidiaries might wish to support, even though these activities AGM and the Companys exercise of this authority is subject to the are not designed to support or influence support for a particular stated upper and lower limits on the price payable, which reflect the politicalparty.
requirements of the Listing Rules.
It is the policy of the Company not to make political donations Pursuant to the 2006 Act, the Company can hold the shares which orincur political expenditure in the EU, as those expressions are have been purchased as treasury shares and either resell them for normally understood.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the cash, cancel them, either immediately or at a point in the future, 2006 Act, the directors are seeking shareholders authority for or use them for the purposes of its employee share schemes.
theCompany and its UK subsidiaries to make political donations The directors believe that it is desirable for the Company to have as defined in the 2006 Act and to incur political expenditure this choice as holding the purchased shares as treasury shares asdefined in the 2006 Act for the period from the date of the AGM would give the Company the ability to resell or transfer them in the to the conclusion of next years AGM up to a maximum aggregate future, and so provide the Company with additional flexibility in the amount of 50,000. management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised in respect of, treasury shares.
Auditors However, it is not the Companys present intention to hold shares Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to reappoint intreasury in the event that any shares were to be purchased under  LLP as independent auditors, to hold this authority.
office until the next meeting at which the accounts are laid, and toauthorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Shares will only be purchased if the directors consider such Further information on the process for recommending the purchases to be in the best interests of shareholders generally appointment of auditors is contained in the Audit Committee report andthat they can be expected to result in an increase in earnings on pages 88 and 89. per share.
The authority will only be used after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other Notice period for extraordinary general meetings investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the A special resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the overall financial position of the Company.
Shares held as treasury authority, granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the shares will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into Company, to call a general meeting of the Company other than account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they are an AGM with a minimum notice period of 14 clear days.
Changes subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury.
made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increased the notice period required for general meetings of the If any shares purchased by the Company are held in treasury and Company to21days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice used for the purposes of its employee share schemes, the Company period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs will count those shares towards the limits on the number of new willcontinue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
shares which may be issued under such schemes.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations At 27 September 2016, the Company did not hold any shares on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings intreasury.
other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such Political donations shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, such approval The Group made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling is sought at the AGM.
Any exercise of this power by the Company will US$36,500 28,000 during the year.
The political contributions be conducted in accordance with any relevant corporate governance were made on a bi-partisan basis in the US, in accordance with US guidelines applicable at the time.
In particular, the shorter notice state and federal election laws, in order to raise awareness and to period will only be used where flexibility is merited by the business of promote the interests of the Company.
The Group has a number the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as of key manufacturing sites and approximately 7,900 employees a whole.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, intheUS.
when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the authority, The Company will comply with the requirement to provide granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the Company and appropriate facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic its UK subsidiaries, to make donations to political organisations meansat general meetings held on less than 21 clear days notice.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 119 Group directors report Continued Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule LR9.8.
4C Listing Rule Information to be included Disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group 1.8m interest was capitalised as part of the costs of development projects.
0.4m of tax relief has been recognised as current tax relief in the period 9.8.
18 The supplementary US dollar financial statements on pages 186 to 190 The Group financial record 2012-2016 on page 185 9.8.
4 4 Long-term incentive scheme only involving The terms of the contracts entered into with Chris OShea, a director LR9.4.
3 appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 18 September 2015, and Andrew Reynolds Smith, appointed as Chief Executive on 25 September 2015, are described on page 101 and include details of their  9.8.
4 5 Directors waivers of emoluments None 9.8.
4 6 Directors waivers of future emoluments None 9.8.
4 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer Shares have been issued and allotted pursuant to the exercise ofoptions awarded under shareholder-approved schemes 9.8.
4 8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash major subsidiaries None 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is a subsidiary of another company Not applicable 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of significance involving a a director or a None: b a controlling shareholder b Not applicable 9.8.
4 11 Contracts for the provision of services by a controlling Not applicable shareholder 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends 1 Wealth Nominees Limited WAIVED a c per pro the Smiths Industries Employee Share Trust waived all the dividends payable in the year on its holding of 852 shares: and 2 Reuter File Limited waived its dividends in full on 2 shares 9.8.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends 1 Wealth Nominees Limited WAIVED a c full waiver 2 Reuter File Limited full waiver 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling shareholder Not applicable LR9.2.
6 Listing Rule Information to be included Disclosure 9.8.
6 1 Directors and their connected persons interests in See page 111 Smiths shares at year-end and at not more than one month prior to date of the Notice of AGM 9.8.
6 2 Interests in Smiths shares disclosed under DTR5 at See pages 115 and 116 year-end and not more than one month prior to date of the Notice of AGM 9.8.
6 3 a Directors going concern statement See page 116 9.8.
6 3 b Directors assessment of the Companys prospects See page 52 9.8.
6 4 a Amount of the authority to purchase own shares Authority available in full at year-end available at year-end 9.8.
6 4 b Off-market purchases of own shares during the year None 9.8.
6 4 c Off-market purchases of own shares post year-end None 9.8.
6 4 d Non pro-rata sales of treasury shares during the year None 9.8.
6 5 Compliance with the Main Principles of the UK See the Corporate governance statement on page 76 Corporate Governance Code 9.8.
6 6 b Details of non-compliance with UK Corporate See the Corporate governance statement on page 76 Governance Code and reasons 9.8.
6 7 Re directors proposed for re-election: the unexpired Details of the executive directors service contracts are given term of any directors service contract and a in the Directors remuneration report on page 101 statement about directors with no service contracts The Chairman and the non-executive directors serve under letters of appointment see page 101 120 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Electronic proxy voting Disclosure of information to the auditors The Company continues to provide electronic proxy voting for this As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there years AGM.
Shareholders who are not Crest members can appoint is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors a proxy and vote online for or against or consciously not vote on are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps he or she should the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM by visiting the website have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware www.
The onscreen instructions will give details ofany relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys on how to complete the appointment and voting process.
Crest auditors are aware of that information.
members, Crest personal members and other Crest-sponsored Recommendation members should consult the Crest Manual or their sponsor or voting Your directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the service provider for instructions on electronic proxy appointment AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and voting.
The Company may treat as invalid a Crest proxy voting as a whole and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of resolutions.
The directors intend to vote in favour of the resolutions theUncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Paper proxy cards will be distributed with the Notice of AGM to all By Order of the Board shareholders other than those who have elected to receive Company notifications by email.
Melanie Jane Rowlands Secretary Shareholders who will not be able to attend the AGM on Smiths Group plc 15November 2016 in person are encouraged to vote their shares 4th Floor, 11-12 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4LB by appointing a proxy and issuing voting instructions either electronically or by completing and returning their proxy cards.
27 September 2016 Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrar not later than 48 hours before the AGM in order to be valid.
Adoption of financial reporting standard FRS 101 Following the publication of FRS 100 Application of financial reporting requirements by the Financial Reporting Council, theCompany was required to change its accounting framework forits financial statements, which previously had followed UK GAAP, for the financial year commencing 1 August 2015.
The Board considered that it would be in the best interests of theCompany to adopt FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Nodisclosures in the current UK GAAP financial statements would be omitted on adoption of FRS 101.
Shareholders were invited to register any objection to the use ofthis Reduced Disclosure Framework no later than 10:30 am on 15November 2015.
The 2016 financial statements contained in this Annual Report have been prepared using the FRS 101 framework.
Registrar The address and contact details of Equiniti Limited, the Companys Registrar, are listed on the inside back cover of this report.
Individual shareholders access to their personal shareholder information is available online, through the www.
The UKshareholder helpline telephone number is 0371 384 2943.
Helpline services are available from 08:30 to 17:30, Monday to Friday.
The international shareholder helpline telephone number is 44 0 121 415 7047.
Important information If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take in relation tothe resolutions being proposed at the AGM, you are recommended to consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you received this document in printed form from the Company and have recently sold or transferred all your shares in Smiths Group plc, please pass this document to the purchaser or transferee or to the agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 121 Accounts Statement of directors responsibilities 124 Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc 125 Consolidated income statement 132 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 133 Consolidated balance sheet 134 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 135 Consolidated cash-flow statement 136 Accounting policies 137 Income statement notes 1 Segment information 144 2 Operating profit 149 3 Non-statutory profit measures 149 4 Net finance costs 150 5 Earnings per share 151 Taxation notes 6 Taxation 151 Employee costs notes 7 Employees 154 8 Post-retirement benefits 155 9 Employee share schemes 161 Balance sheet notes 10 Intangible assets 162 11 Impairment testing 163 12 Property, plant and equipment 167 13 Inventories 167 14 Trade and other receivables 168 15 Trade and other payables 168 Financial instruments notes 16 Financial assets 169 17 Borrowings and net debt 169 18 Financial risk management 170 19 Derivative financial instruments 175 20 Fair value of financial instruments 177 21 Commitments 177 Provisions notes 22 Provisions and contingent liabilities 178 Reserves notes 23 Share capital 181 24 Dividends 181 25 Reserves 181 Cash-flow notes 26 Cash-flow 182 Other associated notes 27 Business held for sale 183 28 Non-statutory capital and credit metrics 184 Unaudited Group financial record 2012-2016 185 Unaudited US dollar primary statements 186 Unaudited Group US dollar financial record 2013-2016 191 Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc 192 Smiths Group plc company accounts 194 122 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Accounts Larger packages, smaller space Smiths Detection took on a customers challenge to develop a mobile x-ray unit that could accommodate larger packages, but be available in a smaller vehicle.
Applying continuous improvement techniques, we not only succeeded in producing the much smaller ScanVan, but also increased the efficiency, safety and throughput ofthe manufacturing process cutting manufacturing costs by up to 50%.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 123
