SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 16 OUR MARKETPLACE Our marketplace is driven by longer-term trends The major trends that drive the markets in which organisations funded by tax revenues.
Pricing of products is largely influenced Smith & Nephew operates have remained In the US, our major customers are public in most developed markets by consistent for many years.
Ageing populations, and private hospitals, which receive revenue governmental reimbursement programmes.
together with obesity, diabetes and other lifestyle from private health insurance and government Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, diseases often linked with increased prosperity, reimbursement programmes.
Medicare is the legislative bodies and the private sector to limit all contribute to rising demand for healthcare.
major source of reimbursement in the US for the growth of healthcare costs are ongoing knee and hip reconstruction procedures and and include price regulation, excise taxes According to the World Health Organisation for wound treatment regimes.
In the Emerging and competitive pricing.
Governments and WHO, between 2015 and 2050 the proportion Markets, demand is driven by self-pay patients.
healthcare providers are increasingly requesting of the worlds population over 60 years will health economic data to justify the pricing of nearly double from 12% to 22%.
In 2014, the New commercial purchasing models are being products and procedures or reimbursement WHO estimated that more than 1.9 billion adopted by health systems as a solution to requests.
More collaboration between industry adults were overweight.
Of these, over improving resource allocation.
One notable trend and data research institutions is emerging as 600 million were classified as obese, a major is the greater focus on payment-for-outcomes a result.
risk factor for diseases such as diabetes and rather than fee-for-service reward models, musculoskeletal disorders.
particularly in the US where the Comprehensive REGULATORY STANDARDS AND Care for Joint Replacement CJR model began Additionally, the WHO estimates that by 2020, COMPLIANCE IN THE HEALTHCARE on 1 April 2016.
The CJR model aims to drive INDUSTRY people aged 60 years and older around the better and more efficient care by incentivising world will outnumber children younger than Alongside healthcare provision and payment hospitals, physicians, and post-acute care five.
This changing dynamic will decrease the becoming more complex, the regulation of the providers to work together through a bundled level of funds available for healthcare raised medical device industry is also intensifying.
As a result governments and Regulatory requirements are important in healthcare providers are under pressure to There is also a desire for more patients to be determining whether substances and materials look for ways to reduce their overall healthcare treated in an outpatient or community setting.
can be developed into effective products in an expenditure, while at the same time maintaining Treatment in hospitals, often entailing operating environmentally sustainable way.
the quality of care and treatment provided.
room time and overnight stays, is expensive.
National regulatory authorities administer and Healthcare reform therefore is near the top of New models such as ambulatory care centres enforce a complex series of laws and regulations many national agendas.
now offer outpatient orthopaedic treatment and that govern the design, development, approval, there is pressure for more wound care to be manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of CUSTOMERS provided in the community setting.
They also review data Our customers include surgeons, nurses, Product innovation remains of vital importance supporting the safety and efficacy of such healthcare payers and administrators, and with increasing focus on products which simplify products.
Of particular importance is the healthcare systems and procurement groups.
and increase the efficiency of procedures as requirement in many countries that products be In certain parts of the world, including the UK, well as robotics which increase precision and authorised or registered prior to their placement much of Continental Europe, Canada and Japan, enhance procedure outcomes.
on market and that such authorisation or healthcare providers are often government registration be subsequently maintained.
Pricing pressures also remain pertinent.
In many The industry is focusing its resources on cases, highly regulated markets employ various meeting the increased regulatory pressure controls on pricing.
600 million 2020 22% Obese adults in 2014, a major The WHO estimates that by 2020, Proportion of the worlds population risk factor for diseases such as people aged 60 years and older over 60 years will nearly double diabetes and musculoskeletal around the world will outnumber from 12% to 22% by 2050 WHO.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17 OUR MARKETPLACE The major regulatory agencies for Smith & $8bn 4% $5bn 6% Nephews products include the Food and Drug 1 Market size Sports Medicine Market size Advanced Wound Management Administration FDA in the USA, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK, the Ministry of Health, Labour and A Welfare in Japan, the China Food and Drug A E Administration and the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration.
In general, with the aforementioned industry E B trends, safety standards and regulations in the D medical device industry are becoming more stringent.
Regulatory agencies are intensifying audits of manufacturing facilities and the B C C approval time for new products has lengthened.
D Regulation for marketing medical devices in the European Union will tighten with the introduction of the Medical Device Regulations MDR, a draft Range Range of which was published in June 2016 and is A SMITH & NEPHEW 20-24% A SMITH & NEPHEW 14-18% expected to be fully implemented by late 2019.
B ARTHREX 29-33% B ACELITY 17-21% Legislation covering corruption and bribery, 2 C DEPUY MITEK 12-16% C MOLNLYCKE 9-13% such as the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign D STRYKER 9-13% D CONVATEC 5-9% Corrupt Practices Act, also applies to all our E OTHERS Balance E OTHERS Balance global operations.
We are committed to ensuring regulatory compliance and to doing business with integrity and we welcome the trend towards higher standards in the healthcare industry.
$15bn 3% $5bn 3% We and other companies in the industry are Market size Hips & Knees Recon Market size Trauma & Extremities subject to regular inspections and audits by regulatory agencies and notified bodies, and in some cases remediation activities have required A A E E and will continue to require significant financial and resource investment.
D SEASONALITY D B Orthopaedic and sports medicine procedures tend to be higher in the winter months when B accidents and sports related injuries are C highest.
Elective procedures tend to slow down in the summer months due to holidays.
Due to C the nature of our product range, there is little seasonal impact on our Advanced Wound Management franchises.
Range Range A SMITH & NEPHEW 9-11% A SMITH & NEPHEW 6-10% In the US out-of-pocket costs for health 2 insurance plans are tied to medical expenses B ZIMMER BIOMET 34-36% B DEPUY SYNTHES 44-48% in a calendar year.
As a result, households who 2 C DEPUY SYNTHES 20-22% C STRYKER 23-27% have reached their deductible or out-of-pocket D STRYKER 19-21% D ZIMMER BIOMET 9-13% cap may find that accessing care later in the year E OTHERS Balance E OTHERS Balance comes at a lower cost, which can encourage more of them to try and schedule any required treatments or procedures in the final months of any given year.
Data: 2016 estimates generated by Smith & Nephew based on publicly available sources and internal analysis.
1 Representing access, resection and repair products.
