Board of directors Sir George Buckley Andy Reynolds Smith Chris OShea Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Committ ee membership Appointment to Board Appointment to Board Appointment to Board Sir George Buckley joined the Board on Andy Reynolds Smith joined the Company Chris OShea joined the Company as Chief 1 August 2013 as a non-executive director as Chief Executive on 25 September 2015.
Financial Officer on 18 September 2015. and Deputy Chairman and was appointed Experience Experience as its Chairman on19 November 2013.
Before joining Smiths Group, Andy was Chief Chris is a qualified Chartered Accountant with Experience Executive Automotive at GKN plc, serving afinance degree from the University of Glasgow Sir George has a PhD in Electrical Engineering.
He joined GKN in and an MBA from Duke University.
Chris joined Sir George retired in 2012 as Chairman and CEO 2002 and held a number of senior positions Smiths Group from the metals technology of 3M, the US-based global technology company across the Group, which included leading the company, Vesuvius plc, where he was the CFO and Dow Jones 30 component, after a long and Driveline, Powder Metallurgy and Land Systems from 2012, following its demerger from Cookson successful business career spent mainly in the divisions.
In previous roles, Andy was Managing Group plc.
He was also a non-executive director United States.
He was previously Chairman Director Europe for Ingersoll Rands Bearings of Foseco India Ltd, an Indian-listed supplier and CEO of Brunswick Corporation and Chief and Components business, Vice President to the foundry industry and a part of Vesuvius Technology Officer for appliances, motors and International Operations at Invensys, and UK plc.
Chris has also held a number of senior controls at Emerson Electric Company.
Sir Country Director and Global Customer Director finance roles at BG Group, latterly serving as Georges expertise in engineering and innovation, Japan for Delphi Automotive Systems.
Andy CFO for the groups businesses in Africa, the combined with his extensive experience of large, began his career as an electrical and electronic Middle East and Asia.
From 1998 to 2005 Chris multi-industry businesses that operate in global apprentice with Texas Instruments.
He is a former worked in the UK, the US and Nigeria for Royal markets, are of huge benefit to Smiths.
Chairman of the CBI Manufacturing Council Dutch Shell in a variety of roles, including CFO and a former member of HM Governments for Shells offshore exploration and production External appointments Ministerial Advisory Group for Manufacturing and business in Nigeria.
Chris has wide knowledge Green Economy Council.
Until May 2016, he was and experience of multi-national operations, Chairman of Ownership Capital a non-executive director of Morgan Advanced including the manufacturing and oil and gas Non-executive director of Hitachi, Ltd. Materials plc.
Andy has extensive experience sectors.
He also has experience of international in delivering significant growth in China and in tax and financing through roles at Ernst & Young Non-executive director and a member driving business strategy, technological innovation andRoyalDutchShell.
of the Audit Committee of PepsiCo, Inc. and .
Non-executive director and member of the Audit and Compensation Committees ofStanleyBlack & Decker, Inc. Melanie Rowlands Company Secretary & Deputy Group General Counsel Appointment Mel was appointed as Company Secretary Committee membership key on 29 May 2015.
Audit Committee Experience Nomination Committee Mel holds an MA in Law from Oxford University Remuneration Committee and is a qualified solicitor.
She joined Smiths Denotes Chair of the Committee in 2013, having previously held senior roles in BG Group plc and Linde AG.
Most recently, she was the General Counsel of British Gas andLegal&HR Director of Edwards Group.
72 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Bruno Angelici Tanya Fratto Anne Quinn, CBE Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Committ ee membership Committ ee membership Committ ee membership Appointment to Board Appointment to Board Appointment to Board Bruno Angelici was appointed to the Board Tanya Fratto was appointed to the Board Anne Quinn was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director on 1 July 2010. as a non-executive director on 1 July 2012. as a non-executive director on 1 August 2009.
Experience Experience Experience Bruno has Business and Law degrees from Reims Tanya is a qualified electrical engineer with Anne has a BCom from Auckland University and an MBA from Kellogg School of Management.
She was CEO and MSc in Management Science from the His career includes senior management roles in of Diamond Innovations Inc. a world-leading Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Anne pharmaceutical and medical device companies.
manufacturer of super-abrasive products for the spent her early career with NZ Forest Products Bruno retired from AstraZeneca in 2010 as material removal industry, until 2010.
Before that Limited and US management consulting Executive Vice President, International after a she enjoyed a successful 20-year career with GE.
He was responsible for Europe, She held a number of senior positions in product has extensive overseas experience in the oil and Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle East management, operations, Six Sigma and supply gas sector, having enjoyed a successful 25-year and Africa and originally joined asPresident of ICI chain management.
Tanya provides Smiths with career with Standard Oil of Ohio and BP.
Prior to this, he was at Baxter, a wide experience in product innovation and sales a number of executive positions including Group US-based global supplier of medical devices.
He and marketing in a range of sectors.
Vice President in the US, Belgium, Colombia has extensive international experience, including and the UK.
Following her career with BP, Anne in the US, and brings a deep understanding External appointments was the managing director of Riverstone LLP, an to the Group of the medical device and energy private equity group.
Annes experience is Non-executive director and a member of .
a great benefit to the Group in its development of the Audit Committee of Advanced Drainage new geographic markets and its exposure to the Systems, Inc. a US-listed water management External appointments oil and gas sector.
and drainage company Member of the Global Advisory Board of Non-executive director and a member of the External appointments Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd, Japan Nomination and Remuneration Committees Senior Independent Director and Chair of Non-executive director and a member of the ofAshtead Group plc, a UK-listed international the Remuneration Committee of Mondi plc Nomination Committee of Novo Nordisk A S, equipment rental company and Mondi Limited, a packaging and paper a Danish healthcare company company, dual-listed in the UK and South Africa Member of the Supervisory Board and theAudit Committee of Wolters Kluwer nv, a Dutch-based information services and publishingcompany Chairman of the Board and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees of Vectura Group plc, a UK-listed specialty pharmaceutical company Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 73 Board of directors Continued Bill Seeger Mark Seligman Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG Non-executive director Non-executive director Senior Independent Director Committ ee membership Committ ee membership Committ ee membership Appointment to Board Appointment to Board Appointment to Board Bill Seeger was appointed to the Board Mark Seligman was appointed to the Board Sir Kevin Tebbit was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director on 12 May 2014. as a non-executive director on 16 May 2016. as a non-executive director on 14 June 2006 and was appointed as the Senior Independent Experience Experience Director on 17 November 2015.
Bill has a BA in Economics and an MBA, both Mark is a Chartered Accountant, with a MA from UCLA University of California, Los Angeles.
He is a Experience Bill joined GKN plc, the global engineering former Chairman of UK investment banking for Sir Kevin has a BA in History.
He held policy company, in 2003 as Senior Vice-President and Credit Suisse and previously served in senior roles management and finance posts in the MoD, Chief Financial Officer of Aerospace.
He is also a former Chairman Foreign and Commonwealth Office and NATO.
became a member of the Executive Committee as of the UK Governments Industrial Development These included three years service in Washington President and Chief Executive Propulsion Systems Advisory Board.
He has served as non-executive as Defence and European Counsellor at the and Special Products before being appointed to Deputy Chairman of G4S plc and chaired its Audit British Embassy before becoming Director of the Board as Group Finance Director the same Committee.
He was also a non-executive director GCHQ and finally Permanent Under Secretary year.
Bill retired as the Finance Director of GKN and the chairman of the Audit Committee of at the Ministry of Defence from 1998 to 2005. in 2014.
He previously held a number of senior BGGroup plc.
He brings to the Board a long and Sir Kevins career as a former senior British finance posts during a 28-year career with TRW, successful career in investment banking and civil servant provides Smiths with considerable the US-based automotive and aerospace group.
extensive experience in corporate finance experience in the security and defence sectors His long career in finance in the engineering and capital markets.
and in government relations issues.
sector and in-depth knowledge of global markets, contracting and strategy execution greatly External appointments External appointments benefitsSmiths.
Senior Independent Director and member Executive Vice President, Government and of the Audit and Nomination Committees Defence of AECOM External appointments ofKingfisher plc Senior Associate Fellow at Royal United Non-executive director and Chairman Alternate member of the Panel on Takeovers Services Institute of theAudit and Risk Committee of and Mergers for the Association for Financial Visiting Professor at Kings College, London Spectrisplc, a UK-listed instrumentation Markets in Europe and controls company Member of the Advisory Board of the Imperial College Institute for Security, Visiting Professor UCLA Anderson School Science andTechnology ofManagement Committee membership key Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Denotes Chair of the Committee 74 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016
