Our markets Smiths Group serves a wide range of end markets that have the potential for long-term profitable growth.
Our businesses are either market leaders John Cranes mechanical seals and seal Revenue from equipment sales in their sectors or are well placed in attractive support systems are primarily used in the and aftermarket consumables niches.
68% of our revenue comes from process equipment found in downstream Equipment sales 47% end markets in healthcare, energy, and eg: refineries, ethylene crackers and Aftermarket consumables 53% homeland security and defence.
Around midstream eg: pipelines, gas storage, half of our revenue is derived from servicing LNG transportation applications.
Demand our customers aftermarket needs or from for original equipment 41% of revenue is supplying single-use consumables that affected by customer capital expenditure areused as part of our customers everyday cycles, while aftermarket service 59% of procedures.
This provides a resilience to revenue depends on utilisation rates and ourrevenues and strong, stable cash-flows.
The drop in oil prices in late 2014 has reduced customer capital Healthcare expenditure, causing declines in revenue Our largest single end market is healthcare.
inoriginal equipment and, to a lesser The majority of revenue comes from medical extent, aftermarket service.
devices supplied by SmithsMedical, and both Smiths Interconnect and Flex-Tek Industrial supply components to medical device Smiths Group serves a range of general manufacturers.
The medical device industrial sectors including power market is driven over the long-term by generation, alternative energy, mining, ageing populations, patient and health automotive, test equipment and rail, among Revenue by end market worker safety legislation and increasing others.
There are different drivers for each Healthcare 31% healthcare spending in developing countries.
of these markets but overall they tend to Homeland security and defence 21% Some83% of Smiths Medicals revenue is track GDP.
They are served by John Crane, Oil, gas and petrochemical 16% from single-use devices used in everyday SmithsInterconnect and Flex-Tek.
The remaining 17% Semiconductors, data centres Semiconductors, data centres of revenue is from capital equipment, andtelecoms and telecoms 7% suchasinfusionpumps.
Smiths Interconnect supplies a range of US residential construction Homeland security and defence high-performance microwave equipment and household appliances 6% Smiths Detection provides threat detection to support the build-out and upgrade of Aerospace and space 5% equipment for airports, ports and borders, wireless telecommunications infrastructure.
Chemical and pharma 5% critical infrastructure, military and emergency It also provides power supply equipment for responder markets.
Demand is driven in data centres and high-reliability connectors the medium-term by ongoing geopolitical for semiconductor testing.
Growth is driven unrest and associated terrorist and criminal by the proliferation of mobile communication threats, but there is considerable variation devices, internet usage and the demand by geography and end market.
The growing for higher data rates, and by the capital installed base creates opportunities expenditure of network operators and for aftermarket and upgrade revenues.
Thedefence segment, representing 6% US residential construction and ofGroup revenue, is served by both Smiths household appliances Interconnect and Smiths Detection, and Flex-Tek manufactures a range of products is primarily driven by spending on specific such as flexible gas piping and ducting programmes in developed markets like for HVAC applications that are used in the theUS.
construction of homes, primarily in the US.
Industrial includes power generation, Oil, gas & petrochemical Demand for single family home starts is alternative energy, mining, test, rail and This market is primarily served by John driven by population growth.
other general industrial applications Crane, representing c. 60% of its revenues.
Aerospace and space The long-term drivers include the global Flex-Tek provides hydraulic hoses and demand for energy, a desire for national fuel lines for airframes and aeroengines energy independence and increasing and Smiths Interconnect sells connectors environmental and safety requirements.
and microwave components for aircraft and satellite communications.
Aerospace Did you know demand is driven by investment in new fuel-efficient aircraft and by increasing 68% of our revenue comes passenger and freight traffic.
from three markets: healthcare, oil and gas, and homeland security anddefence.
More detailed market commentary can be found in the divisional operational reviews 24 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016
