Operational review Continued Flex-Tek Contribution to 2016 Contribution to 2016 Group revenue Group headline operating profit 9% 9% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Principal operating regions Flex-Tek provides Revenue by sector Our operations are mainly located in the US Fluid Management 25% engineered components and Mexico, with Asian operations in India, Construction Products 33% that heat and move fluids China and Malaysia, and European facilities Heat Solutions 23% in France, Germany and the UK.
and gases for the aerospace, Flexible Solutions 19% medical, industrial, Customers We serve the US construction industry, construction and domestic domestic appliance, aerospace engine and appliance markets.
airframe manufactures and other niche markets.
Large customers include Watsco, Ferguson, Boeing, Airbus, Pratt & Whitney, GE, Samsung, Trane and Carrier.
Competitors Revenue performance We compete with leading suppliers across m our product range.
Examples include 284m up 6% Parker-Hannifin, Zoppas and Ward.
Suppliers 2016 284 We source key materials from world-class 2015 269 companies selected to provide exceptional quality, service and value.
2014 250 48 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Markets and trends Fluid Management Strategy Flex-Tek designs and manufactures We are a market-leading manufacturer Our Construction Products segment is engineered components which heat and of specialty high-performance, flexible positioned to continue to grow revenue and move fluids and gases for aerospace, and rigid tubing assemblies for aerospace market share in the US housing market, consumer products, construction, medical, applications worldwide.
Our specialised along with expanded geography and and industrial applications.
The diverse tubing provides reliable and efficient applications for our gas tubing products.
nature of these markets reduces Flex-Teks delivery of hydraulic fluids and jet fuel for In Heat Solutions we are expanding our reliance on any specific technology, although both commercial and military aircraft.
product portfolio through new product the division is highly leveraged to the Themarket for commercial aircraft remains development.
strong, with an OEM commercial aircraft business is focused on securing positions on order book of over 13,000 units.
next-generation aircraft in order to support Flex-Tek is organised under four marketthe delivery of the commercial aircraft order specific segments: Flexible Solutions book.
We also continue to seek out strategic Flexible Solutions hoses and hose Heat Solutions bolt-on acquisitions to support business assemblies are focused into four distinct As the worlds largest manufacturer of development, through expansion of our markets: medical respiratory care, floor open coil heating elements, our products product portfolio and market share gains.
care appliances, industrial ventilation and serve customers that manufacture tumble automotive.
Automotive applications include dryers, HVAC equipment, medical devices, petrol and brake fluid delivery in traditional and bespoke applications.
Our specialised Competitive strengths automobiles as well as next-generation elements and thermal systems provide fuels for natural gas and hydrogen-powered consistent temperature controls which High-performance flexible tubing products vehicles.
improve system efficiency and performance.
for aerospace Revenue growth is driven by the US housing The business performance generally High capability to design and manufacture market, along with an increasing number follows macroeconomic indicators such heating solutions for bespoke applications of specialty heating applications in North ashealthcare spending, US GDP and capital America and Asia.
Strong customer relationships Construction Products Market-leading product performance Flex-Tek manufactures market-leading inresidential gas tubing flexible gas piping and HVAC flexible ducting for the US construction market.
Ourcustomers are large national wholesale distributors in North America, supplying both plumbing and HVAC tradesmen.
The US housing market is driving positive revenue and market share gains.
Did you know The diverse nature of Flex-Teks Our Teflon braided hose can reach temperatures ranging markets reduces reliance on any from 230C to-100C.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 49 Operational review Continued Flex-Tek 2016 2015 Reported Underlying Research and development m m growth growth Spending on research and development Revenue 284 269 6% 0% remained constant, focused on innovation to Headline operating profit 51 50 3% 3 % meet specific customer needs.
We continued Headline operating margin 18.0% 18.5% 50 bps our focus on the development of specialty Statutory operating profit 37 41 10 % heating elements, expanded applications for Return on capital employed 31.6% 33.6% 200 bps gas tubing products and on products to meet the requirements of the next generation ofquieter, more fuel-efficient aircraft.
Performance profit primarily reflects a 12m charge Revenue was in line with the prior year on to extend the provision for litigation in 1 an underlying basis.
On a reported basis, relation to damage allegedly caused Priorities for 2017 foreign exchange benefits led to revenue by lightningstrikes.
Continue growth of Heat Solutions Return on capital employed decreased Construction revenue grew 3% on an 200basis points to 31.6%, driven by the specialty segment business 1 underlying basis, with both Gastite and slightly lower rate of return on sales and Drive European growth of Gastite Thermaflex benefitting from the growing byinvestment in expanding site capacity.
Improve execution and growth in Fluid US housing market.
A softening of orders 1 Underlying excludes the impact of acquisitions 1 Management in aerospace led to a 1% underlying and divestments, and the effects of foreign decline inFluid Management revenue.
Heat exchangetranslation New product development in key areas 1 Solutions revenue fell 5% on an underlying basis, principally due to lower nickel Growth drivers Go to www.
com prices reducing our own selling prices to for more information 1 customers.
Flexible Solutions underlying revenue growth of 1% was driven by Strong commercial aerospace increased demand from the medical sector, marketgrowth although this was offset byadecline in the Steady growth in US housing construction floorcaresegment.
Expanding base of bespoke heating Headline operating profit of 51m delivered element solutions a margin of 18.0%, slightly lower than the Growing European sales of gas tubing prior year.
A Gastite product transition was the primary driver of lower performance, Additional applications for gas tubing even though Gastite margins were better products than expected due to lower material costs.
Profits and margins inHeat Solutions, Thermaflex, and Flexible Solutions improved slightly over the last year.
The difference between statutory and headline operating International sales Flex-Teks R&D spend is focused 4% on innovation to meet specific customer needs.
Did you know Our Titeflex Aerospace hoses can be found on the International Space Station.
50 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Game-changing capabilities As one of the leading printer suppliers, Hewlett Packard HP is a pioneer of new technologies, so its no surprise that they partnered with Flex-Teks subsidiary, Tutco, when they needed to develop new heating applications for their large, industrial graphic printers.
Working with HPs design team, Tutco developed the designs and prototypes at its facilities in the US and China, and managed the pre-build and production of new heating elements used to dry ink during printing to deliver a range of heating applications across several HPplatforms.
These developments give HP game-changing capabilities as they aim to set benchmarks for speed and qualityproducts.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 51
