Operational review Continued Smiths Interconnect Contribution to 2016 Contribution to 2016 Group revenue Group headline operating profit 15% 11% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Principal operating regions Smiths Interconnect Revenue by sector We operate globally with locations Connectors 36% develops electronic inNorth and Central America, Europe, Microwave 44% components and AsiaandAustralia.
Power 20% sub-systems providing Customers signal, power and Our blue chip customers are prime contractors, OEMs, system suppliers and microwave solutions.
Examples include Raytheon, Verizon, Huawei, CyrusOne and NVIDIA.
Competitors We have many small, medium and larger competitors in various product and Revenue performance technology areas, including Amphenol, m Yokowo, Commscope, Anaren, Cobham 435m up 4% and Emerson.
Suppliers 2016 435 We develop supplier partnerships 2015 420 whilst ensuring no material individual dependencies.
2014 445 44 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Markets and trends With a strong backlog, the commercial Strategy Smiths Interconnect comprises three aerospace market remains robust, driven Our global business model is to focus technology-focused businesses: byincreasing passenger and freight demand on customers that value our innovative, particularly in developing regions, and the technically differentiated offerings and Connectors provides application-specific, need to upgrade fleets to more efficient our agility, responsiveness and service.
Smiths Interconnect provides We allocate resources to markets, solutions.
connector and satellite communications customers and regions with the most Microwave provides components, antenna solutions for various aircraft and attractive prospects, particularly defence, sub-assemblies and systems for space applications.
aerospace, medical, semiconductor, wireless defence, aerospace and wireless telecommunications, data centres and Asia.
Restructuring and efficiency initiatives, infrastructure market is driven by the including lean and value engineering, Power provides distribution, conditioning need for higher data rates and bandwidth deliver the funds for investment.
By and monitoring solutions for data centres.
utilisation to support mobile communication providing a technically challenging, exciting devices and their data-intensive applications.
Smiths Interconnect addresses a variety and rewarding environment, we attract Smiths Interconnect supplies highof end markets, particularly defence, and retain the necessary talent to drive performance microwave components used aerospace, space, medical, wireless ourfuture performance.
in cell sites, as well as products and test telecommunications, data centres and equipment that help optimise and protect semiconductor test.
Competitive strengths Global defence spending remains Data centre demand is driven by internet constrained as governments maintain tight traffic growth caused by cloud computing, Innovative and technically differentiated budget control.
New investment is biased data regulations, web-enabled devices offerings towards system upgrades in critical areas and mobile applications.
Co-location such as intelligence, surveillance and Ultra-high reliability solutions used providers continue to grow faster than reconnaissance, force protection and force indemanding applications enterprise demand as companies choose multipliers.
Our microwave technology, to outsource rather than fund large capital Customer intimacy, responsiveness ruggedised connectors and electromagnetic projects.
Smiths Interconnects conditioning, andproduct customisation pulse protection solutions are deployed in distribution and monitoring solutions the most extreme environments, such as Global presence, reach and support ensurepower quality is delivered to sensitive enabling sensors, communications and ITequipment.
Smiths Interconnect provides connector and cable assembly solutions to semiconductor applications.
The high rate of technology refresh, increased functionality and greater connectivity requirements of electronic devices are key drivers for this market.
Did you know Smiths Interconnect serves Our connectors were used in the mission to land the a variety of end markets, Philae Probe on the surface of a comet.
particularly defence, aerospace, space, medical, wireless telecommunications, data centres and semiconductor test.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 45 Operational review Continued Smiths Interconnect 2016 2015 Reported Underlying Growth drivers m m growth growth Revenue 435 420 4% 1 % Proliferation of electronic devices Headline operating profit 57 49 16% 9% Headline operating margin 13.1% 11.6% 150bps Demand for greater connectivity Statutory operating profit 26 28 7 % andmobility Return on capital employed 10.3% 9.1% 120bps Growth in high data rate applications Increasing sophistication of customer needs in emerging markets Performance Headline operating profit grew 9% on 1 1 Revenue declined 1% on an underlying an underlying basis and the headline Increasingly sophisticated defence basis with good growth in the Power operating margin increased 150bps to requirements business offset by defence programme 13.1%, with accretion in all three business slowdowns and lower demand for areas.
Significant benefits came from semiconductors.
Revenue grew 4% on improvements in productivity through areported basis, boosted by 21m foreign value engineering, lean manufacturing exchange benefits.
and automation initiatives and from restructuring and procurement savings, 1 Underlying revenue growth of 3% in which more than offset wage inflation thePower business was driven by strong and negative operational gearing from data centre expansion in North America lower volumes and mix effects.
The and an increased focus on preventative difference between statutory and headline 1 maintenance service contracts.
Underlying operating profit primarily reflects an 18m Microwave revenue declined 5% due to goodwill impairment for Microwave, 8m lower customer demand and defence amortisation of acquired intangible assets programme delays, although major new and 4m for restructuring.
defence contracts for microwave assemblies 1 were secured.
Underlying Connectors Return on capital employed increased revenue remained flat year-on-year as a 120basis points to 10.3% predominantly decline in defence sales was offset by good driven by the higher profitability.
demand in the commercial aerospace and 1 Underlying excludes the impact of acquisitions space markets, which included the supply and divestments, and the effects of foreign ofhigh-reliability connectors to the NASA exchangetranslation Orion exploration spacecraft.
Research and development Significant benefits came from 6% improvements in productivity through value engineering, lean manufacturing and .
Did you know Our airborne satellite communication antenna systems have provided over 8 million hours of highspeed inflight connectivity.
46 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Research and development In Connectors, we launched new Priorities for 2017 Total research and development expenditure high-reliability connector solutions of 26m was in line with the prior year, for commercial aerospace and high Focus on valued customers and sales representing 6.0% of revenue, of which pressure and temperature oil and gas channels 24m was company-funded 2015: 23m.
Elastomeric contact Investments were focused on higher growth technology was added to our portfolio International expansion, particularly Asia sectors, supporting key customers needs through a partnership agreement.
New product investments targeted at or accessing new customers, regions or higher growth segments In Power, we developed higher efficiency markets.
Highlights included: transformers in compliance with a US Reduce costs through value engineering In Microwave, we invested in new Department of Energy regulation that and scale efficiencies telecoms test products targeted at the entered into force in early 2016, as well as Embed new leadership team Asian market, broadened our range of a new power distribution unit, and remote passive components to provide increased power panel and busway range extensions.
functionality and developed millimetre Go to www.
com wave products for advanced radar for more information systems and nascent higher frequency .
Transforming manufacturing inShanghai Smiths Microwave Telecoms, Shanghai is transforming its manufacturing, moving from largely manual processes to a high level of automation as part .
Since September 2014, the team has successfully automated three major processes screw assembly, pre-tuned alignment, and intermodulation testing and is on the path to becoming a highly automated manufacturing facility that can lead the market in terms of quality, cost, delivery and service.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 47
