SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 10 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Maximising our performance BUILD A STRONG POSITION Smith & Nephew has a clear vision to build a IN ESTABLISHED MARKETS successful, sustainable business.
This vision is Build on existing strong positions, win market share through greater product encapsulated in our corporate value proposition and commercial innovation and drive supporting healthcare professionals by taking a efficiencies to liberate resources.
pioneering approach to the design of our advanced medical products and services, by securing wider access to our diverse technologies for more customers FOCUS ON globally, and by enabling better outcomes for patients EMERGING MARKET and healthcare systems.
Deliver leadership in the Emerging Markets by building strong, direct Moreover, we are focused on transforming the growth customer relationships, widening access to our premium products and profile of the business while delivering this proposition.
developing portfolios designed for the We are working to rebalance the Group towards higher economic mid-tier population.
Over the last five years, Smith & Nephew has materially improved the mix of higher growth potential to lower growth businesses, shifting from one-third higher growth to over 50% today.
INNOVATE FOR VALUE Deliver pioneering products and Our strategic priorities, introduced in 2011, guide business models that improve clinical our actions in delivering these twin aspirations of and economical outcomes and widen access across geographies and supporting healthcare professionals and transforming patient groups.
SIMPLIFY AND IMPROVE OUR OPERATING MODEL Pursue maximum efficiency in everything we do, streamline our operations and manufacturing, remove duplication and build strong global functions to support our commercial teams.
SUPPLEMENT ORGANIC GROWTH WITH ACQUISITIONS Build our platform by acquiring complementary technologies, manufacturing and distribution capabilities in the Emerging Markets and complementary products or businesses in our higher growth segments.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 11 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Build a strong position in Established Markets We delivered 4% reported and 3% underlying growth LQ WKH 8QLWHG 6WDWHV RXUODUJHVW PDUNHW Established Markets for Smith & Nephew are Our Reconstruction business continues to IMPROVING Australia, Canada, Europe, Japan, New Zealand have good momentum, driven by our Knee PATIENT and the US.
The Knee Implant portfolio was further strengthened by the acquisition of OUTCOMES Smith & Nephew delivered 85% of its revenue NAVIO, an exciting robotics platform, from which from these Established Markets in 2016. we delivered more than 50% revenue growth in Within this, we delivered 4% reported growth 2016, in line with previous guidance.
and 3% underlying revenue growth in the United States, our largest market.
Reported Growth In early 2016 we undertook further changes to Unplanned readmissions are costly to hospitals, was down -1% and underlying growth was our organisational structure, creating a single surgeons and patients and, in the US, can result flat across our other Established Markets.
Commercial Organisation led by Mike Frazzette, in significant financial implications for hospitals Overall, reported revenue growth was 1% and Chief Commercial Officer, who is overseeing all and other healthcare organisations under the underlying revenue growth was 2% across all commercial activities sales, marketing, market Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement our Established Markets.
access, and commercial strategy across the Model CJR and Bundled Payments for Care Group for our full line of business.
Its mission is Improvement BPCI initiative.
For patients, The Sports Medicine franchises continue to to define and drive best practice in commercial an unplanned readmission can complicate perform strongly as we build on our broad execution across our geographies and in and extend the recovery period and the portfolio of joint repair products, instruments and marketing across the franchises.
It is now two years since and surgeons focused on value, as defined by we completed the acquisition of ArthroCare.
We also brought all of our US franchises under quality outcomes achieved through efficiency, The expected benefits are coming through one leader, completing the roll-out of our unplanned readmissions can negatively and we are on track to deliver the expected single managing director MD model globally.
$85 million of sales synergies by the end of 2017.
The single MD model is enabling us to improve our customer focus, commercial agility and In response, Smith & Nephew pioneered its operating efficiency.
Episode of Care Assurance Program eCAP, an innovation designed to mitigate risk for our customers.
It pairs together Smith & Nephews entire line of primary total hip and knee reconstructive systems with two of its most innovative wound care products: PICO Single Use NPWT and ACTICOAT Flex 7 Silver-coated Antimicrobial Barrier Dressing.
Smith & Nephew warrants that the products will perform as expected, based on the product labels.
If a patient is readmitted within 90 days following a procedure for a surgical site infection or to revise the implant due to a failure of a Smith & Nephew product, we will pay a hospitals unreimbursed costs for the readmission up to the aggregate $3,978m 1% 2% 85% purchase prices of the implant, PICO and 1 ACTICOAT Flex 7.
Revenue from Established Markets Reported Underlying Of Group revenue Why is the KPI important?
Track the relative strength of our position in these markets.
Whilst we grew in 2016, we did not grow as fast as we wanted and underperformed the market.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 7KH QRQ, 56 QDQFLDO PHDVXUHV DUH H[SODLQHG DQG UHFRQFLOHG $3,654m $3,788m $3,940m $3,919m $3,978m WR WKH PRVW GLUHFWO FRPSDUDEOH QDQFLDO PHDVXUH SUHSDUHG LQ accordance with IFRS on pages 175-177.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 12 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Focus on Emerging Markets Our Emerging Markets represent 15% of 6PLWK 1HSKHZV UHYHQXH XS IURP LQ Our Emerging Markets represent those through 2016, Sports Medicine returned to ANTHEM outside the Established Markets, including growth and Trauma followed.
We expect TOTAL KNEE the BRIC group of Brazil, Russia, India and Advanced Wound Management to continue to China.
These countries represent 15% of Smith be impacted in the first half of 2017.
Strategically, LAUNCHES 1HSKHZV UHYHQXH XS IURP LQ the growth prospects in China remain very, 1 0 5, 1 attractive and we believe current end-market In the Emerging Markets revenue was down -3% growth rates are solid double-digit.
We are MARKETS on a reported basis and flat on an underlying confident that we have taken all necessary basis.
Most of our Emerging Markets businesses measures and that China remains a very continue to generate double-digit growth as we attractive market in which we are committed to benefit from our investments in our business building our business.
2016 saw the commercial launch of the ANTHEM In the oil-dependent Gulf States we saw very Total Knee System.
This platform was developed In China, the slow-down in end-markets difficult trading conditions, particularly in our specifically to address the needs of patients and first seen in mid-2015 was compounded by tender business, which are likely to persist.
surgeons across Asia, the Middle East, Africa destocking in the distributor channel during and Latin America.
We first saw this in Sports Medicine, As a matter of course we expect to see some knee offering fit for all ethnicities based on both subsequently followed by Trauma and Advanced volatility in the Emerging Markets, but we intraoperative measurements and the analysis Wound Management.
The effect was not so continue to see significant long-term growth RI&7 LPDJHV IURP SDWLHQWV DFURVV WKH ZRUOG visible in the more mature Reconstruction potential and are very well positioned in our market, where stock levels were not geared to chosen markets.
ANTHEM utilises the ORTHOMATCH a rapid market expansion.
As we progressed instrumentation platform which reduces weight, footprint and unnecessary cost without compromising on quality or clinical outcomes.
Smith & Nephew has partnered with Touch Surgery to develop a surgical simulation app for the ANTHEM Total Knee System, providing surgeons and healthcare professionals with a virtual training platform to learn, simulate and rehearse the knee replacement procedure in a 3D operating room environment.
ANTHEM, ORTHOMATCH and Touch Surgery together provide an advanced and globally relevant knee implant that is accessible to all orthopaedic surgeons and patients in the Emerging Markets.
$691m -3% 0% 15% 1 Of Group revenue Revenue from Emerging Markets Reported Underlying Why is the KPI important?
Track underlying growth of Emerging Markets to global growth.
Double digit growth across most markets was offset by China and the Gulf States.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 7KH QRQ, 56 QDQFLDO PHDVXUHV DUH H[SODLQHG DQG UHFRQFLOHG $483m $563m $677m $715m $691m WR WKH PRVW GLUHFWO FRPSDUDEOH QDQFLDO PHDVXUH SUHSDUHG LQ accordance with IFRS on pages 175-177.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 13 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Innovate for value In 2016 we took a significant step to increase RXUGLVUXSWLYH LQQRYDWLRQ We continue to innovate for value with new In Hip Implants we added to the REDAPT, 1129$7,1, 1 product launches and disruptive business Revision System with a new Acetabular 7 23 5$7,1 5220 models.
A number of exciting new platforms Fully Porous Cup designed for cases where were introduced in 2016. compromised bone makes implant fixation DQGVWDELOLW PRUH GLIILFXOW In Sports Medicine we introduced our new LENS Surgical Imaging System and WEREWOLF In 2016 we took a significant step to increase Developed in-house and launched in 2016, the COBLATION System for resecting soft our disruptive innovation, appointing a LENS Integrated Visualisation System provides tissue.
We also launched the ULTRABUTTON President of Research and Development, integrated three in one design, incorporating a Adjustable Fixation Device which provides Vasant Padmanabhan, to lead a newly formed Console which consists of the Camera Control advanced fixation strength for soft tissue to bone single global R&D organisation.
In addition to Unit, LED Light Source and Image Management fixation in ACL PCL repair and reconstruction.
executing our technology pipeline, this leader System, Camera Head 1080p broadcast grade will be responsible for driving breakthrough In Knee Implants we began limited market image technology, and iPad Application.
innovation and defining a clear path from release of our JOURNEY II XR, an innovative concept to market.
In 2017 the team is focused Employing the latest in CMOS chip technology, bi-cruciate retaining knee and the newest on increasing productivity, improving processes the LENS System captures High Definition addition to the JOURNEY II Active Knee and better leveraging our resources and images and produces clear live video.
We are augmenting our own work with expertise.
A more aligned organisation has The Camera Head is autoclavable, durable and acquisitions, such as the purchase of NAVIO, also allowed us to centralise our approach to ergonomic, and the Smith & Nephew proprietary which has given us an exciting robotics platform developing evidence that demonstrates the iPad application takes media management and with opportunities across the spectrum of knee clinical and economic benefits of our products, versatility to a whole new level.
We conducted the first total knee supporting our commercial teams in positioning procedures using our NAVIO surgical robotics New innovations such as LENS and the our products more effectively.
WEREWOLF COBLATION System are vital components to advance our operating room OR tower strategy.
A tower is made up of visualisation or camera system, COBLATION resection controllers, mechanical resection or blade controllers and fluid management or pump components.
Customers look at a tower as a solution to complete an arthroscopic procedure and Smith & Nephew is well positioned with our new products and established strength in DYONICS Shaver Blades and GoFLO Pumps.
$230m 4.9% Of Group revenue R&D expenditure Why is the KPI important?
Through this KPI we monitor our underlying investment in R&D.
We met our target to keep investment in R&D at around 5% of Group revenue.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 $171m $231m $235m $222m $230m SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 14 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Simplify and improve our operating model Focusing on efficiencies has realised annual savings of $120 million.
In 2016 we continued to simplify and improve consistency across our country business units.
NEW MANUFACTURING our operating model and delivered significant Requirements of global regulatory agencies FACILITY OPENS efficiencies.
In Manufacturing, our Global have become more stringent in recent years and Operations leadership team is focused on we expect them to continue to do so.
We are supporting the Groups strategic priorities by continuing to expand our portfolio globally ensuring our footprint and expertise are ready through new product development and by to respond to geographical growth, new product registering our existing products in new markets.
In 2016 we opened a new manufacturing development, greater external regulatory In order to meet the expectations of regulators facility in Costa Rica.
The new plant will support scrutiny and the commercial pressure to be ever and support this added complexity we the global demand for Smith & Nephews more efficient.
We made good progress across continued to invest in our Quality and Regulatory COBLATION technology.
COBLATION is an these areas in the year.
Highlights included expertise in 2016. arthroscopic procedure that involves the creation the opening of a new state-of-the-art facility in and application of an energy field, which is The Group Optimisation Plan was announced Costa Rica, which will provide a more efficient used for the precise removal of soft tissue with in May 2014 with a stated savings target of operation for current products as well as minimal damage to untargeted tissue.
annualised benefits of $120 million by the valuable capacity for future growth.
We delivered ahead of plan Smith & Nephews position within the global created more than 100 positions for newly and reached our target at the end of 2016. sports medicine market was strengthened qualified graduate engineers across facilities These savings have been driven by our focus significantly in 2014, with the acquisition of LQWKH 86 DQG HOVHZKHUH on efficient procurement, the greater agility of ArthroCare Corporation.
The transaction added Quality has always been paramount to Smith & the single country managing director model and highly complementary products to the existing Nephew.
We have a unified Quality Assurance rationalisation of our facility footprint in a number portfolio, as well as manufacturing expertise in and Regulatory Affairs team to ensure of countries.
17.2% 2SHUDWLQJ 3URW 2SHUDWLQJ 3URW 0DUJLQ 2SHUDWLQJ SURW LQFUHDVHG E P from $628m in 2015 to $801m in 2016.
This movement in 2016 was primarily driven by the absence of costs recognised in 2015 relating to anticipated and settled metal-on-metal hip claims.
We use this KPI to track our underlying SURW JURZWK DQG WUDGLQJ SURWDELOLW How have we performed?
7UDGLQJ SURW PDUJLQ UHHFWV transactional FX headwind, loss of leverage from lower sales growth and investment in Blue Belt, offset E HIFLHQFLHV 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 7KH QRQ, 56 QDQFLDO PHDVXUHV DUH H[SODLQHG DQG UHFRQFLOHG 23.3% 22.7% 22.9% 23.7% 21.8% WR WKH PRVW GLUHFWO FRPSDUDEOH QDQFLDO PHDVXUH SUHSDUHG LQ accordance with IFRS on pages 175-177.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Supplement organic growth with acquisitions Our two largest acquisitions are delivering good returns.
In recent years we have undertaken a number of acquisitions, strengthening both our technology STRENGTHENING and product portfolio and our Emerging Markets SPORTS MEDICINE business.
We have delivered good returns with the success of our two larger acquisitions, Healthpoint and ArthroCare, establishing a strong track record in Mergers and Acquisitions M&A.
When we acquired ArthroCare in 2014, With Healthpoint Biotherapeutics, acquired we stated that it would fundamentally in 2012 for $782 million, our third year return strengthen our Sports Medicine business.
on capital has exceeded our expectations.
Subsequently we have delivered strong ArthroCare, acquired in 2014 for $1.5 billion, growth across the highly complementary is performing in line with our expectations.
:H DUHDKHDG RI RXU SODQ WR GHOLYHU PLOOLRQ of synergies by 2017 and have achieved almost We are ahead of our plan to deliver all our targeted cost savings.
$85 million to annual profit in 2017, E UHDOLVLQJ FRVW DQG UHYHQXH V QHUJLHV In 2016, we continued to invest in acquisitions.
the consolidated product pipelines, with The acquisition of Blue Belt Technologies, new products in Shoulder Repair, Knee completed in January, has given us a leading Repair and the launches of LENS position in the fast growing area of roboticsSurgical Imaging System and assisted orthopaedic surgery.
Its NAVIO surgical WEREWOLF COBLATION system provides robotics-assistance in partial System in 2016. knee replacement surgery and we intend to expand it into total knee, bi-cruciate retaining knee and revision knee implants, potentially delivering further upside.
The expansion of our NAVIO robotics platform is progressing at pace, with the first total knee completed in 2016.
In addition, we created compelling value by selling our Gynaecology business for $350 million 2015 revenue: $56 million in August 2016.
We had built this business rapidly on the back of Smith & Nephews resection technology and expertise.
We completed the associated $300 million share buy-back programme in December 2016, returning the value created directly to shareholders.
The Board periodically reviews acquisitions to evaluate longer-term performance and capture lessons learned to help improve strategy and process.
As you would expect, some of our recent smaller acquisitions have out-performed our initial expectations, whereas others have underperformed.
Collectively we are pleased with the performance of the technology and Emerging Markets acquisitions we have made.
