66 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors of Sophos Group plc the Company present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and auditors report on the Group for the year-ended 31 March 2016.
STRATEGIC REPORT The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to prepare a strategic report which is presented on pages 6 to 37 of the Annual Report and includes a fair review of the business, a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and an indication of likely future developments.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR the Group is required to produce a corporate governance statement.
The information to fulfil this requirement is included in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to 44 and Committee Reports on pages 45 to 65, which have been incorporated into the Directors Report by cross-reference.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS The Directors who held office during the year and up to the date of the signing of this report: Peter Gyenes Non-Executive Director and Chairman Kris Hagerman Chief Executive Officer Nick Bray Chief Financial Officer Sandra Bergeron Non-Executive Director Edwin Gillis Non-Executive Director Roy Mackenzie Non-Executive Director Steve Munford Non-Executive Director Salim Nathoo Non-Executive Director Paul Walker Non-Executive Director A summary of the Directors remuneration, employment contracts and interests in the shares of the Company are disclosed within the Remuneration Report.
Related party disclosures are included in note 32 of the Financial Statements.
None of the Directors had an interest in any significant contracts of the Group or its subsidiaries.
Throughout the year the Company has purchased and maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
The Directors also have the benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Company has entered into qualifying third-party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and which were in force throughout the year and remain in force.
RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT From the date of listing to 9 December 2015, Pentagon Lock Sarl, Pentagon Lock 6-A Sarl, Pentagon Lock 7-A Sarl and Pentagon Lock US Sarl collectively Apax held more than 30 percent of the shares in the Company.
On 26 June 2015, the Company and Apax entered into a Relationship Agreement which regulates the ongoing relationship between the Company and the controlling shareholder in accordance with the Listing Rules.
The Board can confirm that throughout the period: the Company has complied with the agreements independence provisions: as far as the Company is aware, the controlling shareholder and its associates have complied with the agreements independence provisions: and as far as the Company is aware, the controlling shareholder has procured the compliance of non-signing controlling shareholders with the agreements independence provisions.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS The following significant agreements are in place as of 31 March 2016 that include provisions which would enable the counterparties to alter or terminate the agreements upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid: A syndicated secured term loan Facility A of $235.0 million with an interest rate of LIBOR 2.25 percent entered into on 1 July 2015, repayable in full on maturity after five years: A syndicated secured term loan Facility B of 60.0 million with an interest rate of EURIBOR 2.25 percent entered into on 1 July 2015, repayable in full on maturity after five years: and A revolving credit facility agreement RCF of $30.0 million with an interest rate of LIBOR 2.00 percent entered into on 1 July 2015.
SHARE CAPITAL AND SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS The share capital of the Company is disclosed in note 28 of the Financial Statements: ordinary shares of 3p each are the only class of share in issue.
As at 31 March 2016 and 20 May 2016 the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
It should be noted that these holdings may have changed since notified to the Company, however notification of any change is not required until the next applicable threshold is crossed: As at 31 March 2016 As at 20 May 2016 Percentage of Percentage of Name Shares held total ordinary shares Shares held total ordinary shares Apax 100,722,776 22.3 100,722,776 22.3 Jan Hruska 42,543,360 9.41 42,543,360 9.41 Peter Lammer 42,543,360 9.41 42,543,360 9.41 Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 22,735,577 5.0 22,735,577 5.0 Oddo Asset Management N A N A 13,633,922 3.02 VOTING RIGHTS The Articles of Association of the Company allow, subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a vote on a resolution on a show of hands, every member or proxy who is present shall have one vote.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a vote on a resolution on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
TRANSFER OF SHARES The transfer of shares is governed by the Companys Articles of Association which allows any member to transfer certificated shares in any usual form or in any other form for which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in the Company form taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is i lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the office or at another place appointed by the Board, accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transfer to make the transfer: ii in respect of only one class of shares: and iii in favour of not more than four transferees.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Articles of Association of the Company can be amended only by special resolution.
68 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution, the number of Directors shall be no less than three but is not subject to any maximum number.
The Board may appoint a person who is willing to act to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
At every Annual General Meeting AGM all the Directors at the date of the notice convening the AGM shall retire from office, if the Company does not fill the vacancy at the meeting the retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be deemed to have been re-appointed unless at the meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or unless a resolution for the re-appointment of the Director is put to the meeting and lost.
A person ceases to be a Director as soon as: i notification is received by the Company from the Director that they are resigning or retiring from office: ii t hat person has been absent for more than six consecutive months without permission of the Board and the Board resolves that their office be vacated: iii the person has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a Director and may remain so for more than three months: iv a bankruptcy order is made against that person: v a composition is made with that persons creditors generally in satisfaction of that persons debts: vi that person ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of the Act or is prohibited from being a Director by law: or vii that person is removed from office pursuant to the Articles of Association.
POWERS OF THE BOARD Subject to provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
DIVIDENDS At the time of the IPO, the Directors indicated an intention to adopt a progressive dividend policy, reflecting the cash-generative nature and long-term earnings potential of the Group.
The Directors have recommended that the Company pay a final dividend in relation to the yearended 31 March 2016 of 1.1 US Cents per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, combined with the interim dividend announced of 0.7 US Cents per share, this gives a total dividend for the year of 1.8 US Cents per share.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice of the AGM which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM accompanies this annual report.
The AGM will be held at 15:00 on 14 September 2016 at The Pentagon, Abingdon Science Park, Abingdon, OX14 3YP.
EMPLOYEES The Group continues to invest to drive future growth.
A key objective of the Group is to achieve a shared commitment by all employees to the success of the business.
Throughout the Group there is consultation between employees and management on matters of mutual interest and information is disseminated through team and Company briefings, an intranet and individual development reviews.
Employees are encouraged to promote and participate in the progress and profitability of the Group through the share option plans and other incentive schemes.
The Group provides full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the role can be adequately fulfilled by a disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group continues to undertake research and development activity relating to its principal activities.
In the year-ended 31 March 2016, the Group spent 18.6 percent of its billings on research and development 2015: 17.2 percent.
POLITICAL DONATIONS The Groups policy is not to make any political donations.
Accordingly, no political donations have been made in the year-ended 31 March 2016 or the year-ended 31 March 2015.
SHARE OPTION PLANS The Group operates a number of share option plans to motivate and retain staff and align their interests with shareholders.
Details of these schemes are set out in note 30 to the Financial Statements.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Details of the Group's financial risk management policies and risks are set out in note 27 to the Financial Statements.
AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES AND AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES At a general meeting held on 28 June 2015 the Company was authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 up to 45,000,000 shares.
The Company was given authority by way of written resolution of the shareholders of the Company on 26 June 2015 to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,500,000,000.
SHARES HELD IN THE EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST The Trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust will abstain from voting or exercising any other rights in respect of any shares held by them and in which no beneficial interest is held by any beneficiary unless otherwise directed by the Company.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG disclosures for the Group have been shown for the year-ended 31 March 2016, consistent with the Groups financial year.
As this is the first year that the Group is required to disclose the GHG data, no comparatives have been shown.
The calculation of the disclosures has been performed in accordance with Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and using the UK governments DEFRA conversion factor guidance for the year reported.
The operations of the Group that primarily release GHG includes usage of electricity and gas of our owned and leased offices, business travel and usage of vehicles.
The current year reporting covers all of our material operations and locations which includes over 75 percent of our year-end employees.
Where information has not been directly available for the offices, estimates based on size and headcount have been applied.
The Group is developing its GHG data gathering capabilities that will, in the coming year, increase the breadth of data captured as well as the number of offices for which direct information is available.
The Group's chosen intensity ratio is tonnes of CO2 equivalent per million US Dollars of billings as it reflects the impact of the growth of the business with emissions and with the strategy of the Group.
Year-ended 31 March 2016 tCO e 2 Usage of fuel and operation of buildings 2,099.3 Electricity purchased for own use 3,024.7 Business travel air and car 4,039.4 Total 9,163.4 Intensity ratio tCO e per $M of billings 17.1 2 GOING CONCERN Having made appropriate enquiries and considered the Groups forecasts, the Directors consider that the Group has sufficient resources to continue for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further details regarding the adoption of the going concern basis can be found in the viability statement below.
VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impacts of the principal risks documented on pages 30 to 33 of the Annual Report.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue to operate and to meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three years to 31 March 2019.
The Group prepares annually, and on a rolling basis, a strategic plan, which is predicated on a detailed year one budget and higher level forecasts thereafter.
The output of this plan is used to perform debt and associated covenant headroom profile analysis, which includes sensitivity to business as usual risks such as billings and EBITDA impacts.
A bottom-up operating plan is prepared on an annual basis for presentation to the Board.
Following assessment of the planning process, the Directors have determined that a three-year period is an appropriate period over which to assess the Groups viability.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over a longer period: the period of three years has been chosen to provide a greater degree of certainty and, in the view of the Directors, provides an appropriate long-term outlook.
In making this viability statement, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Where individual principal risks did not impact the future viability of the Group, consideration was given to potential principal risk combinations.
The process of identifying, assessing and managing our principal risks is described in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 46 to 51.
70 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS There have been no material events from 31 March 2016 to the date of this report.
AUDITORS KPMG LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company and accordingly a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company is to be proposed to the shareholders at the AGM.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make them aware of any relevant audit information.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 102, the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board D Ari Buchler Company Secretary 25 May 2016
