Directors Report DIRECTORS REPORT Directors interests The Directors present their report for the year to 31 July 2016.
The interests of the Directors in the issued shares of the Company at 31 July 2016 Softcat plc is a public company limited by shares, incorporated in England are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 59.
The Remuneration Report and Wales, and its shares are traded on the Premium segment of the Main also sets out details of any changes in those interests between the year end Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Disclosures Incorporated by Reference No Director had a material interest in any contract of significance with the The following disclosures required to be included in this Directors report Company at any time during the financial year.
have been incorporated by way of reference to other sections of this report and should be read in conjunction with this report: Appointment and replacement of Directors The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained corporate governance statement refer to pages 32 to 35 of this report: in the Articles.
They provide that Directors may be appointed by ordinary strategy and relevant future developments refer to page 20 of the resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors.
Any Director Strategic Report: and soappointed must retire and put themselves forward for election at the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
Directors wishing to continue to serve as Financial risk management objectives and policies refer to the Risk members of the Board will seek re-election annually in accordance with the Management Report included in the Strategic Report on pages 24 to 25 UK Corporate Governance Code.
and note 20 to the financial statements on pages 91 to 92.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code, Directors of the Company atthe 2016 AGM each Director will stand for re-election.
The following Directors have held office since 1 August 2015: Indemnification of Directors Date of appointment The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity provision contained in the Name Position resignation Articles.
The provision was in force during the year ended 31 July 2016 and M J Hellawell Chief Executive Officer remains in force and relates to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors B Wallace Chairman may incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company.
In addition, Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are G L Charlton Chief Financial Officer covered by directors and officers liability insurance.
L Ginsberg Senior Independent Director Appointed 16 September 2015 Compensation for loss of office and change of control P Ventress Independent Non-Executive Appointed There are no agreements in place with any Director that would provide Director 1 October 2015 compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of V Murria Independent Non-Executive Appointed control.
Change of control provisions for the Companys share plans may Director 3 November 2015 cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Further information isprovided in the Remuneration Report on page 54.
P D J Kelly Non-Executive Director Resigned 15 October 2015 The Company is not party to any other significant agreements that take C W Brown Managing Director Resigned effect after, or terminate upon, a change of control.
15 October 2015 Articles of Association Directors biographies can be found on pages 30 to 31.
The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the members.
At the AGM held on 12 November 2015, shareholders approved by special resolution Powers of Directors the amended Articles which took effect at the date of the initial public The general powers of the Directors are contained within UK legislation and offering IPO on 18 November 2015. the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
The Directors are entitled to exercise all powers of the Company, subject to any limitations imposed Related party transactions bythe Articles or applicable legislation.
No related party transactions have been undertaken by the Company during the year.
62 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Share capital and control A special resolution granting the Directors the authority to make market The Companys ordinary issued share capital as at 31 July 2016 was 197,406,143 purchases up to 19,675,492 ordinary shares, representing 10% of the ordinary shares of 0.05p each, which have a premium listing on the London Companys issued ordinary share capital.
No shares have been Stock Exchange.
The ordinary share class represents over 99.9% of the purchased pursuant to this authority.
Companys total issued share capital.
These authorities are due to expire at the Companys AGM to be held on 8December 2016 and proposals for the renewal of the authority to allot In addition to the ordinary shares, the Company also has a class of 18,933 ordinary shares are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
deferred shares which were created following the share capital reorganisation TheCompany has no intention to complete a market purchase of its atIPO and which are not admitted to trading on a regulated market.
sharesand will not seek this authority at the 2016 AGM.
Shares acquired through the Companys share schemes and plans rank equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
The The ordinary shares are freely transferable with the exception of lock-up Company has an Employee Benefit Trust EBT and a Share Incentive Plan arrangements pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement dated 13 November 2015 Trust SIP Trust for the benefit of employees and former employees of the and deed polls of election entered into prior to the IPO.
The EBT holds nil ordinary shares and the SIP Trust holds 787,064 set out in detail in the Prospectus at IPO and, subject to customary exceptions, ordinary shares in the Company.
the following restrictions were still in place at year end: each Director and each of his or her family members and each trustee During the year ended 31 July 2016, share options were exercised pursuant ofa trust, the beneficiary of which is a Director and or a family member to the Company Share Option Plan, resulting in the allotment of 112,961 new of a Director undertook not to sell any further ordinary shares, other than ordinary shares.
On 11 December 2015, 629,883 ordinary shares were allotted to at IPO, for a period of 365 days after the date of the IPO: Capita IRG Trustees Limited, as trustee of the Companys SIP Trust, to facilitate the free share awards to certain eligible employees of the Company.
each selling shareholder, other than the core selling shareholders Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings assuch term is defined in the IPO prospectus, who was an employee of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, ofthe Company and who had a holding of ordinary shares of 0.5% or corporate representatives who are entitled to attend general meetings and more of the Companys issued share capital, in each case as at the date to exercise voting rights.
of the IPO Prospectus undertook not to sell any further ordinary shares, other than at IPO, for a period of 365 days after the date of the IPO: and The deferred shares carry no voting rights or rights to receive any of the profits certain non-selling shareholders undertook not to sell any ordinary of the Company available for distribution by way of dividend or otherwise.
shares for a period of either 180 or 365 days after the date of the IPO.
On a return of capital on a winding up of the Company but not otherwise, the holder is entitled only to the repayment of the amount paid up on that There are no further restrictions on the transfer or limitations on the holding share after payment of the capital paid up on each other share in the capital of ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain approval prior to any transfers of the Company and the further payment of 10,000,000 on each such share.
other than: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by The deferred shares represent less than 0.01% of the Companys total issued laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the share capital.
Market Abuse Regulation and the Companys own rules whereby Directors and certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company Further information on the Companys issued share capital can be found in to deal in the ordinary shares and pursuant to the Articles where there is note 16 to the financial statements.
default in supplying the Company with information concerning interests in The Company passed the following resolutions on 12 November 2015: the Companys ordinary shares.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys ordinary shares.
An ordinary resolution providing the Directors with authority to: There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known i allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 32,792, tothe Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities tobe reduced by the nominal amount allotted or granted under or on voting rights.
paragraph ii below in excess of such sum: and ii allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 65,585 in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue, such amount to be reduced by any allotments made under paragraph i above.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Directors Report continued Substantial shareholders The substantial shareholdings in the table below represent those interests notified to the Company as at 31 July 2016 in accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority, andthose holdings may have changed since notification to the Company.
The ordinary shares held by Peter Kelly, Martin Hellawell and John Nash include shares held beneficially via various entities or connected persons.
Principal shareholder and Relationship Agreement has agreed that for a period of two years from 18 November 2015, he shall not and shall procure that each of his Connected Persons shall not In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4R 14, the Company has set out below solicit or encourage for service or employment any of the executive astatement describing the Relationship Agreement entered into by the directors or members of senior management.
Company with its principal shareholder the Relationship Agreement.
Asat19 October 2016, Peter Kelly, the founder of Softcat plc held 32.91% Furthermore, the Company and Peter Kelly have agreed that for so long as ofthe issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Peter Kelly together with any of his Connected Persons holds 10 per cent.
ofthe Companys issued share capital, he shall be entitled to appoint one On 13 November 2015, the Company and Peter Kelly entered into the non-executive director of the Company, although no such director has been Relationship Agreement.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement appointed as at the date of this Annual Report.
is to ensure that the Company will be capable of carrying on its business independently of Peter Kelly and certain persons deemed to be connected The Relationship Agreement will remain in effect for so long as: a Peter Kelly with him Connected Persons.
and or any of his Connected Persons holds at least 10 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital: and b the ordinary shares are admitted Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, Peter Kelly, inter alia, tothe premium listing segment of the Official List maintained by the shall procure that all transactions, agreements or arrangements entered into Financial Conduct Authority.
between the Company and Peter Kelly or any of his Connected Persons The Company has and, in so far as it is aware, Peter Kelly and his Connected are conducted on an arms length basis, on normal commercial terms Persons have complied with the independence provisions set out in the and in accordance with the related party transaction rules set out in Relationship Agreement from the date of the agreement.
Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules and Peter Kelly shall abstain from voting on any resolution to which LR 11.1.
7R 4 of the Listing Rules applies relating Risk regarding financial instruments to a transaction with Peter Kelly or any of his Connected Persons as the related party: The financial risk management objectives and policies are disclosed in note 20 to the financial statements on pages 91 to 92. shall and shall procure that each of his Connected Persons shall i not take any actions that would reasonably be expected to have the effect Research and development ofpreventing the Company from complying with its obligations under the The Company did not carry out any research and development activities Listing Rules or be prejudicial to the Companys status as a listed company during the year 2015: none.
or the Companys eligibility for listing: ii not propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution that would circumvent or appear Political donations tocircumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules: and iii not The Company did not make any political donations during the period exercise his voting rights or other rights to procure any amendment 2015:nil.
tothe Articles which would be contrary to the maintenance of the Companys independence, including its ability to operate and make A resolution to authorise the Company to make political payments up to 50,000 decisions independently from Peter Kelly, or otherwise inconsistent has been included for shareholder consideration in the Notice of AGM.
The withthe provisions of the Relationship Agreement: Company does not intend to make any payments to political organisations or to incur other political expenditure: however this resolution has been proposed has agreed that for a period of two years from 18 November 2015, to ensure that the Company has authority under the wide definition used in heshall not be entitled to operate, establish or acquire an undertaking the Companies Act 2006 of matters constituting political donations.
which constitutes a competing business: and 64 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Greenhouse gas emissions Details of the Companys gender breakdown are given in the Corporate Information relating to the Companys greenhouse gas emissions is detailed Social Responsibility Report on page 27. on page 26 of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
The Company places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and continues to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees.
Corporate social responsibility This is undertaken through a variety of methods including, but not limited to, Details on our commitment to corporate social responsibility can be found weekly all-Company meetings, team briefings, Company days, email and the on pages 26 to 27 of the Strategic Report.
At team meetings, managers are responsible for ensuring that information sharing, discussion and feedback take place on a regular basis.
Equality and diversity As a result of these meetings management can communicate the financial The Company operates an equal opportunities policy which endeavours to and economic factors affecting the Company and ensure that the views treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of gender, disability, ofemployees are taken into account in Company decisions which are race, national or ethnic origin, sexual orientation or marital status.
Applications likelyto affect their interests.
for employment are fully considered on their merits, and employees are given appropriate training and equal opportunities for career development and promotion.
Post balance sheet events Dividend The Company is committed to ensuring that adequate policies and procedures The Board recommends a final dividend of 3.6p per ordinary share and a are in place to enable disabled applicants to receive training to perform safely special dividend of 14.2p per ordinary share to be paid on 16 December 2016 and effectively and to provide development opportunities to ensure they to all ordinary shareholders who were on the register of members at the close reach their full potential.
Where an individual becomes disabled during the of business on 18 November 2016.
Shareholders will be asked to approve course of their employment with the Company, the Company will seek to the finaland special dividends at the AGM on 8 December 2016. provide, wherever possible, continued employment on normal terms and conditions.
Adjustments will be made to the environment and duties or, The Companys dividend policy is detailed in the Chairmans statement alternatively, suitable new roles within the Company will be secured with onpage 5. additional training where necessary.
Requirements of the Listing Rules The following table provides references to where the information required by the Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is disclosed: Listing Rule requirement Location in Annual Report A statement of the amount of interest capitalised during the period under review and details Not applicable of any related tax relief.
Information required in relation to the publication of unaudited financial information.
Not applicable Details of any long-term incentive schemes.
Directors Remuneration Report, page 47 Details of any arrangements under which a Director has waived emoluments, or agreed Not applicable to waive any future emoluments, from the Company.
Details of any non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash.
Directors Report, page 63 Details of any non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking.
No such share allotments Details of parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary.
Not applicable Details of any contract of significance in which a Director is or was materially interested.
Not applicable Details of any contract of significance between the Company or one of its subsidiaries Not applicable and a controlling shareholder.
Details of waiver of dividends by a shareholder.
Not applicable Board statement in respect of Relationship Agreement with the controlling shareholder.
Directors Report, page 64 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Directors Report continued Auditor Responsibility statement pursuant to FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4 DTR 4 Ernst & Young LLP EY has signified its willingness to continue in office as auditor to the Company and the Company is satisfied that EY is independent Each Director of the Company whose names and functions appear on and that there are adequate safeguards in place to safeguard its objectivity.
pages30 to 31 confirms that solely for the purpose of DTR 4 to the best Aresolution to reappoint EY as the Companys auditor will be proposed ofhis or her knowledge: atthe 2016 AGM.
the financial statements in this document, prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and to the financial statements the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the development and performance of the business and the position of the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial that it faces.
year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must Disclosure of information to the auditor not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give The Directors in office at the time of approval of the Directors Report are a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the listed on page 62 and have each confirmed that: financial year and the profit or loss of the Company, so far as concerns members of the Company, for the financial year.
In preparing those financial so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information statements, the Directors are required to: ofwhich the Companys auditor is unaware: and select and apply accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken asaDirector to make himself or herself aware of any such relevant present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides auditinformation and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and ofthat information.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of theprovisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Going concern The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect are sufficient to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial its future development, performance and position, are set out in the position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Strategic Report on pages 1 to 27.
The financial position, of the Company, its comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Financial Review on They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and pages 22 to 23.
In addition, note 20 to the financial statements include the hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its and other irregularities.
financial risk management objectives and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Fair and balanced reporting The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the financial statements.
Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
66 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Viability statement Annual General Meeting In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the The Companys first AGM since IPO will take place on 8 December 2016 Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period atthe Companys registered office: Softcat plc, Fieldhouse Lane, Marlow, thanthe twelve months that has in practice been the focus of the Buckinghamshire SL7 1LW.
Subject to any restrictions set out in this section, goingconcern provision.
on a show of hands every holder of ordinary shares who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting had one vote on each resolution and, on The Board conducted the review for a three-year period, corresponding apoll, every holder of ordinary shares who is present in person or by proxy withthe period covered by its strategic level three-year plan process.
These has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which he she forecasts are updated on an annual basis and reflect the Companys policy isthe registered holder.
A proxy will have one vote against a resolution on of growth, increased customer offerings and available internal and financial ashow of hands in certain circumstances specified in the Articles.
The Notice resources without the need for external funding.
They consider profits, cash of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The Notice of AGM flows, funding requirements and other key financial ratios over the period, canbe found in the investor relations section of the Companys website, aswell as the desired minimum cash float.
com, and is being posted at the same time as this Annual Report.
The principal risks are set out on pages 24 to 25 and the most relevant The Notice of AGM sets out the business of the meeting and provides potential impact of these risks on viability was considered to be: explanatory notes on all resolutions.
Separate resolutions are proposed inrespect of each substantive issue.
a substantial and sustained decrease in revenue resulting from a loss ofSoftcat culture or inability to satisfy customer needs: A holder of ordinary shares may vote personally or by proxy at a general meeting.
Any form of proxy must be delivered to the Company not less than a substantial fall in achievable gross margins resulting from margin 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned pressure associated with a fall in levels of customer service: meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote a significant reduction in rebate income: and for this purpose, the Directors may specify that no account shall be taken ofany part of a day that is not a working day.
A corporation which is a an ongoing increase in the working capital cycle.
holder of ordinary shares in the Company may authorise such persons as The Board overlaid the potential impact of the principal risks which could itthinks fit to act as its representatives at any general meeting of the Company.
affect the financial position in severe but plausible scenarios onto the No holder of ordinary shares shall be entitled to attend or vote, either three-year forecasts and concluded that the business would remain viable.
personally or by proxy, at a general meeting in respect of any ordinary share As part of this they performed sensitivity analyses that flexed to the forecasts if any call or other sum presently payable to the Company in respect of such including reduced income, profitability and increased working capital cycle, ordinary share remains unpaid or in certain other circumstances specified in both individually and in unison, to reflect these severe but plausible scenarios.
the Articles where there is default in supplying the Company with information Based on the results of the procedures outlined above, the Directors have concerning interests in the Companys ordinary shares.
areasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in The AGM is the Companys principal forum for communication with private operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period shareholders.
In addition to the formal business, there will be a presentation of assessment.
by the CEO on the performance of the Company and its future development.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the Committees, together with the Directors, will be available to answer shareholders questions at themeeting.
The Directors Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by Graham Charlton Chief Financial Officer 19 October 2016 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67
