Our business model DELIVERING OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE AND SATISFACTION We keep our business light and lean and nurture an open and vibrant company culture that motivates our employees to deliver the best for our customers.
WE RECRUIT AND TRAIN WE INCENTIVISE AND GREAT PEOPLE WITH ENGAGE OUR PEOPLE HIGH POTENTIAL TO PERFORM We work with universities across the country and see We strive to be a great place to work where people are thousands of candidates each year before selecting those rewarded for success.
We are well known for our Company that are right for Softcat.
We look for exceptional people culture and believe it is at the heart of our success.
6,200 96% APPLICATIONS EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT WHAT SETS US APART Our people Our markets and offering 2 1 Read more on our people Read more on our markets and offering pages 12 to 13 pages 14 to 15 10 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Read more on our strategy page 20 WE DELIVER WE WIN NEW CUSTOMERS OUTSTANDING AND SELL MORE TO CUSTOMER SERVICE EXISTING CUSTOMERS We seek to provide truly outstanding levels of service to our We have a strong track record of developing new revenue customers and we believe that is a direct function of the streams and are fast to move as the market evolves.
Despite talent we recruit, the training we give them and their level oursuccess we see more opportunities for organic growth.
Customer numbers 000 16 12.2 15 11.4 10.7 14 Gross profit per customer 000 9.9 16 9.0 15 99% 14 8.3 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION FOR SIX YEARS IN A ROW Our vendor partnerships Our customer relationships 4 3 Read more on our partnerships Read more on our customer relationships pages 16 to 17 pages 18 to 19 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 Our people 1 EVERYONE IS IN THIS TOGETHER We dont believe in individual offices, so we put all of our desks together in the same space, reflecting the Companys ethos 12 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report LOOKING FOR THE SOFTCAT ATTITUDE Our Company attitude is centred on three key characteristics respect, positivity and courtesy.
We employ individuals who exude this attitude by the bucketload and believe that this behaviour is essential in creating a super environment to work in.
Our company values have always been summed up in three words: Passion To be passionate about everything we do and to constantly go the extra mile.
To get passionate staff, Softcat needs to recruit the right people with the right attitude, create a fantastic workplace and provide a platform where employees feel truly engaged with the activities of the business and feel part of the organisations goals.
Intelligence Softcat has to show intelligence in everything it does.
All staff need to demonstrate high levels of emotional intelligence to respect and encourage their colleagues.
We need to manage the business in a highly intelligent way to succeed over our intense competition.
Fun We value fun in all its various forms.
We want employees to want to come to work and enjoy it.
We want customers to enjoy working with Softcat.
Different people have fun in different ways and we embrace that!
13 Our markets and offering 2 WE STRIVE FOR EXCELLENCE We believe we have significant untapped growth potential 14 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report GROWING TO OUR FULL POTENTIAL The requirement for technology is stronger than ever.
All organisations continue to need to procure IT whether physically or virtually, on premise or in the cloud.
Customers need SOFTCAT UK to manage the complexities of dealing with multiple technology suppliers and vendors MARKET SHARE: do not have the reach or relationships to sell c. 6% directly to customers.
OFFERINGS Datacentre infrastructure Flash and hybrid storage Converged and hyper-converged infrastructure MARKETS Backup and Disaster Recovery as a Service Private, public, hybrid and multi-cloud Network and security Public sector Software-defined networking Central government Cloud connectivity and security Mid-market WiFi analytics Machine learning endpoint protection Service providers Workplace SMB O365 migration factory and service wrap Enterprise End-user mobility VDI Lower enterprise  Windows 10 and multi-form-factor devices Micro market Managed print Software licensing Asset management Centralised licence desk service Transition to cloud-based licensing Vendor audit response Market share is estimated based upon the CRN 2015 Top 100 VARs report.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 Our vendor partnerships 3 WE MAKE THE RIGHT CONNECTIONS Our aim is to be the most effective reseller to work with and we are privileged to enjoy outstanding relationships with our vendor partners 16 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S Strategic report trategic report Michael Dell, CEO of Dell Technologies and Martin Hellawell MAKING THE RIGHT PARTNERSHIPS We are proud of the Softcat offering, of the vendors we represent and of the services we provide.
We value our partners and take our responsibilities extremely Partnerships with a seriously, which is reflected in the long portfolio of world-class list of partner awards we have received IT suppliers and the close relationships we enjoy.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Meg Whitman, CEO of HP Enterprise Co. and Martin Hellawell Our customer relationships 4 WE VALUE OUR CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS When a new recruit joins our sales force we teach them about technology, how to be a great team player and, most of all, how to provide outstanding service to our customers 18 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report OFFERING THE BEST SERVICE We are proud of the Softcat technology offerings, but the difference really lies in our people and the service they provide.
Our staff are highly skilled 98% and passionate about delivering for of customers say they value their customers.
thequality of our advice As an organisation Softcat cares passionately about two things outstanding employee satisfaction and world-class customer service.
We believe the former drives the latter.
Martin Hellawell, Chief Executive 99% HOW DO CUSTOMERS satisfaction rating RATE OUR SERVICE?
Satisfied Very satisfied 22.7% 76.4% Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19
