14 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY OUR STRATEGY The Sophos mission is to be the best in the world at delivering complete IT security to mid-market enterprises and the channel that serves them.
This mission is built on the following six fundamental strategy pillars which have been and will continue to be key to our success.
Sophos remains committed to IT security, and we believe our focus gives us an advantage vs. Focus on other players who often try to address multiple and unrelated areas of technology.
The Group is the only security vendor who has built a leading and balanced business at scale in enduser security solutions and network security.
We continue to invest in technology and market leadership to support our security-only strategy, adding depth and breadth to our security portfolio through both organic development and where appropriate by targeted and disciplined acquisitions.
Most security vendors spend the bulk of their resources addressing the large enterprise, the Focus on mid-market worlds 5,000 largest organisations.
At Sophos we are explicitly focused on the other 50 million small and mid-market enterprises worldwide.
They face many of the same IT security threats enterprises as large enterprises, but do not have the same financial resources and access to large numbers of highly experienced IT security professionals to address their security needs.
Sophos is committed to delivering industry-leading, enterprise-grade security solutions that Complete security, are at the same time simple and easy to deploy, manage and use.
The Groups view is that complexity is the enemy of security, and that simple, integrated solutions that work as a made simple system can deliver both better security that is also easier to manage, for organisations of any size.
Sophos continues to develop its comprehensive portfolio of security technologies including Deliver complete endpoint, mobile and server security, data encryption, web protection, email protection, unified threat management and next-generation firewall, secure Wi-Fi and VPN technology.
end-to-end capabilities Sophos has embarked on a multi-year strategy to bring these different products together spanning from enduser to deliver on a strategy of synchronized security.
Synchronized security automates incident response by sharing threat, security and health information across multiple individual security to network protection components, including endpoints and next-generation firewalls.
It eliminates the manual work of trying to figure out the who, what and when of a compromise.
Sophos continues to drive its cloud-enabled competitive advantage, adding key capabilities Cloud at the core and products to its single, integrated cloud-based management and reporting platform.
With new enhancements to our partner-centric management console, channel partners of current and are able to more easily drive up-sell and cross-sell, as well as manage, update and configure future strategy their customers solutions remotely, thereby reducing overhead and business expense and improving their profit margin.
Sophos continues to drive a channel-only sales model.
During 2015, Sophos launched a Clear channel first new and simplified partner program and completely redesigned its partner portal with innovative remote management options and automated digital marketing capabilities.
sales strategy During the development of the synchronized security strategy, Sophos collaborated with partners to support cross-sell and up-sell opportunities that simplify both the partner and customer experience.
