What we do WE ARE A RESELLER 99% In an industry where many are moving away from the customer satisfaction rating word reseller, we actively embrace it.
Reselling is what we do and we are very good at it too.
We believe there will always be a need to sell IT to businesses and organisations, so we have made it our mission to fill that need better than anyone else.
OUR OFFERING OUR TEAM We provide corporate and public sector organisations with software We have a people-centric culture that enables us to deliver licensing, workplace technology, datacentre infrastructure, outstanding customer service.
We believe that if people enjoy networking and security.
whatthey do they will do it better.
We do not develop bespoke applications or specialise in any industry-specific vertical application but can partner with third-party organisations for these requirements.
Our focus is on providing the IT infrastructure and services to keep these applications performing, highly available and secure.
Most Trusted Leadership GREAT PLACE TO WORK GREAT PLACE TO WORK UKs Best Large Workplaces: 1st Most Trusted Leadership 2016 2016 Networking Datacentre and security infrastructure GREAT PLACE TO WORK GREAT PLACE TO WORK Laureate Award 5th Best Workplace in Europe 2016 2016 Software Workplace licensing 100% 927 The Sunday Times UK FOCUSED Top Track EMPLOYEES AS AT 31 JULY 2016 AWARD-WINNING SERVICE So how are we doing with our mission to be the UKs best IT reseller?
MIMECAST VMWARE Premier Partner of the Year 2016 European Solution Provider Partner of the Year 2016 2 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Leading IT infrastructure provider for UK small and medium-sized organisations Market-leading reputation based on 20 years of service excellence OUR VENDORS OUR CUSTOMERS We work with over 200 different hardware and software vendors to We have a diverse customer base across all sectors of the market.
bring the best and largest range of technology to our customers as Traditionally we have served the small to medium-sized business well as a number of specialist service providers to complement the SMB customer segment but over the years weve grown to also services that are provided by our in-house teams.
trade with a number of larger organisations including some of the very largest enterprise organisations in the UK.
We work hard on our vendor relationships and strive to be the partner of choice for each of our key vendors.
We also enjoy a growing public sector business which has been particularly successful in health, education and local government.
SMB mid-market Public sector Enterprise 200 12,200 VENDORS CUSTOMERS CISCO SOPHOS UK ENTERPRISE GROUP CANALYS EMEA Commercial Partner Partner of the Year UK Partner of the Year 2016 Channel Partner of of the Year UK&I 2016 & Ireland 2016 the Year 2016 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 3
