"10 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTMENT PROPOSITION INVESTMENT PROPOSITION Compelling Industry Unique Attractive Fundamentals Strategy Financial Model Our market Our clear and Our strong presents a huge compelling financial opportunity strategy position Sophos is solely focused IT Security is a $38 billion Strong momentum in billings on security market estimated to grow at growth in both Network and 7 percent through 2019 Enduser segments across Sophos focuses on all regions The attack surface for cyber mid-market enterprises threats is ever expanding Sustainable billings The Groups product strategy delivers complete IT security, The vanishing perimeter Strong new customer made simple due to cloud-based services, growth combined with social media, remote offices, strong renewal rates Sophos is the only security Internet of Things, roaming player that is a balanced High revenue visibility workers and BYOD brings new leader in scale in both network and predictability driven security challenges and enduser security, allowing by large, diversified preBusiness leaders have a synchronized security that paid subscription billings growing awareness of shares threat intelligence on the balance sheet for the risk associated with deferred recognition Leveraging the cloud for cyber-attacks, the leakage more effective delivery and Strong cash conversion of sensitive data and the management of security implications of increased Disciplined investment to regulatory compliance A 100% ""Channel First"" drive top line growth sales strategy Attacks are becoming more sophisticated as the  economy grows for which we are resonates with is underpinned uniquely positioned customers and by high renewal to succeed."
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 Established and Experienced Exciting Growth Recognised Brand Management Team Opportunities Our brand Our experienced Our numerous promise of security management growth made simple team opportunities... Our ethos of simplicity spans Extensive experience in Market share expansion, all we do at Sophos, from running $500 million especially among midproduct development to our technology organisations market enterprises go-to-market efforts Proven track records, each Global expansion A metrics-driven marketing with more than 20 years of Drive up-sell and cross-sell approach is complemented experience in their field opportunities by highly creative digital Committed to our vision marketing, educational inRecruit additional partners and strategy for security person events and aggressive and enhance productivity made simple social media and PR outreach of existing partners Sophos maintains an intense Introduce new products, focus on connecting with developed organically our customers using a clear, and acquired through prescriptive and authentic disciplined M&A voice across all media Continue to enhance Sophos Sophos has earned a brand visibility and awareness, reputation as a trusted source leading to incremental new of IT security information sales engagements drives a deep and leads our global provide multiple lasting connection team to translate our vectors for Sophos with customers mission and strategy to continue to and partners.
outperform the IT security market.
12 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKET OUR MARKET Today, commercial cybercrime thrives on many of the same drivers as the legitimate business world it preys upon: innovation, response to market opportunities, operational and commercial optimisation and heavy reinvestment to support future growth.
Due to the amounts of money involved, we see everyday cybercriminals with the financial muscle, motivation and sophistication approaching that of state-sponsored or advanced persistent threat actors.
Commercial cybercriminals relentlessly Classic or well-known techniques are Todays Threat target the most vulnerable systems, becoming more widespread and easier to software and companies.
Where there execute through pre-packaged components Environment is a weakness, the commercial malware or provided as a service.
For targeted authors will exploit it.
We have seen a trend spear-phishing attacks, cybercriminals to build sophisticated development and have become more skilled with social When we review todays threat delivery processes, e. g. automation and engineering that is pixel perfect, with many environment, we see four basic intents for malware testing before release.
Also, rather companies falling for scams and sharing cyberattack: nation or state-sponsored than individual targeting, we are seeing valuable data such as employee HR and tax disruption, industrial espionage, hacktivism extensive market testing for the purpose records.
Some attackers identify high-value and commercial gain.
The first three usually of optimising the attack and increasing its social engineering targets with automated target large organisations or high-profile likelihood of success.
processes, and once a target is acquired, individuals and get the most attention hand it over to a human operator to run in the media, but the motivator for the Today we continue to see the majority the scam.
majority of cybercrime is financial gain.
of attacks carried out against Windows, The biggest threat today comes from because that is where the greatest return Despite the best efforts of law enforcement groups of professional, highly organised is for commercial malware.
But we see and its industry partners, cybercrime commercial cybercriminals.
growing evidence of malware authors is persistent and difficult to eradicate pushing into other platforms Mac, because the threat actors are widespread These commercial cybercriminals use Android, Linux and even attempting crossand their infrastructure dispersed.
The sophisticated malware at an industrial platform malware such as using the Java threat is everywhere and indifferent to who scale.
The components that make up these platform.
We have seen a growing number you are.
As the commercial cybercrime attacks come from highly skilled individuals of ransomware families, such as Locky and underworld continues to thrive, we expect who specialise in creating exploit code or Cerber, as commercial malware authors that these trends will make cyber threats malware.
This lowers the barrier to entry for see opportunity in this lucrative business more pervasive and more difficult to those with little or no technology skill but model.
Recently we saw the emergence contain than ever before, thus making a the desire to become a cybercriminal.
The of the first type of ransomware targeting comprehensive security strategy a necessity key performance indicators for these cyberthe Mac.
The renowned poor security of for every organisation.
attack businesses is return-on-investment web servers used by smaller organisations ROI and customer service, whether is leading to an increase in attacks on that be producing malware as a service or content management systems with new providing victims of ransomware with a forms of ransomware that encrypt web streamlined and user-friendly experience server content.
Who the victim is makes no difference beyond what the attackers need to know about them to create and carry out more effective attacks with a higher return.
DESPITE THE BEST EFFORTS OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND ITS INDUSTRY PARTNERS, CYBERCRIME IS PERSISTENT AND DIFFICULT TO ERADICATE BECAUSE THE THREAT ACTORS ARE WIDESPREAD AND THEIR INFRASTRUCTURE DISPERSED.
THE THREAT IS EVERYWHERE AND INDIFFERENT TO WHOM YOU ARE.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 IT Security a $38B Market Growing at 7% EXPANDING GROWING RISK ATTACK SURFACE AWARENESS $38B 1 IT Security Market VANISHED INCREASED ATTACK PERIMETER SOPHISTICATION 1 Source for c. $38B IT security market hardware software is IDC WW IT Security Products 2015-2019 Forecast: Comprehensive Security Product Review December 2015, IDC #US40709015 and represents expected market size in 2016.
Growth of 7% represents 2015E-2019E CAGR of data breaches.
This could have a farenterprise and that required by a small IT Security Market reaching impact on how businesses business other than in the scale and approach security, including the high-risk resources to manage it.
Small businesses face Analysis from the major industry analysts and potentially sensitive area of securing a significant competitive disadvantage if they agrees that the IT security market will corporate data on an employees personal cannot respond effectively to incidents, and continue to grow at a CAGR of approximately device.
The EU Data Protection regulation face the same penalties as the enterprise.
The 7 percent over the next few years.
Industry will come into force across Europe by the ability for security solutions to directly share analysts also agree that IT spending in the end of 2017, bringing more severe penalties information and automate incident response small to mid-size enterprise will continue to for non-compliance.
It has numerous through synchronized security technology, grow at a rate above that of the enterprise components but one key takeaway is that brings the complex and costly Security market, particularly on mobile and tablet European businesses will now be held Incident and Event Management SIEM investment.
Achieving data security and responsible for the protection of the data capabilities utilised by the enterprise, to compliance with government regulation is they process, including cloud providers and businesses of all sizes.
This ability for security seen as key driver for investment by CIOs in other third parties.
systems that work better together and reduce Europe and the US in particular.
the need for IT admin intervention can level The increase in targeted and organised both the competitive playing field with larger In 2016, the pressure on businesses to attacks is impacting the way businesses enterprises and improve security against secure customer data and safeguard approach security.
There is no difference sophisticated attack.
intellectual property will increase as between the security required by an legislators respond to the rising severity
