38 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Peter Gyenes Kris Hagerman Nick Bray Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Peter Gyenes joined the Sophos Board in Kris Hagerman joined Sophos in 2012 as Nick Bray joined Sophos as Chief Financial 2006, bringing experience with corporate CEO: he is responsible for all aspects of Officer in 2010 having worked in the growth and value creation to our vision for Sophos strategic direction and business technology sector for over 20 years.
Nick integrated threat management leadership.
Prior to Sophos, Kris was CEO of has extensive international operational skills Peter was most recently the Chairman Corel Corporation.
Previously, Kris served as combined with significant public company and Chief Executive Officer of Ascential group president, data centre management at experience, having previously been the CFO Software Corporation, until its acquisition Symantec, where he led a business of more of listed companies on both the London Stock by IBM in April 2005.
He brings to Sophos than $1.5 billion that represented nearly Exchange and Nasdaq.
He has successfully four decades of experience in technical, 30 percent of Symantecs global revenue.
accelerated organic growth both at Sophos sales, marketing and general management Prior to Symantec, Kris was executive vice and prior organisations through acquisition, positions within the computer systems and president and GM, storage and server having now acquired and integrated in software industry in the Americas, Europe management at Veritas Software where excess of ten companies, funding for these and Asia Pacific.
Peter has a bachelor's during his tenure, the company grew transactions being raised in both the UK and degree in mathematics and an MBA from from $1 billion in revenue to more than US debt markets.
Before joining Sophos, Nick Columbia University in New York.
He serves $2 billion, prior to its acquisition by was Group CFO at Micro Focus International on the Boards of Intralinks Holdings Inc. Symantec.
Earlier in his career, Kris was plc, where he was instrumental in the Pegasystems Inc. RealPage Inc. Carbonite founder and CEO of BigBook, an online company tripling revenue and increasing Inc. Epicor Software Corporation and the yellow pages service and founder and CEO market capitalisation from circa 200 million Massachusetts Technology Leadership of Affinia, an online contextual advertising to in excess of 1 billion.
Nick has also held Council Trustee Emeritus.
Kris also held positions at Silicon Group CFO roles at Fibernet Group plc Graphics and McKinsey & Company.
Kris and Gentia Software plc, as well as senior has a bachelors degree in Russian and financial positions at Comshare Inc. and Lotus economics from Dartmouth College, an Software.
Nick has a first class bachelors M. Phil.
in international relations from degree in civil engineering from Aston Cambridge University, and an MBA from University, UK, and is a qualified chartered the Stanford Graduate School of Business.
accountant having trained with PwC.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 Sandra Bergeron Edwin Gillis Roy Mackenzie Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sandra Bergeron joined in 2010.
She has Edwin Gillis joined in 2009.
He is currently Roy Mackenzie joined in 2010.
He joined previously served as a Director of Tipping a Director and Chairman of the Audit Apax Partners in 2003 and is a partner in the Point, Netegrity, Nuance Communications, Committee of AppNexus, LogMeIn, Sprinklr, technology and telecom team.
Previously, TriCipher, and ArcSight, until their and Teradyne Corporation.
He has held Roy worked at McKinsey & Company, Inc. acquisitions.
During a ten-year career senior roles at Symantec Corporation, focusing on consulting clients in the high at McAfee, Inc Sandra held a number of Veritas Software, Parametric Technology technology sector and also held product key executive positions, including head and Lotus Development Corporation, and management positions at Psion Computers.
of research and development, head of spent 15 years with Coopers & Lybrand as While at Apax, Roy worked on a number of corporate strategy, and president of a CPA and general practice partner.
Edwin investments including NXP Semiconductors, PGP Security.
Sandra holds an MBA from has a bachelors degree in government from and King.
He holds an MBA from Xavier University in Cincinnati, Ohio and a Clark University in Massachusetts, a masters Stanford Graduate School of Business bachelor's in business administration Cum degree in international relations from the and a master's degree in engineering Laude from Georgia State University.
Sandra University of Southern California and an from Imperial College, London.
Roy is serves as a Director of F5 Networks, Inc. and MBA from Harvard Business School.
currently also a Director of Epicor Software Qualys Inc.
Corporation and Exact Holdings NV.
Steve Munford Salim Nathoo Paul Walker Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Steve Munford served as Sophos CEO from Salim Nathoo joined in 2010.
He is a partner Paul Walker joined in 2015.
Paul brings 2006 to 2012, he led the company through and co-head of Apax Partners' technology more than 30 years of technology and a period of dramatic growth, more than and telecom team.
He joined Apax Partners senior leadership experience to the Board of tripling billings.
Prior to his role as CEO, in 1999 and has been involved in a variety of Sophos, having served for 16 years as Chief Steve was President of Sophos for North technology focussed investments including Executive Officer of Sage Group plc.
a leader America and then became COO, responsible Evry, Global Logic, Orange Switzerland, in business solutions for small and medium for the day-to-day running of the company iGATE, Weather Investments, Tim Hellas, businesses.
Paul has previously served on and its senior management team.
Before he joined the Boards of Diageo plc.
My Travel Group he was President of ActiveState before its Apax Partners, Salim worked at McKinsey & plc.
Paul qualified as a acquisition by Sophos.
Under his leadership, Company, Inc. where he focused extensively Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young, ActiveState established itself as a global on telecommunications.
Salim also held having graduated from York University with leader in email security software.
Steve has sales, marketing and technical positions a degree in economics.
Paul is currently a bachelor's degree in economics from the at NYNEX CableComms Ltd. and IBM.
He Non-Executive Chairman of Perform Group University of Western Ontario and has an earned a master's degree in mathematics Ltd and Non-Executive Chairman of Halma MBA from Queen's University, Ontario.
Steve from St. John's College, Cambridge and an plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director is also a Director of Actenum, Alert Logic, MBA from INSEAD.
Salim currently serves on for WANdisco plc.
and Experian plc and Carbonite Inc. Teradici, Elastic Path, Quick the Boards of Evry ASA and Global Logic.
serves on the Boards of Epicor Software Mobile and Utimaco Inc.
Corporation and Newcastle Science City Partnership.
