OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Group utilises a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs, the definitions of which are included in the glossary, to measure performance against our strategy.
A description of these KPIs and performance against them during the period is set out below: Description Performance 2016 Billings represents the value of products Billings growth has been experienced and services invoiced to customers.
Cash across all major regions and product is received at the start of a subscription categories with particularly strong growth $534.9M period and consequently billings become in new customer and UTM billings.
Billings our key forward indicator of future Further discussion of billings is included 2015: $476.0M performance.
Revenue reflects the element of billings Strong revenue growth has been recognised in the period including from experienced in the Groups Network companies acquired from the date of their $478.2M products, aided by immediate recognition acquisition.
The majority of billings are for of associated hardware.
Further discussion Revenue subscription contracts that are recognised on revenue is included on page 27. rateably over the contract term.
2015: $446.7M Cash EBITDA provides visibility on actual Cash EBITDA increased YOY reflecting the cash earned by the Group during the strong billings growth and ability of the period, even if the associated revenue Group to leverage its cost base to ensure $120.9M for that period's billings has not yet that the cash EBITDA margin cash EBITDA Cash EBITDA been recognised.
as a percentage of billings also increased.
2015: $101.4M Unlevered free cash flow is a measure In line with the Board's expectations, the that provides information about the YOY reduction is due to anticipated one- $46.4M amount of cash generated by the off, prior-year working capital movements.
Unlevered free cash flow 2015: $65.3M The weighted average contract length, The weighted average contract measured over the prior twelve month length increased marginally in the 28.6 months period, gives the Group an indication of year due to a small number of longer Weighted average the period over which future revenue will term Japanese deals: excluding these be recognised.
deals, the underlying length remained contract length consistent YOY.
2015: 28.0 months Renewal rate including up-sell and crossThere has been continued improvement sell is a measure of long-term value of in renewal rate as the Group successfully 102% end user agreements and the Groups leveraged its product portfolio.
ability to retain end users.
Renewal rate 2015: 100% The continued growth of the business The level of endpoint-UTM crosspartially depends on successfully selling ownership has increased consistently additional products and services to through the year reflecting the ability 7.4% existing customers.
Customers can of the Group to demonstrate to its Endpoint-UTM derive greater value by owning multiple customer the benefits of cross-ownership cross-sell products from the Group as they benefit of products.
from synergies in management, support 2015: 5.6% and functionality.
