20 STRATEGIC REPORT PRODUCT REVIEW PRODUCT REVIEW Sophos is the only security vendor at scale with a leading and balanced product portfolio across endpoint and network security.
Sophos continues to expand all its product capabilities, most notably the integration of enduser and network security and Sophos Central, our strategic cloud-based management platform used both by end customers and channel partners.
Sophos further enhanced its cloud-enabled security management strategy with the evolution of Sophos Cloud from a cloud-based administration console for several enduser security products to a fully integrated endpoint and network security management platform that will be available in the cloud and on-premise, Sophos Central.
This new management platform includes role-based interfaces for partners, IT administrators and end users.
The platform is designed to simplify the sales, service and support that our partners can deliver to customers and will also improve the levels of protection for these customers.
In late 2015, Sophos opened a new Frankfurt data centre which allows customers in Germany to keep their data in-country, and customers in the rest of continental Europe will also benefit from having a centrally-located data centre with data staying within the EU.
Our priority for FY16 was delivering the first phase of our synchronized security strategy, with the release of the Sophos Cloud endpoint and Sophos XG Firewall featuring innovative TM Security Heartbeat technology.
Synchronized security offers deep, meaningful and intelligent integration between enduser and network security and with our Sophos Central management platform, dramatically simplifies the ability for an end customer or channel partner to purchase and deploy additional products, and will help channel partners and end customers manage overall IT security through a single unified interface.
The underlying trends driving growth in Key product enhancements and launches: the Enduser segment include the adoption of advanced threat protection features, SOPHOS MOBILE CONTROL 6 the increased use of anomaly-based Developed to include Sophos Secure Email, malware detection, the expansion of bring a personal information management PIM your own device BYOD computing container solution for email, calendar and environments, the proliferation of contacts.
Personal and corporate data mobile computing devices, the growing can be separated, allowing organisations importance of encryption and data to manage business data security while protection, the increased adoption of enhancing user privacy.
IT administrators cloud-based security offerings and the can remotely provision email to employee Billings integration of enduser and network mobile devices across popular platforms, security technologies to address next- 16 $238.2M including iOS and Android.
15 $224.1M SOPHOS SERVER PROTECTION Sophos continues to enhance and expand 14 $204.1M ADVANCED next-generation capabilities in enduser products as sophisticated threats evolve: Integrates server application whitelisting with anti-malware to deliver singleAnti-malware technologies click server lockdown, using the simple, 45% intuitive Sophos Central management Behaviour analytics OF TOTAL console that makes it easy to deploy, Reputation management BILLINGS manage and maintain.
By locking a knownMalicious traffic detection good server configuration and building in Incident Response technologies automatic trust of known-good updaters Revenue and linked DLLs, Sophos Server Protection Security Heartbeat Advanced reduces the administrative time Encryption key shredding 16 $211.9M needed to lock down multiple servers Malware removal from weeks to just minutes, by simplifying 15 $210.0M Root cause analytics configuration and only allowing approved currently in beta 14 $207.4M or whitelisted applications to run.
The acquisition of SurfRight B. V. adds the following capabilities: Exploit prevention 44% Anti-ransomware OF TOTAL Memory process protection REVENUE OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 Research and development for the SOPHOS SANDSTORM Network product portfolio continues to To complement our existing malware be focused on enhancing next-generation protection capabilities, Sophos introduced firewall and advanced protection a new advanced persistent threat and technology to address the increase in zero day malware security technology that web-based infection, browser-based provides signatureless protection.
Sophos exploits and threats embedded in email: Sandstorm determines potential threat the increased adoption of cloud-based behaviour across multiple operating security offerings: and the integration of systems including Windows, Mac and enduser and network security technologies Android on either physical or virtual Billings to address next-generation threats.
hosts, on networks, web mail, Word, 16 $266.7M PDF and more than 20 file types and Key product developments and launches mobile applications.
Sophos Sandstorm include: 15 $223.7M is available as a subscription option in 14 $158.5M Sophos Email Appliance 4.0 and Sophos SOPHOS XG FIREWALL UTM 9.4.
In late 2015, Sophos introduced the new Sophos XG Firewall that combined SOPHOS WEB GATEWAY the best of our Cyberoam and Sophos 50% The updated Sophos Web Gateway firewall technology into an innovative OF TOTAL provides advanced cloud-delivered next-generation firewall platform.
XG BILLINGS protection for users, devices and data Firewall introduced a number of advances, TM across multiple operating systems including Sophos Security Heartbeat regardless of their location, and is which links Sophos Endpoint Protection managed by Sophos Central.
The latest with the XG Firewall to share important Revenue version of the Sophos Web Appliance context and status information to improve 16 $239.0M includes a new proxy engine with up to 7 protection and enable new types of times the scanning performance on the firewall policies based on Endpoint status 15 $206.5M same hardware and improved granular and health.
Other innovations included a controls over features like chat, games 14 $143.7M new intuitive user-interface, broad Layer-8 and comments to manage the use of user identity awareness, unified policy popular social media apps.
model, user and application risk reporting, and FastPath packet optimization.
In 50% SOPHOS EMAIL APPLIANCE March 2016, the XG 135w model was awarded a 5-star A-List rating in the UKs Sophos Sandstorm protection has been OF TOTAL REVENUE PC Pro Magazine.
added to the Sophos Email Appliance SEA along with new Sophos Delay SOPHOS UTM Queue technology.
This sophisticated enhancement is designed to address the Our trusted Sophos UTM running on SG problem of Snowshoe Spam and further Series appliances remains a critical part advances threat prevention, along with of our network security portfolio, offering Sophos Time-of-Click protection to block a great mix of simplicity, performance, malicious email URLs, protecting against protection and value.
The latest version, stealthy, delayed, spear phishing attacks.
UTM 9.4, was released in March 2016 with the addition of Sophos Sandstorm nextgeneration threat protection for targeted and evasive threats, and support for the latest RED 15w and AP 15C hardware.
We also added Auto Scaling technology to the Sophos UTM solution designed for Amazon Web Services AWS.
"22 STRATEGIC REPORT Technology acquisitions that accelerate leadership in endpoint and network Astute acquisitions drive customer, partner and shareholder value The acquisition of Reflexion strengthens EMAIL PROTECTION IN THE CLOUD the Sophos product set by adding a rich In June 2015, Sophos acquired Reflexion cloud-based email security, continuity and Networks Inc. ""Reflexion"" for a cash archiving solution."
Reflexion's innovative, consideration of $15 million to accelerate easy-to-deploy and easy-to-manage security the delivery of advanced email protection in platform provides: the cloud.
The solution from Reflexion had been developed for the needs of the midA cloud-based email filtering engine market and was designed to be offered as a enabling full protection for email managed service through channel partners.
interactions without requiring additional As Sophos integrates this technology as on-site technology The IT and cyber-crime landscape is everpart of Sophos Central, it will complement Near instantaneous protection from evolving, so consistent innovation is required the existing Sophos Secure Email Appliance emerging threats by supplying real-time by giving customers the choice of a cloudto keep customers protected from the threat intelligence from the cloud based email security solution or an on-site latest threats.
Sophos has a rich heritage of appliance solution.
internal innovation as well as an exceptional A simple and intuitive management track record for acquiring and integrating experience designed for small and Reflexion developed its products to address technology from other companies.
In FY16 mid-market enterprises or pragmatic the same target market, sales model and Sophos made two acquisitions to accelerate enterprises of any size integrated solution strategy that Sophos the delivery of advanced security solutions.
For our partners, this At the time of acquisition, Reflexion had acquisition also strengthens our managed over 17,000 customers worldwide.
"More service provider ""MSP"" portfolio."
The than 2,000 MSPs sell its cloud services ability to sell managed services offers an every month.
additional and predictable revenue stream to partners who have the capacity to manage security for their customers on an ongoing basis.
"OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 ""APT"" vectors."
SurfRights real-time antiNEXT-GENERATION exploit technology focuses on detecting ENDPOINT TECHNOLOGY and preventing the memory manipulations Sophos is recognised as a leader in and abuses that allow malicious code to endpoint protection today, with a growing run in the first place.
Generic prevention set of next-generation technologies such of exploits at this early stage in the attack as behaviour-based analytics, Malicious chain is a key enhancement to endpoint Traffic Detection, Sophos System Protector, security mechanisms and can help crowd sourced application reputation and thwart malicious code in the processor many other technologies.
"The portfolio also includes SurfRight B. V. ""SurfRight"" in December anti-espionage technology and enhanced 2015 for a cash consideration of $31.8 protection against ransomware attacks such million to further strengthen Sophos as CryptoLocker."
leading endpoint protection technology with next-generation defence tactics that SurfRights technology will also further can be delivered either on premise or in enhance the effectiveness of Sophos the cloud.
synchronized security strategy, in which multiple components of security protection SurfRight is recognised as an innovator in actively and continuously communicate signature-less next-generation endpoint with each other.
"threat detection and response ""ETDR"" and advanced threat prevention."
SurfRight has This innovative approach leads to faster threat developed a portfolio of technologies that detection and a dramatic reduction in the prevent, detect and remediate zero-day time and resources required to investigate and sophisticated attacks by interrupting and remediate security incidents.
malware and advanced persistent threat
