Strategic Report Strategy Strategic priority Description Achievements in 2016 Key performance indicators Priorities for 2017 Risk We invested 99 million in R&D, Continue to invest around 7% of sales New product development.
As customer requirements evolve, so too is LFL sales growth Adjusted return representing 7.3% of Group sales, in the development of new products, Intellectual property.
the offering that Spectris provides to them.
on sales andlaunched a number of new products technologies and solutions.
Our long-term customer relationships and -2% and solutions.
Examples included: Focus on innovative differentiated Information security.
technical know-how mean we can enhance 14.9% customer solutions which offer Focus on our offering to them, whether that involves Aeris, a new x-ray powder diffraction superiormargins.
the supply of improved equipment or a benchtop instrument.
innovative Growth in Continue to build relationships with Noise Patrol Type 3665 Airport Noise packaged solution involving the provision adjusted EPS customer customers to offer more value-added Monitoring On Demand system.
ofhardware, software and related services.
services such as consultancy, software, solutions LDS V8900 high-force shaker, an 12% testing, maintenance and training.
air-cooled electrodynamic shaker for high-performance vibration and shock testing of large devices.
We increased our presence in several Focus on key strategic growth New product development.
We build leadership positions in attractive LFL sales growth Adjusted return strategic growth markets, for example: markets, particularly: Intellectual property.
niche markets where we believe there are on sales Political and economic risks.
opportunities for technology-led productivity Cloud-based data analysis and services.
Acquired Millbrook, our largest pure -2% Acquisitions.
These markets currently Industrial connectivity.
testing business acquisition to date.
Increase include segments within the life sciences Life sciences.
Increased our exposure to the Fluctuations in Engineering software.
andpharmaceuticals, energy, automotive, automotive sector via the acquisitions presence in Growth in exchangerates.
of Millbrook, SVT and DISCOM.
basic materials and technology sectors, adjusted EPS key strategic butwe alsoreview and actively pursue markets 12% opportunities in new markets.
Continue to expand our international Continued expansion of Omegas Intellectual property.
In response to a customer base that is LFL sales growth Adjusted return footprint to be closer tocustomers activities internationally, with LFL sales Laws and regulations.
extendingits international operations and on sales through direct and indirect market into Asia growing 20%.
becoming increasingly sophisticated we -2% presence andacquisitions.
Enhanced our presence in India: Acquisitions.
 globally, with 14.9% Continue to grow Omega internationally.
acquiring a distributor for one of Information security.
Expand particularemphasis on markets suchas Ensure that we have the right talent to ourTest and Measurement businesses Fluctuations in China, India and Latin America.
business Growth in grow our business globally.
adjusted EPS globally Secured new contracts in Brazil, India and Mexico.
12% Delivered 11.7 million of cost savings Implement Project Uplift programme to Supply chain dependencies We strive for continuous improvement in LFL sales growth Energy efficiency from the restructuring initiatives ensure benefits of scale are achieved and and disruption.
allaspects of our business operations, both MWh per m sales launched in 2015 across the Group.
best practices are shared across the Group.
toenhance customer experience and to -2% Launched Project Uplift, a Drive greater efficiency through generate efficiency and productivity gains.
68.3 comprehensive Group-wide operational excellence, extending Accelerate In addition, we seek to improve performance productivity improvement programme.
Lean, Kaizen and Six Sigma and profitability by driving synergistic operational Cash conversion Reportable accidents Appointed a new Group HR Director initiatives throughout the Group.
opportunities within and between our per 1,000 employees excellence with responsibility for talent Increase employee training in these operating companies, and across the 113% management to identify and promote techniques and tools to build a 4.5 Groupasa whole.
Focus on acquisition strategy to expand We acquire businesses which materially Acquired Millbrook, a leading test, Acquisitions.
LFL sales growth Adjusted return portfolio and reach.
validation and engineering service Competitive activity.
strengthen our operating companies through on sales Fully integrate recent acquisitions to provider, primarily for the automotive broadening their customer offering, reaching -2% support continued newproduct and related markets.
new customer segments or expanding their 14.9% development.
Invested 166 million in total, with Deploy capital geographical presence.
These are typically Continue to look for new opportunities bolt-on acquisitions in Test and bolt-on in nature.
forboth Growth in in key strategic growth markets through Measurement two, Materials Analysis adjusted EPS platform and acquisition or licensing of technologies.
one and Industrial Controls one.
In addition, we invest in new platform businesses Acquisitions contributed 3 percentage bolt-on M&A in order to establish a presence in strategic 12% points pp of reported sales growth.
6 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic priority Description Achievements in 2016 Key performance indicators Priorities for 2017 Risk We invested 99 million in R&D, Continue to invest around 7% of sales New product development.
Adjusted performance measures represent the statutory results excluding certain non-operational items.
Like-for-like LFL measures include revenue and profit at constant exchange rates and exclude the impact of acquisitions.
For a definition of the item and a reconciliation to the closest IFRS equivalent, see Note 2.
