K R O W E M A R F E C N C A U L N T R U E R V E O A Strategic Report Business Model The four key inputs to our business model, Creating long-term shareholder value whichareessential toour success, are innovation, customers, employees and suppliers.
The way We create value by applying our wemanage these delivers the outputs to generate expertise to enhance productivity sustainable profitable growth and brings significant competitive advantage.
Underpinning this approach are our culture and values, together with a strong operational and governance framework.
SUPPLIERS INNOVATION Market leadership High returns Balanced portfolio Strong cash generation SUSTAINABLE PROFITABLE GROWTH EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS Read more: Strategy page 6 KPIs page 12 Operating Review page 16 Risk Management page 30 10 G N D D N V A A L L U A E N S O I T A R E P O G N O R T S Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 How we create value Enhancing productivity for our customers is the key driver of our growth.
Webuild long-term relationshipswithour customers and work closely with them to develop an in-depth knowledge oftheirbusiness.
Ourhighly-skilled employees then provide solutions to their productivity challenges.
Thisisour competitive advantageand it creates value for our customers, shareholders, ouremployees andthe communities they live in.
Strong operational and governance framework Governance Financial controls Values and culture Capital allocation We are committed to maintaining We have a robust internal Our values are essential to our Our business is not capital intensive high standards of corporate controlframework which is business success and growth: they andour strong cash generation governance.
Thisis fundamental routinely monitored through underpin the way we work, guide allows us to maintain a sound tothe effective andresponsible acombination of certification, our decision-making and shape balance sheet, enabling us to management of the business self-assessment and internal ourculture.
We understand that invest in the business, viaR&D andfor the delivery of shareholder auditreviews, complemented by intelligent innovation requires a and selective acquisitions, whilst value over the long term.
way of working that supports the also growing the dividend.
development of new ideas and taking of reasonable and measured risks.
Our entrepreneurial culture offers a creative working environment with scope for individual responsibility and personal achievement.
Resources and relationships Innovation Customers Employees Suppliers We invest around 7% of sales each We pride ourselves in building We are a very specialised business We outsource the majority of yearin R&D in order to maintain long-term relationships with our andrely on the skills and component and sub-assembly our market-leading positions.
customers and seek to develop applications expertise of our 8,900 production to suppliers who Bolt-on acquisitions provide an adeep understanding of their people around the world.
Many of can deliverhigh quality at a alternative route to new technology business and processes.
Over 80% our employees arehighly-qualified competitive cost, and focus our and we also enter into licence of our sales come from customers engineers and technicians.
We seek own resources on design, assembly agreements with third parties.
We who have purchased from us in the to attract andretain the best talent and testing.
We aim toincrease own a large number of patents, preceding two years.
We also offer and are committed to providing value in the supply chain whilst trademarks and intellectual a full range of aftermarket services equal employment opportunities, helping our suppliers to meet our property licences which brings high and support including training, competitive remuneration and environmental and social standards barriers to entry for competitors.
technical support, calibration training and development and sharing best practice.
Sustainable profitable growth Market leadership High returns Balanced portfolio Strong cash generation We focus on niche markets with High barriers to entry, generatedvia A broad spread of customers, end Our high operating margins and high barriers to entry where our long-term , markets and geographies limits the asset-light manufacturing model products typically involve low application expertise, strong risk to the business from sudden result in steady and strong cash capital expenditure but provide intellectual property and continuous economic or political changes in generation.
Astrong balance significant and rapid payback innovation, lead tolimited pricing any given territory or industry.
sheetgives us the flexibility to fund forour customers.
Continuous pressure, retention of market share Around 26% of oursales are from acquisitions, which has been a key innovation in new products and andhigh gross margins.
aftermarket sales andservice which component of our strategy for solutions serves to protect our are more resilient inadownturn.
