Governance Other Statutory Information The Directors Report on pages 53 to 94 is formed of the Branches Corporate Governance Report, the Directors Remuneration The Company, through its subsidiaries, has a number of Report and Other Statutory Information.
Disclosures elsewhere branches in the countries in which it operates.
inthe Annual Report and Accounts are cross-referenced AGM whereappropriate.
Taken together, they fulfil the combined The AGM will be held at Great Fosters, Stroude Road, Egham, requirements of company law, the Disclosure Guidance and Surrey, TW20 9UR on Friday, 26 May 2017 at 12.30 p. m. The Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
Notice of AGM is contained in a separate letter from the Strategic Report Chairman accompanying this report.
The Board has taken advantage of Section 413C of the The results of the 2016 AGM can be found on page 72.
Companies Act 2006 to include in the Strategic Report There was no significant vote against any of the resolutions.
disclosures on the following items which it considers to The results of the 2017 AGM will be published on the beofstrategic importance to the Company: Companys website www.
com shortly after the Groups business model on pages 10 and 11: the meeting.
likely future developments of the business on page 7: Directors remuneration and interests the Groups principal risks and risk management policies Details of Directors remuneration and their interest in the onpages 30 to 39: Companys shares can be found in the Directors Remuneration the Directors viability statement on page 40: Report on pages 73 to 91. greenhouse gas emissions, methodologies used for reportingand intensity ratios on pages 43 and 44: Share capital the Groups employment policies, including approach to The share capital of the Company comprises ordinary shares diversity, the employment of disabled people and employee of5pence each: each share carries the right to one vote at involvement on pages 45 to 47: and general meetings of the Company.
The authorised and issued the Groups R&D activities on pages 6 and 7. share capital of the Company, together with movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year, is shown in Results and dividends Note 21 to the Financial Statements on page 139.
The Articles, The results for the year are set out on pages 99 to 169. available on the Companys website, contain provisions Adjustedoperating profit for the year amounts to governing the ownership and transfer of shares.
Authority to purchase own shares Dividends paid and proposed are as follows: At the 2016 AGM, shareholders authorised the Directors to 2016 2015 makemarket purchases of the Companys ordinary shares up Dividends Pence per share Pence per share toa maximum number of 11,910,000 shares, representing Interim paid 18.0 17.3 approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company Final proposed 34.0 32.2 excluding treasury shares and to either cancel the shares or hold them as treasury shares which may then be cancelled, sold for cash Total dividend 52.0 49.5 or transferred for the purposes of the Companys share plans, depending on the best interests of the Companys shareholders at The final dividend will be paid on 30 June 2017 to shareholders the time.
This authority remains valid until the date of the next on the register on 26 May 2017.
No such purchases were made during the year.
At the close of business on 13 February 2017, the Company had 125,005,123 Power of Directors ordinary shares in issue, of which 5,839,577 were held in treasury.
The Companys Articles contain specific provisions and During the year, 58,395 shares were transferred out of treasury to restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
meet the Companys obligations under its share plans, with no Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also shares being cancelled out of treasury.
included in the Articles, and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each year at the AGM.
Authority to make further market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares, if believed appropriate, will be sought at the Articles forthcoming AGM.
The Board currently has no intention of The Companys Articles give power to the Board to appoint usingthis authority.
Directors, but require Directors to submit themselves for electionatthe first AGM following their appointment, and Authority to allot shares forannual re-election at subsequent AGMs.
The Articles Included in the special business of the 2017 AGM are canbeamended bymeans of a special resolution of the proposalsto renew the Directors authority to allot shares shareholders.
Spectris Articles are available on the Companys uptoprescribed limits.
92 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Major shareholders Use of financial instruments The Company has been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives ofthe Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the and policies, its exposure to foreign currency risk, interest rate following shareholdings.
All significant holdings are held by risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and capital management is contained institutional investors: in Note 26 to the Financial Statements on pages 150 to 153.
Percentage Percentage Auditor of issued of issued As described in the Audit and Risk Committee Report, the Audit share capital share capital Shareholding as at as at the Committee led a competitive tender process in which KPMG in Spectris 31 December date of this wasnot invited to take part.
The Audit and Risk Committee shares 2016 report recommended to the Board that Deloitte be appointed as MFS Investment external auditor for the 2017 financial year.
Resolutions to Management 14,720,317 13.16 12.36 approve the appointment of Deloitte as the Companys auditor and authorising the Audit and Risk Committee to determine Fidelity Management & their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Research Company 8,141,073 6.74 6.83 Wellington Management Change of control Company 6,488,075 5.01 5.44 There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or Marathon Asset terminate upon a change of control of the Group following a Management LLP 5,616,834 4.79 4.71 takeover, such as bank loan agreements and Company share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of MassMutual Life their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Insurance Company 5,430,114 4.55 4.56 Itis also possible that funding arrangements for the Groups Sprucegrove Investment defined benefit pension arrangements would need to be Management 4,351,150 3.74 3.65 enhanced following a change of control if that resulted in BlackRock Inc 4,021,546 3.21 3.37 aweakening of the employer covenant.
No changes have been disclosed in accordance with these rules The Company does not have any agreements with any Director in the period 31 December 2016 to the date of this report.
that would provide for enhanced compensation for loss of office or employment following a takeover bid.
Disclosures required under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4R For the purposes of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, the information required to be disclosed can be found in the following locations: Section Required information Location in Annual Report Page 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration Report 87 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Item 7, in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waiver of dividends Not applicable 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable 93 Governance Other Statutory Information continued Events after the balance sheet date Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in Note 32 responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, tothe Financial Statements.
Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Political donations The Groups policy is not to make any political donations The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity andnone were made during the financial year 2015: nil.
of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Going concern preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Having reviewed the Groups plans and available financial differfrom legislation in other jurisdictions.
facilities, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for Directors statement on disclosure to the auditor at least 12 months following the signing of the accounts.
For The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the this reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis in Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, preparing the Groups accounts.
there is no relevant audit information, which would be needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing its audit Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect report, of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each ofthe Annual Report and the Financial Statements Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant and the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor accordance with applicable law and regulations.
is aware of that information.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that of the Annual Report and Accounts law, the Directors are required to prepare the Group Financial We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the Regulation and have also elected to prepare the Parent Company applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair Financial Statements in accordance with UK Accounting view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Under company law, the Directors must not approve the the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give and performance of the business and the position of the atrue and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and issues and the undertakings included in the consolidation, Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company Financial risks and uncertainties that they face.
Statements, the Directors are required to: We consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a select suitable accounting policies and then apply them whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the consistently: information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups make judgements and accounting estimates that are position, performance, business model and strategy.
reasonable and prudent: By order of the Board.
for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: Roger Stephens for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether Secretary applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 14 February 2017 subject to any material departures disclosed and explained inthe Parent Company Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
