Strategic Report Strategy in Focus The acquisition of Millbrook supports ourstrategy of a shiftin emphasis from apurely product-based offering towards the provision of complete solutions to thecustomer.
8 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Driving green innovation and Millbrook provides vehicle test, validation technology at Millbrook Millbrook continues to advance its customer offering and engineering services to customers asboth regulation and customer requirements inthe automotive, transport, tyre, evolve.
In December, a new climatic emissions testingfacility was opened which is set to address petrochemical, defence and security the new challenges faced by the automotive industry.
New regulations require vehicle manufacturers to industries.
From its testing facilities in useportable emissions measuring systems to supplement laboratory testing and provide results theUK and at Test World in Finland, it that are more representative of real-world driving helps its customers navigate legislative conditions.
Millbrook now offers the latest advanced systems for measuring vehicle emissions, CO, fuel 2 andregulatory requirements, to develop consumption and electric consumption and range, under repeatable conditions.
theengines, vehicles, tyres and fuels The bus, truck and off-highway market is also ofthe future.
beingdriven by the need to reduce emissions and improve urban air quality.
First Bus, a leading UK busoperator, has been undertaking extensive How this supports our strategy product testing at Millbrook every year since2012 In September, Spectris acquired Millbrook, a leading inits pursuit of operating ever cleaner andmore provider of testing and engineering services, primarily fuel-efficient vehicles.
Vehicle manufacturers put to the automotive sector.
This acquisition is a major their latest products through a comprehensive step in implementing our  testingprogramme, the results of which play a major strategy as it adds testing services to the hardware part intheFirst Bus vehicle procurement strategy.
and software offering in a way which enables the Thistesting procedure has beendeveloped by First development of innovative customer solutions.
Millbrook became an operating company within the The buses are fitted with sophisticated equipment Test and Measurement segment, and hereitbenefits tomonitor many aspects of performance and are put from sharing capabilities, expertise, technology and through their paces on a course designed to reflect customer contacts with our existingoperating avariety of rural, urban and inter-urban bus routes.
companies, HBM and Brel &KjrSound & Vibration.
As a result, bus manufacturers have successfully The transition in our offering to customers is improved the fuel efficiency of their vehicles by up beingdriven by a change in their requirements.
Continued Supported by Spectris global reach and expertise, developments in vehicle technology are expected the combination of Millbrooks service expertise tocontribute towards further reductions in fuel withthe testing equipment and software of our consumption and carbon emissions.
other operating companies will enable customers toenhance their productivity by dealing with the The testing and like-for-like increasing complexities involved in product testing, whilst reducing the time to market for new products.
comparisons between vehicles are Another key strand to the Spectris strategy is helping to drive the development deploying capital for M&A, and Millbrook represents of greener public transport, an ideal platform for both organic and acquisitive investment to broaden its customer base, service whichhas real benefits for the offering and geographic reach.
environment and creates cost savings that ultimately benefit consumers.
Millbrook is uniquely able to provide the testing environment and expertise requiredby First Bus.
