Strategic Report Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate The Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of risks facing the Group, including those that could threaten its the Company over a three-year period, taking into account the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This Groups current position and the assessment of the principal assessment was made with reference to the Groups current risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 32 to 39. position and prospects, the Groups strategy and the Groups principal risks, including how these are managed, as detailed The Directors have determined that a three-year period to onpages 30 to 39.
31December 2019 constitutes an appropriate period over which to provide its Viability Statement.
The selection of this period for In considering the Groups prospects, the Directors also noted the assessment is supported by the Groups strategic planning the broad spread of markets, products and customers cycle together with other relevant considerations such as the maintained by the Group.
This natural diversification provides maturity of the Groups credit facilities.
In addition, the Group is mitigation against the risk of a serious economic downturn in a exposed to a number of different industry cycles of varying and particular market or the risks associated with dependence on a ill-defined length and duration which may or may not overlap, specific sector or customer.
Our largest customer constitutes less and this has also been taken into account in considering the than 2% of Group sales.
At the same time, the Directors noted relevant period.
the Groups strong financial position coupled with our ability toreact promptly in adjusting our cost base in the event of a Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe that the Group material change in the trading environment.
will not be viable over a longer period, it is recognised that such future assessments carry a level of inherent uncertainty which Similarly, in making the assessment, the Directors also increases with the length of the period.
As such, we believe considered the ability of the Group to raise finance and deploy athree-year period presents users of the Annual Report with capital in the context of the principal sources of facility for areasonable degree of confidence while still providing a credit, the maturity of those facilities, the Groups ability longer-term perspective.
tore-finance debt as it falls due and the overall level of headroom available.
The Group operates a detailed financial forecasting process over a rolling 18-month period, supplemented by monthly analysis of While the review encompassed all of the principal risks identified risks and opportunities against the forecast presented.
Each of by the Group, the following were focused on for enhanced the Groups businesses has established growth targets through analysis including stress testing: political and economic: laws to 2020.
A dashboard reporting process provides visibility of andregulations: fluctuations in exchange rates: supply chain progress against relevant strategic initiatives which underpin dependencies and disruption: and information security.
As the run-off to 2020 diminishes over the Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they next few years and the average strategic planning cycle moves haveareasonable expectation that the Group will continue closer to three years, the Directors believe that this supports inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the theselection of a three-year period over which the Viability period to December 2019.
