S ST TR RA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP POR ORT T:: T O H five E U RVI K H EW EALTHCARE MARKET The UK healthcare market Spire Healthcare operates in the UK, a healthcare market dominated by the NHS and Government spending, but subject to strong macro growth drivers.
Demographic pressures, rising demand and a growing public funding gap present challenges.
2016 Private sector providers % UK private acute Market trends Spire Healthcare medical care market The UK population is growing and ageing.
Acute and chronic long-term conditions such BMI Healthcare 17 UK Market 2015 as cancer, obesity and diabetes are rising, 32 HCA as are the numbers of older patients with Nuffield Health multiple co-morbidities.
17 Ramsay 5.6bn Health Care UK Increasing demand and continuing advances 8 Others in healthcare mean that the NHS needs 16 10 additional funding year-on-year of around Annual growth nominal since 2006 4% above inflation.
Slow economic growth is constraining Government spending and is likely to impact the NHSs ability to provide 5.8% 2016 Revenue split independent acute universal healthcare, free at the point of use.
medical hospitals and clinics % The NHSs Five Year Forward View published PMI Independent Private Voluntary in October 2014 required efficiency savings 6.0 hospitals NHS of 22 billion by 2020 21 to balance the 17.9 Self-pay books higher than has ever been achieved International by the NHS or indeed any other major health 46.3 5.0bn economy.
It is unlikely to be achieved.
At the same time, Simon Stevens, the 29.9 NHS private patient revenues chief executive of NHS England, told the Commons Public Accounts Committee that UK health spending is already much lower 0.5bn 1.8%2.0% pa PMI nominal growth rate than in many other European countries and, forecast to end 2019 in real-terms, NHS spending per person in England is forecast to go down.
Overall Private Acute market growth 2016 Spire Healthcare revenue % The NHS has relatively fewer staff and forecast to end 2019 hospital beds: France, Germany, Sweden and PMI the Netherlands have more doctors, nurses 3.6 NHS and beds per head of population.
The result 5.0% 18.4 Self-pay for the UK is that resources are worked hard Other and capacity is always tight, with bed Source: LaingBuisson Private Acute Medical Care UK 46.3 occupancy rates often over 90%.
Source: Office of Budget Responsibility Fiscal sustainability analytical paper: Fiscal sustainability and public spending on health.
18 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Sector leading, gaining market share and well positioned for further growth.
Not surprisingly, the NHS is increasingly Today: Why Spire Healthcare extending waiting times, missing PMI Emergency Department ED and Referral Our scale and national coverage allows to Treatment RTT targets, and rationing us to negotiate on an even basis with non-urgent treatments.
key insurers 17% Our Greater London ring and the The private sector not only provides capacity share of UK private expansion of Spire St Anthonys Hospital for the NHS, but also outstanding healthcare acute hospital market provides lower priced alternatives to at affordable prices.
This is subject to the Source: LaingBuisson Private Acute Medical Care UK central London competitor facilities twin drivers of volume and productivity.
Static or falling prices, driven by cost Self-pay pressures across the sector, mean that We are developing a strong and visible Investment since Spire Healthcare margin enhancement is a factor of scale, brand was formed efficiency and productivity.
Our national network provides local care We provide simple fixed prices for over Smaller operators face disproportionate 70 procedures including those most likely costs, having to meet the same regulatory 875m to be rationed by the NHS and operating costs as larger groups, including acquisitions We continue to invest in new theatres without the benefit of their economies Source: Company Information.
NHS eReferral We expect market growth, driven NHS Referral to Treatment Time by increased patient and GP awareness reporting month December 2016 Spire Healthcare is consistently gaining market share, as our well invested estate influences patient choice and 94.7% GP recommendation Percentage of patients seen within 18 weeks of referral Tomorrow: National standard: 92%, NHS: 89.7% NHS e-Referral and Self-pay growth Source: Company Information.
should remain strong New capacity will meet demand e. g. new hospitals in Nottingham UK leaders in hip and knee and Manchester replacements by volume Ongoing cost optimisation will drive of the private sector margins Although significantly affected by the uncertainties occasioned by Brexit, 24.4% London remains an attractive market and gaining market share provided an appropriate entry strategy Source: National Joint Registry.
can be executed Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 19
