GOVERNANCE: DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor.
Powers of the Directors together with the audited financial Shareholders will also be asked to authorise The business of the Company is managed statements of Spire Healthcare Group plc the Directors to hold general meetings at by the Directors who may exercise all the the Company together with its 14 clear days notice where this flexibility powers of the Company, subject to any subsidiaries the Group for the year is merited by the business of the meeting relevant legislation, any directions given by ended 31 December 2016. and is thought to be in the interests of the Company by passing a special resolution shareholders as a whole.
Further items and to the Companys Articles of Association.
Certain disclosure requirements for of business to be proposed at the annual The Articles, for example, contain specific inclusion in this Directors Report have been general meeting are described throughout provisions concerning the Companys power incorporated by way of cross reference to this Directors Report.
to borrow money and issue shares.
the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 53 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 Dividends Appointment and removal of Directors to 91, and should be read in conjunction The Directors recommend the payment of Rules relating to the appointment and with this report.
The following, included a final dividend in respect of the year ended removal of the Directors are contained in the Strategic Report, also form part of 31 December 2016 of 2.5 pence 2015: within the Companys Articles of Association.
this report: 2.4 pence per ordinary share making a greenhouse gas emissions, which can be proposed total dividend for the year of Directors indemnities found under Corporate social responsibility 3.8 pence per share 2015: 3.7 pence.
See page 66 in the Corporate governance on pages 46 and 47: Subject to shareholders approving the section.
employees, which can be found under recommendation at the annual general Group Human Resources Directors review meeting, the final dividend will be paid on Amendment of articles of association Our people on pages 42 to 45: 27 June 2017 to shareholders on the register The Company may only make amendments the Corporate governance statement, as at 2 June 2017. to the Articles of Association of the set out on pages 60 to 63: and Company by way of special resolution of The Company paid an interim dividend in Our strategy set out on pages 14 and 15. the shareholders, in accordance with the respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 Companies Act 2006.
A description of the Groups exposure and of 1.3 pence per share on 13 December 2016. management of risks is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 48 to 53.
Employees Board of Directors The Group is an equal opportunities The following changes were made to the Information regarding the Companys employer and is committed to creating an Board of Directors during the year: charitable donations can be found under environment which will attract, retain and Group Human Resources Directors review Robert Lerwill stepped down from the motivate its people, by creating a working Our people on pages 42 to 45.
Board on 27 June 2016: environment in which individuals are able Rob Roger stepped down as Chief to make best use of their skills, free from Registered office Executive Officer and left the Board on discrimination or harassment, and in which The Companys registered office and 30 June 2016: all decisions are based on merit.
Spire principal place of business is 3 Dorset Rise, Andrew White was appointed an Executive Healthcare employs people who consider London EC4Y 8EN.
Director on 1 July 2016: and themselves to have a disability a physical or Adle Anderson was appointed an mental impairment which has a substantial Annual general meeting independent Non-Executive Director on and long-term adverse effect on their ability The annual general meeting of Spire 28 July 2016. to carry out normal day-to-day activities.
Healthcare Group plc will be held at the Employees who consider themselves to have The UK Corporate Governance Code provides offices of J. P. Morgan at 60 Victoria a disability are under no obligation to inform for all Directors of FTSE companies to stand Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Friday, their employer of this, however, we are fully for election or re-election by shareholders 26 May 2017 at 11.00am.
aware of, and comply with, our obligations every year.
Accordingly, all members of the in accordance with the relevant provisions At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed Board, with the exception of Adle Anderson of the Equality Act 2010. to declare a final dividend, to receive the and Andrew White, who will stand for Annual Report and Financial Statements, election for the first time, will retire and We launched the Spire Healthcare discussion approve the Directors Remuneration Report, seek re-election at this years annual general channel, a new communication channel elect or re-elect all of the Directors and to meeting.
Full biographical details of all of the established to provide colleagues, on a Directors can be found on pages 54 and 55. regular basis, with audio updates from our leadership team covering topics which are Further information on the contractual pertinent to our business: from our strategic arrangements of the Executive Directors direction to operational and people is given on page 81.
When appropriate, consultations Directors do not have service agreements.
with employee and union representatives take place.
92 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Group gives full and fair consideration The rights attaching to the shares are set Restrictions on voting to applications for employment from out in the Articles of Association.
There are Unless the Directors otherwise determine, disabled persons.
Should an employee no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary a shareholder shall not be entitled to vote become disabled during their employment shares in the capital of the Company other either personally or by proxy: with Spire Healthcare, every effort is made than those which may be imposed by law if any call or other sum presently payable to enable them to continue their service from time-to-time.
There are no special to the Company in respect of that share with the Group.
control rights in relation to the Companys remains unpaid: or shares and the Company is not aware of any Further information on our employees can having been duly served with a notice to agreements between holders of securities be found under Group Human Resources provide the Company with information that may result in restrictions on the Directors review Our people on pages under Section 793 of the Companies Act transfer of securities or on voting rights.
2006, and has failed to do so within 14 In accordance with the Disclosure and days, for so long as the default continues.
Transparency Rules, certain employees are Political donations and expenditure required to seek approval prior to dealing The Group made no political donations Directors interests in shares in the Companys shares.
The Companys during the year.
Although the Company The beneficial interests of the Directors and entire issued ordinary share capital is listed does not make, and does not intend to make, their families in the shares of the Company on the premium segment of the Official donations to political parties, within the are detailed on page 89.
List of the Financial Conduct Authority and normal meaning of that expression, the to unconditional trading on the London During the year, no Director had any material definition of political donations under the Stock Exchange plcs main market for interest in any contract of significance to the Companies Act 2006 is very broad and listed securities.
includes expenses legitimately incurred as Further information relating to the part of the process of talking to members of Material interests in shares Companys issued share capital can be found Parliament and opinion formers to ensure As of 1 March 2017, the Company has been in note 25 to the Companys financial that the issues and concerns of the Group are notified by the following investors of their statements on page 126. considered and addressed.
These activities interests in 3% or more of the Companys are not intended to support any political The Company has made no purchases of its issued share capital.
These interests were party and the Groups policy is not to make own shares during the year and no shares notified to the Company pursuant to any donations for political purposes in the were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: normally accepted sense.
made subject to a lien or charge.
Details of the shares purchased by the Companys A resolution will therefore be proposed at Shareholder Current % Employee Benefit Trust are shown in note 25 the annual general meeting seeking Mediclinic International PLC 29.90 on page 126. shareholder approval for the Directors to be Woodford Investment given authority to make donations and incur Management LLP 14.00 expenditure which might otherwise be Allot shares and pre-emption rights caught by the terms of the Companies Act Shareholders will be asked to renew both the BlackRock, Inc 6.38 2006.
The authority sought will be limited to general authority of the Directors to issue a maximum amount of 100,000. shares and to authorise the Directors to issue The Capital Group Companies, Inc 4.83 shares without applying the statutory GIC Private Limited 3.04 pre-emption rights.
In this regard, the Share capital Company will continue to adhere to the As at the date of this report, Spire Healthcare provisions in the Pre-emption Groups Group plc had an issued share capital of Statement of Principles.
401,081,391 ordinary shares of 1 pence each, being the total number of shares with Further details on these matters can voting rights.
be found in the 2017 Notice of annual general meeting.
Equiniti Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust, holds 670,559 ordinary shares of 1 pence each Voting rights 2015: 1,692,242.
Further details can be In a general meeting of the Company, on a found in note 25 on page 126. show of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 93 GOVERNANCE: DIRECTORS REPORT Significant agreements Information required Location in Annual Report 2016 The following agreements are considered Amount of interest capitalised Note 10 on page 116 to be significant in terms of their potential Long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration Report pages 76 to 91 impact on the business of the Group as a whole and could alter or terminate on Equity securities allotted for cash Note 25 on page 126 a change of control of the Group: Parent and subsidiary undertakings Note 17 on page 120 the Groups bank facility agreement Subsisting significant agreements Page 94 contains provisions entitling the Controlling shareholder relationships Pages 67 and 94 counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control: Compensation for loss of office Disclosure of information to auditor there are a number of contracts which There are no agreements between the Having made enquiries of fellow Directors allow the counterparties to alter or Group and its Directors or employees and of the Companys auditor, each of the terminate those arrangements in the event providing for compensation for loss of office Directors confirms that: of a change of control of the Company.
or employment that occurs as a result of to the best of their knowledge and belief, These arrangements are commercially a change of control.
there is no relevant audit information of sensitive and confidential and their which the Companys auditor is unaware: disclosure could be seriously prejudicial Disclosures required under listing and to the Group: and rule 9.8.
4R they have taken all the steps a Director the Companys share incentive plans The above table is included to meet the might reasonably be expected to have contain provisions relating to a change of requirements of Listing Rule section 9.8.
taken to be aware of relevant audit control and full details of these plans are The information required to be disclosed information and to establish that the provided in the Directors Remuneration by that section, where applicable to the Companys auditor is aware of that Report on pages 76 to 91.
Outstanding Company, can be located in the Annual information.
options and awards would normally vest Report 2016 at the references set out above.
and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of Reappointment of auditor Events after the reporting period performance conditions, if applicable, Resolutions for the reappointment of Ernst & There have been no material events at that time.
Young LLP as the auditor of the Company and affecting the Group or Company since to authorise the Directors to determine its The relationship agreement entered into 31 December 2016. remuneration will be proposed at the annual with Mediclinic Jersey Limited formerly general meeting.
Ernst & Young LLP has called Remgro Jersey Limited, a subsidiary Going concern expressed its willingness to be reappointed.
of Mediclinic International PLC, in June 2015 The Group is financed by a bank loan facility is deemed a material agreement between The Directors Report has been approved that matures in 2019.
The Directors have the Company and its principal shareholder.
by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: considered the Groups forecasts and The agreement does not include a change of projections, and the risks associated with control provision but does terminate upon their delivery, and are satisfied that the Daniel Toner the earlier of the Companys ordinary shares Group will be able to operate within the General Counsel and Group Company ceasing to be listed and traded on the covenants imposed by the bank loan facility Secretary London Stock Exchanges main market for the foreseeable future.
In relation to 1 March 2017 for listed securities and the principal available cash resources, the Directors shareholders ceasing to be entitled, in have had regard to both cash at bank and a aggregate, to exercise or to control the 100.0 million committed undrawn revolving exercise of 15% or more of the votes to be credit facility.
Accordingly, they have adopted cast on all or substantially all matters of a the going concern basis in preparing these general meeting of the Company.
94 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
