THE BOARD DR KEITH HELLAWELL QPM Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of Nomination Committee Appointed: 24 November 2009 Committees: Nomination and Remuneration Committees Previous roles: Prior to joining the team at Sports Direct International plc, Dr Hellawell spent over 40 years in public sector management being a former Chief Constable of two British police forces.
While working directly for the Prime Minister between 1998 and 2002 he wrote and coordinated the United Kingdom national and international anti-drugs policy.
Dr Hellawell has been involved in the private sector since 1998 when he joined Evans of Leeds, a fully listed property company.
Since then he has served on the Boards of both Dalkia plc and Sterience Limited, subsidiaries of the French company Veolia Env.
He was Non-Executive Chairman of Goldshield Group plc, a marketing-led pharmaceutical and consumer health company, from May 2006 to its sale in December 2009.
He has held a number of other Non-Executive Board positions in private companies including sectors such as vehicle manufacturing and IT.
Present roles: Dr Hellawell is currently a Non-Executive Director of Mortice plc, a Singapore-based facilities management company, a Director of the Super League team Huddersfield Giants and Non-Executive Chairman of SmartWitness PLC a leading designer, manufacturer, and supplier of in-vehicle cameras, recorders, and software.
He also runs his own management and training consultancy company.
Key skills and experiences: Dr Hellawell has worked in both the public and private sector for over 50 years.
Throughout this time he has built up a wealth of experience which he brings to the Group to ensure the successful and effective operation of the Board.
MIKE ASHLEY Executive Deputy Chairman Appointed: 1982 founder Previous roles: Mike established the business of the Group on leaving school in 1982 and was the sole owner until the Groups listing in March 2007.
Key skills and experiences: Mike was the founder of the Group and has the necessary skills for formulating the vision and commercial strategy of the Group.
With over 30 years in the sports retail business with Sports Direct he is invaluable to the Group.
42 DAVE FORSEY Chief Executive Appointed: 1984 Key skills and experiences: Dave has been with the business for over 30 years, during which time he has acquired significant knowledge and experience of the sports retail business.
In conjunction with the Executive Deputy Chairman, he agrees strategy, appropriate objectives and policies for each of the businesses.
Dave has overall responsibility for the daily management of the Group.
MATT PEARSON Acting Chief Financial Officer Appointed: 04 June 2015 Previous Roles: A graduate in Maths, he qualified with Tenon, now part of Baker Tilly, in 2004.
He subsequently joined Ernst and Young, now EY, in Nottingham where he worked as an auditor before joining the Group.
Key skills and experiences: Matt joined the Group in June 2007, shortly after it listed on the London Stock Exchange, and has since worked closely with the Executive team and the Audit Committee in his role as Group Financial Controller.
Matt is a qualified Chartered Accountant, with substantial knowledge of all financial aspects of the Group.
SIMON BENTLEY Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Audit Committee Appointed: 02 March 2007 Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Previous roles: Simon qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1980 and in 1987 joined Blacks Leisure Group Plc where he was Chairman and Chief Executive for 12 years.
Present roles: Simon chairs and is on the board of a range of companies and organisations.
Among these, he is Chairman of the hair brand Umberto Giannini, is the principal owner and Chairman of the leading mobile ATM operator Cash on the Move, is a Supervisory Board Director of Global Home, a designer and manufacturer of indoor furniture for retailers, based in Vietnam, and is Chairman of Yad Vashem UK Foundation.
Key skills and experiences: He has lengthy experience of the sporting goods industry, and maintains the recent and relevant experience necessary to be Chairman of the Audit Committee.
DAVE SINGLETON Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Remuneration Committee Appointed: 27 October 2007 Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Previous roles: Dave spent 25 years with Reebok International Limited.
He stepped down in April 2007 having assisted with the successful integration of Reebok following its acquisition by adidas Group in January 2006.
For eight years he was Vice President of Northern Europe Region & UK and then was Senior Vice President of Europe, Middle East & Africa.
Present roles: Dave is Chairman of Bolton Lads & Girls Club, Bolton Community Leisure Trust.
He is also a Trustee at Bolton Wanderers Community Trust.
Key skills and experiences: Dave has an extensive senior management record and brings valuable experience of international sports brand operations.
CLAIRE JENKINS Non-Executive Director Appointed: 25 May 2011 Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Previous roles: Claires most recent Executive role was as Group Director Corporate Affairs and a member of the Executive Leadership Team, responsible for the companys sustainability and communications activities, at Rexam plc, a leading global beverage can maker.
Prior to that, she was a member of the Management Committee of international tobacco company Gallaher Group plc acquired by Japan Tobacco in 2007 where she was responsible for investor relations and Group planning.
Claire has also gained corporate experience in various consulting roles and at Laing & Cruickshank, and as a Non-Executive Director of Retro Classics Fund.
Present roles: Claire is Chairman of Amicus, and a Non-Executive Director of Media For Development.
Key skills and experiences: Claire has excellent all-round business experience and, in addition, has particular corporate governance and communication skills.
