GOVERNANCE: BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors C D E N 1.
Garry Watts Executive Chairman Garry Watts joined the Group as Executive Chairman in 2011 before becoming NonExecutive Chairman between Admission and March 2016.
He resumed the role of Executive Chairman in March 2016.
The Company does not consider Garry to be independent due to his executive role.
1 2 Current external appointments chairman of BTG plc chairman of Foxtons Group plc non-executive director of Coca-Cola European Partners Ltd Skills and previous experience A chartered accountant by profession and former partner at KPMG, Garrys extensive business knowledge and leadership on other listed company boards, including SSL International plc and Celltech Group plc, has ensured a seamless transition from private 3 4 to public for the Company.
He has a deep understanding of the healthcare sector, having served as a member of the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Supervisory Board for 17 years.
Garry was also previously an executive director of Medeva plc, deputy chairman of Stagecoach Group plc and a non-executive director of Protherics plc.
Andrew White Executive Director Andrew White joined Spire Healthcare in 5 6 November 2015 and served as Chief Operating Officer until December 2016.
He was appointed an Executive Director in July 2016.
Andrew is expected to be appointed the Companys new Chief Executive Officer once he has recovered from a period of sustained medical treatment.
He remains engaged with the business in his capacity as a Director whilst temporarily stepping down from all Board and management committees.
Skills and previous experience 7 8 Andrew began his working life in the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers and served in Bosnia, Northern Ireland and the first Gulf Board committee membership: War.
After leaving the army in 1995, Andrew A Audit and Risk Committee held senior positions at Serco plc and Nomura C Clinical Governance and Safety Committee Principal Finance Group and later Serco Nomura D Disclosure Committee Infrastructure Fund.
Andrew became CEO of N Nomination Committee Serco UK&E Local & Regional Government R Remuneration Committee division in January 2014 where he was Committee Chair responsible for all aspects of Sercos business Management committee membership: in the UK and Europe.
E Executive Committee Committee Chair 9 54 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Andrew is an ambassador to the National Skills and previous experience 8.
Simon Rowlands Apprenticeship Service and has been the Having trained in medicine at Guys Hospital Non-Executive Director industry chair of the Defence Suppliers Medical School, Dame Janets extensive Simon Rowlands was appointed a Forum Executive Group.
He attended the career in healthcare allows her to bring Non-Executive Director in June 2014, Advanced Management Program at Harvard invaluable insight and knowledge of the although he served in a similar capacity prior Business School in 2013. healthcare industry.
She has previously to Admission having been an appointment served as a specially appointed commissioner of Cinven, the Companys former principal to the Royal Hospital Chelsea, was president D E 3.
The Company does not of the Royal College of Radiologists, chaired Chief Financial Officer consider Simon to be independent due the National Cancer Research Institute in Simon Gordon joined Spire Healthcare as to the senior position he continues to hold the UK and was a non-executive director Chief Financial Officer in July 2011 and with Cinven Partners.
Dame Janet became an Executive Director of the Current external appointments was appointed as Professor of Diagnostic Company in June 2014. senior adviser to Cinven Partners Radiology at the University of London, Skills and previous experience non-executive director of Avio S. P. A. Italy Institute of Cancer Research, in addition to Simon has a broad range of financial non-executive director of MD Medical more than 30 years as a practising consultant experience and brings invaluable knowledge Group Investment plc radiologist at the Royal Marsden Hospital.
of both audit and transaction advisory founding partner of Africa Platform Capital projects for both listed and private A C R 6.
Tony Bourne Skills and previous experience companies to the role.
He qualified as a Independent Non-Executive Director Simons extensive knowledge of the Company chartered accountant with KPMG before Tony Bourne was appointed an independent and its markets, combined with his wise spending eight years as group finance Non-Executive Director in June 2014. counsel over a number of years, were among director of Virgin Active.
During his time the reasons he was asked to continue to serve Current external appointments at Virgin Active, the business grew from as a member of the Board following Cinvens non-executive director of Barchester break-even to 150 million EBITDA, operating sale of their shareholding.
He was a founding Healthcare Limited in five countries.
This growth was achieved partner of the private equity firm Cinven non-executive director of Bioquell Plc by a successful combination of organic until 2013, and established and led its non-executive director of Totally plc development and acquisition.
Simon founded a new Skills and previous experience private equity firm in 2016 focused on N R 4.
John Gildersleeve Tony brings considerable knowledge of healthcare and consumer sectors of Sub the healthcare industry to his role, having Deputy Chairman and Sahara Africa.
Prior to joining Cinven, he been chief executive of the British Medical Senior Independent Director worked with an international consulting firm Association for nine years until 2013.
Prior to John Gildersleeve was appointed the Deputy on multidisciplinary engineering projects this, he was in investment banking for over Chairman and Senior Independent Director in the UK and southern Africa.
25 years, including as a partner at Hawkpoint in June 2014.
John has indicated his desire and as global head of the equities division to retire from the Board and will do so by 9.
Danie Meintjes and a member of the managing board of the annual general meeting in 2017.
Tony has also previously served Danie Meintjes was appointed as a Current external appointments as a non-executive director of Southern Non-Executive Director in August 2015. chairman of The British Land Company plc Housing Group, and the charity, Scope.
The Company does not consider Danie to deputy chairman of TalkTalk Telecom be independent as he has been appointed Group plc A R 7.
Adle Anderson to the Board by the Companys principal Independent Non-Executive Director Skills and previous experience shareholder, Mediclinic International PLC, Adle Anderson was appointed an John is an experienced executive with strong under the terms of the relationship independent Non-Executive Director operational expertise from a number of agreement with them.
in July 2016. listed companies and is a skilled nomination Current external appointments committee chair.
He served as an executive Current external appointments chief executive officer of Mediclinic director of Tesco PLC and was formerly non-executive director and chair of the International PLC chairman of Carphone Warehouse Group plc, audit committee of easyJet plc EMI Group plc and Gallaher Group plc.
non-executive director and chair of the Skills and previous experience John was also a non-executive director of audit committee of intu properties plc Danie joined the Mediclinic International Dixons Carphone plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, member of the board of trustees of group in 1985, were he has held a number Pick N Pay Stores Limited South Africa Save the Children UK of senior positions.
He was appointed as a and Vodafone Group plc.
member of the audit committee of the director of Mediclinic International Limited Wellcome Trust South Africa in 1996 and then became its A C N 5.
Dame Janet Husband chief executive officer in April 2010.
Danie Skills and previous experience Independent Non-Executive Director holds a Bachelor of Personnel Leadership Adle has gained extensive financial Dame Janet Husband was appointed an from the University of the Free State experience throughout her career and has independent Non-Executive Director in South Africa and has also attended significant knowledge of audit committees.
June 2014. the Advanced Management Program Until July 2011, she was a partner in KPMG Current external appointments at Harvard Business School.
LLP and held a number of senior roles across Emeritus Professor of Radiology at the their business including Chief Financial Institute of Cancer Research Officer of KPMG UK, Chief Executive Officer non-executive director of Royal Marsden of KPMGs captive insurer and Chief Financial NHS Foundation Trust Officer of KPMG Europe.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 55
