GOVERNANCE: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Information and support Directors indemnities Accountability The Board ensures that it receives, in a timely The Directors of the Company have the The Audit and Risk Committee manner, information of an appropriate benefit of a third-party indemnity provision, The Audit and Risk Committee Report is quality to enable it to adequately discharge as defined by section 236 of the Companies set out on pages 68 to 71 and identifies its responsibilities.
This is aided by the use of Act 2006, in the Groups Articles of its members, whose details are set out an online portal.
Papers are provided to the Association.
In addition, Directors and on page 55.
Directors in advance of the relevant Board or officers of the Group are covered by The report describes the Audit and Risk committee meeting to enable them to make directors and officers liability insurance.
Committees work in discharging its further enquiries about any matters prior to Directors conflicts of interest responsibilities during the year ended the meeting, should they so wish.
This also The Companies Act 2006 provides that 31 December 2016, and its terms of allows Directors who are unable to attend directors must avoid a situation where they reference can be found on the Groups to submit views in advance of the meeting.
have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest website at www.
Outside the Board papers process, the that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with Risk management and internal control Executive Directors provide written updates the Companys interests.
Directors of public The Board has overall responsibility for to the Non-Executive Directors on important companies may authorise conflicts and establishing and maintaining a sound system business issues, including financial and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if a of risk management and internal control, and commercial information.
In addition, relevant companys articles of association permit.
This system updates on shareholder matters including The Board has established formal procedures is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, analysts reports are also provided to to authorise situations where a Director has the risks facing the Group and safeguard its the Board.
an interest that conflicts, or may possibly assets.
No system of internal control can All Directors have access to the advice and conflict, with the interests of the Company provide absolute assurance against material services of the Group Company Secretary.
Directors declare misstatement or loss.
The Groups system There is also an agreed procedure in place Situational Conflicts, so that they can be is designed to provide the Directors with for Directors, in the furtherance of their considered for authorisation by the reasonable assurance that issues are duties, to take independent legal advice, non-conflicted directors.
identified on a timely basis and are dealt if necessary, at the Groups expense.
In considering a Situational Conflict, these Election of Directors Directors act in the way they consider would The Audit and Risk Committee and the All the Directors offered themselves for be most likely to promote the success of the Clinical Governance and Safety Committee, election or re-election at the second annual Group, and may impose limits, or conditions, whose reports are set out on pages 68 to 71 general meeting in May 2016 and, in future, when giving authorisation or, subsequently, and pages 72 and 73, respectively, assist the will be re-elected in accordance with the if they think this is appropriate.
Board in reviewing the effectiveness of requirements of the UK Code.
the Groups risk management system and The Group Company Secretary records internal controls, including financial, clinical, All Directors will stand for election or the consideration of any conflict and operational and compliance controls.
re-election at the annual general meeting in any authorisations granted.
The Board 2017 except for John Gildersleeve who has believes that the system it has in place for Executive compensation and risk indicated that he wishes to retire from the reporting Situational Conflicts continues Only independent Non-Executive Directors Board before this date.
The biographical to operate effectively.
are allowed to serve on both the Audit details of each Director standing for election and Risk Committee and Remuneration or re-election is included in the 2017 Notice Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors of Meeting.
The Board believes that each of are therefore able to bring their experience the Directors standing for election is and knowledge of the activities of each effective and demonstrates commitment to committee to bear when considering the their respective roles.
Accordingly, the Board critical judgements of the other.
recommends that shareholders approve the This means that the Directors are in a resolutions to be proposed at the 2017 position to consider carefully the impact annual general meeting relating to the of incentive arrangements on the Groups election of the Directors.
risk profile and to ensure the Groups The biographical details of all current remuneration policy and programme Directors are set out on pages 54 and 55. are structured, so as to accord with the long-term objectives and risk appetite of the Group.
66 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
