OUR BUSINESS From our beginnings as a standalone sports store in Maidenhead in 1982, Sports Direct has today become the UKs largest sporting goods retailer, and operates a diversified portfolio of sports, fitness, fashion and lifestyle fascias and brands.
We aspire to be a leading sports and lifestyle retailer internationally, and to deliver sustainable growth for our shareholders in the medium to long term.
Each year Sports Directs c. 29,000 people work together to serve customers and collaborate with our global wholesale and licensing partners to promote the Groups brands.
Our culture is very important to us, and our values are vital to maintaining our culture.
Our values are: operating as one team: planning for success: striving to lead and energise others: doing things the right way: creating a good impression: wowing our customers: and, delivering results.
Our values and the development of our people have underpinned our high performance and high reward culture, which has made Sports Direct the successful business that it is today.
BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is focused on delivering our strategy to offer an unrivalled range of high quality leading brands to our customers, and maximising the efficiency, capacity and effectiveness of our operations to deliver this experience.
Below we have outlined our business model in more detail by outlining our offer to customers, our fascias and retail channels, our Group Brands and third party brand partners, our National Distribution Centre at our Shirebrook campus, our centralised commercial and support functions, and our people.
OUR OFFER TO CUSTOMERS Our overarching commitment to our customers is to deliver the broadest range of high quality leading brands both third party brands and Group Brands with different customer value propositions across our Sports Retail and Premium Lifestyle fascias.
In Sports Retail, we offer a complete range of sporting apparel, footwear and equipment through our predominant fascia, SPORTSDIRECT.
com, which offers customers unbeatable value across all of our brands and products.
In 2014 we extended our customer proposition to include fitness.
The Fitness Division comprises 30 gyms located across the UK.
Our sites were largely accumulated through the acquisition of 25 LA Fitness gyms as well as a further three gyms which have been co-located with SPORTSDIRECT.
The Fitness Division similarly offers customers unbeatable value in gym memberships.
In Premium Lifestyle, our main fascias are Flannels, USC, Cruise and van mildert and each offer fashion conscious shoppers a premium multi-brand retail destination with high-end and on trend products.
OUR FASCIAS AND RETAIL CHANNELS Having a range of specialist fascias assists the Group to appeal to more customers and customer needs, and brings the benefit of scale and 16 efficiency to smaller and more niche fascias, to improve their profitability and viability long term.
Our channels include standalone stores and multi-fascia retail spaces, concessions within department stores, such as Debenhams and Heatons, and online.
Our store footprint is significant and typically situated in prime retail shopping areas, or in out of town shopping destinations.
Across our Sports Retail fascias, we have over 700 stores, and across our Premium Lifestyle fascias we have 83 stores.
We are always seeking to improve our in-store customer experience and have a programme of investment allocated to reconfiguring, upgrading and relocating our stores, with a focus on opening larger format stores, or 'Key Location Doors', to further enable us to offer our customers the broadest range of leading brands in an inspiring store environment.
Larger stores enable the creation of retail destinations which incorporate more than one fascia and offering.
This appeals to more customers, and generates operating synergies for the Group.
Online, the Group has invested to operate one web platform which supports all of the Groups websites and e-commerce sites, maximising the efficiency of the Groups investment to improve the online customer experience.
All of the Groups websites and e-commerce sites are fully responsive to mobile phones and tablets, which is increasingly important as more and more of our customers are using these to browse and shop online.
OUR SHIREBROOK CAMPUS During the year the Group completed the latest phase of our ongoing Shirebrook campus development, our National Distribution Centre, which added an additional c. 700,000 sq.
ft. of warehouse and office space to the site.
It is the Groups central hub for all third party and Group branded product.
The extension has enhanced our supply chain and distribution capabilities: the Groups online capacity: improved our office space and ability to bring teams together to benefit from co-location: and enhanced our training environment for staff, with an International Training Centre supported by Nike and Puma located on site.
The additional office space has also enabled us to incorporate more office space for third party brand partners to help us to continue to work closely together on building a better business.
OUR GROUP BRANDS Since we acquired our first heritage brand, Donnay, in 1996, the Group now has a significant portfolio of world famous heritage brands, which we offer via our fascias, and also wholesale and license to partners internationally.
Alongside our Group Brands we work with our leading third party global brand partners and provide significant prominence to these specialists with our customers, in our stores and online.
Our Group Brands and third party brands are managed by central brand and marketing teams.
This centralised structure significantly benefits the Group by enabling the individual brands to participate in Group buying and sourcing: aggregated supplier relationships and enhanced supply chain disciplines: Group stock monitoring and replenishment: and more inspired and harmonious visual merchandising in-store.
We are committed to investing in our brand experience alongside our third party brand partners to continually generate brand awareness and value.
In addition to appointing  celebrities and sporting professionals as brand ambassadors, the Group Brands also partner with major sporting events and venues, bringing our passion for sport to life.
Our Group Brands include Karrimor, Slazenger, Dunlop and Everlast, and across all of our Group Brands we support 258 wholesale and licensing partners globally.
Our focus has consistently been to grow our licensing partners, to further build our reach and presence in existing and new markets, driving growth and profitability.
OUR CENTRALISED COMMERCIAL AND SUPPORT FUNCTIONS The Group operates centralised commercial and support functions which are based at our Shirebrook campus.
Our Head Office team works across Retail, Buying, Brands, HR, Warehousing, IT, Property, E-commerce, Legal, Mergers and Acquisitions, and Finance.
These functions reside in the office space and work alongside our people in the Shirebrook warehouse, transport and retail stores.
Having centralised commercial functions brings a significant scale benefit to the businesses within the Group, which enhances the efficiency of day-to-day operations, and enables significant synergy potential when approaching acquisitions.
OUR PEOPLE Our team is comprised of c. 29,000 people who make Sports Direct the successful company that it is today.
The Board is committed to ensuring that all of our people have the opportunity to be inspired, stimulated, motivated, and empowered.
We believe that it takes every single team member to make a difference and drive performance, and we are committed to developing and rewarding our people to enable the Group to achieve its future growth plans.
Training and development is a very important part of our commitment to our people.
Our programmes form part of our employee attraction and retention strategies, and have accelerated the growth of many careers at Sports Direct.
We prefer to hire from within and retain our people to continually improve our business, and our training and development programmes enable us to do that.
Our programmes include both personal development and product knowledge courses, from our Home Grown Talent Management programme, to Customer 17 Service Training and specialist Footwear Masterclasses run by our third party brand partners.
We have also extended our programmes to some of our newer team members who have joined through acquisitions.
Consistent with our high performance and high reward culture, in addition to salaries and other benefits, the Group also offers share schemes for eligible participating employees.
The Group introduced share schemes in 2009 as a way of attracting, motivating and incentivising our existing and future employees by aligning the interests of our team with our shareholders, and giving our employees the opportunity to participate in the success of the Group.
While the Group successfully achieved the targets relating to the 2011 Share Scheme, the 2015 Share Scheme prescribed four EBITDA targets to be achieved over consecutive years for the Share Awards to vest at the end of the scheme, in 2021.
It is disappointing to note that the Group has not achieved the first EBITDA target set by the 2015 Share Scheme, and so the 2015 Share Scheme has fallen away and the Share Awards can no longer be achieved.
As discussed earlier in this report, the Board is currently working towards developing a new incentive scheme that continues to align the interests of our employees and shareholders.
Further information about the Groups approach to its people can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 35.
OUR STRATEGY We aspire to be a leading sports and lifestyle retailer internationally, and to deliver sustainable growth for our shareholders in the medium to long term.
The Groups strategy is to offer an unrivalled range of high quality leading brands to our customers, and maximise the efficiency, capacity and effectiveness of our operations to deliver this experience.
It is based on four key objectives which are outlined in the diagram below.
Discussion of the Groups strategic initiatives is outlined in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review on page 18.
IDENTIFY Brand acquisitions & property enhancement 4.
INVEST Targets & Group success Broadest range of brands Store portfolio & workforce 3.
DEVELOP Website & mCommerce, enhanced product ranges
