STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Five reasons to invest in Spire Healthcare The UK private healthcare market should continue to grow as the persistent supply and demand gap in publicly funded 01 healthcare continues to widen, resulting in longer waiting lists and increased Attractive and restrictions on the availability of procedures by the NHS.
We have a stable platform for growing market the future and are seeing real evidence of this market growth.
We continue to grow our asset base to meet the growth in demand, and continue gaining overall market share.
We achieved 02 strong growth in our Self-pay and NHS business and increased market share in Robust business underpinned the PMI sector: the inherent payor hedge between these three separate groups by growth in our Self-pay means we are well placed to weather and NHS groups any market volatility.
Our considered and disciplined investment in both assets and operational improvements helps to grow revenue while maintaining high 03 levels of cash generation.
The increasingly stretched NHS and favourable underlying The core Spire Healthcare healthcare demographics will help drive attractive revenue growth in all our payor proposition continues to groups over the medium to long term.
be validated Our large network of hospitals, aligned to major population centres, a nd the breadth of our services, positions us to address 04 key market opportunities.
Our financial resilience and the development projects Well positioned to underway put us in a strong position to gain market share and to open in new meet market needs geographic markets in the UK.
Modern equipment and outstanding clinical and theatre spaces allow us to provide excellent treatment for our patients, increasing access 05 to advanced surgical technology and reducing recovery times.
Read about the recent launch Expanding capability of the innovative partnership between Southampton NHS Foundation Trust and Spire through innovation Southampton Hospital, to provide and use a new and partnership da Vinci state-of-the-art 3D surgical robot system.
Read more on pages 34 and 35 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 9
