GOVERNANCE: SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE LETTER Senior Independent Directors governance letter I would like to take the opportunity to assure shareholders that, despite the leadership changes made during the year, the Board remains committed to applying the highest standards of corporate governance across the Group.
Dear Shareholder, Executive Chairman Following Rob Rogers notification that he intended to step down as Chief Executive Officer, the Board unanimously agreed that Garry Watts should resume the role of Executive Chairman.
This was not a decision taken lightly but was seen as providing vital continuity at the head of the Company while a successor to Rob was identified.
Harnessing Garrys knowledge of the Company and many years of leadership experience has been particularly important over the short term.
This has meant that my role and that of the other Non-Executives has become even more important to ensure enhanced scrutiny and challenge.
Changes to your Board and senior management The table on page 59 summarises the changes to the Board made during 2016.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank John Gildersleeve both Robert Lerwill and Rob Roger for their sterling contributions to the Company.
Deputy Chairman and Robert expertly chaired our Audit and Risk Committee from Admission before his Senior Independent Director unanticipated departure from the Board.
Rob was with the business for over nine years and in that time saw the business grow significantly under Cinvens ownership and become fully listed in 2014.
We were delighted to welcome Adle Anderson to the Board in July and recognise the considerable experience she brings.
58 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Changes to your Board Individual Event Date Garry Watts Resumed Executive Chairman role on announcement of Rob Rogers intended departure 14 March 2016 John Gildersleeve Notified Company of intention to step down as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 18 May 2016 Robert Lerwill Stepped down as a Non-Executive Director with immediate effect 27 June 2016 Rob Roger Stepped down as Chief Executive Officer 30 June 2016 Andrew White Appointed an Executive Director 1 July 2016 Simon Rowlands Appointment as a Non-Executive Director renewed for a further year 23 July 2016 Adle Anderson Appointed an independent Non-Executive Director 28 July 2016 In December, the Board announced the 2016 performance evaluation Risk management appointment of Catherine Mason as Chief During the second half of 2016, the Board and corporate culture Operating Officer succeeding Andrew White completed its second formal performance Our risk culture is centred on risk awareness, in that position.
At the same time it indicated evaluation.
The evaluation process was led by openness, continuous improvement and its expectation that Andrew White would the Executive Chairman, with support from encouraging the right behaviour to ensure an become the next Chief Executive Officer the Group Company Secretary, and consisted appropriate outcome for both the Company once he had recovered from a sustained of a questionnaire that covered areas and its customers.
At the time including strategy, Board and management of writing, Andrew continues with his succession, Board culture, balance and Annual general meeting treatment whilst remaining engaged with diversity, meetings and processes, investor Finally, the Board looks forward to meeting the business in his capacity as a Director relations, decision-making, risk management as many shareholders as possible at our of the Company.
I separately led annual general meeting which will be held the review of the Executive Chairmans at 11.00am on Friday, 26 May 2017 at performance in conjunction with the other Governance the offices of J. P. Morgan, 60 Victoria Non-Executive Directors.
Arising from the Board changes, the Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP.
Company did not comply with some aspects The principal conclusions were presented of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and discussed at our meeting in November.
John Gildersleeve usually on a very short-term basis during It was determined that the Companys Board Deputy Chairman and the year.
You can read further about these was operating effectively in an open and Senior Independent Director non-compliances and the Boards responses transparent manner, providing support 1 March 2017 on page 60. and challenge to senior management.
A fuller review of the results and our agreed Again, I would like to take this opportunity action plan can be found on page 63 as well to assure shareholders that your Board as an update on the actions identified from takes the matter of governance extremely our first evaluation.
The Board will use the seriously and continues to perform well with services of an independent third party the Non-Executive Directors all providing to facilitate its evaluation in 2017. extensive challenge to management.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 59
