DIRECTORS' REPORT The Directors of Sports Direct International plc present their Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 24 April 2016.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW The Chief Executives Report on pages 18 to 23 provides a detailed review of the Groups current activities and potential future developments together with factors likely to affect future development, performance and conditions.
There is also a table of the principal risks and uncertainties likely to affect the Group on pages 37 to 40.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flow, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 27.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 35 reports on environmental matters, including the impact of the Groups businesses on the environment, the Groups workforce, and on social and community issues.
The principal activities of the Group during the year remained unchanged and were: retailing of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment: wholesale distribution and sale of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment under Group-owned or licensed brands: and licensing of Group Brands.
Further information of the Groups principal activities is set out in the front of this document and in the Chief Executives Report on pages 18 to 23.
RESULTS FOR THE YEAR AND DIVIDENDS Revenue for the 52 weeks ended 24 April 2016 was 2,904.3m and profit before tax was 361.8m compared with 2,832.6m and 313.4m in the prior year.
The trading results for the year and the Groups financial position as at the end of the year are shown in the attached Financial Statements, and discussed further in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review and in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 23 and 24 to 27 respectively.
The Board has decided not to propose a dividend in relation to FY16.
The Board remains of the opinion that it is in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders to preserve financial flexibility, facilitating future investments and other growth opportunities.
The payment of dividends remains under review.
SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL The authorised share capital of the Company is 100,000,000 divided in 999,500,010 ordinary shares of 10p each and 499,990 redeemable preference shares of 10p each.
44 There are 640,602,369 ordinary shares of 10p in issue and fully paid of which 42,137,508 are currently held in Treasury.
Further information regarding the Groups issued share capital can be found on page 92 of the Financial Statements.
Details of our Share Schemes are also set out on page 92.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares, which are governed both by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Directors were authorised to allot shares in the capital of the Group up to an aggregate nominal amount of 19,948,829 being approximately one third of the then issued share capital for the period expiring at 7 September 2016, the date of the 2016 AGM.
In line with guidance from the Association of British Insurers the Company was also granted authority to issue a further third of the issued share capital to a nominal amount of 39,897,658 being approximately 35% of the issued share capital in connection with a rights issue.
A further authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal value of 2,992,324 being approximately 5% of the then issued share capital as if statutory pre-emption rights did not apply, was also approved.
The authorities expire at the close of the next AGM of the Company, but a contract to allot shares under these authorities may be made prior to the expiry of the authority and concluded in whole or part after the AGM, and at that meeting other authorities will be sought from shareholders.
The Group was authorised to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company of up to a maximum aggregate number 59,846,486 representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the 2015 AGM.
The above authority expires at the close of the next AGM of the Company.
SHAREHOLDERS No shareholder enjoys any special control rights, and, except as set out below, there are no restrictions in the transfer of shares or of voting rights.
Mike Ashley has entered into a written and legally binding Relationship Agreement with the Company.
This agreement ensures that the controlling shareholder complies with the independence provisions set out in Listing Rule 6.1.
Under the terms of the Agreement Mike Ashley undertook that, for so long as he is entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, 15% or more of the rights to vote at general meetings of the Company, he will: conduct all transactions and relationships with any member of the Group on arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis: exercise his voting rights or other rights in support of the Company being managed in accordance with the Listing Rules and the principles of good governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and not exercise any of his voting or other rights and powers to procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company: and other than through his interest in the Company, not have any interest in any business which sells sports apparel and equipment subject to certain rights, after notification to the Company, to acquire any such interest of less than 20% of the business concerned, and certain other limited exceptions, without receiving the prior approval of the Non-Executive Directors: and not solicit for employment or employ any senior employee of the Company.
The Company has complied with this agreements independence provisions during the period and, as far as the Company is aware, the controlling shareholder has also complied with them.
The Company has been advised that the following parties had a significant direct or indirect shareholding in the shares of the Company: Number of Percentage of issued ordinary share Nature of holding shares held capital with voting rights held 1 Mike Ashley 330,000,000 55.14% Indirect 2 Odey Asset Management LLP 29,593,835 4.94% Indirect 3 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 24,645,557 4.12% Indirect 1 Mike Ashley holds the shares through two companies, namely MASH Beta Limited and MASH Holdings Limited, which hold 303,507,460 50.71% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company and 26,492,540 4.43% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company ordinary shares respectively.
These figures are as at 21 January 2015, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
2 These figures are as at 15 March 2016, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
3 These figures are as at 27 November 2015, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
SUPPLIERS The Group understands the importance of maintaining good relationships with suppliers and it is Group policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with suppliers ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts and for payment to be made in accordance with these terms, provided the supplier has complied with its obligations.
CONTRACTS ESSENTIAL TO THE BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY The Chief Executives Report on pages 18 to 23 details information about persons with whom the Group has contractual or other arrangements and are deemed essential or material to the business of the Group.
TAKEOVERS 45 The Directors do not believe that there are any significant contracts that may change in the event of a successful takeover of the Company.
Details of the impact of any successful takeover of the Group on the Directors bonus and share schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 62.
SHARE SCHEMES Details of the Executive Share Schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 58 and details of the Share Schemes for participating employees on page 29 of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
STAFF INVOLVEMENT The Group currently has a c. 29,000 strong workforce in its stores, offices and warehouses.
The contributions that key employees have made to the Groups accomplishments have played a vital role, and the overwhelming dedication shown was the deciding factor in encouraging the Group to obtain shareholder approval for the 2015 Share Scheme.
Unfortunately, our disappointing results mean that this scheme will no longer vest and the Board is currently working on developing a new incentive scheme to replace it.
The workforce is notified of announcements and major changes in the business via Company news emails and our intranet, as well as information being transmitted through line managers.
Training programmes and induction courses provide the workforce with opportunities to keep up to date with the latest developments of the Group.
Our annual conference offers attendees an opportunity to mix with teams with which they wouldnt ordinarily mix, to learn about the Groups aspirations, and to keep up to date with the latest changes in the Group.
This is a full day event and also has a range of activities tailored to the specific area in which each individual works.
Further information on relationships with our people can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 35.
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES The Groups recruitment policy is to match the capabilities and talents of each applicant to the appropriate job.
Factors such as gender, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age, disability or ethnic origin should be ignored and any decision which is made with regard to candidates should be irrespective of these.
Discrimination in any form will not be tolerated under any circumstances within the Group.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration for all vacancies, and are assessed in accordance with their particular skills and abilities.
The Group does all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards the training and employment of disabled people, and to ensure that training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all.
The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment where current employees become disabled.
Attempts are made in every circumstance to provide employment, whether this involves adapting the current job role and remaining in the same job, or moving to a more appropriate job role.
Job retraining and job adaptation are just two examples of how the Group works in the interests of its workforce to promote equal opportunities in order that an individuals employment within the Group may continue.
The Group values the knowledge and expertise that employees have gained throughout their time with us, and therefore does not wish to lose valued employees.
With the aim of achieving our target of 25% female representation on our Board, we are actively seeking applications from female potential Non-Executive Directors.
DIRECTORS' REPORT Continued RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group designs clothing and some footwear for sale in stores and has arrangements with suppliers for the research and development of goods for the Brands division.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS During the year, the Group made charitable cash donations of 5,000 2015: 117,000 in the UK.
No political donations were made 2015: nil.
There have been a number of further donations of sporting equipment made to worthy causes, and these are set out on page 33.
DIRECTORS Details of current Directors, dates of appointment, their roles, responsibilities and significant external commitments are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Although the Companys Articles of Association require retirement by rotation of one third of Directors each year, the Group complies with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and at each AGM all of the Directors will retire and stand for reappointment.
Information on service contracts and details of the interests of the Directors and their persons closely associated PCAs in the share capital of the Company at 24 April 2016 and at the date of this report is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 and 62.
Copies of the service contracts of Executive Directors and of the appointment letters of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
No Director has a directorship in common or other significant links with any other Director except in the case of the Executive Directors holding directorships of subsidiary companies of the Group.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board has formal procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest.
During the year the Board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain situational conflicts of interest that were reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational conflicts is maintained and reviewed.
The Board noted any transactional conflicts of interest concerning Directors that arose and were declared.
No Director took part in the discussion or determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a transactional conflict of interest.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Group has granted the Directors with Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity provisions within the meaning given to the term by Sections 234 and 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
This is in respect of liabilities to which they may become liable in their capacity as Director of the 46 Company and of any company within the Group.
Such indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and will remain in force.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The 2016 AGM will be held on 7 September 2016 at Unit D, Brook Park East, Shirebrook, NG20 8RY.
The meeting will commence at 11am.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend and participate in the meeting.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 18 to 23.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 27.
In addition, the Financial Statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group is profitable, highly cash generative and has considerable financial resources.
The Group is able to operate comfortably within its banking facilities and covenants, which run until September 2018, and is well placed to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable possible changes in trading performance, and its exposure to foreign currency movements in respect of future purchases in US Dollars, and the forward contracts and written options entered into to sell Euros, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of the current facility.
Having thoroughly reviewed the Groups performance and having made suitable enquiries, the Directors are confident that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
On this basis, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT A statement by the Auditor can be found on page 64 detailing their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors fulfil their responsibilities and these are set out in the responsibility statement on page 63.
AUDITOR Grant Thornton UK LLP have expressed a willingness to continue in office and have been reappointed after a retender process.
In accordance with Section 489 4 of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions to determine remuneration are to be agreed at the AGM.
By Order of the Board Cameron Olsen Company Secretary 7 July 2016
