Strategic Report Our business model ENGINEERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE THROUGH OUR DIRECT SALES BUSINESS MODEL Creating value through meeting customer needs Meeting the needs of our customers by helping them to solve their difficult productivity andprocess challenges, improve their operational sustainability and comply with increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental requirements, is at the core of what we do.
Our customers needs are at the heart of our business model and it is through meeting those needs that we create value.
To meet our customers needs we manufacture high quality products: advise customers on the most effective application of these products: design bespoke engineering packages: arrange installation of our engineered solutions: and help our customers to maintain and replace our installed equipment to ensure optimum efficiency in their industrial systems.
Competitive strengths Customer closeness Applied engineering Our direct sales business model It is not our products alone that creates a unique understanding of our provide value to our customers customers needs and enables us to it is the application of our extensive build deep, long-term relationships knowledge of systems design, as we help our customers solve operations and maintenance.
their difficult productivity, control Our customers increasingly rely Customer Applied and energy efficiency problems, closeness engineering on our expertise to deliver unique and improve their operational engineering solutions to achieve performance and sustainability.
enhanced and sustainable operating efficiencies.
Customer needs Regional manufacturing Wide product range Local availability of a wide range of The breadth of our product offering products, which meet applicable is unmatched by our competitors regional design codes, is critical to and our one-stop shop approach Wide Regional product our business model and enhances simplifies the procurement manufacturing range top-line revenue growth.
We have process for our customers who are strategically located our major increasingly seeking partnerships manufacturing plants across the with competent full-service suppliers.
world, in Europe, North America, We are committed to R&D to further Latin America and Asia.
widen our range of products and pre-fabricated engineered packages.
Value creation Driving sustainable growth and stakeholder value For more insight into how we self-generate business by staying close to our customers see pages 16-17.
How we maximise value Our Core Values We maximise value by focusing on our strategy for growth.
Our Core Values of respect, accountability, passion, integrity and delivery shape our company culture and provide the foundation upon which we work.
14 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Beneficiaries of our value creation Link to sustainability The value we create: objectives: Every year we serve an estimated 100,000 Through using our products and services, end users Engineering Customers customers in approximately 110 countries, through improve operational efficiency, productivity and sustainable solutions.
our global network of operating units, sales offices safety, meet regulatory requirements and increase and distributors.
As we focus on consistently their sustainability.
delivering value to our customers we also generate Read more on page 60. value for other stakeholders.
We have a diverse range of institutional and private 51.9 million paid as dividends to shareholders Shareholders shareholders, who are geographically widespread.
Our shareholders value our ability to achieve growth that outperforms our markets and our outstanding record of delivering shareholder value.
Globally we employ over 5,300 people, in 58 Over 225 million paid in wages and salaries and Engineering Employees countries.
Our people are our most important extensive investment in training and development for excellence.
asset and our greatest competitive advantage.
We create value for employees as we invest in developing their knowledge and skills and Read more on pages 54-56. remunerate them fairly for the work that they do.
Suppliers By manufacturing regionally, using local and Over 300 million paid to suppliers of materials and Engineering the national suppliers, the beneficiaries of our value services during 2016. responsible way.
We select responsible suppliers who adhere to our Supplier Sustainability Code and they in turn create value Read more on page 57. for their stakeholders.
Through paying taxes in the many countries in Approximately 200 million paid in taxes corporation Governments which we operate we support the development of tax, employment taxes and net VAT to national public infrastructure, healthcare and educational governments during 2016. provision, further broadening the reach of our value creation.
We seek to have a positive impact on the 267,000 plus employee time donated to charitable Engineering Communities communities in which we operate, through causes worldwide during 2016. better futures.
making charitable donations to worthwhile causes, employee volunteering and educational provision.
As we invest in charitable causes we create value for the people that live and work in our Read more on page 61. local communities.
We create value for the environment as we 4.4 million tonnes of CO2 emissions saved by our Engineering The provide products and services that improve end users annually from products sold this year.
environment the sustainability of our end users operations: minimising their environmental impacts through reducing energy consumption, emissions, water use and waste.
How we reward our value creation Our remuneration policy creates a strong alignment between the creation ofvalue and Executive Director remuneration Read more on pages 83-107.
14 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 15
