Governance Report REGULATORY DISCLOSURES At the heart of sustainable business practice and corporate responsibility is compliance with both the letter and spirit of the law.
Andy Robson, General Counsel and Company Secretary Principal activities plans.
The Chairman and other Board Directors interests members are available to answer questions Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc is a multiThe interests of the Directors in the share raised by shareholders.
Shareholders are national engineering group that is domiciled capital of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc as at invited to vote on the resolutions by way of and incorporated in the UK under registration 31st December 2016 are set out on page 95. a polled vote.
The results are announced number 596337 and which is tightly focused Substantial shareholdings instantaneously at the AGM using the Equiniti on its two niche businesses of steam Vote Now polling system, and on the The voting rights in the table have been system specialties and peristaltic pumps London Stock Exchange and the Groups notified to the Company under the and associated fluid path technologies.
com, requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys An overview of our principal activities, by shortly after the conclusion of the meeting.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules business, is given on pages 4 and 5 of the Following the AGM the Board is available to DTR5, which represent 3% or more of the Strategic Report.
answer questions and meet informally with voting rights attached to issued shares Future development individual shareholders.
in the Company as at 17th February An indication of likely future developments in 2017 and 31st December 2016.
So far The Notice of Meeting convening the AGM, the Group is given in the Strategic Report.
as can be ascertained, the holdings are to be held on Tuesday, 9th May 2017, and an beneficially held.
There are no Controlling explanation of the resolutions sought, is set Strategic Report Founder Shareholders.
out in the Circular posted on our website and This is set out on the inside front cover to sent to shareholders in the format selected Directors and Officers insurance page 61 of the Annual Report.
The Company provides Directors and Risk management and principal risks Results Officers Insurance for Board members, A description of risk management and the Directors of the Groups operating companies The Groups results for the year have been principal risks facing the business is on pages and senior officers.
prepared in accordance with the International 28 to 31.
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted The Company has also provided each by the European Union.
They are set out in Constructive use of AGM Director with an indemnity to the extent the Consolidated Income Statement which permitted by law in respect of the liabilities We are delighted when our shareholders appears on page 120. incurred as a result of their holding office as attend our AGM.
Those who are unable to aDirector of the Company.
attend are encouraged to vote online or using Dividend the proxy card mailed to them.
The Directors are proposing the payment of In 2016, 61.43% of the proxy votes received a final dividend of 53.5p 2015: 48.2p which, were lodged electronically through the together with the interim dividend of 22.5p CREST system.
2015: 20.8p, makes a total distribution for the year of 76.0p 2015: 69.0p.
If approved At the AGM, the Group Chief Executive at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on will give a short presentation about the 26thMay 2017 to shareholders on the register previous year and, more generally, about at the close of business on 28th April 2017. current trading and the Groups future As at 31.12.16 As at 17.02.17 Number of % of issued Number of % of issued Substantial shareholdings Ordinary shares share capital Ordinary shares share capital MFS Investment Management 6,437,780 8.8% 6,401,377 8.7% APG Asset Management NV 4,000,000 5.4% 4,000,000 5.4% Schroders plc 2,889,709 3.9% 3,143,744 4.3% Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 2,645,630 3.6% 2,728,778 3.7% Allianz Global Investors 2,316,706 3.2% 2,301,690 3.1% Fiera Capital Corporation 2,146,541 2.9% 2,254,103 3.1% Fidelity Management & Research Company 2,172,118 3.0% 1,629,514 2.2% 108 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Appointment and replacement of transfer of shares in the Company and there Auditor Directors are no restrictions on the voting rights in the The Companys auditor throughout the period Companys shares.
The appointment and replacement of of this Annual Report was Deloitte LLP, who Directors is governed by the Companys The Company is not aware of any agreements was appointed on 20th May 2014.
Articles of Association, the Code, the entered into between any shareholders in the Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
Company which restrict the transfer of shares continue in office as auditor and a resolution As previously announced, David Meredith or the exercise of any voting rights attached to to re-appoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed at retired as Group Finance Director on 10thMay the shares.
2016 and was succeeded by Kevin Boyd on Powers of the Directors and purchase of Research and development 11th May 2016, Jane Kingston was appointed own shares as an independent Non-Executive Director The Group continues to devote significant Subject to the provisions of the Articles of on 1stSeptember 2016, and Remuneration resources to the research and development Association, the Directors may exercise all Committee Chairman on 1st November 2016, and the updating and expansion of its range the powers of the Company.
A shareholders and Krishnamurthy Rajagopal passed away of products in order to remain at the forefront authority for the purchase by the Company on 10thNovember 2016. of its world markets.
The Group Steam of a maximum of 10% of its own shares Specialties R&D function, which is based in All Directors will seek election or re-election as was in existence during the year.
However, Cheltenham, and the WMFTG R&D function, the case may be at the AGM.
The Directors the Company did not purchase any of located in Falmouth, are tasked with improving stand for election or re-election on an annual its shares during that time.
This authority the Groups pipeline of new products, basis at each AGM, in accordance with the expires at the forthcoming AGM and it is decreasing the time to launch, expanding the Code.
The Board considers that all Directors proposed that a similar authority be approved.
Groups addressable market and realising standing for election or re-election continue The total number of shares in issue as at additional sales.
Further information on the to perform effectively and demonstrate 31stDecember 2016 was 73,526,651. expenditure on R&D is contained in Note 1 on commitment to their roles.
The amount of R&D expenditure Board considers that all Directors have the PSP and Employee Benefit Trust capitalised, and the amount amortised, in the necessary skills and experience, as set out in In December 2016 the Company instructed year, are given in Note 14 on page 138. their biographies on pages 64 and 65.
Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, as trustee of the Spirax-Sarco Engineering Treasury and foreign exchange Conflicts of interest Employee Benefit Trust EBT, to purchase The Group has in place appropriate treasury Under the Companies Act 2006 and the 40,000 shares for the purpose of satisfying policies and procedures, which are approved provisions of the Companys Articles of the vesting of awards and options granted by the Board.
The treasury function manages Association, the Board is required to consider to employees under the various Company interest rates for both borrowings and cash potential conflicts of interest.
The number of shares held in the deposits for the Group and is also responsible has established formal procedures for the EBT at 31stDecember 2016 was 87,425. for ensuring there is sufficient headroom disclosure and review of any conflicts, or against any banking covenants contained potential conflicts, of interest which the Significant contracts within its credit facilities, and for ensuring Directors may have and for the authorisation The Company is not a party to any significant there are appropriate facilities available to of such matters of conflict by the Board.
agreements that take effect, alter or terminate meet the Groups strategic plans.
To this end the Board considers and, if upon a change of control of the Company appropriate, authorises any conflicts, or In order to mitigate and manage exchange following a takeover bid.
potential conflicts, of interest as they arise rate risk, the Group routinely enters into There are provisions in the Executive and reviews any such authorisation annually.
forward contracts and continues to monitor Directors service agreements which state New Directors are required to declare any exchange rate risk in respect of foreign that following a takeover or change of control, conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest to currency exposures.
if the Executive Directors employment the Board at the first Board meeting after All these treasury policies and procedures is terminated then both salary benefits his or her appointment.
The Board believes are regularly monitored and reviewed.
It is the and a sum in respect of lost future bonus that the procedures established to deal with Groups policy not to undertake speculative opportunity become payable as a lump sum.
conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
transactions which create additional The Strategic Report contains all the exposures over and above those arising from Articles of Association information required to comply with Section normal trading activity.
The Companys Articles of Association are 414 c of the Companies Act 2006 and there available from Companies House in the UK are no contractual arrangements that need Political donations or by writing to the General Counsel and to be disclosed which are essential to the The Group has a policy of not making political Company Secretary at the Groups registered business of the Group.
donations and no political donations were office in Cheltenham.
Amendments to the made during the year 2015: nil.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Articles of Association can only be made by As at the date of the approval of this Annual Greenhouse gas emissions means of a special resolution at a general Report, as far as each Director is aware, there meeting of the shareholders of the Company.
Details of our greenhouse gas emissions is no relevant audit information of which the can be found on page 59 of the Share capital Companys auditor is unaware.
As at 24th February 2017 there were no Each Director has taken all such steps as he Going concern treasury shares held by the Company.
or she ought to have taken as a Director in Details of shares issued during the year are The Groups business activities, together with order to make himself herself aware of any set out in Note 21 on page 144. the main trends and factors likely to affect its relevant audit information and to establish future development, performance and position, As at 31st December 2016 the Companys that the Companys auditor is aware of and the financial position of the Group, its share capital was made up of Ordinary that information.
cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing shares which each carry one vote at general This confirmation is given and should be facilities, are set out in the Financial Review on meetings of the Company.
Except as set out interpreted in accordance with the provisions pages 48 to 51.
In addition Note 28 on page in the Articles of Association or in applicable of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
153 includes the Groups objectives, policies legislation, there are no restrictions on the 108 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 109 Governance Report REGULATORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Directors confirm that they have a reasonable of our end user markets and customers, broad and processes for managing its capital, its expectation that the Company will be able to product range, wide geographic spread, high financial risk management objectives, its continue in operation and meet its liabilities replacement revenue streams and large base financial instruments and hedging activities, its as they fall due over the three-year period to of installed equipment worldwide, together exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
31stDecember 2019. with our effective direct sales business model, The Group has considerable financial enhances the viability of the Group in the resources together with contracts with a The Board believes that a three-year viability face of adverse economic conditions and or diverse range of customers and suppliers assessment period is appropriate as the political uncertainty, as does our ability to selfacross different geographic areas and timeframe is covered by the Groups strategic generate business through identifying solutions industries.
No one customer accounts for plan: takes into account the nature of the to our customers difficult process challenges more than 1% of Group turnover.
Groups principal risks, a number of which and our ability to adjust our cost base.
are external and have the potential to impact As a consequence, the Directors believe over short time periods: and is in alignment Whilst no Board can ever fully foresee all that the Group is well placed to manage with the Groups bank loan terms.
While the possible risks facing the business in the its business risks successfully despite the Board has no reason to believe that the future, the Directors are of the view that current uncertain economic outlook.
Group will not be viable over a longer period, a robust assessment was undertaken of The Directors, having made appropriate given the inherent uncertainty involved, the the severe but plausible scenarios that enquiries, consider that the Company and the Board believes that a three-year period may feasibly impact upon the business Group have adequate resources to continue presents readers of the Annual Report with over the next three years.
Furthermore, the in operational existence and that the Directors a reasonable degree of confidence while still Board remains confident in the Groups risk intend to do so, for at least one year from the providing a longer-term perspective.
management process and the risk mitigation date the Financial Statements were signed, actions taken to address identified risks.
In making their assessment, the Directors and that therefore it is appropriate to adopt completed a robust assessment of the Scope of the reporting in this the going concern basis in preparing the principal risks facing the Group, as set Annual Report Annual Report.
out on pages 30 and 31, including those The Board has prepared a Strategic Report Pages 108 to 110 form the Directors Report that would threaten its business model, including the Chairmans Statement and for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006. future performance, solvency or liquidity, the Group Chief Executives Report which The Strategic Report and the Directors and undertook sensitivity and stress provides an overview of the development and Report were approved by the Board on testing to determine the potential impacts performance of the Companys business in 8thMarch 2017. of the occurrence of one or more of the the year ended 31st December 2016 and its principal risks on sales, profit, margin Viability statement position at the end of that year, and which and cash.
In addition to completing an covers likely future developments in the In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the impact assessment of the principal risks, business of the Company and the Group.
UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, the the Directors considered the probability Directors have assessed the viability of the For the purposes of compliance with DTR of occurrence of the principal risks, the Group over a three-year period, taking into 4.1.
8 R, the required Companys ability to control them and the account the Groups current financial position, content of the management report can be effectiveness of mitigating actions.
business strategy, the Boards risk appetite found in the Strategic Report and these The Groups resilient business model has and the potential impacts of the principal risks, Regulatory disclosures, including the proven strong and defensive in the long term outlined on pages 28 to 31 of the Strategic sections of the Annual Report incorporated and has enabled the business to prosper, even Report, and the Risk Appetite Statement by reference.
Based on this assessment, the For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: Section Topic Location 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration Report, pages 91 and 92 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Regulatory Disclosures, page 109 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Regulatory Disclosures, page 109 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable Andy Robson General Counsel and Company Secretary 8th March 2017 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Registered no.
596337 110 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016
