STRATEGIC REPORT: BUSINESS MODEL Business model Spire Healthcare is a well-diversified business and a key part of the UKs healthcare system.
Our business is built on providing outstanding care, clinical outcomes and value to our patients.
The patient pathway Our resources We receive patients through multiple routes.
The sustainability of our business model The patients journey typically begins with relies on several interconnected resources a visit to their GP, who will either treat the and relationships.
patient directly or provide a referral to a consultant.
The procedure or treatment Financial strength We benefit from financial strength and stability, supported provided by the consultant can be funded by a cash-generative operating model and properties in by the NHS, a PMI provider or by the patient commercially attractive locations across the UK.
Well invested hospitals Our growing portfolio of hospitals is equipped with up-todate technology and comfortable treatment facilities.
Patient Highly skilled employees Our 8,000 employees are highly skilled and our nursing GP referral and medical support staff have the expertise to provide an excellent standard of patient care.
Self-pay Private Medical NHS e-Referral Insurance Service Our relationships Open, direct or named referrals Referrers We work with GPs to facilitate speedy, convenient and fully informed referrals.
We are investing in our own hospitalConsultant based primary care to offer patients convenience and facilitate speedier referrals.
NHS hospital Spire Healthcare Consultants including Consultants are integral to providing high levels of medical hospital foundation trust Local care to our patients and we offer them the facilities and contracting support they need to deliver outstanding healthcare.
All our consultants are on the General Medical Councils NHS Specialist Register.
Funding sources Private Patients We expand access to treatments for patients facing rationing and or increased waiting times in the NHS.
We offer them choice of when and where to be treated, in hospitals that combine excellent levels of infection control with hotel style levels of service.
Payors Treatment is funded by a PMI, the NHS or patients who Self-pay.
10 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our operating model How we create value By investing in excellent medical facilities Through our operations, we create and deliver and patient care, and operating efficiently to measurable value for our stakeholders.
drive margins and generate strong cashflows, we are able to create a virtuous circle, which Patients NHS Referral to Treatment Time reporting month December 2016 allows us to reinvest in future growth whilst providing shareholder returns.
94.7% Percentage of patients seen within 18 weeks of referral National standard: 92%, NHS: 89.7% Investment Revenue Consultants We invest consistently Our sources of revenue in further capacity, new are well diversified, and hospitals, equipment and we are focused on driving 95% services.
With the ability to growth from all of our of consultants believe our hospitals go out of their way to make deploy further capital from three payor groups.
a difference to their working relationship.
strong cashflow, we are able to invest in future expansion Employees and to benefit from market We provide a wide range of training, and a flexible and consolidation opportunities supportive working environment.
93% Cash flow Operating efficiencies Employees who believe what they do at work Strong cash conversion We drive margin through makes a positive difference.
enables us to reinvest in a close focus on improving future growth.
operational efficiency, balancing central protocols Payors and procurement with We deliver value for money, price transparency, patient choice empowerment of local and additional capacity to help relieve pressure on overstretched teams to drive local growth NHS hospitals.
9% Growth in NHS e-referral admissions.
Shareholders We aim to continue to pay a dividend in line with our policy and to return excess cash to shareholders when available.
2.5p Proposed final dividend per share 4.2% 2 015 employee satisfaction score.
The 2016 employee engagement survey was postponed until Q2 of 2017 in order to undertake a review of the survey.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 11 STRATEGIC REPORT: CASE STUDY Spire Healthcare transforms peoples lives for the better every day.
Increasingly we are offering patients complex solutions to high acuity and rare conditions.
12 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LOOKING AFTER YOU Self-pay treatments For most people, food is one of lifes great pleasures.
Yet Kelly Holder suffered 10 years of feeling ill every time she ate, and she was literally wasting away.
Now Kelly has finally found some relief from her condition, thanks to Spire Healthcare.
Kelly, who worked as a designer in the auto industry, suffered the debilitating symptoms of stomach pain, bloating and nausea for years, to the point where she had to put her career on hold and move back home.
While several doctors failed to diagnose the cause, it was a consultant at Spire Hull and East Riding Hospital who finally diagnosed her condition as gastroparesis, and was able to refer her to Spire Leeds Hospital.
Kelly underwent two procedures to insert gastric and sacral nerve stimulators.
The results have transformed Kellys life.
I saw various doctors without In her own words: Without the finding a successful treatment.
surgery I dont believe Id be here today.
Having the stimulators In the end it was a Spire Healthcare fitted was a life changer.
I can doctor at Hull who diagnosed me eat almost normally again, not big meals but little and often.
and referred me to Mr Maslekar Im putting weight back on.
and Mr Dexter, the consultants at And eating chocolate again!
Kelly is now rebuilding her career and her life.
Kelly Holder Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 13
