Strategic Report About the Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business ENGINEERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS What we do: Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business 1.
Design innovative products and packages 2.
Manufacture most of the products we sell 3.
Sell our products and services New steam Steam system Engineered Maintenance, repair Training systems audits solutions and operations We offer training to our In large capital projects, Detailed steam system Working directly with our To maintain operational end users technical and maintenance staff in 43 such as the construction of audits, carried out by customers, our sales efficiency, production output training centres worldwide, new hospitals or factories, our sector specialist engineers apply our deep and product quality, regular the majority of which our expert sales engineers steam engineers, applications and systems maintenance spending is work with end users, their identify opportunities for knowledge, breadth of required by our end users.
Our training courses equip design consultants, or their improved efficiency in our products and expertise to We supply the replacement our end users with the skills contractors to advise on, end users processes, create bespoke engineered products required to keep required to run their steam design or supply complete including energy and solutions for energy and our end users steam systems as efficiently and new steam systems.
Audits can water savings, process systems operating at an identify the cause of known efficiency, product quality optimum level and also offer effectively as possible.
problems or uncover and improvements in service contracts.
plant health, safety and regulatory compliance.
Direct sales Our customers: Creating value for customers through: Where is steam used?
Steam is widely used across a diverse range Steam is a preferred heat transfer medium in of industries and in most manufacturing most industrial processes because of its high processes for heating, curing, cooking, cleaning energy content steam can hold five or six times Improving and drying.
Industries using steam in this way as much energy as an equivalent mass of water.
Product quality include Food & Beverage, Pharmaceutical & Steam is highly controllable and can Biotechnology, Oil & Gas, Chemical, and Pulp Production output be generated at high pressures to give &Paper.
Temperature can be Efficiency Steam is also widely used in hospitals and controlled throughout a steam system by buildings for space heating, humidification and controlling pressure.
Plant monitoring sterilisation, and to provide a reliable source of When steam reaches the point of use, the Profitability hot water at a constant temperature.
condensation process efficiently transfers heat to the product being heated.
Reducing Steam can surround or be injected into a product Energy use and costs being heated.
It can fill any space at a uniform temperature and will supply heat by condensing Water use and costs at a constant temperature: eliminating CO emissions 2 temperature gradients.
Waste Steam can be easily and cost effectively distributed to the point of use because it naturally Production times flows from high to low pressure, meaning that Maintenance downtime costly circulating pumps are not required.
Steam is clean, sterile, non-hazardous and Meeting environmentally sound, and water is relatively inexpensive and plentiful.
Statutory rules regulations Steam is convenient: it can be used for Industry standards multiple purposes on a site from process For more information about how H&S requirements applications, to space heating, sterilisation or hot and where steam is used, water generation.
10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Simon Chen, Thermal Energy Systems Design Team Supervisor, with the installed engineered solution Customer case study At Shanghai Totole Food Ltd, a chicken bouillon manufacturer, steam is used to cook raw ingredients and produce the 130C hot air required to dry the liquid bouillon to powder.
Faced with high energy costs, Shanghai Totole Food Ltd asked Spirax Sarco China to audit its steam system.
Following the audit, Spirax Sarco recommended the installation of a packaged solution to recover waste heat from the boiler exhaust and use it to preheat the air used in the drying beds, reducing the amount of steam needed to heat the air to the required temperature.
The solution included fitting an economiser to the boiler exhaust reducing the flue gases from 190C to 55C and several heat exchangers prior to the drying beds, which use hot water to preheat the air before steam is used to raise it to its final temperature.
As a result of the thermal energy management solution, Shanghai Totole Food Ltd has been able to reduce its energy consumption on this process line by over 10%, saving an estimated one million RMB 120,000 per year and reducing water use by approximately 500m per year.
10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 11
