Strategic Report The markets we serve ENGINEERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE THROUGH THE DIVERSITY OF THE MARKETS WE SERVE Food Pharmaceutical & Healthcare Biotechnology Steam is widely used in Steam is used in hospitals Clean steam reduces the the processing of foods for and clinics for space heating, risk of product and process blanching, cooking, baking, hot water production, contamination, and our packaging, cleaning and humidification and peristaltic pumps, valves sterilising.
Pumps and and single-use components associated equipment are associated equipment are enable precise flow used to meter ingredients, used in the manufacture control and fluid isolation deliver food to process lines of products for the in the Pharmaceutical and and treat process waste.
Oil & Gas Beverage OEM Machinery Our steam system products Steam is essential for brewing Original Equipment and services enable and distilling processes.
Manufacturers OEMs are optimum performance in It is used to protect product companies that build and steam and condensate quality and flavour and ensure supply machines for use in systems and reduce compliance with industry industry.
Our activities with energy use during oil and standards.
Pumps are OEMs vary from simple gas production.
used to transfer fruit, juice, product supply to advising concentrates, yeast and on machine performance other additives.
improvements and process plant design.
6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Chemical Water & Wastewater Pulp & paper Steam is widely used as an Peristaltic pumps areused Our steam and pump energy source in chemical to accurately dosechemicals products facilitate the production and product during water treatment accurate control of critical processing, while our processes and efficiently processes, such as pumps and tubing are used transfer viscous and washing, bleaching, dyeing, to safely and accurately abrasive slurries.
drying and finishing, in the transfer and dose critical manufacture of paper and a chemical components.
wide range of domestic and industrial tissues.
Buildings HVAC Mining & Precious Metal Power Generation Processing Our steam products are used Superheated steam is an Peristaltic pumps reduce to provide space heating, ideal fluid to transfer chemical water, energy and chemical humidification and hot water energy in fuel into electrical use and increase reliability to create comfortable working energy through steam and productivity while moving conditions for employees turbines.
Steam is also used and processing highly and visitors in public and to distribute and re-use waste abrasive ores and slurries.
heat formed during the power generation process.
6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 7
