Strategic Report About Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group ENGINEERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS What we do: Watson-Marlow 1.
Design innovative products in our 10 distinct brands 2.
Manufacture our wide range of products 3.
Sell our products and services Peristaltic and Tubing and hoses Single-use and fluid Maintenance, repair Sector-specific niche pumps path technologies and operations advice We supply a wide range of We supply positive tubing and hoses, which Our BioPure brand supplies We supply all the Our expert engineers offer complement our pumps and displacement peristaltic a range of single-use replacement parts sector-specific advice to help are suitable for use across pumps for fluid handling fluid path components, required to keep our end our end users overcome a wide range of industries.
in a range of industries such as clamps, valves users pumping systems their difficult pumping including Mining & For example, our Aflex and connectors, to the operating efficiently.
challenges through selecting PTFE-lined flexible hoses Precious Metal Processing, Pharmaceutical and the most appropriate pumps provide the highest levels Water & Wastewater and Biotechnology industries.
of chemical resistance, Pharmaceutical: sinusoidal Our Asepco brand supplies superior flexibility and sterility MasoSine pumps which Biotechnology customers deliver low shear, gentle in the Pharmaceutical, with weirless radial Chemical and Food & pumping for delicate diaphragm valves for tank Beverage industries, while products in a range of bottoms and in line process our Pumpsil platinum-cured industries, including Food applications.
Our FlowSmart silicone tubing offers full & Beverage: and Flexicon brand supplies high aseptic liquid filling and traceability ideal for singlepurity sanitary gaskets, use Biotechnology capping systems which are silicone transfer tubing and applications.
particularly suited to the reinforced silicone hoses Biotechnology industry.
for the Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical industries.
Direct sales Creating value for Our customers: customers through: Hygienic applications Dirty applications In peristaltic pumps the pump does not touch the In peristaltic pumps the fluid does not touch the Improving fluid, making them ideal for hygienic applications pump, making them ideal for dirty or abrasive where clean fluids must not be contaminated.
Pumping accuracy fluids such as slurries, pigments, chemicals and A sterile tube makes a sterile pump.
effluent which would contaminate or damage Pump reliability other pump types.
Watson-Marlow pumps and filling machines are Efficiency widely used in the Biotechnology, Pharmaceutical, Our high performance tubing offers excellent Productivity and Food & Beverage industries.
long-term performance as it is variously designed Ease of validation for resistance to chemicals, abrasive fluids and Maintenance oils, greases or detergents.
Reducing Watson-Marlow pumps and tubing are widely used in the Mining & Precious Metal Processing, Whole life-cycle costs Water & Wastewater and Chemical industries.
Maintenance downtime Chemical use and costs Single-use applications Water use and costs Single-use is a growing trend in the Biotechnology Energy use and costs and Pharmaceutical industries.
Our cleanroom Pumping time manufactured products reduce risk of contamination, enable the manufacture of singleRisk of batch contamination use assemblies and improve the ease of our end users validation processes.
For more information about how and where our Meeting products are used, see pages 6-7.
Statutory rules regulations Industry standards particularly around hygiene 12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information MasoSine Certa Sine pump from Watson-Marlow Customer case study Shear-sensitive fluids, such as cream and whey, require gentle handling to preserve product integrity and texture.
Delivering up to 50% more gentle handling than rotary lobe pumps, the recently launched MasoSine Certa Sine Certa pump from Watson-Marlow is enabling Goldsteig Ksereien Bayerwald GmbH, Germany, to optimise production of its range of speciality cream cheeses.
Designed specifically for the food industry, with few internal components in direct contact with the product being pumped, Certa is ideally suited for cleanin-place or steam-in-place maintenance, reducing down-time and increasing production hygiene.
Operations Manager, Gnter Schlattl, described the pumps performance and ease of cleaning as simply outstanding.
Read more about the Certa pump on page 23.
12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 13
