GOVERNANCE: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The independent Non-Executive Directors Board and Committee structure The Boards plan for 2017 oversee the adequacy of the risk Ultimate responsibility for the management It is planned that the Board will convene management and internal control systems of the Group rests with the Board of Directors.
on eight formal scheduled occasions during from their membership of the Audit and 2017, as well as holding any necessary ad hoc The Board focuses primarily upon strategic Risk Committee and Clinical Governance Board and committee meetings to consider and policy issues and is responsible for: and Safety Committee CGSC, as well non-routine business.
as the remuneration for the Executive leadership of the Group: The Senior Independent Director and the Directors from their membership of the implementing and monitoring effective other Non-Executive Directors will meet on Remuneration Committee.
controls to assess and manage risk: their own without the Executive Directors supporting the senior leadership team to As members of the Nomination Committee, present.
In addition, the Non-Executive formulate and execute the Groups strategy: the Non-Executive Directors also play a Directors will also meet without the monitoring the performance of the Group: pivotal role in Board succession planning and Executive Chairman present to discuss and the appointment of new Executive Directors.
matters such as the Executive Chairmans setting the Groups values and standards.
There is a specific schedule of matters Your Board in 2016 The Board will maintain its focus on the reserved for the Board.
During the year, the Board met on nine Groups pursuit of its 2017 targets and also occasions and Director attendance is shown review succession planning during the year.
The Executive Chairman and Its activities will include: the Chief Executive Officer The agenda at scheduled meetings in 2016 review the roles of the Executive Chairman Between 1 January 2016 and 30 June 2016, covered standing agenda items, including: and Executive Directors: the Company had set out in writing a division a review of the Groups performance by the review and approve the 2016 Annual of responsibilities between the Executive Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Report: Chairman, Senior Independent Director Officer, the current months and year to date review the proposed final dividend and the Chief Executive Officer.
financial statistics by the Chief Financial for 2016: Officer and a review of clinical performance.
Since 1 July 2017, the Executive Chairman approve the 2017 Annual Operating Plan: In addition, the Board received a verbal has performed the role of the Chief consider specific major themes: report from committee chairs, where their Executive Officer.
embed the risk management framework: committee met immediately in advance of and the scheduled Board meeting, and the Board The Non-Executive Directors follow a rolling agenda, ensuring proper regularly received reports on legal and The Non-Executive Directors bring a wide time for strategic debate.
range of skills and experience to the Board.
Furthermore, the Board will continue to The independent Non-Executive Directors Also in 2016, the Board focused on major consider clinical safety matters and maintain represent a strong, independent element elements of the Groups operations by: overall responsibility for the Groups system on the Board and are well placed to reviewing, and approving, the Groups of internal control and risk management constructively challenge and support three-year Strategic Plan: processes via the relevant Board committees.
They help to shape reviewing progress on the two new the Groups strategy, scrutinise the hospital developments at Manchester performance of management in meeting and Nottingham: and the Groups objectives and monitor the receiving, reviewing and approving other reporting of performance.
Their role is also to satisfy themselves The Board has a formal schedule of matters with regard to the integrity of the Groups reserved to it and delegates certain matters financial information and to ensure that to committees.
Specific matters reserved the Groups internal controls and risk for the Board considered during the year to management systems are robust 31 December 2016 included reviewing the and defensible.
Groups performance monthly and year to date, approving capital expenditure, setting and approving the Groups strategy and annual budget.
62 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
