ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committee provides crucial oversight of the Groups financial affairs in order to monitor the integrity of its financial reporting and the effectiveness of its controls.
Clive Watson, Audit Committee Chairman Membership and attendance How the Committee spent its time during the year NUMBER OF MEETINGS 5% 10% 25% 3 10% Committee member Attendance Committee member Attendance 15% 20% C. G. Watson 3 J. Pike 3 15% Finance and tax reviews Risk management and controls 1 Corporate governance J. S. Kingston 1 G. E. Schoolenberg 3 Internal audit Results review External audit Whistle-blowing The Terms of Reference for the Committee are set out in detail on the Groups website, www.
com, on the Policies and procedures page, within the Governance section.
These terms were revised by the Committee in October 2014 to include 1 Appointed 1st September 2016 an assessment of external audit effectiveness, K. Rajagopal attended 2 meetings prior to his death on 10th November 2016 andare subject to regular review.
Role of the Committee Summary of the key Committee Summary of the key areas of focus activities in 2016: for 2017: The main role and responsibilities of the Committee include: Reviewed Financial Statements Financial Statements monitoring the integrity of the Groups Reviewed external auditor effectiveness Promotion of independent Financial Statements and public and audit process whistle-blowing service announcements relating to the Companys Assessed internal audit function financial performance: Review of corporate structure Agreed Group Tax Policy reviewing the effectiveness of the internal On-going monitoring of risks Analysed and approved integrated risk and external audit process: and assessment and management framework Strengthening of internal audit function reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Reviewed risk management and controls financial and internal controls and the Group tax strategy process for the evaluation, assessment and Group treasury strategy management of risk.
76 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Matters considered In 2016, the following matters were considered by the Committee and, where applicable, by the Board or other Committees: Review of internal audit The potential impact Review of principal risks Risk Management Annual Report and effectiveness of Brexit and risk appetite Committee fair, balanced and understandable Litigation update Annual forward plan Group Tax Policy Viability statement and Risk Appetite Statement going concern External auditor and Audit Assessing future Whistle-blowing Performance evaluation Anti-bribery Committee effectiveness compliance with the UK of the Committee and corruption Corporate Governance Code 2016 Auditor The Committee recognises that the Review of 2016 independence of the external auditor is The Committee met three times in 2016.
This is the third financial year in which the an essential part of the audit framework Annual Report and Financial Statements Kevin Boyd, Group Finance Director, and has adopted a policy which sets out have been audited by Deloitte LLP following JohnSenior, Group Financial Controller a framework for determining whether it is their appointment as the Companys as head of the internal audit team, and appropriate to engage the Groups auditor external auditor as of 20th May 2014. the external auditor attend the meetings for non-audit services.
This policy states that This appointment is subject to on-going and have direct access to the Committee any expenditure with the Groups auditor on monitoring and will run for a maximum of 10 Chairman.
Following the external Board non-audit fees should not exceed 70% of the years before being tendered.
evaluation, undertaken during 2015, it was average audit fees charged in the last threerecommended that the Group Chief Executive One of the primary responsibilities of the year period.
During the year, the Group spent be invited to attend the Audit Committee Committee is to assess the robustness 44,000 on non-audit services provided from time-to-time and this has now of the external audit process and make by Deloitte LLP being 4% of the average of been implemented.
recommendations to the Board in relation to Group audit fees charged over the past three the appointment, re-appointment or removal As a safeguard, the Committee holds years.
Further details can be found in Note 7 of the external auditor.
The Committee took separate meetings with the external and on page 134. a number of factors into account when internal auditors without management present evaluating the effectiveness of the external Internal audit to discuss their respective areas and any audit including: issues arising from their audits.
The Committee reviewed the schedule of the quality and scope of the planning of planned internal audits undertaken in 2016 During the year the Committee received the audit in October 2016, Deloitte LLP and assessed the robustness of the control reports from external and internal auditors presented their plan for the 2016 audit to framework that is in place to track and on the major findings of their work and the the Committee : and monitor progress in remedying any identified progress of management follow-up by way of deficiencies.
This review ensures that the management reports.
feedback from all audited operating Committee is able to give assurances that units, the Group Finance team, senior The Committee received assurance on going the Group has an effective and integrated management and Directors on the audit concern, viability, pension valuation, material risk management framework, in addition process and the quality and experience of litigation and risk management, and the to the oversight provided by the Risk the audit partners engaged in the audit.
Committee considered this assurance and Management Committee.
The internal audit concluded it was reliable.
During the year, the Committee reviewed process is explained on page 81.
PwC was and approved the proposed audit fees and This year the Committee approved the Group commissioned to undertake a review of the terms of engagement for the 2016 audit Tax Policy, reviewed by KPMG LLP, which internal audit function.
This review focused and recommended to the Board that it clearly and transparently sets out the Groups on validating the Committees view of the proposes to shareholders that Deloitte LLP be tax strategy.
This will be made available on our strengths and weaknesses of the current re-appointed as the Groups external auditor website, www.
com, in approach and suggested other potential for 2017 at the Annual General Meeting to be compliance with the Finance Act 2016. development areas in light of best practice.
The Group has complied with the The PwC report has been received and provisions of the Competition and Market the Committee is currently considering Authority CMA Order, issued by the CMA PwCs recommendations.
in September 2014, for The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities.
76 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 77 Governance Report 3.
ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Significant issues in relation to the and key estimates, both in respect of the To ensure the Annual Report is fair, balanced Financial Statements amounts reported and the disclosures.
and understandable, the Committee The Committee is also satisfied that the assessed the consistency of the risks and During the year the Committee considered significant assumptions used for determining judgements, reviewed the Board minutes significant issues in relation to the Groups the value of assets and liabilities have been to ensure issues of significance were given Financial Statements and disclosures relating appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are prominence and arrived at a position where to: sufficiently robust.
initially the Committee, and then the Board, was satisfied with the overall fairness, i Revenue recognition Review of the Financial Statements balance and clarity of the document, which is In view of the profile of revenue and profit underpinned by the following: recognition in the final quarter of the year, During 2016 the Committee considered many the need to focus on any new contracts components of business performance in comprehensive guidance for contributors at and revenue cut-off for certain businesses order to ensure it has a full understanding of operational level: was highlighted to ensure the appropriate the operations of the Group.
a verification process dealing with the recognition of revenue for the year ended Key matters considered by the factual content of the reports: 31stDecember 2016.
Committee include: a consideration of the appropriateness of ii Inventories determining the position adopted in alternative performance measures: There are judgements required in assessing judgement areas such as pensions, comprehensive reviews undertaken at the proportion and value of slow-moving inventories and business combinations: different levels in the Group that aim to inventory that should be written down in value.
risk areas set out in the Risk Management ensure consistency and overall balance: The value of inventory was considered by Committee Report: and the Committee to ensure that the accounting receipt of regular strategy reports from the policy had been consistently applied and the comprehensive review by the senior Group Chief Executive and operational level of inventory provision was appropriate.
reports from the Divisional Directors: iii Pensions Committee evaluation There are judgements and estimates made requesting members of management in selecting appropriate assumptions in to attend Committee meetings to During the year the Committee undertook a valuing the Groups defined benefit pension provide updates on operational and self-assessment of its performance using an obligations, including discount ratios, strategic matters: internal questionnaire.
The key points from mortality, inflation and salary increases.
this evaluation were as follows: reviews of the budget and operational plan: The Committee considered reports by the and update on latest governance and Company, including those from independent accounting issues to be provided by consideration of judgements and estimates.
external advisers, and is comfortable that the Deloitte LLP through the Deloitte Academy: key assumptions are reasonable.
Through these processes and its monitoring Committee to review the Group of the effectiveness of controls, internal audit iv Ensuring the Annual Report is fair, Management Code: and and risk management, the Committee is able balanced and understandable to maintain a good understanding of business Committee to review materiality levels.
The Committee carried out a full assessment performance, key areas of judgement and and review to ensure the standard decision-making processes within the Group.
v Other judgements in the Fair, balanced and understandable Financial Statements One of the key governance requirements Viability and going concern have been of the Committee is for the Annual Report assessed successfully.
to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The co-ordination and review of the Provisions and acquisitions, and in particular Group-wide input into the Annual Report is the Aflex Hose Limited acquisition, were also a significant exercise performed within an considered.
After reviewing the presentations exacting time frame, which runs alongside and reports from management and the formal audit process undertaken by the consulting with the auditor, the Committee The Directors fair, balanced and external auditor.
is satisfied that the Financial Statements understandable statement on the Annual appropriately address the critical judgements Report is set out on page 67.
78 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information 3.
ACCOUNTABILITY RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE A robust review of our risk appetite has been undertaken this year, developing both specific ratings for our principal risks as well as a comprehensive statement of the Group approach to risk appetite.
Nicholas Anderson, Risk Management Committee Chairman Membership and attendance Role of the Committee The Committee ensures that the Group NUMBER OF MEETINGS has risk management policies and procedures, including those covering project governance, sanctions and 3 embargoes, human rights, business continuity and business management.
The Committee is responsible for the Committee member Attendance Committee member Attendance management and control of significant N. J. Anderson 3 N. H. Daws 3 risks affecting the Group.
Summary of the key Committee 1 K. J. Boyd 2 J. L. Whalen 3 activities in 2016: Reviewed historical risks Assessed risk appetite Reviewed Group risk register and principal risks 1 Produced Risk Appetite Statement Appointed 11th May 2016 D. J. Meredith attended 1 meeting prior to his retirement on 10th May Approved Ethics Overview Committee Appointed Divisional Ethics Officers The following executives are also members of the Committee: Read more onpages 8081.
Sheldon Banks Paul Lee Suay Wah Ashok DSa Jim Devine Summary of the key areas of focus Divisional Director Divisional Director Group Business Group Human for 2017: Americas Asia Pacific Development Director Resources Director On-going monitoring of risk management and internal controls Anti-bribery and corruption, implementation of further enhancements including: Byron Thomas Ian Farnworth Jeremy Butterfield Andy Robson - complete the roll-out of our biennial Steam Group Supply Group Information General Counsel and anti-bribery and corruption training Finance Director Chain Director Systems Director Company Secretary refresher course across the Group - ensure that employees are properly using the online Global Gifts and Hospitality register In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the Committee at least once per year.
78 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 79 Governance Report 3.
ACCOUNTABILITY RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Responsibilities To identify and understand To determine our appetite To accept and manage within To identify appropriate the risks facing the Group for risk the business those risks risk mitigation techniques which our employees have and countermeasures the skills and expertise to understand and leverage The Board also has overall responsibility The reviews are consolidated into How the Committee spent for the system of internal controls and for Group-wide risk reports which are maintained its time during the year reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of and reviewed by the Committee on a management is to implement Board policies regular basis.
We have a robust risk management process 15% in place through which we identify, evaluate An on-going review process for identifying 30% and manage the principal risks that could and managing risks faced by the Group has 15% impact the Groups performance.
The review covers and assesses the effectiveness of all material To ensure that risk management is fully controls, including financial, operational and embedded into the Group culture, in 2016 20% 20% compliance controls and risk management we reviewed our assessment of the principal systems.
It ensures that proper accounting risks using top-down involvement from records have been maintained, that financial management.
Our principal risks and the information used within the business is reliable product of the 2016 review are set out on R isk management framework and that the preparation of the consolidated pages 28 to 31. including appetite and Company Financial Statements and the The Groups governance structure is set up so Anti-bribery financial reporting process comply with all that there are three lines of defence within the Review of principal risks relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
risk management framework: The system of internal controls is designed Internal audit first line of defence the business is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of Internal controls responsible for the identification, control failure to achieve the business objectives.
and management of its own risks: All operating companies are required annually second line of defence the Risk The risk review process to complete self-certification questionnaires Management Committee, with the Audit regarding compliance with the policies, We have adopted an integrated approach Committee, ensures that the risk and procedures and minimum requirements to our risk management, independent compliance framework is effective so as to for an effective system of internal controls.
assurance and internal controls to ensure facilitate the monitoring of risk management Self-certification is given by both the General greater linkage across our review and with on-going challenge and review of the Manager and the Finance Manager of assessment of risk.
Internal controls and risk risk profile in the business: and each operation.
management are designed to limit the chance of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
third line of defence internal audits From its annual reviews, the Board believes Independent assurance is provided by the provide independent testing and that the system of internal controls is external auditor and internal audit.
verification of compliance with policies embedded in the business and that regular andprocedures, and monitoring of follow review allows for assessment of new and The Committee has accountability for up actions where required.
changing risks in the Groups business.
overseeing risk management processes and procedures, works with the Audit Committee This approach ensures that senior Internal controls can provide only reasonable and reports to the Board on the risks facing management have full accountability for the and not absolute assurance against material the Group.
The Committee also monitors the management of risks in their specific areas.
mitigating actions put in place by the relevant Internal controls As required by the UK Listing Authority, the divisions and Group companies to address Group has complied throughout the year The Board has ultimate responsibility for the identified risks.
and up to the date of the publication of the the effective management of risk across the Annual Report with the Code provisions on At least once a year at a local level, each Group and determining risk appetite.
operating company is required to undertake a formal review of the risks which impact, or have the potential to impact, its business.
80 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Internal audit The Committee has now received and is We have an independent whistle-blowing considering the independent review of the hotline to further strengthen our commitment The Board has an established internal audit internal audit process, undertaken by PwC, to ethical business practices and this year function which allows each of the Group in respect of the most effective structure and we appointed divisional ethics officers to act operating companies to be audited at least process for the internal audit function.
as another conduit for ABC matters within every three years and those judged to be in the Group.
higher risk territories audited more frequently.
Further work has been done to build on our strong anti-corruption culture and our In respect of the Modern Slavery Act, we have All businesses acquired by the Group are Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC Policy.
undertaken the actions set out on page 29. subject to internal audit within one year We have supplemented our anti-bribery@ from the date of acquisition.
Internal audit The Committee has ensured compliance with work training programme, which includes resource is supplemented by experienced, centrally documented control procedures testing, with biennial refresher training that qualified accounting staff from principal Group on such matters as capital expenditure, is in the process of being rolled out to all operating companies and a professional information and technology security and legal employees.
To date nearly 4,500 employees auditing firm, BDO International.
Reports are and regulatory compliance.
have completed the initial training and over made to the Audit Committee and the Board 1,000 employees have taken the refresher as a whole.
Whilst there were some areas course.
The Group Legal function also makes for local improvement identified in the face-to-face presentations throughout the internal audit reports, no significant matters Group on business ethics.
were raised in the reports on the operating companies audited during the year.
Risk Appetite Statement We recognise that risk is an inherent part of business and, in order to achieve our business aims, we must accept certain risks.
We seek to implement a balanced approach to risk, ensuring that our resources are protected while still pursuing opportunities to accelerate and deliver growth.
The decision to take opportunity-based risks should, to the greatest extent possible, be deliberate and calculated.
We aim to confirm that the level of risk is commensurate with the strategic and economic benefits the risk might bring: we evaluate our ability to control the risk or mitigate its effects, should that risk materialise: and we always assess the potential ethical considerations arising from knowingly accepting some level of risk.
An informed and well-considered process is crucial to any decision to accept risk.
The Risk Management Committee has undertaken a thorough evaluation process to determine an appropriate risk appetite rating for each principal risk.
The risk appetite ratings for the Groups seven principal risks are set out on pages 30 to 31.
In summary, the Group has a very low appetite for risks that could lead to violations of health, safety, and environmental legislation, or to breaches of legal and regulatory requirements.
In contrast, the Group has a high risk appetite in relation to economic and political instability: with decades of experience in successfully managing operations in volatile markets, we have the control procedures in place to handle the challenges that come with those risks, and we appreciate that without taking risks in new, albeit sometimes unstable, territories we would miss out on valuable opportunities for growth.
As a whole, we consider that the risk appetite ratings for the seven principal risks demonstrate that the Group has an appropriate and balanced risk appetite.
As an organisation we are risk aware, but not risk averse.
We continually monitor and assess the risks facing the Group and evaluate our ability to control them and mitigate their effects.
Focusing on our strategic objectives, we evaluate our risk appetite and decisions to accept risk in a way that will ensure the ongoing financial health of the Group.
80 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 81
