Strategic Report Our business model in action ENGINEERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE THROUGH OUR DIRECT SALES APPROACH Our routes to market Approximately three quarters of Group revenue is generated directly and the remaining quarter is generated indirectly from sales to distributors.
Our direct sales model plays an important role in all our routes to market as our engineers call on end users and highlight the benefits of our products, solutions and services.
End users may then purchase directly from us, specify our products in OEM equipment, request that contractors specify our products in their plans, or purchase from a distributor.
45% Direct sales Direct sales End user Spirax Sarco requirements 76% 18% and Watsonidentified by sales Marlow engineers OEMs sales companies, Sales 13% selling our engineers Contractors products and consultants and services Sales End users to customers 24% engineers Distributors End users purchase or specify our products The benefits of our direct sales approach Bridge the knowledge gap Many end users no longer have the knowledge or engineering resources that they once had, so they do not understand the problems they have or how to fix them.
We bridge that knowledge gap.
Leverage information from Focus on value-creating our unique databases solutions We have large and unique We are increasingly acting as databases of contact information a trusted engineering adviser Instrumental in creating for our customers and potential to our customers: solving their added-value and self-generated customers.
Leveraging this problems, identifying efficiency information gives us a formidable improvement opportunities and growth opportunities advantage for sales growth.
Encourage innovative Self-generated growth product and solution opportunities development As our sales engineers walk our end users' plants they A deep understanding of our end use their wide experience users' processes drives product and industry knowledge to innovation.
We have led the way in developing ready to install identify unrecognised needs.
packaged solutions that provide Providing solutions to these needs creates opportunities for convenient, effective and reliable self-generated growth.
16 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Ciara OSullivan, using Spirax-Sarcos SIMS software to monitor and investigate plant performance Our direct sales approach We have a direct sales presence in 58 countries where our local sales and service engineers are singularly focused on assisting steam and pump users to overcome their process challenges and meet their operational needs.
We combine a detailed understanding of our end users processes, a breadth of products, packages and services, and a global presence, to offer the most extensive local range of engineered solutions to our customers.
Our territories are covered segmentally where possible, with sector specialists allocated to our core industries, and geographically where sectorisation is not practical or appropriate.
Our sales engineers build deep, long-term relationships with their customers, who trust them as valued engineering partners or expert advisers in their plants.
16 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 17 Strategic Report Our business model in action continued Fabio Inzunza sales engineer, Enrique Guevara training manager and ElliotBustillo sales manager, in Spirax Sarcos Steam Training Centre, Mexico Expert knowledge and skills The knowledge and skills of our direct sales and service engineers is a competitive advantage and a barrier to entry to others who cannot compete with the many years of experience within our direct sales workforce.
We have 51 state-of-the-art training centres located around the world, most of which are equipped with live steam or pumping installations, to facilitate hands-on training of our sales and service engineers.
We have developed extensive e-learning resources to improve the technical training of our sales engineers and speed the process of their development.
Additionally, we use information collection and sharing software to improve our ability to disseminate application knowledge and provide a common platform to share knowledge across our global sales network.
During 2016 we established the Spirax Sarco Academy to oversee the delivery of our learning and development programmes.
18 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016
