RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Governance structure Shareholder engagement calendar 2016 We maintain an active dialogue with our principal investors, institutional shareholder advisers and the investment community.
During 2016 we undertook a Jan Feb Mar comprehensive calendar of events, as shown 2016 2016 2016 in the shareholder engagement calendar.
Shareholder visit hosted by Institutional meetings, Preliminary Results By providing regular forums for meeting Spirax Sarco China Cheltenham announcement, analyst and communicating with shareholders, their meeting and shareholder Investor and analyst calls Investor and analyst calls advisers and the investment community roadshow, London we ensure that we understand the views Broker industrials and opinions of our investors and are kept conference, London informed of any concerns that may arise.
Institutional meetings, We are also able to give updates on our Cheltenham results and developments within our business.
Investor and analyst calls We communicate using a variety of forums including regulatory news announcements, interviews, investor and analyst calls, oneApr May June to-one meetings, roadshows, site tours 2016 2016 2016 and capital markets events.
During the year Nicholas Anderson, Group Chief Executive, Institutional meetings, AGM and trading update Investor and analyst calls and David Meredith succeeded by Cheltenham Institutional meetings, KevinBoyd, Group Finance Director, attended Investor and analyst calls London shareholder roadshows, across several key Investor and analyst countries, including the UK, France, Germany, calls following AGM and Switzerland, Canada and the USA.
trading update At the AGM in 2016, shareholders were able to hear from and put questions to the Board on a range of matters.
In December 2016 we engaged with major shareholders and institutional shareholder advisers on the proposed changes to our July Aug Sept 2016 2016 2016 Remuneration Policy 2017 to seek their views on those changes.
Shareholder roadshow, Half Year results Institutional meetings, Our forthcoming AGM will take place on Europe France, Germany announcement, analyst Cheltenham 9thM ay 2017 at our UK Head Office: and Switzerland meeting and shareholder Shareholder roadshow, roadshow, London Charlton House, Cheltenham.
The Group Investor and analyst calls Scotland Investor and analyst calls Chief Executive will give a short presentation Shareholder roadshow, about the previous year and the Groups Canada and USA strategic progress.
The presentation Shareholder visit hosted by will be available on the Groups website, Spirax Sarco France www.
com, on the Investor and analyst calls shareholder notices page, after the meeting.
Following the AGM, the Board will be available to answer questions and meet informally Oct Nov Dec with shareholders.
2016 2016 2016 Institutional meetings, Institutional meetings, Institutional meetings, How our investors can find us: Cheltenham Cheltenham Cheltenham Institutional meetings, Trading update Investor and analyst calls Our Group website London Investor and analyst calls www.
aspx 82 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016
