Governance Report BOARD OF DIRECTORS N RK RK Nicholas Anderson Kevin Boyd BSc Engineering, MBA 56 BEng, CEng, FIET, FCA 52 Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board March 2012.
Appointed Chief Operating Officer May 2016 in August 2013 and Group Chief Executive in Areas of experience January 2014 Finance and accounting Areas of experience Engineering International Pensions N Operational International Industrial Background Sales and marketing Before joining the Group in 2016, Kevin Engineering Boyd was Group Finance Director for Oxford Background Instruments plc.
Prior to that he was Group Before joining the Group in 2011 as Director Finance Director of Radstone Technology plc EMEA, Nicholas Anderson was Vice-President and previously held senior finance positions of John Crane Asia Pacific part of Smiths Group within Siroyan Ltd and the TI Group now Smiths Bill Whiteley plc, based in Singapore, and President of Group plc.
Kevin is a Chartered Engineer, BSc, FCMA 68 John Crane Latin America, based in the USA.
a Chartered Accountant and a Fellow of the Previously, Nicholas held senior positions with Institute of Chartered Accountants and the Chairman Alcoa Aluminio in Argentina and the Foseco Institution of Engineering and Technology.
Minsep Group plc in Brazil.
Appointed to the Board External appointments July 2002.
Appointed Chairman in June 2009 Non-Executive Director of EMIS Group plc.
Areas of experience Senior management Engineering Finance International A N R A N R Background Until his retirement in 2008, Bill Whiteley was Chief Executive of Rotork plc, where he had been a Director since 1984.
Bill has been awarded an honorary Doctorate of Engineering by the University of Bath.
External appointments Jamie Pike Jane Kingston Chairman of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC.
MBA, MA, MIMechE 61 BA 59 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board September 2016 May 2014 Areas of experience Areas of experience Human Resources Remuneration Senior management International Engineering Engineering International Background Background From 2006 until her retirement in December Jamie Pike joined Burmah Castrol in 1991 2015, Jane Kingston served as Group Human and was Chief Executive of Burmah Castrol Resources Director for Compass Group PLC.
Chemicals before leading the Foseco buy-out Prior to this, she served as Group Human in 2001 and its subsequent flotation in 2005.
Resources Director for BPB plc.
Jane has Prior to joining Burmah, he was a partner at Bain worked in a variety of sectors, including roles & Company.
Jamie was educated at Oxford, with Blue Circle Industries plc, Enodis plc holds an MBA from INSEAD and is a Member of and Coats Viyella plc and has significant the Institute of Mechanical Engineers.
External appointments External appointments Chairman of Ibstock plc, Tyman plc and Non-Executive Director of National Express RPC Group.
Stepping down as Chairman and Director in May 2017.
64 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information RK RK RK Neil Daws Jay Whalen Andy Robson CEng, FIMechE 54 BA, MBA 60 LLB Law, Barrister 54 Executive Director, EMEA Executive Director, WMFTG General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board June 2003 March 2012 Appointed as General Counsel and Company Secretary Areas of experience Areas of experience June 2012 Manufacturing Sales and marketing Engineering Engineering Areas of experience Product development International business development International law Sales and marketing Corporate governance Background Broad operational experience International business development Jay Whalen joined the Group in 1991 as including mergers and acquisitions Background President of Watson-Marlow Inc. in the USA.
Business restructuring Neil Daws joined the Group in 1978 and held He was named Sales and Marketing Director Information technology, public private positions in production and design engineering of the global Watson-Marlow business in 2002 partnership and private finance initiative prior to being named as UK Supply Director.
and in 2010 was appointed to his current projects Following this Neil has held responsibility for Group position of President, Watson-Marlow Contract negotiation Asia Pacific, Latin America and the Groups Fluid Technology Group.
Prior to joining Supply operations, including the Groups health, Watson-Marlow, Jay was Vice-President Background safety and environmental matters.
Operations for Harvard Bioscience, Inc. Before joining the Group in 2012, Andy Robson was General Counsel and Company Secretary of RM Plc, a role he held for 14 years.
Prior to this he was European General Counsel with Cendant Corporation headquartered in Baltimore, USA.
A N R A N R Trudy Schoolenberg Clive Watson PhD 58 B Comm Acc, ACA, CTA 59 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board August 2012 July 2009 Areas of experience Areas of experience Engineering Finance Product development Tax and treasury Oil and petrochemical Engineering Background Background Prior to her most recent position at AkzoNobel, Clive Watson held several tax and finance Trudy Schoolenberg served as Vice-President of roles before joining Black & Decker in 1988 as Global Research & Development at WrtsilOy.
Director of Tax and Treasury Europe.
He was Trudy previously held senior management later appointed Vice-President of Business positions with Royal Dutch Shell plc and Planning and Analysis in the USA.
Clive then was Head of Strategy for Shell Chemicals.
joined Thorn Lighting as Group Finance Director Until October 2016, Trudy served as Director before working for Borealis as Chief Financial of Integrated Supply Chain and Research, Officer and Executive Vice-President of At year end Development and Innovation, Decorative Paints Business Support.
Audit Committee External appointments N Nomination Committee External appointments Executive Director and Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director of COVA and Low & of Spectris plc.
RK Risk Management Committee Denotes Committee Chairman Flag denotes country of citizenship 64 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 65
