Strategic Report Our strategy in action 1 Increase direct sales effectiveness through sector focus Why we are focusing on this Sales engineers at Spirax Sarco Argentinas The ability of our sales and annual sales conference, 2016 service engineers to solve our customers operational and efficiency challenges is further enhanced as they develop industry specific knowledge and understand the intricacies of our end users processes, requirements and regulatory environment.
As we sectorise our sales force and increasingly align our products and services in support of this, we develop a global network of local industry experts and a portfolio of products tailored to meet customers needs.
This increases our ability to self-generate growth and provide value to our customers through enhanced Customer Value Propositions.
How we are doing it We have identified several priority industries in which we have a strong competitive presence and that provide attractive growth opportunities and potential return on investment, such as Food & Beverage, Healthcare, Pharmaceutical and OEMs.
We are sectorising our direct sales force where geographically appropriate and are increasingly tailoring new product development and our product offering around our priority sectors.
We are also focusing Strategy in action on providing thermal energy management solutions, with the The Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business has traditionally divided Argentina aim of making the Spirax Sarco geographically into eight regions, with sales and service engineers visiting Steam Specialties business the customers across many industries within their allocated territory.
With the first choice provider for both implementation of the Customer first strategy, the company has extensively steam solutions and thermal reorganised its sales force, creating industry specialists who are better able to meet energy management.
the needs of customers within key industries.
The sectorisation process, which began in 2015 and continued in 2016, has been undertaken carefully to ensure a smooth transfer of customers between sales engineers.
It has entailed comprehensive market analysis, employee skills mapping and training to ensure the efficient re-distribution of engineers in support of key industries.
With approximately 60% of engineers now having an industry specialisation and 40% operating regionally to maintain a broad industrial coverage, sectorisation has delivered notable results with increased sales effectiveness and improved company performance in 2016.
20 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information 2 Develop the knowledge and skills of our expert sales and service teams Why we are focusing on this Simon OBrien, Head of the Spirax Sarco Academy, Our direct sales business model and team members, Ian Fleming and Marta Rogala relies on the expertise of our sales and service engineers.
Their ability to walk our end users plants, identify improvement opportunities and deliver solutions to overcome difficult steam or pumping problems, enables us to self-generate growth and is a key differentiator.
As we invest in the professional development of our people, we develop a level of expertise that is unrivalled by our competitors.
How we are doing it Globally, we have 51 state-ofthe-art training centres, most of which are equipped with live steam or pumping installations that facilitate the hands-on training of our customer facing employees.
Our engineers also undergo extensive on-the-job training and mentoring as they develop the knowledge and skills required to enable them to sell effectively.
We have an extensive online library of training materials, to which we added additional courses in 2016.
From 2017, the training of our Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business customer facing employees will be overseen by the Spirax Sarco Academy.
Strategy in action During 2016 we established the Spirax Sarco Academy to oversee the learning and development programmes of the Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business.
The aim of the Academy is to underpin growth, which it will achieve by setting new, demanding and globally consistent knowledge and skill standards, facilitated by the provision of high-quality learning materials made easily available to all employees, regardless of location or language.
In addition to establishing a global standards system, syllabus and training materials, the Academy, which has its own governance structure and an independent budget, has created a real-world assessment system to evaluate the knowledge and skill level of employees and also their sales effectiveness.
As we invest in developing the knowledge and capabilities of our customer facing employees, the value that they provide to customers grows which further increases customer confidence in us, underpinning growth and reinforcing Spirax Sarcos position as the world leader for steam solutions.
20 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 21 Strategic Report Our strategy in action continued 3 Broaden our global presence Why we are focusing on this Jo Weekes, General Manager, Our direct sales business Watson-Marlow Ireland model is dependent upon local engineers visiting customers, identifying their needs and offering solutions.
While our business has a global reach, with 87 operating units in 44 countries, and a direct sales presence in 58 countries, there are still many new and emerging markets where we do not have a direct sales presence and that have the potential to provide opportunities for growth.
As we broaden our global presence we achieve a first-to-market advantage from early entry into new markets and profit from the growth opportunities that this represents.
How we are doing it Our strong global infrastructure enables us to successfully and rapidly branch into neighbouring markets.
We generally enter new markets by establishing a direct sales presence in a country through the creation of a sales office or the installation of one or more sales engineers.
Occasionally we purchase our distributor to gain a foothold in an emerging market.
We also leverage our existing infrastructure to pioneer the introduction of Watson-Marlow into new markets, demonstrating the superior technology and Strategy in action lower lifecycle costs of the companys peristaltic and During 2016 the Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group broadened its global niche pumps.
presence by establishing operating companies in Canada and Ireland and an office to support 3rd party distribution in the United Arab Emirates.
The new company in Cork, Ireland is well-placed to serve several large multinational pharmaceutical companies as well as customers in a range of other sectors.
We anticipate good growth opportunities due to the strength of the Pharmaceutical industry in the area and the previously untapped customer base in the Food & Beverage and Environmental sectors.
The company is being managed by Jo Weekes, a mechanical engineer who joined the Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business in 1999, before transferring to Watson-Marlow in 2016.
Jo has a wide range of experience, including roles in engineering, sales, management and strategic implementation.
As we continue to widen our geographical footprint by entering new territories we are able to leverage the benefits of our direct sales business model in these new markets.
22 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information 4 Leverage our R&D investments Why we are focusing on this MasoSine Certa Sine pump New product development is from Watson-Marlow essential to enable us to meet changing customer requirements, continuously improve the scale and scope of our offering, respond to market trends, expand our addressable market and maintain our market-leader position in each of our business niches.
Our technically-expert direct sales force allows us to leverage our brands into new products and applications.
This increases the amount of plant spend that we can capture in the small-scale projects and maintenance activities that lie at the heart of our business.
How we are doing it As a Group, we invest approximately 10 million in R&D annually, utilising our state-ofthe-art R&D and testing facilities in both Cheltenham, UK for the Steam Specialties business and Falmouth, UK for WatsonMarlow.
R&D also takes place, on a smaller scale, in many of our global operations.
We are focusing on reducing our time-to-market for new products and packaged solutions, increasingly aligning product development with sector requirements, and strengthening our thermal energy management capabilities.
Strategy in action Where appropriate, we seek acquisitions in related areas During 2016 Watson-Marlow launched the new Certa Sine Certa pump, by that deliver new products and MasoSine.
Designed specifically for use in the Food & Beverage industries, this technologies or expand our innovative new pump offers unrivalled pumping technology to end users, providing addressable market.
gentle and virtually pulsation-free pumping: superior handling of viscous fluids, with up to 50% lower energy use than other pump types: ease of maintenance and cleaning: a low spares inventory: and EHEDG European Hygienic Engineering and Design Group Type EL Class 1 hygienic design certification.
The Certa pump meets the highest standards in hygiene and cleanability while also improving process efficiency and minimising total cost of ownership.
The accuracy and reliability of the Certa pump, combined with gentle, low-shear, pulsation-free handling, improves batch consistency and product quality and reduces wastage of raw ingredients.
We estimate that the new Certa pump range has increased our addressable market by110 million.
22 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 23 Strategic Report Our strategy in action continued 5 Optimise supply chain effectiveness Why we are focusing on this Melanie Mitchell, Assembly Operator, preparing clean steam As a Group we operate a traps for packing within the ISO7 cleanroom, Cheltenham, UK regional manufacturing strategy and have strategically located manufacturing plants in Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia.
We strive for continuous improvement as an efficient and effective supply chain enables greater focus on the needs of customers and provides opportunities to deliver growth.
We are focusing on implementing demand-centric solutions within our supply chain that will increase supply chain agility, compress lead times, enable greater responsiveness, reduce costs and improve customer service.
How we are doing it We are investing in moving manufacturing closer to the point of sale in developing markets.
During 2016 we completed the construction of a stateof-the-art Steam Specialties business manufacturing facility, with accompanying offices, warehouses and training facilities, in Chennai, India and expanded our manufacturing capabilities in China.
We continuously drive efficiency improvements in our supply chain as we strengthen our supply chain community, identify inefficiencies, share best practice and better Strategy in action align our manufacturing and sales organisations.
In response to a growing industry requirement for process clean steam, the Spirax Watson-Marlows Global Sarco Steam Specialties business opened a dedicated clean steam manufacturing Excellence in Manufacturing facility in Cheltenham, UK during 2016.
The 1,200m factory is managing the programme is delivering production of Spirax Sarcos comprehensive range of clean steam system continuous improvements as components, primarily destined for the Pharmaceutical, Healthcare and Food & opportunities are identified, Beverage industries, and is the businesss first sectorised manufacturing facility.
reviewed, agreed and Designed to reflect industry expectations and increasingly stringent regulatory implemented to deliver requirements, the state-of-the-art facility manufactures only stainless steel products, greater efficiency and best to eliminate the risk of cross contamination between ferrous and non-ferrous metals, practice operations.
and product assembly is completed in a dedicated ISO Class 7 cleanroom.
As well as offering full traceability of products and certified validation of the materials used, the facility demonstrates to customers that we understand their requirements, thereby strengthening sales into the facilitys target industries.
Since its opening in March 2016, clean steam product unit sales have increased by over 70% by volume, compared with the same period in the prior year.
24 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information 6 Operate sustainably and help improve ourcustomers sustainability Why we are focusing on this Chris Davis, Senior Design Draughtsman, creating In a resource constrained and 3D CAD models for the thermal energy solutions competitive world, improving the sustainability of our operations by reducing our environmental impacts and wherever possible having positive social and environmental impacts, while managing our business for financial success makes good business sense: we manage costs, increase our competitiveness, attract and retain talented people and reduce risk.
As we deliver innovative products, solutions and services that improve the efficiency of our end users operations, we create value for customers and drive growth.
How we are doing it Our Group sustainability strategy encompasses five key areas: our workplaces, our supply chain, our environment, our customers and our communities.
We have set strategic objectives in each area, monitor performance against targets and strive for continuous improvement.
During 2016 we rolled out our refined sustainability strategy across the Group and have a detailed communication plan to raise employee awareness and understanding ofthe strategy during 2017.
Strategy in action Read more on pages 52-61.
Working on a collaborative project with Nestl and Sheffield Hallam University, Spirax Sarco UK recently secured public funding from government body Innovate UK to research and design innovative solutions to reduce energy consumption by15% in Nestls wafer baking process.
A large volume of hot air is produced by the ovens during the baking process, which is typically vented to atmosphere.
The hot air is available for heat recovery.
The proposed Spirax Sarco solution will entail the use of a heat pipe exchanger, manufactured by our Associate company Econotherm, to recover waste heat from the wafer ovens, generating process hot water that can then be used elsewhere on site.
The aim of the project is to create a replicable solution that can be applied to Nestls baking ovens across their global operations.
Once approved, the solution will be piloted at a Nestl KitKat manufacturing site in the UK and will significantly improve the sustainability of the wafer baking process, lowering energy consumption by an estimated 3,000 MWh per year, resulting in annual savings of around 70,000, andreducing CO emissions by 550 tonnes per year.
2 24 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 25
