STRATEGIC REPORT: CLINICAL REVIEW Clinical review Clinical quality and performance are at the heart of everything we do.
I am therefore pleased to report that whilst opportunities to improve were identified and acted upon immediately, Spire Healthcares ratings from inspection reports published up to the end February 2017 were better than the sector average, with 65% rated Good compared with the sector average of 64% and the NHS average of 39%.
Of special mention is the fact that Spire Liverpool Hospital was the first independent hospital to be rated Outstanding by the CQC for the Caring domain and Spire Washington Hospital was the first independent hospital to be rated Outstanding for the Well-led domain.
Our patients continue to rate the care and attention our people deliver with 98% saying that they would be extremely likely or likely to recommend Spire Healthcare to their family and friends.
Our Net Promoter Score rose one point from an already high level to 83.
In terms of outcomes, of the top ten hospitals NHS and independent in England for health gain following hip replacement, As Group Medical Director, I am responsible three were Spire Healthcare hospitals for defining our clinical governance and Sussex, Alexandra and Regency.
In relation to quality strategy.
My team sets the clinical Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter knee replacement, again three Spire standards, which they use to audit, monitor Group Medical Director Healthcare hospitals featured in the top ten and report on clinical performance in our Spire Sussex, Regency and Murrayfield hospitals.
They continuously provide Wirral hospitals.
hands-on support to our hospitals to enable them to comply with relevant healthcare Infection control continues to feature as one regulations across England, Scotland of Spire Healthcares strengths.
single case of MRSA bacteraemia in 2016 our first for four years and very low rates During 2016, 26 Spire Healthcare hospitals of other healthcare acquired infections, we underwent an inspection by either the Care continue to significantly outperform NHS Quality Commission CQC in England 25 providers according to data published by or Healthcare Inspectorate Wales HIW 1.
Indeed, surgical site infection Whilst we prepared for these by following hip and knee replacement fell strengthening our systems for performance to its lowest on record.
management and assurance, this nevertheless required a considerable effort by hospitals In terms of clinical performance and safety and central teams working together to indicators, I am pleased to report that the manage the process of Inspection, repeated Group as a whole achieved all clinical KPI requests for data and checking the factual targets for 2016. accuracy of draft reports, often extending Notably, post-operative mortality also fell beyond 60 pages.
to an all-time low, whilst at the same time, rates for returns to theatre 0.14%, unplanned transfers 0.05% and readmissions within 31 days 0.18% all remained exceptionally low following on from the previous years strong performance.
36 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LOOKING AFTER YOU Spire Washington Hospital CQC The inspectors call Spire Healthcare is one of the CQC top rated providers in the country.
Good and Outstanding We reviewed reports from ratings like those achieved hospitals that have already been at Spire Washington Hospital inspected and previous CQC It was a delight to see staff are based on preparation, findings to identify and perform queuing to hear feedback engagement, experience and a gap analysis on the CQCs sharing best practice.
This feeds from the inspectors.
into a clinical review, to identify In Washington, we used the The lead inspectors first any areas that might require expertise of our central clinical improvement.
comment was how friendly, team and other Hospital Directors to advise the team Regular environmental and professional and welcoming throughout the process.
Our staff security audits, seeing things wanted to showcase the excellent through the eyes of an the staff had all been.
patient care and customer service inspector, help our staff to spot Shelagh Alderson they deliver.
Preparing them for the small things, like unlocked Hospital Director, Spire Washington what to expect on the day was cupboards, and to ensure that key.
We helped them refresh their information posters such as knowledge on likely inspection pain management or infection topics through regular forums prevention and control, are up and staff updates.
Consultants to date and well displayed.
were briefed on the importance of Washingtons overall Good the inspection and the role they rating is a testament to the can play in a successful outcome.
teams performance and our approach.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 37 S ST TR RA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP POR ORT T:: C O LINI UR S CA TR L R ATE EVG IE Y W Summary of inspection results The following table shows the percentage of published reports receiving a positive rating good or outstanding by domain for the independent sector.
Published Hospital Reports Overall rating Safe Effective Caring Responsive Well led Spire Healthcare 28 02 17 20 65% 60% 79% 100% 100% 65% Sector excl.
Spire Healthcare 68 66% 51% 77% 100% 91% 63% 28 02 17 NHS 01 01 17 255 39% 29% 61% 96% 41% 45% MRSA bacteraemia In-patient surgical mortality Infection control infection rate per 10,000 bed days per 10,000 theatre episodes continues to feature as 2016 0.06 2016 0.37 one case one of Spire Healthcares 2015 0.00 2015 0.33 strengths.
With only 2014 0.00 2014 0.34 a single case of MRSA MSSA bacteraemia Returns to theatre % bacteraemia in 2016 and infection rate per 10,000 bed days 2016 0.13 very low rates of other 2016 0.12 2015 0.13 healthcare acquired 2015 0.00 2014 0.14 infections, we continue to 2014 0.30 significantly outperform NHS providers.
C. difficile infection rate per 10,000 bed days 2016 0.55 2015 0.60 2014 0.30 38 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION This level of safety and effectiveness of LOOKING AFTER YOU Musculoskeletal specialist care is a reflection of the dedication of our clinical teams.
Good teamwork, robust and Anna Laws, sports up-to-date care pathways, and a willingness physiotherapist to challenge have together created a basis for reliable and high-quality care.
I moved Our in-house system for clinical assurance is now well established and has proven to be an effective assessment of regulatory because its compliance and performance.
Nevertheless, in 2016 I commissioned an independent review into the way that we undertake incident management from reporting my dream job through to taking action to ensure continuous improvement.
There is now in place a programme of work to bring our The new Spire Manchester Hospital at systems and processes up to the standard of Didsbury offers more facilities to patients and the best.
This will create a helpful platform to ensure we learn and act as quickly as healthcare professionals alike, extending the possible when things do not go as expected.
range of treatments, speeding recovery and At the back end of the year we further creating new jobs.
strengthened our Clinical Services capability and welcomed on board our new Chief Nursing Officer Alison Dickinson.
One new recruit at Spire I had read about the new Spire Manchester Hospital is hospital in Manchester and In conclusion, in 2016 our hospitals delivered musculoskeletal specialist Anna I have a friend who works at patient care that was safer and more Laws, who joined the established Perform at Spire Cardiff Hospital, effective than in previous years.
At the same team, attracted by the who told me how excellent the time, patients have responded by telling us opportunities in what is now the facilities were there and how that their experience of receiving care was regions most advanced good Spire Healthcare is as an better than ever.
As an organisation we are well prepared Anna is a sports physiotherapist, The new hospital has the best to challenge ourselves that bit more and to specialising in running injuries, facilities on offer in the area continue delivery high-quality care for our but working with a wide range including an anti-gravity patients and value to those who fund their of patients, including the GB treadmill, Technogym care.
As a clinician, I would like to pay tribute Water Polo team.
to my colleagues at the front end, those And Im also free to explore who understand the value of touch, time As she says, In my previous role, setting up new facilities and and compassion and who by doing so ensure I worked alone in physio and services, such as Pilates classes our continued success.
fitness centres, but I missed the and a functional movement camaraderie and support of screening service to pre-empt working within a wider team.
Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter injury, so I can see a wider I wanted a specialist role in a Group Medical Director range of patients and build team environment with great 1 March 2017 my experience.
people, in the best facilities for my clients.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 39 STRATEGIC REPORT: CASE STUDY Spire Murrayfield Hospital and Scottish Rugby have partnered for nearly a decade, providing healthcare services that have developed and grown to meet the changing needs of elite, professional rugby players, including Scotlands national team.
40 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LOOKING AFTER YOU Keeping Scotlands internationals on their feet If were able to get a scan after Professional sport at the game and get the results the the international level same day, it makes an enormous difference to how we manage puts immense stress that player.
We get a superb on the players and service from Spire Healthcare, the equal or better than any of on the coaching and our counterparts on other teams.
medical staff that You cant beat the level of trust and confidence weve built up support them.
The with Spire Healthcares pressure is always on consultants.
to be fit to play next The team at Spire Murrayfield Hospital is proud of their part week, however hard in keeping Scotlands rugby the last game.
As Dr James Robson, Scotlands Dr James Robson team doctor and the Scottish Rugbys Chief Medical Officer, puts it, I answer to a head coach who wants instant answers.
In professional sport the need for quick decisions can be vital.
While we use a range of Spire Healthcares services at Murrayfield orthopaedics, maxillofacial, neurosurgery, I answer to a head plastics, and even psychiatry coach who wants our biggest areas are radiology, scanning and instant answers.
Dr James Robson in action, treating an injured player Dr James Robson on the pitch.
Scottish Rugbys Chief Medical Officer Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 41
