STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board evaluation 2016 Action plan update The 2015 Board evaluation identified three principal areas of focus and associated actions to address them during 2016.
Area of focus Actions Progress 1 Ri sk Address resourcing for the internal risk function.
The Group appointed a Head of Group Risk in November 2015 management Continue to develop risk reporting and the risk who has taken a bottom up approach to risk identification across register to ensure the Board has adequate the business.
The findings of their review have been reported to oversight of risk management and risk appetite.
the Executive Committee, Audit and Risk Committee and the CGSC, and further updates on embedding risk management will be provided in 2017.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the need for an internal audit function in 2016 and agreed that an appropriate structure should be formalised.
The Audit and Risk Committee agreed an assurance programme for 2017 at their November meeting.
Due to the importance of risk identification and reporting to both the business and Directors this area of focus will be carried forward to next years Board evaluation action plan.
2 Succession Increase focus on matching succession and Succession planning was of particular focus following Rob Rogers planning development to the strategic challenges of the decision to leave the business and the Board gave considerable business and the next decade of challenge it faces.
consideration to the position of Chief Executive Officer before Discuss succession planning for Executive agreeing on the appointments it has made.
Directors at the Nomination Committee.
3 N on-Executive Continued familiarisation of the business A change of plans meant that it was not possible to arrange a Directors including developing a co-ordinated hospital visits.
meeting at a hospital during the year but the Board will visit the Hold one Board meeting at a hospital in 2016. new Spire Manchester Hospital in July 2017.
Those Non-Executive Create greater interaction with the executive Directors on the CGSC regularly visit hospitals as part of that at all levels in order to further enhance the committees agreed schedule.
Boards understanding of the business beyond Directors have had increased visibility of and interaction with the presentations at Board meetings.
Action plan for 2017 Area of focus Actions 1 Ri sk management Continue to develop risk reporting, especially clinical, and the risk register to ensure the Board has adequate oversight of risk management and risk appetite.
Develop the relationship and interaction between the Audit and Risk Committee and CGSC.
Discuss and understand the Boards risk appetite.
2 Board composition Appoint a strong Senior Independent Director to replace John Gildersleeve when he leaves the Board.
Review the roles of the Executive Chairman and Executive Directors.
3 Strategy Provide a mid-year strategy session update to the Board on progress made.
Disclosure Committee Share Schemes Committee Executive Committee With the implementation of the EUs In addition, the Board delegates certain The Executive Committee meets on Market Abuse Regulations in 2016, the responsibilities in relation to the a monthly basis.
It is supported by the Board established a Disclosure Committee administration of the Companys share Operating Board and Safety, Quality and to ensure, under delegated authority from schemes on an ad hoc basis to the Share Risk Committee who have specific focus on the Board, that the Company complies with Schemes Committee.
This committee operational and safety matters respectively.
its disclosure obligations, specifically under operates in accordance with the delegation the Market Abuse Regulation and related of authority agreed by the Board.
The Disclosure Committee also manages the Companys share dealing code, ensuring colleague compliance and provides training where required.
The members of the Disclosure Committee are disclosed below.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 63 GOVERNANCE: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Governance framework in 2016 Key objectives: Garry Watts ensure effectiveness of the Board: Executive Chairman promote high standards of corporate governance: ensure clear structure for the operation of the Board and its committees: and encourage open communication between all Directors.
Key objectives: The Board of Spire Healthcare Group plc leads the Group: The Board comprises nine Directors the Executive Chairman, two Executive oversees the Groups system of risk management and internal controls: Directors and six Non-Executive Directors, four of whom are deemed to be supports the Executive Committee to formulate and execute the independent for the purposes of the UK Code.
Daniel Toner serves the Board as Groups strategy: General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
monitors the performance of the Group: and sets the Groups values and standards.
Audit and Risk Clinical Governance Disclosure Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Garry Watts, Simon Gordon, John Gildersleeve chair, Committee and Safety Committee Committee Andrew White, Daniel Toner, Dame Janet Husband, Adle Anderson chair, Dame Janet Husband chair, Tony Bourne chair, Antony Mannion Garry Watts Tony Bourne, Tony Bourne, Garry Watts, Adle Anderson, Dame Janet Husband Andrew White John Gildersleeve Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: monitors the integrity of promotes, on behalf of the ensures that the Company advises the Board on determines the financial reporting: and Board, a culture of complies with its appointments, appropriate remuneration assists the Board in its high-quality and safe disclosure obligations, retirements and packages for the review of the effectiveness patient care: specifically under the resignations from the Chairman, Executive of the Groups internal monitors specific Market Abuse Regulation Board and its committees: Directors and Group control and risk non-financial risks and and related legislation: and and Company Secretary: and management systems.
their associated processes, oversees the Companys reviews succession recommends and policies and controls: Share Dealing Code planning for the Board.
monitors the level and i clinical and including employee structure for other senior regulatory risks: training.
management ii health and safety: and remuneration.
Key objectives: Executive Committee assists the Executive Chairman in discharging his responsibilities: The Group also operates an Executive Committee convened and chaired by the ensures a direct line of authority from any member of staff to the Executive Executive Chairman.
The team generally meets monthly as operational activities Chairman: and allow and its members are shown on pages 54 to 57. assists in making executive decisions affecting the Company.
64 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
