SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT This section of the annual report includes additional information required to be disclosed under the Companies Act the Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules the DTRs and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Certain information required to be included in the Directors report is included in other sections of this annual report, including: The strategic report on pages 1 to 25: The corporate governance report on pages 28 to 31: The Audit Committee report on pages 32 to 35: and The Directors remuneration report on pages 36 to 50.
The sections referred to above provide an overview of the strategy, development and performance of the Companys business in the year ended and as at 30 September 2016, together with information on the approach of the Company to corporate governance and the constitution, work and effectiveness of the Board and its principal committees.
These sections are incorporated by reference into the Directors report.
Corporate information and Listing on the London Stock Exchange The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 9 March 2006 as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act 1985 with the registered number 5735966.
On 4 July 2014, the Company was re-registered as a public limited company.
The Companys registered office and principal place of business is at 169 Euston Road, London NW1 2AE.
On 15 July 2014, the entire issued ordinary share capital of the Company was admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority and to unconditional trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs main market for listed securities under the ticker SSPG Admission.
Dividends The Directors declared an interim dividend of 2.5 pence per share in the 2016 financial year amounting to 11.8m 2015: 10m.
In addition, the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 2.9 pence per share amounting to 13.8m which will result in a total dividend per share of 5.4 pence for the year amounting to 25.6m 2015: 20.5m.
The final dividend will be paid on 31 March 2017 to shareholders on the register of members as at the close of business on 3 March 2017, subject to approval of shareholders at the AGM to be held on 13 March 2017.
The ex-dividend date will be 2 March 2017.
Share capital At 30 September 2016 there were 475,199, 063 ordinary shares of 1 pence in issue, which are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Further information regarding the Companys issued share capital and movements in the financial year can be found in note 21 to the financial statements on page 86.
Powers conferred on the Directors in relation to issuing or buying back shares Subject to applicable law and the Companys articles of association, the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company, including the power to authorise the issue and or market purchase of the Companys shares subject to an appropriate authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority.
The shareholders delegated the following powers in relation to the issuing or market purchase by the Company of its shares at the Companys 2016 Annual General Meeting: authority to allow shares for cash and or sell treasury shares without having to offer such shares to existing shareholders in connection with a rights issue or with a nominal value of up to approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital: and authority to make market purchases of its own shares, up to a maximum of approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
These standard authorities will expire on 31 March 2017, or at the conclusion of the AGM in 2017, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will seek to renew the authorities at the 2017 AGM in accordance with the latest Pre-Emption Group Statement of Principles.
To date, neither authority has been exercised.
During the 2016 financial year, 85,709 ordinary shares in the Company were issued to satisfy Matching Share awards under the Companys UK SIP.
However, these do not count against the authorities granted by shareholders in accordance with the Companies Act2006.
Rights and restrictions on shares and transfers of shares Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply to the rights and transfers of ordinary shares in the Company.
Therights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The key points are summarised on the next page.
51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Ordinary shares Notice of meetings must be given to every shareholder and to any person entitled to a share unless the Articles of Association or the rights of the shares say they are not entitled to receive them from the Company.
The Board can decide that only people who are entered on the register of members at the close of business on a particular day are entitled to receive the notice.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every member present in person shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
No shareholder holds ordinary shares which carry special rights relating to the control of the Company.
Dividends and distributions on winding up to shareholders Holders of ordinary shares may receive interim dividends approved by Directors and dividends declared in general meetings.
On a liquidation and subject to a special resolution of the Company, the liquidator may divide among members in specie the whole or any part of the assets of the Company and may, for such purpose, value any assets and may determine how such division shall be carried out.
Transfers of ordinary shares The Articles of Association place no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them except: i in very limited circumstances such as a transfer to more than four persons and ii where the Company has exercised its rights to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission by their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Act.
Restrictions on transfers may apply where the holder is precluded from exercising rights by the Listing Rules, the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers or any other regulations.
Dealings subject to the Market Abuse Regulation EU No 596 2014 Pursuant to the Market Abuse Regulation and the Groups share dealing policy, Directors, other persons discharging managerial responsibilities and certain employees require the approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes Awards held by relevant participants under the Companys various share plans carry no rights until the shares are issued.
The Trustee of the Performance Share Plan does not seek to exercise voting rights on existing shares held in the employee trust.
Notification of major shareholdings Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 25 November 2016, being the last practical date before the signing of these accounts, the following notifications of major shareholdings of 3% or more have been received by the Company under DTR5.
The holdings shown below are correct at the date of notification.
It should be noted that these holdings may have changed since the Company was notified as notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed.
of ordinary shares and % of voting rights as at the Name voting rights notified date of this report Norges Bank 14,293,152 3.01% Royal London Asset Management Limited 14,729,717 3.10% GIC Private Limited 15,000,000 3.16% JP Morgan Asset Management UK Limited and 17,000,000 3.58% JP Morgan Investment Management Inc Legal & General Group plc L&G 23,554,235 4.96% Schroders plc 23,720,071 4.99% Marathon Asset Management LLP 28,119,834 5.92% APG Asset Management N. V. 33,613,765 7.07% Artemis Investment Management LLP 35,067,425 7.38% BlackRock, Inc. 36,488,965 7.68% Old Mutual Plc 64,109,433 13.49% 52 SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Particulars of the Directors in office at the date of this report are listed on pages 26 and 27.
Each of the Directors held office throughout the year.
Appointment and removal of Directors The Company may, by ordinary resolution of the shareholders of the Company at a general meeting, remove any Director from office and elect another person in place of a Director so removed from office following recommendation by the Nomination Committee in accordance with its terms of reference for approval by the Board.
The processes for the appointment and replacement of Directors are governed by the Companys Articles of Association, the Code, the Act, the Listing Rules and related legislation.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors stand for election at the AGM following their appointment, and stand for re-election on an annual basis.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles of Association, the Act and related legislation, any directions given by special resolution and any relevant statutes and regulations, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Directors interests The Directors interests in shares and options over ordinary shares in the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report on page 39.
In line with the requirements of the Act, each Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational conflict.
These were considered and approved by the Board in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association in September 2016 and each Director was informed of the authorisation and any terms on which it was given.
The Board has formal procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest.
The Board reviews and, where appropriate, approves certain situational conflicts of interest that are reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational conflicts is maintained and will be reviewed by the Board going forward.
Directors indemnities The Company has made qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined by section 236 of the Act, of which the Directors had the benefit of during the financial year ended 30 September 2016 and which remain in force at the date of this report.
In addition, directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Awards under employee share schemes Details of employee share schemes and awards made during the year and held by Executive Directors as at 30 September 2016 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 37 to 43.
Details of awards made during the year and held by employees as at 30 September 2016 under the Performance Share Plan are disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements on page 88.
Controlling shareholders Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of a company are known as controlling shareholders.
TheFinancial Conduct Authority Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement, which is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence provisions.
As at 30 September 2016, the Company had no controlling shareholders.
Annual General Meeting All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend the Companys AGM and all holders of ordinary shares on the register at the relevant record date are entitled to receive the Notice of AGM, which will be posted at least 20 working days before the AGM.
They are also entitled to speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies or, if they are corporations, corporate representatives, and to exercise voting rights.
Shareholders may vote and appoint proxies electronically.
The notice of meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be put to the AGM.
The AGM will be held on 13 March 2017.
The results of the voting on resolutions will be made available to shareholders on the Groups website after the meeting.
At the meeting, the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Chairmen of the Board Committees will also be present to answer questions on any matters relating to the Groups business.
Shareholders will also have an opportunity to meet Directors informally after the meeting.
53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Change of control Contracts There are a number of contracts that allow the counterparties to alter or terminate those arrangements in the event of a change of control of the Company.
These arrangements are commercially sensitive and confidential and their disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Group.
Other agreements The Company does not have agreements with any Director or Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans tovest on a takeover.
The Companys main credit facilities, being the committed bank facilities dated 16 June 2014 as amended from time to time, contain a provision such that in the event of a change of control, if a lender so requires and has notified the agent within 10 business days of the agent notifying the lenders of the event, the commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all outstanding amounts, together with accrued interest under that commitment, will become repayable, on the date notified in writing by the agent that the relevant commitment has been cancelled where such date must be not fewer than 10 business days after the date of the notice.
Articles of Association The Articles of Association of the Company may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Political donations The Companys policy is not to make political donations.
Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries, during the financial year ended 30September 2016, made any political donation to a political party, other political organisation or independent election candidate, or incurred any political expenditure or made any contribution to a non-EU political party.
The Company will propose to shareholders at this years AGM that a precautionary authority be granted up to 25,000 in aggregate.
Details are included in the Notice of AGM.
Greenhouse gas emissions The Board has identified and assessed the significant environmental, social and governance risks to the Companys short and long-term value, as well as the opportunities to enhance value that may arise from improving its environmental performance.
The sustainability report on pages 23 to 25 reports on environmental matters, including the impact of the Groups businesses on the environment, the Groups annual quantity of greenhouse emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide, the Groups employees, and on social and community issues.
Treasury and risk management The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including its hedging policy, and the main risks arising from the Groups financial assets and liabilities are summarised on pages 16 to 21 and in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 89 to93.
Going concern The financial information has been prepared on a going concern basis, in support of which, the Board has reviewed the Groups trading forecasts for the next 12 months.
These forecasts, which include detailed cash flow projections, comprise assumptions as to sales and profit performance by segment and by month and take account of the normal seasonality profile of the business.
As a result, the Directors are confident that the assumptions underlying their forecasts are reasonable and that the Group will be able to operate within its banking covenants and available liquidity headroom.
Notwithstanding the above however, there remains a risk that a downturn in the global economy could result in passenger numbers and consumer spending in the travel market which are worse than the Board is currently envisaging.
As a result, the Directors have also reviewed forecasts which include sensitivities that make allowance for this risk.
Should such a scenario arise, the Directors are confident they have adequate liquidity and covenant headroom to ensure that the Group can meet its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeablefuture.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to prepare this financial information on a going concern basis.
In addition, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects and viability of the Group over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision on page 22 of the Strategic report.
Auditor The auditor, KPMG, has indicated its willingness to continue in office and a resolution that it will be re-appointed will be proposed at theAGM.
54 SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of disclosure of information to auditor So far as each Director in office on the date of this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys external auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps which they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys external auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Act.
Forward-looking statements These reports and financial statements contains certain forward-looking statements which are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties: actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied in such statements.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Companys ability to control or estimate precisely.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this annual report, and will not be updated during the year.
These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout these Reports and Financial Statements and include statements regarding the current intentions, beliefs or expectations of the Directors, the Company or the Group concerning, among other things, the results of operations, financial condition, prospects, growth, strategies, and dividend policy of the Company and the industry in which it operates.
In particular, the statements regarding the Groups strategy and other future events or prospects are forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Helen Byrne General Counsel and Company Secretary 28 November 2016 55
