Strategic Report Financial overview and performance SSE Retail including Enterprise Retail overview Supplying energy and essential services to our customers SSE is one of the largest energy suppliers in the competitive markets in Great Britain and Ireland.
At 31 March 2016 it supplied electricity and gas to 8.21m household and business accounts.
It also provides other related products and services including telephone, broadband and boiler care to 0.40m household and business customers.
The Retail segment includes the Enterprise business which provides energy services to meet the needs of businesses and public sector organisations in a reliable and sustainable way.
Taken together these businesses provide balance to the SSE Group and demonstrate SSE commitment to efficient operations and industry-leading customer service.
Retail operating profit SSE Enterprise profit Energy customer accounts m m millions 455.2 40.9 8.21 -0.4% -41.9% -4.3% SSE is involved in the supply of electricity, Enterprise brings together key SSE SSE supplies electricity and gas to gas and other energy related services services for industrial, commercial household and business customers in to household customers and, through and public sector customers.
the energy markets in Great Britain and its Enterprise business, to industrial and Ireland.
It is the second largest supplier commercial customers.
Debt overdue by more than Financial assistance for Meters read millions six months m vulnerable customers m 11.4 103.2 48.5 -12.3% -2.8% -5.5% SSE is involved in supplying, installing, SSE aims to engage as early as possible SSE provides assistance for customers maintaining and reading meters in the with customers who are struggling who struggle to pay for their basic household, commercial, industrial and with debt through agreeing payment energy needs, including discounts generation sectors in Great Britain.
arrangements that lower balances from on energy bills.
the outset and helping to spread the cost of energy over the year.
57 Strategic Report Financial overview and performance Retail including Enterprise continued Key questions Supplying energy and essential services across the Great Britain and Ireland markets What were the key issues for Retail in 2015 16?
SSE is focused on addressing the decline in We took important strides towards achieving our strategy: investing in our customer numbers it has experienced in recent digital platforms, continuing to build scale in our non-energy businesses, years.
In the context of the rapidly evolving ramping up our smart metering roll-out and driving operational efficiencies.
competitive environment in which its Retail business operates, SSE has embarked on a The operating environment has become clearer as the CMA inquiry draws to transition from commodity provider towards a close.
Unfortunately weve lost customers, but were taking steps to tackle its vision of becoming a market-leading retailer this by investing in even better customer service and new products.
of energy and essential services, by digitalising and diversifying its business, and consistently How does the Retail business help SSE fulfil excelling in customer service.
its strategy and financial objective?
Financial performance Retail is an important part of SSEs balanced range of businesses.
Ultimately, in Retail and Enterprise all of SSEs operations are funded by customers and its through our Retail In 2015 16, SSEs profit margin operating profit business that most customers interact with us: so it is about operating an as a percentage of revenue in Energy Supply efficient business and giving customers value.
By staying true to our values was 5.2% before tax compared with 4.6% in of service and efficiency, we can keep our customers happy while also 2014 15 and 2.9% in 2013 14.
Energy supply profit margin has averaged 4.1% over the past making a fair profit.
What is the principal challenge your business faces During the year to 31 March 2016, total operating in the next three years?
profit in Retail was 455.2m with the principal The energy supply markets in Britain and Ireland are undergoing a movements in operating profit as follows: transformation.
This creates challenges and opportunities for us.
There are Energy Supply The overall increase in substantial regulatory changes at the same time as considerable innovation operating profit was driven primarily by in new products, service offerings and technologies such as installing smart strong performance in Business Energy, meters in every home and business in GB which will help to meet changing in particular due to increasing market share customer expectations and preferences but which will also be a complex in the industrial and commercial I&C sector.
This more than offset a reduction in operating profit in domestic energy as a result of customer losses and lower consumption.
This is in line What are your key priorities for 2016 17 and beyond?
with the expectations set out by SSE at its interim In the Retail segment our key priorities are maintaining a clear focus on safe results that operating profit in domestic energy and compliant operations in the interests of customers and employees: supply would fall in 2015 16 relative to 2014 15. moving towards a stabilisation of customer numbers through enhanced sales and retention activities, as well as through realising SSEs customer service Energy Related Services Operating profit fell as SSE continues to invest in building scale in these ambition: accelerating diversification through the national expansion of Home businesses, making a number of operational Services and continued growth in broadband and telephone: taking the smart improvements to support its plans for future opportunity by optimising deployment of smart growth in non-energy as part of its diversification meters and developing compelling smart-enabled strategy.
In line with that strategy, overall customer customer propositions: continuing to improve numbers in Energy-Related Services, which includes broadband and fixed-line telephone, the customer experience and deliver operational gas boiler and electrical maintenance, repair efficiencies by further digitalising the business: and installation, increased to 0.40 million from and delivering continuing investment and growth 0.35 million in the year to 31 March 2016. in energy supply to commercial and public Enterprise The reduction in operating profit sector organisations.
mainly reflects strategic business disposals that took place in the previous year including the 15.3m profit from the disposal of SSEs gas pipeline business, alongside numerous revisions to the overall structure of the SSE Enterprise business.
Preparing Consolidated Segmental Statements SSE is required by Ofgem to publish a Consolidated Segmental Statement CSS each year setting out the revenues, costs and profits or losses of businesses in its Wholesale Will Morris and Retail segments.
Managing Director, Retail 58 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
In line with that requirement, SSE expects to publish its CSS for 2015 16 in July 2016.
The CSS Retail including Enterprise key performance indicators for 2015 16, which will be reconciled to SSEs published financial statements and reviewed by March 16 March 15 SSEs auditors KPMG.
It is expected to show that Energy Supply SSEs profit margin before tax from supplying Operating Profit m 398.9 368.7 electricity and gas to households in Great Britain Capital expenditure Energy Supply and Energy Related Services m 169.0 109.6 was relatively flat at 6.2%, compared with 6% in Electricity customer accounts GB domestic m 4.16 4.37 2014 15.
SSEs CSS is also expected to highlight Gas customer accounts GB domestic m 2.79 2.96 the increasing divergence between electricity Energy customers GB business sites m 0.47 0.45 and gas margins, primarily due to cumulative All-Island energy market customers Ire m 0.79 0.80 costs associated with the long-term upgrade Total energy customer accounts GB, Ire m 8.21 8.58 of the countrys electricity system that began around a decade ago and which is continuing Electricity supplied household average GB kWh 3,763 3,842 in the interests of ensuring that customers Gas supplied household average GB th 426 438 benefit from a secure and lower-carbon energy Household small business aged debt GB, Ire m 103.2 106.2 system.
These costs are levied more heavily Bad debt charge m 44.0 65.3 against electricity.
1 Customer complaints to third parties GB 1,416 1,528 Responding to the Competition and Markets Authority inquiry Energy related services On 10 March 2016 the Competition and Markets Operating profit m 15.4 17.7 Authority CMA published its Provisional Home Services customer accounts GB m 0.40 0.35 Decision on Remedies PDR summary, setting Meters read m 11.4 13.0 out for consultation its final proposed remedies Supply customers bills based on actual reading % 95.1 96.2 as it approaches the conclusion of its two-year Smart Meters installed over over energy market investigation.
As outlined in 180,000 40,000 SSEs published response, the PDR largely reflects the position that GB energy markets Enterprise are generally competitive and well-functioning, Operating profit m 40.9 70.4 and, in particular: Capital expenditure m 48.5 25.1 - that the key elements of the wholesale markets SSE Contracting Order Book m 133 133 are working well and highly competitive: - the significant number of positive features 1 Ombudsman: Energy Services and Citizens Advice.
that the CMA has identified in the domestic supply markets, including that over 30 suppliers compete vigorously on price, tariff and product innovation: and competition and endanger the efficacy of As a result of its approach to customers, SSE - that market developments, and particularly the rest of the package.
continues to be recognised by a variety of smart meters, will have and are already trusted third parties for the quality of its service: having a materially positive impact on While SSE strongly supports efforts to - The Ombudsman for Energy Services the energy sector.
maximise customer engagement, it also has reported in March that SSE received the concerns over the proposed database for fewest complaints of all ten suppliers covered, However, SSE does not recognise either the disengaged customers.
including the largest independent suppliers, CMAs assessment of profitability in the sector with 3.09 complaints per 100,000 customers.
and associated customer detriment or the SSE will continue to work constructively with - SSE continues to perform strongly in the overall picture of the GB energy supply market the CMA and other appropriate stakeholders to Citizens Advice Energy Supplier Performance implied by the PDR findings.
SSE remains reach a practical delivery of this substantial Report, with a score 44 times better than concerned that, despite some of the in-depth package, whilst recognising it is already a busy the worst performing supplier and seven analysis undertaken, the PDRs still display period of change in the industry, particularly times better than the other major suppliers a considerable lack of appreciation for the against the backdrop of the smart meter roll-out.
SSE remained top for the dynamic and evolving nature of this market.
period June-September 2015, a position Energy Supply and Energy held for five years, before slipping fractionally Nevertheless, SSE supports many of the Related Services to second place for Q4 2015.
SSE is working remedies proposed by the CMA, including Treating customers fairly hard to improve on this and is confident that the withdrawal of the simpler choices Underpinning SSEs approach to the provision it will remain an industry leader.
component of the Retail Market Review of both energy and energy-related services is - SSE was also ranked best for customer RMR rules: improving the framework for the principle of treating customers fairly.
This service among the largest six energy effective competition through a clear path is central to the decisions SSE takes both at suppliers by uSwitch, the best performing towards mandatory half-hourly settlement: Executive Committee and Board level, as major energy supplier in the Which?
and improving industry governance, among documented in its annual Treating Customers customer service survey of the top 100 others.
However, SSE has concerns that Fairly Statement, published in August each year.
consumer brands, and number one prepayment meters PPMs are a poor proxy This means actively addressing any issues that energy supplier in the annual UK National for vulnerable customers and the PPM price arise relating to the quality of the service provided, Consumer Satisfaction Index NICIS-UK.
cap stands out as a potentially flawed remedy as well as looking for ways to improve service which may have a detrimental impact on quality in the future.
59 Strategic Report Financial overview and performance Retail including Enterprise continued Supplying energy to customers Responsible Service Provider across Great Britain and Ireland SSE appreciates that customers rely on its core products of electricity and gas to power and heat their homes in order to live safely and comfortably, and is therefore committed to keeping energy prices as low as possible.
On Putting the current 29 March 2016, SSE implemented its third price cut in Great Britain during the period of its unique two and a half year price freeze, reducing gas and future needs of prices by a further 5.3%.
SSEs household energy customers have not seen a price increase since November 2013 and SSEs new gas prices are customers at the heart now 12% lower for a typical household customer than they were in 2013.
While electricity wholesale prices have also fallen, this has been of everything we do offset by non-energy costs and in particular the cumulative impact of programmes to upgrade the countrys energy infrastructure, which are Treating customers fairly is the guiding customers and stakeholders who told SSE levied predominantly against electricity.
principle of SSEs Energy Supply business.
that: they want to find the information they In fulfilling this principle SSE seeks to act as need quickly and easily: bills should be no In the year to 31 March 2016, SSEs energy a responsible service provider and put the longer than two pages: and they dont customer accounts in Great Britain and Ireland current and future needs of customers at want unnecessary or confusing fell from 8.58 million to 8.21 million.
SSE is the heart of everything it does.
focused on addressing the decline in customer numbers it has experienced in recent years Having listened to customers views, and The new design was devised in partnership and is aiming to reduce significantly the rate research by uSwitch that found that six in with Which?, Citizens Advice, uSwitch, the of customer losses during the coming year.
10 customers dont understand their bills, Design Council, Age UK and the Money The market for energy supply in GB in particular SSE undertook a year-long research Advice Service.
Ofgem recognises there continues to be intensely competitive, with project aiming to simplifying energy bills needs to be reform in energy bills and political, regulatory and market factors all to make them less cluttered and confusing.
has begun consulting suppliers and contributing to the rapid growth of new market Much of the content on an energy bill is stakeholders.
SSE continues to engage entrants, of which 11 have come to market in prescribed by regulations, and whilst constructively with the regulator on the the past year alone.
Customers are also highly well-meaning this can create confusion.
engaged: in March 2016 alone, over 475,000 In February 2016, SSE published a new, customers switched supplier, with 43% switching simplified bill below.
The new design is to a smaller provider, according to Energy UK the result of in-depth engagement with data.
Increasingly, customers are switching via internet comparison sites ICSs, which now account for around 50% of switches compared to 25% seven years ago, and are driven almost exclusively by price.
Similar forces are at work in the competitive markets in Ireland.
Having made significant improvements in the past 12 months in order to compete more effectively in this environment, SSE will continue to offer market-leading deals to new and existing customers in 2016 17.
However, it is, fundamentally, a business focused on the long-term and its strategy therefore centres around providing customers with additional value in order to create stronger, deeper and more sustainable customer relationships based on high-quality customer service, provision of a range of different, competitively priced products in the home and a programme of rewards.
To support this strategy, SSE is also focused on building a strong brand that customers want to engage with and on delivering operational efficiencies that enable it to do more for less.
Investing in becoming a market-leading electricity consumption by household customers support for vulnerable customers, SSE has also retailer of energy and essential services in the 12 months to 31 March 2016 fell by 3.1% now reallocated historic unclaimed credits to SSE firmly believes that its strategy of becoming and 1.8% respectively.
As well as reflecting the value of more than 28m.
a market-leading retailer of energy and essential underlying changes in SSEs customer base, services, by digitalising and diversifying its this can be attributed to the ongoing impact of Debt levels continue to reduce, partly reflecting business, and consistently leading in customer structural, technological and behavioural energy lower prices and falling consumption, but also service, is the right response to an increasingly efficiency improvements.
SSE estimates that, due to SSEs efforts to engage constructively competitive market, and one which will enable at todays prices, a typical customer bill is now and understandingly with customers in arrears it to leverage its strong competencies in approximately 12% lower than in 2011 as a result as early as possible, making sure support is customer service and efficient operations.
of reduced energy consumption, largely due to provided and payment plans are manageable.
It now has a number of key initiatives under Rolling out smart meters to customers way, including: SSE continues to play its role in the delivery of across Great Britain - a significant upgrade of its customer-facing important energy efficiency improvements to SSEs metering business is undergoing a digital channels and websites to simplify customers homes under the Energy Company transformation through the smart meter rolland improve customer service while also Obligation ECO.
SSE is on course to meet its out: however, it still undertakes meter reading minimising its cost to serve: ECO targets to 31 March 2017 and, since the operations and meter operator work in all parts - diversifying though the national expansion scheme was launched in 2013, SSE has: of Great Britain.
SSE believes in the potential for of its Home Services business, which provides - promoted the installation of 282,000 energy the national roll-out of smart meters to transform boiler and electrical services to customers: efficiency measures including loft, cavity and the relationship between customers, their energy - offering market-leading deals in the solid wall insulation and boiler replacements: usage and their supplier in the coming years.
It is broadband and fixed-line telephony market - helped improve the efficiency of over therefore committed to delivering its roll-out in in order to build scale in this business and 242,000 homes across Great Britain: and a way that is both cost-effective and customerfurther diversify SSEs customer base, - provided over 1,000m of notional lifetime centric, with the primary objective of maximising seeking to offer additional products and bill savings for customers.
the net benefits to customers.
value to existing energy customers: - introducing additional resources, training Helping vulnerable customers SSE has been gradually ramping up its capacity and telephony services to its call centres Energy is an essential service: SSE therefore and delivery of smart meters with a view to to deliver on its ambition to build takes its responsibility to vulnerable customers getting it right for customers first time to differentiation through service: and very seriously and helps them manage their maximise engagement.
As of 31 March 2016, SSE - optimising the smart meter roll-out and energy costs in a number of ways.
had installed more than 180,000 smart meters developing new in-home customer and installed its 200,000th meter in April 2016. experiences linked to smart data to The Warm Home Discount WHD scheme 2016 17 is a pivotal year for the smart programme, drive digital customer engagement enables pensioners and vulnerable customers with the central communications infrastructure and achieve its service ambition.
to receive help with their fuel bills in the form provided by the Data Communications Company of a yearly 140 rebate.
As part of the WHD DCC due to be delivered to a revised timetable At the same time SSE continues to invest in its Scheme, SSEs Priority Assistance Fund provides which will see phased introduction in August brand to ensure it not only appeals to customers additional support to low income and vulnerable and October 2016.
While there remain other but is able to offer additional value and rewards customers, including debt relief, free energy constraints to be addressed, getting the DCC up linked to its sponsorship of sports, such as the efficiency advice, and help with bespoke and running is a critical first step towards enabling SSE Womens FA Cup, and leading entertainment payment arrangements.
In the year to 31 March suppliers to build up to mass deployment.
Any venues The SSE Hydro, The SSE Arena, Wembley, 2016 around 325,000 customers received further delays to the DCCs delivery timetable and The SSE Arena, Belfast.
assistance from SSE worth over 48.5 million must be reflected in the overall delivery timetable through these initiatives and partnership projects to avoid any negative impacts for customers.
This investment is underpinned by SSEs ongoing with National Energy Action NEA, Citizens efforts to streamline its operations and generate Advice and the Home Heat Helpline.
Doing more for business process efficiencies.
energy customers SSE also operates a free Careline priority service, Business Energy performed strongly in 2015 16, Meeting customers need for energy dedicated to helping customers who are elderly, driven by growth in the Industrial and Commercial Following a colder first six months of the disabled or have special medical needs.
It takes I&C market and ongoing efforts to control year relative to 2014 15, winter temperatures a proactive approach to monitoring the top-up operating costs.
SSE has continued to build were again near or above average, impacting behaviour of its prepayment customers to its offering in the commercial sector with the consumption volumes in the second half of minimise the risk of self-disconnection.
In line launch of a new renewable energy proposition the year.
The average UK temperature for the with its licence condition, between the start of SSE Green, a new customer website and a 12 months to 31 March 2016 was 0.4 degrees December and the end of February or longer change in approach to service with a greater Celsius warmer than the 30-year 1981-2010 if the weather is unseasonably cold, SSE focus on the needs of customers.
This has average, though it was 0.3 degrees Celsius has a no-disconnection policy covering all resulted in Business Energys service team colder than in 2014 15. household customers.
moving closer to its sales team, working with the customer to define requirements at an While consumption can vary greatly year-onFurther to its commitment in GB to use any early stage and then providing ongoing year based on temperatures, on a weatherfuture unclaimed credit balances which cannot support on a continuous basis.
corrected basis SSE estimates that gas and be returned to customers to help give additional 61 Strategic Report Financial overview and performance Retail including Enterprise continued For Business Energys micro business customers, Key to the continued success of Business Energy 31 March 2016, SSE Airtricity supplied electricity SSE has continued its emphasis on Treating is a willingness to listen to customers, review and gas to 0.79 million household and business Customers Fairly by relaunching its TCF statement processes and act on what customers are saying.
customer accounts in the Republic of Ireland and establishing a Performance team to At the same time, SSE remains focused on giving ROI and Northern Ireland NI, representing focus on operational excellence by driving business customers direct access to people who a 20% share of the total combined gas and continuous improvement.
will support and work in partnership with them electricity markets in which it operates.
throughout the lifetime of their contract.
Third Party Intermediaries TPIs remain an Market conditions remain highly competitive, important channel for Business Energy growth Supplying energy and energy-related particularly in Northern Ireland where the and SSE continues to provide ongoing support to services to customers in Ireland regulated electricity market has seen the its TPIs by providing access to its industry experts SSE Airtricity is the second-largest energy emergence of new domestic entrants in the via sales channels, engagement sessions and provider in Ireland and the only energy supply last 12 months.
In light of competitive pressures, regular industry updates.
brand to operate in all of the competitive gas SSE Airtricity continues to invest in its brand and and electricity markets across the island.
At in June 2015 announced a ten-year naming Responsible Service Provider In 2015 16, SSE entered into an agreement with The Football Association to become the sponsor of The SSE Womens FA Cup.
The 2016 Final took place at Wembley Stadium, and was attended by over 30,000 spectators.
It was also broadcast live on BBC Television.
Arsenal beat the holders Chelsea 1-0.
This sponsorship demonstrates two things about SSE that it will aim to build on in 2016 17 and beyond.
The first is a commitment to associating SSEs Retail brand with positive developments in areas such as womens sport, complementing its sponsorship of leading entertainment venues The SSE Hydro, The SSE Arena, Wembley, and The SSE Arena, Belfast.
The second is a commitment to ensure that SSE is a diverse and inclusive organisation that more closely reflects the diversity of its customers and, in line with that, puts customers at the heart of everything it does.
As a result of its sponsorship, SSE won the Empowering Women Through Sport Award supported by Women in Sport at the UK Sponsorship Awards 2016.
Enterprise Key questions rights deal for The SSE Arena, Belfast, adding to SSEs existing portfolio of UK-wide entertainment venues.
SSE Airtricitys Energy What were the key issues for Enterprise in 2015 16?
Services business continues to expand in both This year has been about building on the progress made since Enterprise the ROI and NI markets.
As a digital-first was formed in 2014 and laying the foundations to support future growth.
supplier, around 70% of all SSE Airtricity customer Our particular focus has been on operational efficiency, identifying interactions are performed via the companys online, digital and mobile service platforms.
new opportunities for growth such as our rail business and Energy Performance Contracts frameworks, building enhanced sales capability SSE Airtricity reduced its household electricity and a focus on delivering value for our customers.
prices in Republic of Ireland by 2% from 11 January 2016, following an earlier 2% cut to How does the Enterprise business help SSE fulfil electricity along with a 4% cut to gas prices in its strategy and financial objective?
In Northern Ireland, the company reduced its electricity prices by 8% in April 2015 Enterprise is a multi-disciplined partner for businesses and public sector and by a further 1.3% from 11 January 2016. organisations.
We have a diverse range of businesses with a broad service In Northern Irelands Greater Belfast natural and product offering enabling us to identify opportunities for growth across gas supply network, where SSE Airtricity is the several markets.
regulated supplier with a 73% market share, the company reduced its gas prices by 10% from What is the principal challenge your business faces 1 October 2015.
This followed an earlier 7.8% cut in its regulated prices in April 2015.
The setting in the next three years?
of SSE Airtricitys regulated natural gas prices, The energy needs and expectations of businesses are becoming increasingly including any changes to those prices, follows sophisticated, with growing requirements for effective energy management a Price Control review conducted every six and robust energy and utility infrastructure.
Responding to the changing nature months by the Northern Ireland Utility Regulator.
of how our customers want to do business is the principal challenge facing Enterprise Enterprise, but also presents significant opportunities which Enterprise is well Business structure positioned to exploit.
SSE Enterprise incorporates six of SSEs businesses: Contracting, Energy Solutions, What are your key priorities for 2016 17 and beyond?
Rail, Slough Heat and Power, Telecoms and In Enterprise, our key priorities are: continuing development of integrated Utilities, supported by centralised sales and energy and utility solutions that meet the specific and evolving needs of project delivery teams.
As a multi-disciplined engineering services partner for businesses, customers: and the continued organic growth of each of the businesses building a sustainable infrastructure for within Enterprise.
the future, SSE Enterprise provides energy services to meet the needs of businesses and public sector organisations in a reliable and sustainable way.
With a significant self-delivery capability, SSE Enterprise: - designs, builds, maintains and operates complex mechanical and electrical engineering infrastructure: - provides sector-leading energy management and data analytic services to help businesses optimise their energy performance, helping to reduce costs and emissions: - provides industry-leading telecoms connectivity and data centre services, meeting the connectivity and communication needs of businesses with bespoke solutions: and - designs builds, maintains and operates electricity, gas, water, heat and cooling networks for commercial and residential developments.
Jim McPhillimy Managing Director, Enterprise 63 Strategic Report Financial overview and performance Retail including Enterprise continued SSE Enterprise was formed in 2014 under the - SSE Enterprise Utilities has created a dedicated leadership of Managing Director Jim McPhillimy, heat team with ambitious plans to significantly who is also a member of SSEs Executive build on its current portfolio of district heat Committee and a PDMR.
Having successfully networks and maintain its position as one of brought together the SSE Enterprise group of the UKs leading heat network providers.
businesses and enhanced their overall capability, In 2015 16 SSE Enterprise Utilities delivered Jim will step down from the role and retire from a low-carbon, multi-utility solution at the SSE at the end of the year.
A successor will be Riverlight development in London, providing appointed in the next few months.
the installation and ongoing ownership, operation and maintenance of the water, Setting the right priorities heat, gas and electricity networks.
for SSE Enterprise The energy needs and expectations of - A dedicated rail business, SSE Enterprise Rail, private sector companies and public sector has been created with the primary purpose organisations are becoming increasingly of Powering Britains Railways, building on sophisticated, with growing requirements for the extensive engineering experience and effective energy management and robust expertise SSE has built up in rail over the last energy and utility infrastructure.
Since its formation, SSE Enterprise those customers are increasingly seeking Rail has significantly expanded its capabilities integrated and bespoke solutions to meet in the rail sector, increasing its product their energy and utility needs.
portfolio of Railway Industry Supplier Qualification Scheme RISQS codes: the Laying the foundations for future growth industry recognised qualification for the Since the start of 2015 16, SSE Enterprise has supply of products and services to the rail continued to make progress in laying the industry, from 32 to over 200. foundations to deliver future growth.
- Slough Heat and Power has transferred from - SSE Enterprise Telecoms has continued to SSEs Generation division to SSE Enterprise, grow its network, unbundling a further 33 BT recognising the opportunity to broaden the exchanges, increasing telecoms coverage by offering of services that SSE Enterprise an additional 50,000 postcodes nationwide: provides to Slough Heat and Powers existing further expanding its network in London: and prospective customers.
and connecting a further four data centres, bringing the total number of connected data - A new Energy Performance team has been centres to 72.
SSE Enterprise Telecoms sales created, responsible for securing, structuring grew 30% year on year, with a number of and delivering Energy Performance notable new clients including NATS, Contracts EPCs.
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. MUFG and Imperial College.
Retail including Enterprise Conclusion - SSE Enterprise Contracting and SSE SSEs Energy Supply, Energy-Related Services Enterprise Energy Solutions have both and Enterprise businesses operate in competitive undergone organisational restructures, with markets and are each focused on the changing enhanced sales organisations focused on energy needs of household, commercial and operational efficiency and delivering value public sector customers.
This means maintaining for customers.
SSE Enterprise Contracting a clear focus on delivering the propositions and has been selected by Bluepoint London, a services that customers need.
Put simply, the subsidiary of the French group Bollor, to be core requirement of these businesses is to put the installer of up to 6,000 Electric Vehicle the current and future needs of customers at the Charging Points across London.
heart of everything they do.
Supporting responsible transport delivery In 2015 16 SSE significantly expanded its capability in the rail sector with the creation of a dedicated new business.
SSE Enterprise Rail has been formed with the primary purpose of Powering Britains Railways and signals the companys increasing focus in the rail sector, building on the extensive experience and expertise and wide variety of rail industry clients SSE has built up in rail over the last 15 years.
As the rail industry continues to modernise, delivering responsible, sustainable transport to commuters across Great Britain, SSE Enterprise Rail aims to become the rail industrys power partner of choice, building a sustainable infrastructure for the future.
