Strategic Report Our business and performance Our Strategic Framework Creating long-term value SSEs strategy is about how the company manages the external issues that influence energy provision: how it fulfils its core purpose of providing the energy people need: and how it achieves its principal financial objective of increasing annually the dividend payable to shareholders by at least RPI inflation.
Our core purpose is to provide Strategy the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
SSEs long-term strategy for achieving its financial objective is to deliver the efficient operation of, and investment in, a balanced range of  and market-based businesses in energy production, storage, transmission, distribution, supply and related services with a geographic focus on the UK and Ireland.
See pages 10 and 11 for how we measure our strategic performance.
Our financial objective is to increase Finance annually the dividend payable to shareholders by at least RPI inflation.
See pages 32 to 39 for more information.
SSE believes that to be successful over Responsibility the long term, companies must operate responsibly.
For this reason, SSE operates under a set of core values known as the SSE SET.
Efficient operations Disciplined investment Balanced businesses Efficient operations are how SSE serves its Central to SSEs strategy is disciplined SSE has reportable segments covering customers to fulfil its core purpose.
At the heart investment in a balanced range of businesses Wholesale, Networks and Retail businesses of SSEs business are its core operations.
In across the energy sector.
In 2015 16 SSE including Enterprise, which provides 2015 16 it produced 27,776GWh of generation invested 1.62bn before proceeds and services for commercial and public sector output from thermal and renewable power disposals.
SSEs strategy avoids becoming organisations.
This gives SSE a diversity of stations: safely delivered electricity to 3.7 over-exposed to any one part of the energy business activity across the energy sector.
million homes and businesses through its sector but pursues investment opportunities distribution networks: and supplied electricity, where most appropriate.
SSEs balance is maintained by: gas and related services to over 8.5 million - operating and investing in a balanced customer accounts in GB and Ireland.
SSEs investments are: range of energy assets and businesses: - in line with its commitment to strong - maintaining a range of opportunities to An operational focus for SSE means: financial management: develop new assets and customer - a focus on the safety of its people: - complementary to its existing portfolio propositions: and - operating its assets safely and using of assets: and - developing a balanced range of future resources effectively, efficiently and - governed, developed and executed in an investment options.
sustainably: and efficient and effective manner.
- putting the current and future needs of customers at the heart of everything it does.
Dividend Dividend cover Balance sheet SSEs financial focus is not on maximising Dividends are paid out of earnings and, SSE believes it should maintain a strong short-term profits but on delivering an annual over the long term, earnings should increase balance sheet, illustrated by its commitment dividend increase to shareholders, of at least to support dividend growth.
SSE maintains a to the current criteria for a single A credit RPI inflation, as shareholders objective for long-term target for dividend cover of above rating.
A strong balance sheet enables it to investing capital into companies is to secure 1.4 times and closer to 1.5 times based on borrow money from debt investors at a return.
dividend increases that at least keep pace with competitive rates and therefore take RPI inflation.
Safety Sustainability Excellence All accidents are preventable, so we We are ethical, responsible and balanced, We strive to get better, smarter and do everything safely and responsibly helping to achieve environmental, social more innovative and be the best in or not at all.
and economic well-being for current and everything we do.
Service Efficiency Teamwork We put the current and future needs We keep things simple, do the work We support and value our colleagues of customers at the heart of everything that adds value and avoid wasting and enjoy working together as a team we do.
money, materials, energy or time.
