Strategic Report Financial overview and performance SSE Networks Networks overview Safely delivering energy to homes and businesses SSE is the only energy company in the UK to be involved in electricity transmission, electricity distribution and gas distribution.
Its has an ownership interest in five  energy network companies consisting of a 100% ownership of Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission SHET, Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution SHEPD, Southern Electric Power Distribution SEPD and a 50% stake in both Scotland Gas Networks and Southern Gas Networks SGN.
SSEs interests in regulated energy networks supports the SSE Group to deliver disciplined investment, balance and operational efficiency.
The RAV of SSEs five existing Networks companies is well placed to reach around 10bn by 2020.
Networks operating Networks Regulated Asset Customer minutes profit m Value RAV net bn lost north 926.6 7.96 55 -1.1% 8.3% -20.3% SSE is involved in: electricity The RAV is the price paid for Excluding exceptional events, customer transmission: electricity distribution  energy networks minutes lost is the average number of and gas distribution through Scotia when they were privatised plus allowed minutes that customers are without Gas Networks.
It is electricity supply in a year.
SSEs north of indexed to the Retail Price Index.
Scotland network distributes electricity to around 800,000 properties.
Customer minutes Distribution networks capital Transmission networks capital lost south expenditure m expenditure m 41 258.3 573.4 -28.1% -21.2% 22.7% Excluding exceptional events, customer SSE owns and invests in two electricity SSE owns and invests in the transmission minutes lost is the average number of distribution networks companies: network in the north of Scotland through minutes that customers are without Scottish Hydro Electric Power Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission.
SSEs network Distribution and Southern Electric in central southern England distributes Power Distribution.
electricity to around 2.9 million properties.
51 Strategic Report Financial overview and performance Networks continued Key questions Owning, operating and investing in Networks Through Price Controls, Ofgem sets the What were the key issues for Networks in 2015 16?
index-linked revenue the network companies With 2015 16 being the first year of the ED1 price control, the key issue for our can earn through charges levied on users to Distribution businesses has been ensuring that we delivered on improved cover costs and earn a return on regulated customer service while driving efficiencies and incentives.
While the RIIO Price Control mechanism is complex, these , it has been the disciplined investment and timely completion of projects that lower-risk businesses provide relative add to the Regulated Asset Value, most notably the completion of the Beaulypredictability and stability for SSE and balance Denny 400kV overhead line.
its activities in the competitive Wholesale and Retail markets.
They are core to SSEs strategy How does the Networks business help SSE fulfil in the short, medium and long-term and its strategy and financial objective?
contribute significantly to its ability to deliver annual dividend increases.
SSEs Networks businesses are at the core of the companys strategy both in the short and long-term as they contribute significantly to its ability to deliver annual Under the RIIO price controls all network dividend increases.
Over this financial year, SHE Transmission grew its RAV by operators are incentivised to become more 555m to 2.2bn and the RAV is on target to be around 3bn by March 2018. responsive to the needs of their customers By effecting change to help drive improved customer service, efficiencies, and and stakeholders and to engage effectively with them to help inform how they plan and through the greater use of innovation, SHEPD ad SEPD is earning an agreed, run their businesses.
SSEs Network businesses steady return while creating direct benefits for customers.
recognise that this requirement is key to ensuring it is accountable and responsive What is the principal challenge your business faces to the communities it serves.
The focus of the ED1 price control is on delivering outputs for customers.
In the second half of 2016 17, SSEs three electricity networks businesses will become Therefore, one of the key challenges for our Distribution businesses will be collectively known as Scottish and Southern providing year-on-year improvements in output delivery through increased Electricity Networks following a rebranding efficiencies, customer service and innovation, while delivering value for process designed to improve customers money.
The introduction of competition into onshore transmission changes awareness of, and stakeholders engagement the regulatory framework for our Transmission business and we are engaging with, the businesses.
constructively with Ofgem as it develops its plans.
Financial performance in Networks During the year to 31 March 2016, total operating What are your key priorities for 2016 17 and beyond?
profit in Networks was 926.6m with the principal In Networks, our key priorities include: operate safely and meet all compliance movements in operating profit as follows: requirements: provide an excellent service to all customers who rely on our Transmission The 56% increase in SHE networks: deliver required outputs while maintaining tight controls over Transmissions operating profit reflects the ongoing delivery of a major programme expenditure: deliver every customer connection to quoted cost, time and of capital investment including the first full budget: develop and maintain effective stakeholder relationships: and progress year of construction of the Caithness-Moray innovations that improve network reliability, efficiency and customer service.
Operating profit is likely to decline in this new financial year due to phasing of capex and revenue as well as rates rebates and depreciation associated with the growing asset base.
Since the current RIIO T1 Price Control started in April 2013, SHE Transmissions capital investment has totalled 1.39bn.
Distribution The 20.7% decrease in electricity distribution operating profit is primarily due to the expected reduction in base revenues under the first year of the RIIO ED1 price control.
The profiling of the price control settlement resulted in a significant income reduction in 2015 16.
This was set out in Ofgems Final Determination in November 2014.
SGN SSEs share of SGNs operating profit fell by 5.7% primarily due to a decrease in Allowed Revenue in 2015 16 compared to the prior year.
The drop was mainly linked to the regulatory mechanism for sharing the benefit of previously Colin Nicol earned outperformance with customers in RIIO Managing Director, Networks GD1, for which there is a two year lag.
Impact of revenue recovery If in any year, regulated network companies Networks key performance indicators revenue is greater over recovery or lower under recovery than is allowed under the relevant Price March 16 March 15 Control, the difference is carried forward and the Electricity Transmission subsequent prices the companies may charge Operating profit m 287.2 184.1 are adjusted.
This particularly impacts Electricity Regulated Asset Value RAV m 2,287 1,732 Distribution and during 2014 15 there was an Capital expenditure m 573.4 467.2 under recovery of approximately 38m in this Connection offers provided in required period 88 97 business.
Under the regulatory framework the 38m under recovery in 2014 15 was reflected in customer charges published in December Electricity Distribution 2015 for 2016 17.
The under recovery in 2015 16 Operating profit m 370.7 467.7 was significantly lower, at approximately 5m.
Regulated Asset Value RAV m 3,157 3,159 There were no material under or over recovery Capital expenditure m 258.3 327.6 positions in Transmission or Gas Distribution Electricity Distributed TWh 39.5 39.6 reflecting a more capacity based revenue Customer minutes lost SHEPD average per customer 55 69 recovery mechanism.
Customer minutes lost SEPD average per customer 41 57 Customer interruptions SHEPD per 100 customers 66 70 Electricity Transmission Customer interruptions SEPD per 100 customers 47 60 Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission Plc SHE Estimated Incentives Performance m c23 c6.5 Transmission is responsible for maintaining and investing in the electricity transmission network Scotia Gas Networks in the north of Scotland.
Operating profit SSEs share m 268.7 285.0 Regulated Asset Value SSEs share m 2,513 2,459 Completing projects which Capital and replacement expenditure SSEs share m 162.8 169.9 add to the RAV Uncontrolled gas escapes attended within one hour % 98.5 98.7 During 2015 16 SHE Transmission completed a SGN gas mains replaced km 960 1,042 number of upgrades and reinforcements to its transmission network in the north of Scotland.
The projects, which were all completed on time and within their Ofgem allowances nominal prices, are: - the 94m reconductoring of the BeaulyThe investment that SHE Transmission has made clearance is obtained and their projects are Blackhillock-Kintore overhead line: in its network has helped connect over 2GW of eligible for Contracts for Difference CfD in - the 68m substation and overhead line additional capacity and as a result has made its forthcoming auctions.
Whilst this uncertainty works on the Beauly-Mossford project: and network more secure and resilient.
With the remains, developers are unable to commit - the 210m subsea upgrade and associated current pipeline of development SHE Transmission to final funding decisions on their projects.
onshore infrastructure on the Kintyreis expected to increase its RAV from 2.3bn as at While it continues to engage with stakeholders, Hunterston projects.
March 2016 to around 3bn by March 2018.
SHE Transmission is not therefore in a position to submit Needs Cases to Ofgem for the The replacement Beauly-Denny 400kV Delivering the Caithness-Moray project island links to the Western Isles and Shetland.
overhead line was energised in November 2015 With an agreed investment of 1,118m 2013 14 SHE Transmission continues to engage and provides additional flexibility and electricity prices, the Caithness-Moray transmission with Ofgem and developers and will network resilience.
As well as connecting new reinforcement is SHE Transmissions flagship submit Needs Cases for the island links electricity generation to the transmission project and its largest single capital investment later this year, if circumstances allow.
network one of the additional benefits of the to date.
The project, which will enable the new overhead line was realised during the big connection of up to 1,200MW of additional Adapting to policy and regulatory change storms of the winter storms Frank, Gertrude generation capacity in the north of Scotland Following the publication in March 2015 of the and Henry when there was no loss of supply and the Northern Isles is progressing well and final conclusions of its Integrated Transmission to generation customers.
The replacement of its is scheduled to be operational by the end of Planning and Regulation ITPR project, Ofgem section of the Beauly-Denny line has required a 2018.
For example, both land and subsea cable has continued the development of the regime total investment to date by SHE Transmission of manufacture are continuing ahead of programme, for extending the use of competition in around 650m and it is continuing discussions with land cable production completed and onshore transmission.
with Ofgem regarding recovery of efficiently delivered to site for both Caithness and Moray.
incurred costs additional to the original The subsea cable manufacture is on course for While ITPR poses some potential risks, allowance of the project.
Total costs are completion by the end of 2016.
Subsea activities the extension of competition into onshore now not expected to exceed 670m.
will commence in the first quarter of 2017.
First transmission also presents opportunities for revenues were received in 2015 16 under the SHE Transmission.
The experience it has built SHE Transmissions investment in these and Strategic Wider Works mechanism.
up both in-house and with its supply chain other projects demonstrates its commitment means that SHE Transmission is well placed for towards supporting the transition to lower Fulfilling responsibilities for competitive delivery when it is implemented.
carbon forms of electricity generation.
In potential island links delivering these essential infrastructure projects Developers of generation capacity on the Through continued engagement with Ofgem SHE Transmission has built on its continuing Scottish Islands continue to await clarity from and DECC SHE Transmission aims to ensure that expertise in delivering increased capacity for the UK Government on whether EU State Aid its development portfolio, and specifically some electricity generation.
53 Strategic Report Financial overview and performance Networks continued of its more advanced projects, can be delivered Putting customers first SSEPDs commitment to minimising the as far as possible under the existing regulatory During 2015 16, its first year under the incentivesoccurrence and duration of customer framework.
It is also contributing to discussions based RIIO ED1 price control, SSEPD has made interruptions saw the Customer Minutes on future arrangements that will deliver the significant steps in driving real change in its Lost reduce to 55minutes SHEPD and transmission infrastructure required in a way that operations, processes and standards.
The 41minutes SEPD per customer and for supports the UK Governments policy objectives, introduction of a change programme is ensuring Customer Interruptions to reduce to 66 delivers value for end consumers and achieves that the business is able to meet the demands of per 100 customers SHEPD and 47 per 100 a fair and reasonable return to investors.
the eight year price control.
Its new sustainable customers SEPD.
This is the bestever business model, built on a combination of performance for SSEs Networks business.
Ofgem announced on 12 May 2016 that it customer service and innovation, will bring would not conduct a mid-period review into benefits to customers while ensuring financial The first awards from SSEPDs 1.3m Resilient SHE Transmissions RIIO T1 price control.
SHE targets are achieved and a fair return is delivered Communities Fund, which was established to Transmission remains committed to delivering to investors.
The focus of the new price control support local communities in their preparation against its outputs while ensuring value for is the delivery of efficient operations and the and response to emergencies, were made in money for the remainder of RIIO T1.
best possible experience for customers: and the 2015 16.
The second round of nominations for business has prioritised its efforts on the incentives funding has opened.
The fund was established Working with stakeholders built into RIIO ED1 that are designed to encourage using money remaining from an amount agreed SHE Transmission is also engaging with improvements in customer service.
with Ofgem following weather-related electricity stakeholders through its Visual Impact of Scottish supply disruption over the Christmas period Transmission Assets VISTA project which is The most financially significant of these are in 2013 14. seeking views on how to mitigate the impacts of the two measures of loss of electricity supply: transmission infrastructure in National Parks and Customer Interruptions and Customer Minutes During the winter of 2015 16 SSEPD delivered National Scenic Areas.
The views of stakeholders Lost CIs and CMLs.
In the first year of the new its largest ever customer communications are central to understanding the impact of existing price control SSEPDs adoption of the restore first, campaign, including advertising on TV, radio infrastructure and investigating potential options repair second method was a driver in bringing and digital outputs.
The campaign raised for mitigation.
The continued investment awareness of its contact details in response to in automation, network reinforcement and tree storms and to promote the services it provides Electricity Distribution cutting also delivered improvements to help for customers, including those who may need Scottish and Southern Energy Power Distribution secure financial incentives.
SSEPDs adoption of extra help during a power cut that are registered SSEPD is responsible for maintaining the a regionalised model across its distribution areas on its Priority Service Register.
electricity distribution networks supplying over has assigned responsibility and decision making 3.7 million homes and businesses across central to local teams which has helped to improve the Keeping costs down southern England and north of the Central Belt response to power supply disruption during The main focus for SSEPD during RIIO ED1 of Scotland.
is to deliver the outputs outlined in its business plan in an efficient and sustainable manner.
In order to meet these challenges the business is Responsible Developer Responsibly developing SHE Transmissions largest capital project As a responsible developer SHE Transmission SSE has evaluated the economic impact of understands that the Caithness-Moray the investment: in March 2016 the project transmission project is not only its largest is employing 217 people who are local to capital project to date, but also one of the where the new infrastructure is being built: most important infrastructure investments a further 4.5m of value is also estimated in Scotland in this decade.
to have supported hotels, B&Bs and rental properties used during the project: and, It is the biggest fully Living Wage compliant by the end of the project, over 10,000 years project in the UK and around 600m will of employment will have been supported be contributed to the UK economy, across the UK, including close to 5,000 including approximately 250m of value in Scotland.
3. transforming continually to ensure that its electricity networks of the future.
This has included: processes, procedures and supply chain - Following a number of trials SSEPD has - A consultation launched in 2015 16 to give are efficient.
created the first Constraint Managed Zones stakeholders the opportunity to nominate the CMZs on its network.
The CMZs ensure that undergrounding of 90km of overhead lines in Improving through innovation security of supply is met for sections of the Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty, National Innovation is a key priority at SSEPD and its network through the use of load variation Parks and National Scenic Areas in the north of projects will play a crucial role in balancing the techniques, such as Demand Side Response, Scotland and central southern England.
countrys future energy needs, while helping Energy Storage and stand-by generators.
- SHEPD working with Comhairle nan Eilean Siar to keep the cost of energy down.
SSEPD has The first deployment is deferring 9m of and other stakeholders to explore the available a pipeline of innovations, at various stages of capital cost beyond RIIO ED1.
options around current network restrictions in development, and is on target to achieve cost the Western Isles.
A steering group has been savings over the period of the price control SSEPD actively shares the learning from these formed and it is investigating possible solutions while creating direct benefits for customers.
projects within the Networks business and with that may accommodate the connection of other networks operators in the UK and across additional renewable energy generation.
The innovation projects are funded through Europe, helping to promote best practice and Ofgems incentive schemes, which are designed bring new techniques and technologies into Stakeholder engagement will continue to play a to help Britains electricity networks achieve business as usual operation across Britains vital role at SSEPD and is a requirement for further energy efficiencies and become smarter.
regulated incentives during the price control.
Projects have included: - SSEPDs My Electric Avenue monitored what Co-operating with an investigation SGN impact people charging their electric vehicles On 20 January 2015, SSE plc was notified SGN manages the network that distributes natural could have on the electricity network and that the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and green gas to 5.9 million homes and businesses tested real solutions to allow more to opened an investigation into whether SSE plc across Scotland and the south of England.
In line connect with minimal disruption.
The trial had infringed Chapter II of the Competition with its equity holding, SSE receives 50% of the will help all Distribution Network Operators Act 1998 and or Article 102 Treaty on the distributable earnings from SGN Ltd while, through DNOs to safeguard, maintain and develop Functioning of the European Union in respect a managed service agreement, continues to smarter networks to cope with the increase of the provision of points of connection services provide some back-office support.
in electric vehicle usage in the future.
in the Southern Electric Power Distribution area.
This project is now informing work on The investigation is ongoing.
Working with the Gas Distribution developing a standard solution for smart Price Control charging where networks are heavily loaded, Engaging stakeholders in decision making SGN is focused on ensuring all its outputs under working closely with the other DNOs.
A key feature of SSEPDs first year in the price Ofgems RIIO framework are met, incentives - The findings from the Thames Valley Vision control is making sure its stakeholders have a say are maximised and innovation is delivered project on energy characterisation and in its business decisions.
This influence allows effectively while running an efficient, safe and forecasting could revolutionise the way that them to hold the DNOs to account and it has reliable network.
DNOs manage and effectively maintain the been vital to maintaining SSEPDs reputation.
SGNs investment programme is a key element of this and, within overall total cost allowances of over 4.6bn at 2012 13 prices, Ofgem has allowed around 2.8bn over the current eight Responsible Service Provider year price control running to 2021 to cover new capital investment and to manage the risks relating to SGNs existing assets.
This investment enables SGN to: - deliver a safe and reliable network for Providing a reliable and customers: - minimise its impact on the environment and communicate its work to stakeholders: and essential service for our - deliver new customer-driven initiatives to help reduce fuel poverty and increase vulnerable customers awareness of Carbon Monoxide dangers.
In terms of operational performance and safety, SSE Power Distribution SSEPD understands BSi is the gold standard for companies 98.5% of uncontrolled gas escapes reported by the importance of maintaining an accurate seeking to respond to vulnerability.
At its the public were attended within one hour of Priority Services Register so vulnerable heart is an understanding that vulnerability notification, exceeding Ofgems 97% standard.
customers receive attention in the event of is broadly defined and that a persons status power interruptions.
SSEPD is required to can change.
SSEPD made several Networks Conclusion provide these services under its regulatory improvements to its practises, including SSEs  Networks duties.
However, to develop and improve its awareness training, developing internal businesses are key to the provision of energy in the services further, SSE enlisted the help of the standards and amending customer north of Scotland and central southern England.
British Standard for inclusive service communications.
Audits were carried out SSE aims to put the current and future needs of provision BSi.
by BSi and the accreditation was achieved customers at the heart of these businesses and, in by November 2015. doing so, earn a return that is value for money for customers and fair to investors.
This will be its aim in 2016 17 and beyond.
