STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OUR BUSINESS Our Marketplace Our operations are managed on a regional basis and are primarily focused on the airport and railway station markets.
During 2016, 56% of our revenues were generated in the air sector and 38% in the rail sector.
We estimate that our core market, comprising food and beverage sales in airports and railway stations, was valued at approximately 1 14bn in 2015.
The travel food and beverage market is highly fragmented with the top three players, of which we are one, accounting for approximately a third of the global market on thebasis of this valuation.
Our market benefits from a number of long-term structural growthdrivers: the increasing propensity to travel, driven by rising GDP anddisposable incomes: the ongoing trends towards eating out of home and eating on the move: and investment in travel infrastructure, with increasing focus on the provision of food and beverage offerings in travel hubs to drive additional commercial revenue streams.
Air Rail 56% 38% SSP revenue generated in the air sector in 2016 SSP revenue generated in the rail sector in 2016 2 According to Airport Council International ACI, air passenger Rail passenger numbers in the European market were estimated to 3 numbers surpassed the 7bn passenger mark in 2015 and are be approximately 10.7bn in 2013 and have increased at an average expected to double by 2029 based on a projected growth rate annual rate ranging from 1.7% to 3.6% in the decade to 2013 in our of 5.2% perannum.
This growth is underpinned by a number of key European rail markets i. e. UK, France, Germany and Sweden.
factors, including: rising disposable incomes particularly in the Growth in passenger numbers is forecast to continue in the medium developing markets, driven by the emergence of a more affluent term, rising at between 1.6% and 1.8% in these markets.
middle class : the increasing globalisation of business: investment in The key driver of this growth is expected to be further investment airline capacity, in particular by low-cost carriers which have driven in rail infrastructure by European governments, alongside various prices down and stimulated demand: and investment in airport policies to encourage passengers to switch from road transport to infrastructure, most notably in developing markets.
rail in order to reduce road congestion and to address environmental As a consequence, further growth in passenger numbers is forecast concerns.
As a consequence, significant expansion of rail track is over the medium-term in all our geographic markets.
From 2015 planned across Europe, including the completion of major high speed to 2040 ACI anticipates these increases to be strongest in the rail lines which are expected to increase capacity to 16,000km by Middle East and Africa 7.7% and Asia Pacific 6.2%, with smaller 2020 an additional 5,000km compared with 2011.
In addition, increases in Europe 3.7% and in North America 2.8%.
investment in new train capacity and the replacement of existing train fleets is planned, which is expected to drive an increase in Furthermore, spend per passenger has been boosted by a number passenger numbers.
of specific factors, including the rapid development of the low-cost airlines, which have limited provision of food and beverage for 1 Company estimate based on third party market research commissioned for the SSP IPO March 2014 passengers, and the scaling back of on-board catering services and management estimates.
On a constant currency basis with the previous stated estimate 13.8bn bythe major flagship carriers.
in 2013 the figure would equate to approximately 15bn.
The core market includesairports and railway stations around the world but excludes rail in North America.
2 World Bank Development Indicators WDI and ACI Traffic Forecast.
3 4 Euromonitor, 2010-2020 CAGR based on EU Energy Trends Report.
SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Our Brands We have over 400 brands in our portfolio, which means we can respond to the specific needs of passengers as they travel around the world.
We make sure that each brand is ideally suited to each location.
International and local proprietary brands are tailored specifically to the travel environment, as are bespoke concepts which we have created incollaboration with clients, brand partners and leading chefs.
Local Hero Brands International Brands Our Own Brands Bespoke Concepts 5
