Strategic Report Our business and performance Our business explained SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people Providing need in a reliable and sustainable way.
It does this through three principal business segments: Wholesale, producing, generating and trading electricity and gas: the energy Networks, transmitting and distributing electricity and gas: and Retail including Enterprise, supplying people need electricity and gas and related services to homes and businesses.
SSE is the only company listed on the London Stock Exchange involved in such a broad range of energy businesses.
Gas production Energy portfolio Gas storage Gas distribution Extracting natural gas from management and Using caverns to store large Using pipes to distribute fields in the North Sea and west volumes of natural gas under gas from the transmission electricity generation of Shetland for use onshore.
ground for use at a future date.
network to homes, work Using turbines to convert energy places and other premises.
from gas, oil, coal, water and wind to generate electricity and managing energy contracts.
Wholesale Networks Market-based  4 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
Wholesale 1-3 Networks 4-6 Retail 7-9 Sustainably sourcing Safely delivering energy Supplying energy and essential and producing energy to homes and businesses services to customers SSE provides energy and related services SSE has an ownership interest in the energy SSE supplies electricity, gas and related for customers in wholesale energy markets networks businesses in electricity transmission services such as telecoms in markets in Great in Great Britain and Ireland.
It delivers this in the north of Scotland, electricity distribution Britain and Ireland.
It is focused on attracting through Energy Portfolio Management in the north of Scotland and southern central and retaining customers through excellent and Electricity Generation, Gas Production England and in gas distribution in Scotland service and a brand people trust.
Amongst other things, and southern England.
These  SSE Enterprise, which brings it is a leading generator of electricity from defined businesses are subject to economic together key SSE services for industrial, renewable sources across the UK and Ireland.
commercial and public sector customers.
For more information see pages 42 to 49 For more information see pages 50 to 55 For more information see pages 56 to 65 6 7 5 8 9 5.
Electricity Electricity Energy supply Energy-related Enterprise transmission distribution Retailing gas and electricity services Bringing together key to household, small business SSE services for industrial, Using higher voltage lines and Using lower voltage lines and Providing energy-related and industrial and commercial and public cables to transmit electricity cables to distribute electricity products and services commercial customers.
from generating plant to the to homes, work places and to households and distribution network.
