Financial Statements Accompanying information This section explains the significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and provides details of the Groups principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and subsidiaries.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies A1.1 Basis of consolidation The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries including special purpose entities are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
Transactions with noncontrolling interests that relate to their ownership interests and do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method of accounting as defined by IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The special purpose entities referred to relate to entities in which the Group has a 50% shareholding but whose activities the Group is deemed to control under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements In the Company, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Interests in joint arrangements and associates Joint arrangements, as defined by IFRS 11, are those arrangements that convey to the parties joint control.
Joint control exists when decisions about the relevant activities, being the financial, operational or strategic policies of the arrangement, are made with the unanimous consent of the parties to the arrangement.
The Groups investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the investors contractual rights and obligations.
Associates are those investments over which the Group has significant influence but neither control or joint control.
These are normally where the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The Groups joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method and are disclosed at note 17 to the Financial Statements.
Under the equity method of accounting, the joint venture and associate investments are carried at cost plus the Groups share of post-acquisition results, less any impairment in value.
The Group recognises its share of the results of these equity-accounted operations after tax and interest in the income statement.
Where necessary to ensure consistency, the accounting policies of the associate or joint venture have been adjusted to align to the accounting policies of the Group.
The Groups interests in its joint operations are accounted for by recognising its share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of the operation.
In these arrangements, the Groups share of the revenue will be eliminated as these relate to its purchased share of the output from the arrangement.
Details are included at note 17.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from Intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
A1.2 Accounting policies Revenue recognition: energy, services and goods relating to the sale of energy Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue comprises sales of energy, use of system income, gas production revenue, gas storage facility revenue, the value of contracted services and facilities provided and goods sold during the year in the normal course of business.
Revenue on energy sales comprises sales to retail end-user customers including an estimate of the value of electricity and gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
Revenue on energy sales also includes monies received from the electricity and gas balancing markets in the UK and other wholesale market energy sales.
Unread energy sales are estimated using historical consumption patterns taking account of industry volume reconciliation processes.
Revenue from sales and optimisation trades in physical and financial energy and commodity contracts is recognised gross in the income statement.
Revenue associated with business interruption insurance claims is recognised as revenue in the income statement only when it is virtually certain that the claim will be successful.
Revenue from use of energy systems includes an estimation of the volume of electricity distributed or transmitted by customers based on independently procured electricity settlement systems data.
Annual revenue is dependent on being approved by the industry regulator, Ofgem.
Certain circumstances may result in the regulatory allowed income being overor under-recovered in the financial year.
Any overor under-recovery is included in the calculation of the following years regulatory use of system revenue within agreed parameters.
No adjustment is made for overor under-recoveries in the year that they arise.
191 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A1.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued Revenue from the production of natural gas, crude oil and condensates is recognised when title passes to the customer.
The Group has an interest with other producers in jointly ventures and associates for the production of such products.
Revenue under these arrangements is recognised based on the entitlement method in reference to the Groups interest and the relevant production sharing terms.
Where there are differences between the Groups share of production and the volume sold, an overlift or underlift is recorded see below.
Where the Group has an ongoing obligation to provide services, revenues are recognised as the service is performed and amounts billed in advance are treated as deferred income and excluded from current revenue.
For network connections activity from 1 November 2009, the revenue recognition rules of IFRIC 18 have been applied, whereby income is recognised over the course of completion of the associated capital works unless there is a future service obligation, in which case revenue is recognised over the service period.
Revenue from fixed-fee service contracts is recognised over the life of the contract, in relation to the benefit received by the customer.
Gas storage facilities revenues are recognised evenly over the contract period, whilst revenues for the injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas flowing into or out of the storage facilities.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed, along with the risks and rewards of ownership.
Overlift and underlift In relation to the Groups gas production activities, it is often not practical for each participant to receive or sell its precise share of the overall production from a jointly controlled operation under the contractual offtake arrangements in any given period.
These short-term imbalances between cumulative production entitlement and cumulative sales are referred to as overlift and underlift.
An overlift payable, or underlift receivable, is recognised at the balance sheet date and measured at market value, with movements in the period recognised within cost of sales.
Exploration, evaluation and production assets The Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation expenditure associated with exploration wells or prospects.
This expenditure will be capitalised initially within intangible assets and will include licence acquisition costs associated with the prospects.
If the prospects are subsequently determined to be successful on completion of the evaluation period, the relevant expenditure will be transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated on a unit of production basis.
If the prospects are subsequently determined to be unsuccessful on completion of the evaluation period, the intangible asset will be expensed in the period in which that determination is made.
All field development costs, including rights and concessions related to production activities, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Capitalised costs relate to the acquisition and installation of production assets and facilities and includes specialist engineering, drilling and technical services costs.
These property, plant and equipment assets are depreciated from the commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production method, based on the proven and probable reserves of those fields.
Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
The carrying value of exploration prospects is regularly compared on an individual field basis with the expected discounted future net revenues associated with the remaining commercial reserves.
An impairment loss will be recognised where it is considered that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the net present value of future net revenues.
All exploration and production assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
Government grants A government grant is recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that it will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to it.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same years in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to match the depreciation charge.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement contains a lease is dependent on whether the arrangement relates to use and control of a specific asset.
Leases are classified as finance leases if the arrangement transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are categorised as operating leases.
i Operating lease obligations Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
ii Finance lease obligations Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and held as part of property, plant and equipment.
The accounting policy for such arrangements is described on page 194.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued A1.3 Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the Groups .
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured accordingly.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising on the restatement of such items is taken to the income statement with the exception of exchange gains or losses on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity or exchange gains or losses incurred as part of a qualifying cash flow hedge.
Exchange gains or losses on net investment hedges are taken against the consolidated translation reserve, a separate component of equity, to the extent the hedge is effective.
Non-monetary assets that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the historic rate at the date of transaction.
For the purpose of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated into pounds sterling at the balance sheet closing rate.
The results of these operations are translated at the average rate in the relevant period.
Exchange differences on retranslation of the opening net assets and the results are transferred to the translation reserve and are reported in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, foreign exchange contracts or foreign currency swaps used as part of a hedge against net investment in a foreign entity are transferred to the translation reserve.
Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested in short term deposits and the Groups interests in jointly controlled entities and associates and from interest rate derivative receipts.
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings and finance leases, the release of discounting on provisions, interest on net pension scheme liabilities, interest rate derivative payments and accretion of the debt component on the convertible loan less capitalised interest.
Interest on the funding attributable to major capital projects is capitalised during the years of construction and depreciated as part of the total cost over the useful life of the asset.
Interest income and costs are recognised in the income statement as they accrue, on an effective interest method.
The issue costs and interest payable on bonds and all other interest payable and receivable is reflected in the income statement on the same basis.
Taxation Taxation on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities other than in business combinations that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset within the same tax authority and where the Company intends to either settle them on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised on the date the Groups right to receive payments is established.
Dividend liabilities are recognised on the date the Groups obligation to pay dividends is established.
A1.4 Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and other directly attributable costs.
All items of property, plant and equipment are accounted for under the cost model within IAS 16.
The purchase price of an asset will include the fair value of the consideration paid to acquire the asset.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, the components are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment, and depreciated accordingly.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
193 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A1.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued ii Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as part of the property, plant and equipment of the Group at the fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also allocated on a straight line basis over the lease term.
iii Hydro civil assets The Group is obliged under the Reservoirs Act 1975 to maintain its hydro infrastructure network, including its dams, tunnels and other hydro civil engineering structures hydro civil assets.
All items of property, plant and equipment within hydro civil assets, with the exception of land, are subject todepreciation.
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1, the Group identified the carrying value of these assets at privatisation and has treated this value as deemed cost.
Following this assessment, the assets, and all subsequent enhancement and replacement expenditure, has been subject to depreciation over a useful economic life of 100 years.
All subsequent maintenance expenditure is chargeable directly to the income statement.
iv Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement to write off cost, less residual values, on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives with the exception of Gas and Oil Production Assets which are depreciated on the Units of Production basis.
Heritable and freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation policy, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually, for all asset classes to ensure that the current method is the most appropriate.
Depreciation commences following the asset commissioning period and when the asset is available for commercial operation.
The estimated useful lives for assets depreciated on a straight line basis are as follows: Years Hydro civil assets 100 Thermal and hydro power stations including electrical and mechanical assets 20 to 60 Operating wind farms 20 to 25 Overhead lines, underground cables and other network assets 40 to 80 Gas storage facilities 25 to 50 Other transmission and distribution buildings, plant and equipment 10 to 45 Office buildings 30 to 40 Shop & office refurbishment, fixtures, IT assets, vehicles and mobile plant 3 to 10 E P infrastructure assets 20 to 25 Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
v Subsequent expenditure It is the Group policy to capitalise qualifying replacement expenditure and depreciate it over the expected useful life of the replaced asset.
Replaced assets are derecognised at this point and the costs recorded as costs of disposal.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment is replaced and it is not practicable to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, the cost of the replacement adjusted for inflation will be used as an approximation of the cost of the replaced part at the time it was acquired or constructed.
Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits of the item of property, plant and equipment to which itrelates.
vi Derecognition An item of property, plant or equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds received with the carrying amount of the asset and are included in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
A1.5 Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for under the acquisition method as defined by IFRS 3.
The acquired business is measured at the date of acquisition as the aggregate of consideration transferred for the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the acquired business is represented as goodwill.
Contingent consideration will be classified as a liability and is subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
No such contingent consideration is recorded on the balance sheets in these statemennts.
Pre-existing relationships are recognised and, together with all acquisition-related costs, are expensed.
Acquisitions costs are expensed as incurred.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued A1.6 Intangible assets i Goodwill and impairment testing Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least on an annual basis.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated on initial recognition to those cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
The cash-generating units used for goodwill impairment testing purposes will represent how goodwill was attributed but may not represent reportable business segments.
Goodwill may also arise upon investments in joint ventures and associates.
Such goodwill is recorded within the carrying amount of the Groups investment and any impairment loss is included within the share of result from joint ventures and associates.
On disposal or closure of a previously acquired investment or business, any attributed goodwill will be included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
ii Research and development Expenditure on research activities is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes, is capitalised if the product or process is considered to be technically and commercially feasible and the Group intends to complete the intangible asset for use or for sale.
iii Allowances and emissions The European Emissions trading scheme EU ETS has been in operation since 1 January 2005.
The IASB withdrew IFRIC 3 Emission Rights in June 2005 and it has not been replaced with definitive guidance or interpretation for CO carbon emissions trading.
Carbon allowances purchased are recorded 2 at cost within intangible assets.
A liability is recognised based on the level of emissions recorded.
Up to the level of allowances held, the liability is measured at the cost of purchase.
When the carbon emission liability exceeds the carbon allowances held, the net liability is measured at market value selling price.
Movements in the market value of the liability are recognised in operating profit.
Forward carbon contracts are measured at fair value with gains or losses arising on re-measurement being recognised in the income statement.
The carbon allowance intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period to the extent requested reflecting the consumption of the economic benefit and is recorded as being utilised.
As a result, no amortisation is booked but an impairment charge may be recognised should the carrying value of allowances exceed market or fair value.
Under the Renewable Obligations Certificates ROCs scheme, certificates obtained from own generation are awarded by a third party, Ofgem.
Self-generated certificates are recorded at market value and purchased certificates are recognised at cost, both within intangible assets.
The liability under the renewables obligation is recognised based on electricity supplied to customers, the percentages set by Ofgem and the prevailing market price.
The intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of economic benefit.
As a result no amortisation is recorded during the period.
iv Development assets Costs capitalised as development intangibles represent the costs incurred in bringing individual projects to the consented stage.
These include wind farm developments, thermal generation and gas storage projects, prospective gas production assets and other developments relating to proven technologies.
Costs associated with reaching the consent stage include options over land rights, planning application costs and environmental impact studies.
These may be costs incurred directly or part of the fair value exercise on acquisition of a controlling interest in a project.
The asset is subject to impairment testing on an annual basis until this time.
At the point that the project reaches the consent stage and is approved by the Board, the carrying value of the project is transferred to property, plant and equipment as assets under construction.
Once in operation, depreciation will be charged over the expected useful life of the asset.
The asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from their use.
v Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that have been acquired by the Group including brands are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software licenses are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Expenditure on internally generated brands is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of these other intangible assets.
The amortisation periods utilised are as follows: Years Brand values 10 Developed software assets and application software licences 5-10 Customer lists 5 Contracts Shorter of contract term or 5 The useful lives of all the intangible assets are reviewed annually and amended, as required, on a prospective basis.
195 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A1.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued A1.7 Impairment review The carrying amounts of the Groups PP&E and other intangible assets and the Groups investments in joint ventures and associates, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
For PP&E assets that have previously been identified as exhibiting indications of impairment, the review of impairment will be performed annually until there is sufficient evidence to confirm that any potential impairment loss has been appropriately recognised.
For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life or which are not ready for use, the test for impairment is carried out annually.
In addition, financial assets measured at amortised cost are also reviewed for impairment annually.
For assets subject to impairment testing, the assets carrying value is compared to the assets or cash-generating unit CGU s, in the case of goodwill, recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is determined to be the higher of the fair value less costs to sell FVLCS and the value-in-use VIU of the asset or CGU.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost the impairment is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
If the carrying amount of the asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment charge will be recognised immediately in the income statement and, in relation to the impairment of goodwill, will not be subsequently reversed.
Value in use VIU calculations require the estimation of future cash flows to be derived from the respective assets or CGUs and the selection of an appropriate discount rate in order to calculate their present value.
The fair value less costs to sell methodology used for wind farms CGUs also requires the discounting of cash flows from the projects within the respective CGUs.
The VIU methodology is deemed to be the most appropriate for reviews of PP&E asset and the Groups identified goodwill-related CGUs.
This methodology is based on the post-tax cash flows arising from the assets or underlying assets, for CGUs and is consistent with the approach taken by management to evaluate the economic value of the assets or CGUs.
The estimation of the timing and value of underlying projected cash flows and the selection of appropriate discount rates involves management judgement.
For goodwill, the impairment charge will initially be adjusted against the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit.
Thereafter, the remaining assets of the cash-generating unit will be written-down proportionately.
In the example of PP&E assets subject to impairment review, the VIU method will be applied to ascertain the extent of any potential impairment charge.
Subsequent changes to these estimates or judgements may impact the carrying value of the assets.
Impairments of PP&E assets will only reversed only if there has been a significant increase in the recoverable amount associated with the asset.
Gas production and development assets are assessed under the fair value less costs method for the respective CGUs.
This is deemed more appropriate as it is based on post-tax cash flows arising from each field within the respective CGUs, which is consistent with the approach taken by management in determining the economic value of the underlying assets.
This is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the CGU, net of associated selling costs, and takes into account assumptions market participants would use in estimating fair value.
A1.8 Inventories and work in progress Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first-in, first-out basis and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of fuel stocks is based on the weighted average principle.
The valuation of work in progress is based on the cost of labour, the cost of contractors, the cost of materials plus other directly attributablecosts.
A1.9 Recognition of revenue and profit on construction contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured as the proportion of cost incurred on work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract cost, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
When it becomes probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately in the income statement.
A1.10 Employee benefit obligations i Defined benefit pension schemes The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, one of which is operated by the Company.
Pension scheme assets are measured using bid market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit actuarial method and are discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
Any increase in the present value of liabilities within the Groups defined benefit pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the year is charged as service costs to operating profit.
Net interest costs are based on net schemes liabilities adjusted for minimum funding requirement and pension surplus restrictions under IFRIC 14.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Pension scheme surpluses, to the extent that they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued ii Defined contribution pension schemes The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The amounts charged represent the contributions payable to the schemes in the year and are charged directly to the income statement.
iii Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The Group operates a number of employee share schemes as described in the Remuneration Report and note 31.
These schemes enable Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The exercise prices of the sharesave scheme are set at a discount to market price at the date of the grant.
The fair value of the sharesave scheme option granted is measured at the grant date by use of a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of the options granted is recognised as an expense on a straightline basis over the period that the scheme vests.
Estimates are updated for non-market conditions at each balance sheet date with any adjustment in respect of the current and prior years being recognised in the income statement.
The costs associated with the other main employee schemes are recognised over the period to which they relate.
The charge related to the equity shares in the Company awarded under the share schemes is treated as an increase in the cost of investment held by the Company in the subsidiary companies of the Group.
A1.11 Financial instruments The Group uses a range of financial instruments to hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign exchange and energy price fluctuations in its normal course of business and in accordance with the Groups risk management policies.
The Groups risk management policies are further explained in note 34. i Interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives Financial derivative instruments are used by the Group to hedge interest rate and currency exposures.
All such derivatives are recognised at fair value and are re-measured to fair value each reporting period.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as being held for hedging purposes.
The designation of the hedge relationship is established at the inception of the hedge and procedures are applied to ensure the derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective and that the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured.
The treatment of gains and losses on re-measurement is dependent on the classification of the hedge and whether the hedge relationship is designated as either a fair value or cash flow hedge.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are treated as if held for trading, with all fair value movements being recorded through the income statement.
A derivative classified as a fair value hedge recognises gains and losses from re-measurement immediately in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings are measured at cost except where they form the underlying transaction in an effective fair value hedge relationship.
In such cases, the carrying value of the loan or borrowing is adjusted to reflect fair value movements with the gain or loss being reported in the income statement.
A derivative classified as a cash flow hedge recognises the portion of gains or losses on the derivative which are deemed to be effective directly in equity in the hedge reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the gains or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At the point of discontinuation, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
On settlement, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
ii Commodity derivatives Within its regular course of business, the Group routinely enters into sale and purchase derivative contracts for commodities such as electricity, gas, coal, carbon allowances and oil.
Where the contract was entered into and continues to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery in accordance with the Groups expected sale, purchase or usage requirements, the contracts are designated as own use contracts and are measured at cost.
These contracts are not within the scope of IAS 39.
Derivative commodity contracts which are not designated as own use contracts are accounted for as trading derivatives and are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Where a hedge accounting relationship is designated and is proven to be effective, the changes in fair value will be recognised in accordance with the rules noted in part i to this note.
There are currently no designated hedge relationships in relation to commoditycontracts.
Other commodity contracts, where own use is not established and a hedge accounting relationship is not designated, are measured at fair value with gains and losses on re-measurement being recognised in the income statement in cost of sales.
iii Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives where the characteristics of the derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
197 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A1.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued iv Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted in a manner similar to effective cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, in the translation reserve, and any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to the income statement.
v Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
vi Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are measured at cost less an appropriate allowance for irrecoverable receivables.
vii Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All such loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value including transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, except where the loan or borrowing is the hedged item in an effective fair value hedge relationship.
viii Share capital Ordinary shares are accounted for as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds received.
ix Hybrid capital Hybrid capital comprises issued bonds that qualify for recognition as equity.
Accordingly, any coupon payments are accounted for as dividends and are recognised directly in equity at the time the payment obligation arises.
This is because the coupon payments are discretionary and relate to equity.
Coupon payments consequently do not have any impact on the income statement.
Coupon payments are recognised in the cash flow statement in the same way as dividends to ordinary shareholders.
Tax credits in relation to the coupon payments are linked to the past transactions or events that support the coupon payments and consequently the tax credits are reported in the income statement.
A1.12 Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A1.13 Decommissioning costs The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the useful lives of certain assets is reviewed periodically.
Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the producing lives of fields, and gas storage facilities, offshore wind farms and power stations at the end of the useful life of the facilities.
The estimates are based on technology and prices at the balance sheet date.
A corresponding decommissioning asset is recognised and is included within property, plant and equipment when the provision gives access to future economic benefits.
Changes in these provisions are recognised prospectively.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in finance costs and the depreciation for the asset is straight-line over the expected useful life of the asset or, for gas production facilities, is amortised on the unit of production method.
A1.14 Held for sale assets and liabilities Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their recoverable value is likely to be recovered via a sale opposed to continued use by the group.
In order to be classified as non-current assets held for sale, assets must meet all of the following conditions: sale highly probable, available for immediate sale, being actively marketed and the sale is likely to occur within one year.
Non-current assets determined as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell, no depreciation is charged in respect of these assets after classification.
Subsidiary undertakings Details of the subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Registered Address 2016 2015 Company Country of Incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal Activity Abernedd Power Company Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Airtricity Developments Scotland Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant Airtricity Europe Windfarm Holdings Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Airtricity UK Windfarm Holdings Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Airtricity Windfarm Finance Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Arklow Offshore Phase II Company Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant Ashdown Control Services Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant AtlasConnect Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Holdco Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Bindoo Windfarm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Brickmount Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Building Automation Solutions Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant CHP Supply Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant Comhlacht Gaoithe Teoranta Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development Coomacheo Wind Farm Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Coomatallin Windfarm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Curragh Mountain Windfarm Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Dedondo Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Doggerbank Project 1A SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 1B SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 2A SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 2B SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 3A SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 3B SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 4A SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 4B SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 5A SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 5B SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 6A SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 6B SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Dorset Lighting Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Dromada Windfarm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Ealing Lighting Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant ESG international Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant Evolve Energy Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant Fibre Fuel Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Fibre Power Slough Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Ganderoy Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant Gartnaneane Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant Griffin Wind Farm Holdings Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Griffin Wind Farm Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Power Generation HE Trustees Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant Invercassley Windfarm Scotland Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development Islay Offshore Winds Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development Islington Lighting Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Keadby Developments Limited England and Wales M 100.0 100.0 Dormant Keadby Generation Limited England and Wales M 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Keadby Wind Farm Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Limerick West Windfarm Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation March Winds Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Marsh Systems Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant Medway Power Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Meentycat Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Milane Holdings Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Mullananalt Wind Farm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Neos Networks Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Telecommunications Nobbs & Jones Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant Platin Power Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant 199 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A2.
Related undertakings continued Registered Address 2016 2015 Company Country of Incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal Activity Power from Waste Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Renewable Energy Partners Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development Richfield Windfarm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Scottish and Southern Energy Power Distribution Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution plc Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Power Distribution Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Power Transmission SEC Highway Lighting Dorset Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Slieve Divena Wind Farm No 2 Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development Slough Domestic Electricity Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Slough Electricity Contracts Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Electricity Contracting Slough Energy Supplies Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Slough Heat & Power Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Slough Utility Services Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant South Wales Electricity Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Southern Electric Gas Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply Southern Electric Group Trustee Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Southern Electric Power Distribution plc England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Distribution Southern Electric Quest Trustee Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Ireland Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Airtricity Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Energy Services NI Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Energy Services Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Energy Supply NI Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Gas NI Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Gas Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Gas Supply NI Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Utility Solutions Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Utility Contracting SSE Asia Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Calliachar Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Power Generation SSE CCS Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Contracting Group Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Contracting Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Contracting SSE Cosec Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE E&P UK Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Gas Production SSE Energy Solutions Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Energy Related Services SSE Energy Supply Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Enterprise Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE EPM Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Energy Trading SSE Galloper Offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Generation Ireland Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation SSE Generation Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Generation SSE Green Deal Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Green Deal Provider Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Heat Networks Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Utility Services SSE Home Services Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Energy Related Services SSE Hornsea Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Gas Storage SSE Insource Energy Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Insurance Limited Isle of Man X 100.0 100.0 Insurance SSE Islay Offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Medway Operations Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Metering Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Micro Renewables Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Energy Related Services SSE Mineral Solutions Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Nuclear Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE OWS Glasgow Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Property Holding SSE Production Services Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Renewables Ireland Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Developments UK Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development SSE Renewables Generation Ireland Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation 200 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
Related undertakings continued Registered Address 2016 2015 Company Country of Incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal Activity SSE Renewables Holdings Europe Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Holdings Netherlands B. V. Netherlands Z 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Renewables Holdings UK Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Holdings Germany GmbH Germany AA 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Renewables Holdings Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Off Shore Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Onshore Windfarm Holdings Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables UK Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Walney UK Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Retail Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Energy Related Services SSE Retail Telecoms Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Rogerstone Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Seabank Investments Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Seabank Land Investments Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Secretaries Ireland Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Corporate Services SSE Services plc England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Corporate Services SSE Stock Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Stock Holding SSE Telecommunications Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Telecommunications SSE Toddleburn Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Power Generation SSE Trading Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Energy Trading SSE Trustees Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Uskmouth Acquisition Company Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Utility Services Ltd England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Utility Solutions Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Utility Services SSE Venture Capital Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Investment Holding SSE Viking Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development SSE Water Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Water Network SSEPG Operations Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Sure Partners Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant SWALEC Gas Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant TESGL Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant The Energy Solutions Group Bidco Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Utility Services The Energy Solutions Group Midco Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant The Energy Solutions Group Topco Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Tournafulla Windfarm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation A2.1.
Partnerships Registered Address 2016 2015 Company Country of Incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal Activity The Glasa LLP Scotland A 90.0 90.0 Renewable Development Viking Energy Scottish Partnership Scotland V 50.0 50.0 Renewable Development Viking Energy Wind Farm LLP Scotland V 50.0 50.0 Renewable Development 201 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A2.
3 Joint arrangements incorporated Registered Address 2016 2015 Company Country of Incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal Activity 3SE Barnsley, Doncaster & Rotherham Holdings England and Wales J 25.0 25.0 Holding Company Limited 3SE Barnsley, Doncaster & Rotherham Limited England and Wales J 25.0 25.0 Waste Management Aquamarine Power Limited Scotland I 30.4 30.4 Renewable Development Baglan Pipeline Limited England and Wales C 50.0 50.0 Dormant Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Limited Scotland A 40.0 50.0 Renewable Development Brims Tidal Array Limited Scotland G 50.0 50.0 Dormant Brough Head Wave Farm Limited Scotland K 50.0 50.0 Dormant Cloosh Valley Wind Farm Designated Activity Company Ireland F 50.0 50.0 Renewable Development Cloosh Valley Wind Farm Holdings Designated Activity Ireland F 50.0 Renewable Development 50.0 Company Clyde Windfarm Scotland Limited Scotland A 50.1 100.0 Power Generation Derwent Cogeneration Limited England and Wales B 49.5 49.5 Dormant Doggerbank Project 1 Bizco Limited England and Wales B 25.0 25.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 2 Bizco Limited England and Wales B 25.0 25.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 3 Bizco Limited England and Wales B 25.0 25.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 4 Bizco Limited England and Wales B 25.0 25.0 Holding Company Everwind Limited Ireland L 49.0 49.0 Dormant Ferrybridge MFE Limited England and Wales B 50.0 50.0 Power Generation Ferrybridge MFE2 Limited England and Wales B 50.0 50.0 Dormant Forewind Limited England and Wales B 25.0 25.0 Dormant Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited England and Wales B 50.0 50.0 Power Generation Green Energy Company Limited Ireland N 47.5 47.5 Dormant Green Way Energy Limited Ireland N 50.0 50.0 Dormant Kerry Power Limited Ireland O 49.0 49.0 Dormant Marchwood Power Limited England and Wales R 50.0 50.0 Power Generation Midas Energy Limited Ireland O 49.0 49.0 Power Generation Multifuel Energy Limited Scotland A 50.0 50.0 Power Generation PriDE Serp Ltd England and Wales H 50.0 50.0 Estate Maintenance and improvement Scotia Gas Networks plc England and Wales U 50.0 50.0 Gas Distribution Seabank Power Limited England and Wales T 50.0 50.0 Power Generation Seagreen Wind Energy Limited England and Wales B 50.0 50.0 Renewable Development Tay Valley Lighting Leeds Limited England and Wales W 50.0 50.0 Streetlighting Tay Valley Lighting Newcastle and North Tyneside England and Wales W 50.0 50.0 Streetlighting Limited Tay Valley Lighting Stoke on Trent Limited England and Wales W 50.0 50.0 Streetlighting Walney UK Offshore Windfarms Limited England and Wales Y 25.1 25.1 Power Generation A2.1.
4 Associates Registered Address 2016 2015 Company Country of Incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal Activity Shetland Land Lease Limited England and Wales D 20.0 20.0 Development Company St Clements Services Limited England and Wales E 25.0 25.0 Utilities Software 202 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
5 Registered address key Registered Address Key Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, Perth PH1 3AQ A 55 Vastern Road, Reading, Berkshire RG1 8BU B 16 Axis Way, Mallard Way, Swansea Vale, Swansea, Wales C 18th Floor, 10 Upper Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5BF, United Kingdom D 4 6 Church Walk, Daventry, NN11 4BL, United Kingdom E 6th Floor, South Bank House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4 F c o Maclay Murray & Spens LLP, 1 George Square, Glasgow G2 1AL G Capital Tower, 91 Waterloo Road, London, SE1 8RT H City Point, 65 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh, EH12 5HD, United Kingdom I Dunedin House Auckland Park, Mount Farm, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, MK1 1BU, United Kingdom J Elder House, 24 Elder Street, Edinburgh, EH1 3DX K Gorthleahy, Macroom, County Cork L Keadby Power Station, PO Box 89, Keadby, Scunthorpe, North Lincs DN17 3AZ M Lissarda Business Park, Lissarda, Co Cork, Ireland N Lissarda Industrial Park, Lissarda, Macroom, County Cork O Millenium House, 17-25 Great Victoria Street, Belfast, BT2 7AQ P Ocean Court, Caspain Road, Atlantic Street, Altrincham, WA14 5HH Q Oceanic Way, Marchwood Industrial Park, Marchwood, Southampton SO40 4BD R Red Oak South, South County Business Park, Leopardstown, Dublin 18 S Severn Road, Hallen, Bristol, BS2 0ZW T St Lawrence House, Station Approach, Horley, Surrey RH6 9HJ U The Gutters' Hut, North Ness Business Park, Lerwick, Shetland ZE1 0LZ V The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire GL50 1PX W Tower House, Loch Promenade, Douglas, Isle of Man X Watson Farley and Williams LLP, 15 Appold Street, London, EC2A 2HB, United Kingdom Y WEENA 390, 3012 NJ Rotterdam, Netherlands Z Bro Mnchen, Elektrastrasse 6, 81925, Mnchen, Germany AA A2.2 Service concession arrangements In 50:50 partnership with Royal Bank Leasing Limited, the Group established three companies to provide street lighting services to councils under the Private Finance Initiative PFI.
These services are thereafter sub-contracted to SSE Contracting Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
The companies established are as follows: Company Council Tay Valley Lighting Stoke on Trent Limited Stoke-on-Trent Tay Valley Lighting Newcastle and North Tyneside Limited Newcastle and North Tyneside Tay Valley Lighting Leeds Limited Leeds City Council Under IFRS 10, despite being 50% owned, these companies are categorised as subsidiaries and deemed to be controlled by the Group due to the Group being assessed as bearing the majority of the risks and rewards associated with the companies.
The debt associated with these companies is non-recourse to the Group.
The arrangements for all three companies are materially similar.
In addition to these, the Group owned 100% of the share capital of a number of entities which perform similar services under eight PFI contracts.
In November 2015, the Group completed the disposal of Dorset Lighting Limited see note 19. i Characteristics of the arrangements Description The contracts are and were 25 year arrangements to replace ageing street-lighting stock and to subsequently maintain the new assets throughout each Councils areas.
Significant terms The cash flows under the PFI arrangements come from the unitary charge for these services paid by the Councils.
The unitary charge can only be adjusted if performance under the contract falls below the required standards.
Any significant change to the services proposed by either party is subject to a formal change procedure and agreement to such a change is required by the other party.
203 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A2.
Related undertakings continued Nature and extent of rights and obligations The assets are part of the public highway and ownership of the assets remains with the Councils.
The contract holding companies are licensed to replace and maintain the assets for the period of the contract.
This obligation was and is passed down to SSE Contracting Limited or to other companies within the SSE Contracting group of companies through the operating sub-contract.
Any failure to provide the services to the required standards will result in financial penalties which are taken from the unitary charge.
The companies have 25 year contracts with no extension options.
Termination during this period can be initiated through a number of routes including service provider default, force majeure or the event of a risk becoming uninsurable, authority default, voluntary authority termination, or termination for a prohibited act or breach of refinancing provisions.
In all cases, a formula exists for calculating compensation payments to the service provider.
Throughout the contract period there are a number of circumstances under which the companies could potentially be required to provide additionalservices: A2.3 Changes in the law If circumstances arise where by a change in legislation would mean a change in the way the services are to be provided the companies would be liable for part of the cost of this change.
Final survey The Councils have the ability to deduct a percentage of the unitary charge in the last two years if an independent survey indicates the assets are unlikely to have a 5-year residual life.
