Directors Report Other statutory information Disclosures in Strategic Report Substantial shareholdings The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 65.
As at 17 May 2016 the Company has been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency The Board has taken advantage of Section 414C Rules of the interests in its shares as shown in the table below: 11 of the Companies Act 2006 to include Entity Number of shares Percentage Nature of holding disclosures in the Strategic Report on: - Employment of disabled people on pages 25.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 150,532,674 14.96% Indirect - Employee involvement on pages 24 to 27.
BlackRock, Inc. 61,237,317 6.08% Indirect - A summary of the principal risks facing the UBS Investment Bank 52,003,155 5.17% Indirect Company on pages 16 to 19.
- An indication of likely future development Invesco Limited 45,775,918 4.69% Indirect in the business of the Company see pages 1 to 65.
At date of disclosure by relevant entity.
- Greenhouse gas emissions on pages 28 to 29.
Results and dividends The Group profit attributable to Ordinary Indemnification of Directors Employees who participate in the Share Incentive Shareholders for the financial year amounted and insurance Plan whose shares remain in the schemes trusts to 460.6m.
The Directors recommend a final The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity give directions to the trustees to vote on their dividend of 62.5p per Ordinary Share which, provision contained in the Companys Articles behalf by way of a Form of Direction.
subject to approval at the 2016 AGM, will be of Association.
They also have been granted a payable on 23 September 2016 to shareholders qualifying third party indemnity provision which The Company is not aware of any agreements on the Register of Members at close of business was in force throughout the financial year and between shareholders that may result in on 22 July 2016.
With the interim dividend of remains in force.
The Company also purchased restrictions on the transfer of securities and or 26.9p per Ordinary Share paid on 18 March and maintained throughout the financial year voting rights.
2016, this makes a total dividend of 89.4p per Directors and Officers liability insurance in Ordinary Share.
respect of itself and for its Directors and Officers.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the Share capital Research and development Companys Articles of Association.
Details of the Companys issued share capital SSEs business are involved in a range of as at 31 March 2016, which includes options innovative projects and programmes which are The Companys Articles of Association may only granted under the Groups employee share designed to progressively transform the energy be amended by a special resolution at a general option schemes, are set out in notes 29 and system.
A numbers of these projects and meeting of shareholders.
programmes are referred to in the Strategic Report in pages 1 to 65.
The Company is not aware of any significant Authority to purchase shares agreements to which it is party that take effect, The Company was authorised at the 2015 AGM Political donations alter or terminate upon a change of control of to purchase its own shares within certain limits.
No donations were made by the Group for the Company following a takeover.
During 2015 16, SSE did not purchase any shares political purposes during the year.
The Directors will, however, Each of the Directors who held office at the seek renewal of their authority to purchase in Related party transactions date of approval of this Directors Report the market the Companys own shares at the Related party transactions are set out in note 35 confirms that, so far as each Director is aware, 2016 AGM.
Further details are provided in the to the Financial Statements.
there is no relevant audit information of which Notice of Annual General Meeting for 2016. the Companys Auditors are unaware and each Post balance sheet events Director has taken all the steps that ought to have Accounting policies, financial Post balance sheet events are set out in note 37 been taken in his or her duty as a Director to make instruments and risk to the Financial Statements.
himself or herself aware of any relevant audit Details of the Groups accounting policies, information and to establish that the Companys together with details of financial instruments and Additional information Auditors are aware of that information.
risk, are provided in note 34 and Accompanying Where not provided elsewhere in the Directors Information, A1.
Report, the following provides the information The Directors Report set out on pages 66 to 118 required to be disclosed by Section 992 of the has been approved by the Board of Directors in Companies Act 2006. accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Each Ordinary Share of the Company carries one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may from time-to-time be imposed by law for example, insider trading law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R The Company is required to disclose certain information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R in the Directors Report or advise where such relevant information is contained.
The other information that may be relevant to the Directors Report can be found in the following sections of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Relevant to Annual Report section No.
4R the Company X and page reference 1 Capitalised interest Statement of amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the financial year.
139 to 140 2 Long-term incentive schemes Details of any long-term incentive schemes.
92 to 113 By order of the Board Sally Fairbairn Company Secretary 17 May 2016 115 Directors Report Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: - select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: - make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: - state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and - prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the annual financial report We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: - the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and - the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
For and on behalf of the Board Alistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander Chief Executive Finance Director 17 May 2016 116 SSE plc Annual Report 2016
