STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is focused on meeting the food and beverage needs of our clients and customers in the complex and challenging travel environment.
We are able to achieve this through a combination of international scale and local expertise.
Our proposition to clients is The Food Travel Experts.
This has helped us achieve our leading market position and retain our clients over the long term.
It will also provide a strong platform for profitable growth in the future.
This business model is founded on five key elements: 1 2 Leading market Local insight and 1 positions international scale We have leading positions in some of the We combine local insight into markets 5 2 most attractive sectors and regions of the and customers with international scale travel food and drink market.
A strong local presence enables us to understand local customers These sectors have a number of long-term tastes and needs, as well as allowing us to structural growth drivers, such as maintain close relationships with clients increasing passenger volumes and rising and brandpartners.
spend per passenger, and are supported 3 4 by clients increasingly seeking to develop Our international reach enables us to and commercialise their sites.
benefit from economies of scale, such as in procurement and corporate functions and We have outlets in over 30 countries systems, as well as being able to share best around the world and experienced and practice across regions, countries and sites.
established teams in all of these countries.
6 SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT SSP Presence 3 4 5 Food travel Long-term client Experienced expertise relationships managementteam We provide a compelling proposition for Our principal clients are the owners and Our senior management team has deep both clients and customers based on our operators of airports and railway stations, experience and is supported by highfood travel expertise, which includes a with airport and railway station locations quality local management.
They have deep understanding of customers food generating c. 94% of our revenues in 2016. substantial expertise within the travel and beverage needs, an extensive range Other locations we operate in include food and beverage market and broader of brands and concepts, a track record of motorway service areas, hospitals, sports retailindustry.
innovation, and operational expertise in stadiaand shopping areas.
We have demonstrated an ability to win, build and maintain strong, profitable client relationships.
We have longstanding relationships with many of our clients, and have maintained high success rates inretaining our contracts.
