Strategic Report Embedding responsibility Doing the right thing Earning the right to make a profit The strategic underpinning for SSEs sustainability Embedding responsibility strategy is the understanding that SSEs core purpose, is an essential service that people and businesses need and that has in the past into our business been provided by the public sector.
Therefore a multiplicity of stakeholders have an interest in SSEs activities and the impacts it makes.
In order to retain the right to be commercially In order to execute its strategy, meet its business objective and manage successful over the long term, SSE must be open risk over the long term, SSE needs to ensure it operates sustainably and and accountable to its customers, employees, responsibly.
As an energy provider and UK-listed company, SSEs shareholders as well as the wider society in which it operates.
environmental, social and economic impacts are significant and SSE believes it should demonstrate a responsible approach by actively Managing risk and building trust managing those impacts in order to secure long-term commercial success.
An inadequate response to enhanced public and stakeholder scrutiny can increase the risk of change in the number or nature of Sustainability highlights compliance requirements as consequence of intensified political or regulatory intervention: a principal risk for SSE.
SSEs response to this Cutting carbon intensity of electricity challenge is to work to improve its external SSEs most material environmental impact is the emission of carbon dioxide from impacts, by seeking to conduct its operations the generation of electricity.
In line with international and national agreements, and conduct it business in a way that enhances the progressive decarbonisation of SSEs generation fleet is a long-term aspiration value to wider society at the same time as with a medium term target of having the carbon intensity of its generation by 2020, meeting its core financial objectives.
In 2015 16 carbon intensity fell by nearly 16%.
so, it seeks to build trust with its customers and stakeholders, which in turn, reduces the risk of 2015 16 Carbon emissions kg CO e MWh 2 change resulting from increased political or regulatory requirements.
397 Materiality 474 in 2014 15 SSEs most material sustainability issues are those with greatest relevance that must be For more information see Responsible Operator pages 28 to 29 addressed.
The most significant impacts are assessed against the changing business Understanding the value of people environment, stakeholder feedback and Understanding the value of SSEs people is a core component of SSEs strategy to emerging trends.
SSE most material issues continue to be its contribution to energy develop its human capital.
SSEs employability programme Barnardos Works has security, the decarbonisation of electricity been a key pipeline of untapped talent since 2008, delivering quantifiable value to generation and working to provide more both SSE and the wider community.
In 2015 16, SSE published research that affordable energy.
Beyond these energy issues demonstrates this value.
SSE makes many other material impacts on the economy, society and the environment.
These Return on investment issues are reported in an integrated way in this annual report and is supplemented in its sister 1:7.67 document, the Sustainability Report 2016.
For more information see Responsible Employer pages 24 to 26 Governance Sustainability is integrated into the business Contributing to the UK and Irish economies governance approach.
The Board is responsible Demonstrating that SSEs economic value goes further than financial results, SSE has for setting the strategy and sustainability policies.
quantified, for the 5th year in a row, the economic contribution its activities make to The Executive Committee implements the the UK and Irish Economies.
sustainability strategy and sub-committees assist in the implementation of the sustainability initiatives.
2015 16 UK Gross Value Added bn 2015 16 Ireland Gross Value Added m Aiming to be open and accountable 8.9bn 805m This integrated annual report outlines the most material social, economic and environmental 8.8bn in 2014 15 966m in 2014 15 impacts SSE makes.
In order to achieve improved transparency of the challenge of making For more information see the Sustainability Report on www.
com beingresponsible balanced, sustainable decisions, key business dilemmas are outlined in its sister document, the Sustainability Report 2016, alongside extensive additional disclosure of sustainability impacts.
Furthermore, SSE has sought external assurance on its carbon and water data.
SSEs Responsible House aim to make a positive contribution to society through core relationships with employees, The framework for SSEs sustainable and and the environment.
suppliers and society as a whole.
responsible approach to business is SSEs Responsible House.
The first obligation and Three bricks outline the way in which the core SSE is a values driven organisation, and its the foundation of the house is to Do no harm: business activities across the SSE group add value sustainability value has provided a guide for to keep people safe and prevent pollution.
In as service providers, operators of existing assets business decisions since 2006.
This value particular, in line with its safety core value, SSE and developers of new assets.
Three more support SSEs business goals and enables it believes everything should be done safely, or bricks describe the way in which it adds value to meet its core purpose: to provide energy not at all.
From this foundation, it is possible to in a reliable and sustainable way.
A responsibility framework SSEs Responsible House provides a framework from which stakeholders can understand how its activities and relationships add value.
Purpose Providing energy in a reliable and sustainable way Core value Our actions and decisions are ethical, responsible and balanced, helping to achieve environmental, social and economic well being for current and future generations.
What we aim to do Be responsible to fulfil our core purpose, be consistent with our values and achieve our business goals.
How we do it Responsible Responsible Responsible Service Provider Operator Developer Doing more to provide essential Producing and delivering safe, Seeking to impact positively on services reliably and affordably.
secure and sustainable energy economies, communities and the in the best way we can.
environment by investing in new Read the case studies on energy infrastructure.
pages 55 and 60 See pages 28 and 29 Read the case studies on pages 48 and 54 Responsible Responsible Responsible Employer Society Member Buyer Creating sustainable employment Sharing value by contributing Using the power of the supply and a great place to work.
to the societies in which chain to bring about positive SSE operates.
See pages 24 to 26 See page 22 See page 23 Foundation Do no harm 21
