STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is focused on creating long-term sustainable value for our shareholders, delivered through five key levers.
We made further progress on each of these levers in the year.
Running an efficient and effective We are focused on the food and beverage markets in travel organisation locations, which benefit from long-term structural growth.
We We have made good progress in our multi-year programme to aim to use our retail skills and broad portfolio of brands to drive improve operating efficiency.
Labour efficiencies including profitable like-for-like sales, ensuring that we benefit from the central labour contributed 30 bps to our operating margin.
positive trends in these markets.
We also continue to explore and develop new sales channels.
We continue to develop systems to better align labour to sales allowing us to optimise service levels and labour costs.
We have We have delivered another year of strong like-for-like sales growth started to develop a more standardised, systematised process in2016.
We continue to make good progress in rolling out our to ensure labour forecasting and scheduling becomes a core retailing programmes, which are increasingly gaining traction and competence, through a programme called Better Service Planning.
supporting growth in like-for-like sales.
We have made further good This year we have completed the development of a new forecasting progress on ranging improvements, in particular launching a number tool which in trials delivered a significant improvement in the of premium ranges in our in-house brands in order to extend and accuracy of sales forecasting.
Having successfully piloted this, enhance their customer offer, such as our premium Fine Foods together with a new scheduling tool in the UK, we are now planning range in our Ritazza brand.
further roll-out across the Group.
We also delivered efficiencies in our management of overheads, 2.
Growing profitable new space which contributed a further 10 bps improvement to our operatingmargin.
The travel food and beverage market in airports and railway stations is significant and characterised by long-term structural growth.
It offers excellent opportunities for SSP to expand its 5.
Optimising investment and using best business across the globe.
practice and shared resources Net contract gains were 1.7%, driven by new unit openings and high levels of contract retention.
Furthermore, the pipeline of new We continue to focus on optimising our investments, driving contracts is encouraging.
The growth in net gains was driven by returns and using best practice and shared resources.
strong performances in North America and the Rest of the World.
We have further strengthened the business development teams These large and growing markets, where we still have a relatively in NorthAmerica and the Rest of the World and have invested in small share, represent attractive growth opportunities.
We have dedicated teams to oversee capital projects and concept design.
strong disciplines around the contract tendering process which support our ability to deliver attractive returns from new business.
We have continued to strengthen our teams dedicated to category management, labour scheduling and the management of waste Our new business growth is underpinned by our ability to deliver andloss.
attractive and effective food retail solutions at travel locations internationally.
An important element of this is the brand line In addition to this we are increasingly looking at how shared back up we can offer.
Our brands include both international brands office services can drive simpler, more efficient processes.
During which we franchise, such as Burger King and Starbucks, and also the year we have successfully outsourced some of our financial our own proprietary brands, such as Upper Crust and Ritazza, as transactional processes from a number of countries to offshore well as local heroes and bespoke concepts.
Our unique brand mix shared service centres in India and Poland.
was an important element in many of the new contracts that we won or opened during the year, including those at Hong Kong and Montrealairports.
Optimising gross margins We increased gross margin by 70 bps in the year.
We continue to make good progress on our margin initiatives across theregions.
Procurement disciplines are becoming increasingly embedded into the business.
Recipe rationalisation and improvement is progressing well and we continue to eliminate unnecessary duplication of products and ingredients in our supply chain.
Wehave also brought significantly more focus to waste and loss management.
To support these initiatives, we have invested in central and local resource, including strengthening our purchasing teams, and recruiting central waste and loss specialists.
