CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Vagn Srensen Kate Swann Jonathan Davies Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Vagn joined the SSP Board as Kate joined SSP as Chief Executive Jonathan has been the Chief Financial Chairman in June 2006.
Officer of SSP since its formation within Compass Group in 2004.
Board Committees: Board Committees: Member: Nomination Committee None Board Committees: None Previous experience: Previous experience: Vagn was the President and Chief Kate began her retail career with Previous experience: Executive Officer of Austrian Tesco plc before working with some Jonathan began his career in the Airlines Group from 2001 to 2006 of the UKs best-known companies, food industry with Unilever plc, and held various senior commercial including Homepride Foods, Cocabefore joining OC&C, the strategic positions and served as Deputy Cola Schweppes and Dixons Retail management consultancy, in 1987.
Chief Executive Officer with SAS plc.
She then joined Homebase part Over the following eight years he Scandinavian Airlines System.
He of the Home Retail Group, ultimately was part of its rapid growth and has served as the Chairman of the in the role of Managing Director, and development from a start-up to Association of European Airlines in 2000 was made Managing Director becoming a leading international and as a member of the Board of of Argos.
Kate joined WHSmith plc consulting firm.
In 1995 Jonathan Governors of the International Air as Chief Executive Officer in 2003. joined Safeway plc, where he was TransportAssociation.
In 2012 she received both The responsible for strategy and planning, Daily Telegraph award for Business before becoming Finance Director on Current external appointments: Leader of the Decade at the National the Executive Board between 1999 Vagn is a Senior Industrial and Business Awards and the Institute for and 2004.
Investment Advisor to EQT Partners.
Turnaround Chairmans Special Award He is Chairman of Scandic Hotels He has a degree in Chemistry from for exceptional and extraordinary AB, Automic Software GmbH and a Oxford University and an MBA from performance in the transformation of board member of Air Canada, Royal INSEAD Business School, France.
Caribbean Cruises Limited, VFS Global, Braganza AS, F L Smidth & Co Current external appointments: A S, Nordic Aviation Capital A S, TDC Kate has been a Non-Executive A S, TIA Technology A S, ZEBRA A S Director of England Hockey since and JP Politikens Hus A S. In addition, June2016.
Vagn is a consultant Senior Advisor to Kate graduated from the University Morgan Stanley in the Nordic region.
of Bradford in 1986 with a BSc in He has an MSc in Economics and Business Management and received Business Administration from Aarhus an honorary doctorate from the Business School in Denmark.
university in 2007 where she is now Chancellor.
26 SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE John Barton Ian Dyson Per Utnegaard Denis Hennequin Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director John joined the SSP Board as an Ian joined the SSP Board as an Per joined the SSP Board as an Denis joined the SSP Board as an independent Non-Executive Director independent Non-Executive Director independent Non-Executive Director independent Non-Executive Director in April 2014. in April 2014. in July 2015. in February 2014.
Board Committees: Board Committees: Board Committees: Board Committees: Chairman: Nomination Committee, Chairman: Audit Committee Member: Remuneration Committee, Member: Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee Member: Nomination Committee, Audit Committee Remuneration Committee, Member: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee AuditCommittee Previous experience: Previous experience: Previous experience: Pers previous roles include Group Previous experience: John has served as Chairman of He was formerly Chief Executive Wholesale Director and a member of Denis began his career at The Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, Brit Officer of Punch Taverns plc, Group the Group Board at Alliance UniChem McDonalds Corporation, becoming Insurance Holdings plc, Wellington Finance & Operations Director at plc, Senior Vice President, Corporate President of McDonalds Europe in Underwriting plc and Catlin Group Marks & Spencer Group plc and Business Development at Danzas 2005 where he was responsible for Limited.
He was previously Senior Finance Director of The Rank Group Holding Ltd a subsidiary of Deutsche 6,600 restaurants in 40 countries.
Independent Director of WH Smith plc.
Prior to this he was Group Post AG and various senior positions He was Chairman and Chief Executive plc and Hammerson plc.
Financial Controller of Hilton Group at TNT Post Group.
Officer of Accor S. A. the worldwide plc.
He joined Hilton from Le Meridien, hotel group, until 2013.
He was also the Chief Executive of Between 2004 and 2013 he was a division of Forte Group plc, where he insurance broker JIB Group plc from also a Non-Executive Director at Current external appointments: had been Finance Director.
After JIBs merger Berendsen plc.
Denis is currently a NonExecutive Non-Executive Director of Misys plc with Lloyd Thomson in 1997, he Director of Eurostar International until September 2005.
Per was also a Board Member of became Chairman of the combined Limited and the John Lewis Envirotainer AB until January 2016, group, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group His early career was spent with Arthur Partnership.
His other directorships Chairman of the Executive Board of plc, until 2001.
Andersen, where he qualified as a include EIL Hospitality Ltd, The Green Bilfinger SE from June 2015 to April chartered accountant in 1986 and Jersey Limited and Cojean Limited.
Current external appointments: 2016 and Non-Executive Director of was promoted to a Partner of the firm John was appointed to the Board of Palletways Group Ltd until June 2016. in 1994. easyJet as Chairman in May 2013 and Current external appointments: is also Chairman of Next plc.
He is also Current external appointments: Per has been a member of the Board a director of Matheson & Co. Limited Ian is Senior Independent Director of Swissport International Ltd since and Luceco plc.
of Paddy Power Betfair plc and 2007.
He has been its Non-Executive ASOS plc and Non-Executive John is a qualified chartered Chairman since July 2015 and was Director of Intercontinental Hotels accountant and received an MBA previously its Group President Group plc and until January 2017 from Strathclyde University.
