APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT As part of the Annual Report by the Directors it is a statutory requirement to produce a Strategic Report.
The purpose of the report is: to inform members of the company and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the success of the Company.
The objective of the report is to provide shareholders with an analysis of the Companys past performance, to impart insight into its business model, strategies, objectives and principal risks and to provide context for the financial statements in the Annual Report.
The Directors consider that the report, comprising pages 1 to 59 of this document, meets the statutory purpose and objectives of the Strategic Report.
On behalf of the Board: David Bellamy Andrew Croft Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 27 February 2017 60 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information ST. JAMESS PLACE FOUNDATION A grant making charity with a difference.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 61 ST. JAMESS PLACE FOUNDATION THE FOUNDATION IS A CORE PART OF THE COMPANYS CULTURE AND HAS BEEN FROM THE START IN 1992 In May 2016, the Directors of St. Jamess Place were delighted to announce that our community had raised and distributed 50 million to good causes since inception in 1992 through the grant making charity, the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
The Directors are also particularly proud of the fact that over 80% of our staff and members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership make regular contributions to the Foundation from their earnings.
To our knowledge, we are unique in the UK in having such a high proportion of our own community giving regularly in this way.
At the end of 2016, 89% of St. Jamess Place Partners and employees were giving to the Foundation through their pay or earnings on a monthly basis.
Amount raised and distributed to good causes Over 54m Raised in 2016 7.6m Percentage of Partners and employees who donate each month 89% 62 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Picos Mountains Challenge Summer Swing Event The Jurassic Coast Walk In addition, Partners and employees showed A GRANT MAKING CHARITY WITH FUNDRAISING AND EVENTS their generosity by raising 12,000 in support A DIFFERENCE The St. Jamess Place Foundation enjoyed another record year for fundraising in 2016, of Save the Childrens emergency appeal for Rather than utilising funds received from an endowment or an investment, funds are raised raising over 7.6 million for good causes in the those devastated by Hurricane Matthew in UK and abroad.
This record was achieved and donated by the St. Jamess Place Haiti.
community and matched pound-for-pound by partially thanks to valuable contributions from a number of successful fundraising events the Company.
The Company also covers all related expenses which ensures all donated throughout the year, which represent a vital part of the Foundations income.
funds go direct to the supported charities.
Events included: The funds for the St. Jamess Place Foundation come primarily from three sources along with The Big Walk along Dorsets Jurassic coastline 85,000 : Gift Aid and interest : 1.
Regular monthly donations from St. Jamess The Picos Mountain Challenge 55,000 : A gruelling three-day cycle challenge in Place Partners and employees: 2.
Our community take part in and organise Mallorca 185,000 : A 150 mile paddle along the navigable fundraising events or challenges: and 3.
Pound-for-pound matching by the Group.
length of the River Shannon for which two St. Jamess Place employees raised 10,000 : and In addition, individuals and businesses such as 101,000 from the annual Summer Swing our fund managers, suppliers and service event in Cheshire.
centres often generously support the All amounts shown include Company Foundation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 63 ST. JAMES'S PLACE FOUNDATION continued Supporting children and young people in 2016 6.3m Onside donation 1m Youth Zone 2016 Hospice UK donation The St. Jamess Place Foundation aims to make a positive and lasting difference to peoples lives through charitable giving, to those people who need it most.
570k Mark Longbottom, Head of the St. Jamess Place Foundation The main theme that guides the Foundations giving is a focus on helping MAJOR GRANTS INCLUDE: children and young people up to the age of 25: children or young people with a disability, life limiting condition or illness, or those who are socially and economically disadvantaged.
The Foundation also funds projects aimed at disadvantaged young people not currently in education, employment or training and living on the margins of society.
Our support is aimed at empowering young people to reach their full potential.
A 500,000 donation from the Foundation to OnSide Youth Zones has helped build a state-of-the-art youth centre called The Way in Wolverhampton.
OnSide is a charity whose mission is to build a network of youth clubs across the UK, giving young people and those who are socially and economically disadvantaged, safe and inspiring places to go in their leisure time.
Opened in 2016, The Way provides a vital space for young people to engage in sport, fitness, dance, arts, music, media, enterprise, well being and self improvement.
Only weeks after opening, we are absolutely thrilled to bits with the way young people in Wolverhampton are taking full advantage of the offer.
With over 1,300 visits per week, we are already building strong relationships with young people and are able to give them the support they need.
Kathryn Morley, Chief Executive of OnSide Youth Zones The charity was the brainchild of Bill Holroyd, Chair of the Bolton Lads and Girls Club, which was visited by over 3,000 young people each week.
He realised other towns in the UK could benefit so he set up the OnSide Youth Zones and spearheaded the development across the country.
There are currently nine OnSide Youth Zones in the north of England and one in London, each providing quality, safe and affordable facilities for young people to engage in fun and productive activities geared towards improving their life chances, choices and opportunities.
Currently, the OnSide Youth Zone network boasts 15,000 members and aims to open 20 new centres by 2020.
The Foundation has also committed 500,000 to help fund the build of a Youth Zone on the Wirral.
To read more about OnSide visit:www.
64 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information TRANSFORMING CARE FOR PEOPLE REACHING END OF LIFE DOMINIC AND HIS MOTHER The hospice movement is one of the main areas of need that the St. Jamess Renata is a mother of three children, all of whom Place Foundation supports.
The Foundation works closely with Hospice UK have an undiagnosed genetic condition.
Renatas to help us to find suitable projects to fund, and they have done this for the last youngest child, Dominic, is the most severely twelve years.
Hospice UK is the national charity for hospice care, supporting affected and he has been extremely ill at times and in over 200 hospices in the UK.
Together they are focused on transforming how and out of hospital his whole life.
Dominic and his people are cared for at the end of life.
mother inspired the UK charity, Roald Dahls Marvellous Childrens Charity, to fund specialist In 2016 we donated 570,000 to Hospice UK to help a number of hospices nurses working to transform the lives of ill children.
improve their palliative care services and ensure peoples quality of life is enhanced.
The St. Jamess Place Foundation donated 84,500 to Roald Dahls Marvellous Childrens Charity, spread The St. Jamess Place Foundation also makes donations to charities supporting over two years, to help fund the salary costs of a people with cancer and, following feedback from members of our community nurse specifically caring for children who are ill.
The in August 2016, we plan to extend our support to mental health.
charity helps to make life better for seriously ill children and young people in the UK.
The charity is inspired by the belief that every child has the right to a marvellous life, no matter how ill a child is or how HOSPICES SUPPORTED INCLUDE: short their life may be.
No one seemed to be able to tell me why.
The more they looked for a cause, the more problems they found.
I would spend days, that rolled into weeks, that stretched into months, crying myself to sleep next to his hospital cot wondering if the next day would be the one where they told me he was not going to live.
Renata THE FUTURE In 2017, the Company and the Foundation celebrate their 25th anniversary and to mark this milestone, we aim to build on the 54 million raised since inception in 1992 and a number of special events are planned for the year, including: a gala dinner: a Foundation day with fundraising events happening all over the country: and special versions of our Big Walk, Overseas Trek and Cycle Ride.
We also hope to announce details of a number of exciting and significant grants, which we believe will make a transformative difference to a charity and the people they help.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 65 66 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information MEETING THE CHALLENGE We will continue to focus on the fundamentals of the business: delivering good outcomes for our clients through the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
We have always favoured identifying how developments in the governance environment lead to more effective returns for our shareholders.
It is in all our interests to make sure we continue to deliver good outcomes for our clients and take care of our communities.
CONTENTS Board of Directors Chairs Report Corporate Governance Report Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Risk Committee Report of the Nomination Committee Directors Remuneration Report Directors Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 67
