Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Directors Report DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors as set out on pages 68 and 69 present their Report and Restrictions on Voting Rights the Annual Report and Accounts and the audited consolidated financial If any shareholder has been sent a notice by the Company under section statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016.
793 of the Companies Act 2006 and failed to supply the relevant information for a period of 14 days, then the shareholder may not The content of the Management Report required by the UK Financial for so long as the default continues be entitled to attend or vote Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR4.1 either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting, or to can be found in the Strategic Report and Governance sections of the exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to Annual Report and Accounts.
An indication of likely future shareholders meetings.
developments can also be found in these sections.
If those default shares represent at least 0.25% of their class, any dividend Information disclosed in accordance with the requirements of the payable in respect of the shares will be withheld by the Company and sections of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rule LR9.8 subject to certain limited exceptions no transfer, other than an Annual Financial Report that are applicable can be found in the excepted transfer, of any shares held by the member in certificated form following sections: will be registered.
Articles of Association Details of Long-term Incentive The Directors Remuneration The full rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares of the Schemes Report Company are set out in the Companys Articles.
The Articles can be amended by a special resolution of the members of the Company and Contracts of Significance This Directors Report copies can be obtained from Companies House.
Holders of ordinary Shareholder Waivers of Dividends This Directors Report shares are entitled to receive the Companys Reports and Accounts: Shareholder Waivers of Future This Directors Report attend, speak and exercise voting rights: and appoint proxies to attend Dividends General Meetings.
Directors Interests in the The Directors Remuneration The Company proposes to amend its Articles at its forthcoming Annual Companys Shares Report General Meeting to increase the aggregate limit of non-executive Major Shareholders Interests This Directors Report remuneration, which has not increased since 2010, so as to ensure the Authority to Purchase Own Shares Corporate Governance Statement Board has sufficient flexibility to adhere to the Remuneration Policy and meet the needs of succession plans in the future.
In addition, a change to the membership and quorum requirements for the Companys Executive Board is proposed so that its constitution aligns with the requirements of Status of Company a growing business.
Other minor clarification changes are also being The Company is registered as a public limited company under the proposed and details are contained in the Notice of Annual General Companies Act 2006.
For details of the Companys subsidiaries and overseas branches, please Restrictions on Share Transfers see pages 180 and 181.
There are restrictions on share transfers, all of which are set out in the Articles.
Restrictions include transfers made in favour of more than four Share Capital joint holders and transfers held in certificated form.
Directors may Structure of the Companys Capital decline to recognise a transfer, unless it is in respect of only one class of As at 31 December 2016, the Companys issued and fully paid up share share and lodged and duly stamped with the Transfer Office.
The capital was 527,482,348 ordinary shares of 15 pence each.
All ordinary Directors may also refuse to register any transfer of shares held in shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated form which are not fully paid.
Directors may also choose to uncertificated form via CREST.
Details of the movement in the issued decline requests for share transfers from a US Person as defined under share capital during the year are provided in Note 19 to the financial Regulation S of the United States Securities Act 1933 that would cause statements on page 170. the aggregate number of beneficial owners of issued shares who are US Persons to exceed 70.
Voting Rights At any General Meeting, on a show of hands, each member who is The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times and for such present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the Directors may from duly appointed by a member entitled to vote on a resolution has one vote.
time to time determine in respect of any class of shares.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
114 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Substantial Shareholders As at 22 February 2017, the Company had been notified of the following interests disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Holding at % held at Holding at % held at Shareholder 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2016 22 Feb 2017 22 Feb 2017 Ameriprise Financial Inc 28,184,506 5.38 28,184,506 5.38 BlackRock, Inc 26,992,901 5.11 26,992,901 5.11 Prudential plc N A N A 27,682,923 5.24 FMR LLC 26,126,505 5.03 26,126,505 5.03 The Capital Group Companies, Inc 25,481,770 4.83 25,481,770 4.83 Percentage provided was correct at the date of notification The interests of the Directors, and any persons closely associated, in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on page 110.
Results and Dividends The consolidated statement of comprehensive income is on page 127 and IFRS profit after tax for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders decreased to 112.2 million from 202.2 million in the prior year, principally due to recognition of 74.8 million of capital losses in the prior year.
The profit before tax increased from 174.1 million to 486.3 million in the current year, principally due to the increase in charges deducted from Life Investment business in respect of policyholder tax, which is subsequently due to HMRC, as explained on page 38.
This movement was mainly driven by relative investment performance in the year, reflecting the fact that the investment return was more positive in 2016 than the prior year.
The profit before tax was also impacted negatively by the 22.9 million movement in DAC DIR PVIF intangibles, which is explained on page 36.
An interim dividend of 12.33 pence per share, which equates to 64.8 million, was paid on 30 September 2016 2015: 10.72 pence per share 56.0 million.
The Directors recommend that shareholders approve a final dividend of 20.67 pence per share, which equates to 109 million 2015: final dividend of 17.24 pence per share 90.4 million to be paid on 12 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 April 2017.
Details of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP are set out on page 196.
Our People Details of the Companys approach to maintaining an appropriately skilled and diverse workforce can be found in the Our People section of the Business Model on page 18.
The Company is committed to attracting and retaining talented people of both genders, and indeed of diverse skills and mind-sets in the widest sense.
The Company has a policy of ensuring that no discrimination takes place with regards to its job applicants and employees.
Appointments and promotions are made based on fair and considered judgements, with the individuals being assessed on their merits and skill sets.
We need to make sure we are not unwittingly excluding any particular group from the opportunities we can offer or depriving ourselves of people who could bring benefits to our community.
We strive to give full and fair consideration to applications from and promotions of disabled people, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and, where appropriate, we will consider modifications to the working environment so they can take up opportunities or enhance their role.
We will similarly make every effort in the event of an employee becoming ill or disabled, for example, by arranging appropriate training.
We believe that, by adopting best practice principles, we seek to ensure that our responsibilities are met as an equal opportunity employer and that everyone can enjoy an environment free from discrimination of any sort.
The right to collective bargaining has not been exercised by any of the Companys employees, however were they to do so, the Company would look to comply with due process.
The Company considers it important to provide its employees with a balanced work and home life, and does not expect its employees to work excessive hours.
The Company has a calendar of regular communication with employees and this includes a bi-annual employee satisfaction survey, the most recent of which was conducted in 2016.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 115 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: DIRECTORS REPORT continued The Company also offers a range of development options which reflect business priorities and offer employees the opportunity to grow their careers within the Group.
Such opportunities include: An apprenticeship programme offering opportunities in a range of roles across the organisation: A rotational graduate programme providing diverse experience across the organisation: Higher Education partnerships delivering training and relevant qualifications within the wealth management industry: Membership of the Institute of Customer Service: A rolling programme of Knowledge Development Meetings: Support for employees seeking externally recognised professional qualifications: Management development activities for those with the interest and ability to develop their careers as leaders in the business: and Specific development programmes for the more specialist roles within the Companys Field Management Team.
As a Company, we believe that equity participation for employees, through the use of employee share plans, allows and encourages employees to feel a sense of ownership and share in the Companys success.
Bribery Act 2010 The Board is responsible for the oversight of the Companys anti-bribery, corruption and whistleblowing policies and procedures.
During 2016, the Company carried out its annual review of the adequacy of the policies established with the aim to prevent bribery and corruption by person associated with the Group.
This included reviewing the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Statement, along with other related policies and procedures, and providing training to employees and Partners with regards to money laundering, financial crime, fraud, bribery and corruption via online training programmes, the completion of which is compulsory.
The Company also has a Whistleblowing policy, and encourages employees, Partners and other interested parties to report any instances of wrongdoing, anonymously, to either the Chair of the Audit Committee or the Money Laundering Reporting Officer.
During 2016, no employees or Partners were disciplined or dismissed due to non-compliance with the Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies and no fines were levied against the Company in relation to bribery or corruption.
The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Statement and the Whistleblowing Policy and procedures are available to all employees and Partners via the Companys intranet.
Significant Contracts and Change of Control The Company has a number of contractual arrangements which it considers essential to the business of the Company.
Specifically, these are committed loan facilities from a number of banks and arrangements with third party providers of administrative services.
A change of control of the Company may cause some agreements to which the Company is a party to alter or terminate.
These include bank facility agreements and employee share plans.
The Group had committed facilities totalling 307 million as at 22 February 2017 which contain clauses which require lender consent for any change of control.
In addition, the Group guarantees the obligations of loans made to Partners in connection with facilities agreed with various lenders totalling 137 million in aggregate.
Should consent not be given, a change of control would trigger mandatory repayment of the said facilities.
All the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
Financial Instruments An indication of the Groups use of financial instruments can be found in the notes to the financial statements on pages 157 to 167.
Directors Indemnity Details of the indemnity provisions in place for the Directors, including qualifying third party indemnity provisions, can be found on page 74.
Political Donations It is the Groups policy not to make any donations to political parties within the meaning of the definitions set out in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 and sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, 4 May 2017 at The Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ at 11.00am.
116 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Going Concern In conjunction with its assessment of longer term viability as set out on page 50, the Board concluded that it remained appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the consolidated financial statements as it believes the Group will continue to be in business, with neither the intention nor the necessity of liquidation, ceasing trading or seeking protection from creditors pursuant to laws or regulations for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Group financial statements.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the Directors, at the date of approval of this report, confirms that: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors is aware of such information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Independent Auditors As indicated by the Chair of the Audit Committee in the Annual Report last year, it was expected that, in the best interests of shareholders, the external audit contract would be tendered during 2016 in respect of the 2017 year-end audit.
A competitive tender process was undertaken by the Audit Committee further details of which can be found in the Audit Committees Report and the Board subsequently agreed to recommend to shareholders the reappointment of  LLP PwC at the Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2017.
On behalf of the Board David Bellamy Andrew Croft Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 27 February 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 117
