Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information What we do We respect We take a principled, responsible and long-term approach to transforming brownfield land into cleaner, greener and brighter environments where businesses and communities can thrive.
We revive We breathe new life into areas of the UK that need it the most, working closely with communities, businesses and government organisations to create sustainable places for people to live and work.
We resource We bring together everything needed to deliver a successful project: our skilled people, trusted suppliers and financial stability make us an attractive partner to work with.
We realise We continually reinvest in the business through actively enhancing the value of our property assets at all stages of the development lifecycle.
Partners can rely on us to deliver on our promises.
Above from left The regeneration of Coed Darcy, a 1,060 acre scheme and the former site of the Llandarcy oil refinery.
The Trentham Estate, Stoke-on-Trent continues to attract a growing number of visitors year on year.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 1 Branston Leas, Burton upon Trent Creating new communities 1,500 new jobs created A disused barren area of land, lacking any environmental or economic benefits, the site was previously extracted for gravel and filled with pulverised fuel ash, making it a less appealing option for many developers.
Progress to date In 2013, St. Modwen secured planning permission for the new Branston Leas community, which includes a total of 660 new homes.
The first phase of 64 homes sold within 14 months of being launched, and there was a waiting list of over 200 people for the second phase of 205 homes.
Demonstrating that the development is answering the shortfall in new homes in this area, 100% of occupiers are local of which 53% have used Help to Buy.
The entire development is set to create 1,500 jobs.
The retail centre is already 80% let and an 87,000 sq ft distribution unit has recently been leased to Cimpress, a leading mass customisation company.
We will start on site with a further phase of speculative development in the first quarter of 2017, having secured planning permission during 2016 for two industrial and distribution units comprising 328,000 sq ft. Branston Leas Wood is also being delivered, and comprises 175 acres of Creating new communities public realm, which includes play areas, parkland and an 82 acre woodland.
The thatenhance the environment latter is being created in partnership with The Woodland Trust, the National Forest as well as the local and broader Company and Staffordshire Wildlife Trust.
The wood has enabled us to further engage economy is a fundamental with the local community with the creation of a Peace Wood and we have involved approximately 100 volunteers with the part of regeneration.
Extending planting of some 17,000 of 21,000 trees and scattering of 8,000 bluebell seeds.
over 280 acres, Branston Next steps Leas demonstrates our skill We will continue to develop the next phase of housing starting on site in 2017.
Over at transforming brownfield land the next 12 months, we anticipate the retail centre being fully let and we will consider developing out further speculative phases into sustainable mixed-use of industrial space to answer demand.
Planting of the wood will also continue developments.
with the new environment being overseen by the Staffordshire Wildlife Trust.
Above from left St. Modwen Homes is now progressing with the second phase of 205 homes.
The first phase of St. Modwen Homes sold out in just 14 months.
We continue to engage with the local community with tree planting events.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 2 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 82 acres of new woodland 660 new homes St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 3 St. Andrews Park, Uxbridge Tackling complex sites Home to the Battle of Britain, the formal st closure of RAF Uxbridge on 31 March 2010 ended 95 years of continuous military service, but the closing of one chapter was the catalyst of a new, more public and community focused feature.
VSM, a JV partnership between St. Modwen and VINCI plc, was appointed by the MoD in 2006 as the principal contractor for Project MoDEL, a task involving the relocation of six London-based MoD units to an integrated site at RAF Northolt.
We were charged with delivering the new facilities at RAF Northolt as well as securing planning consent for the six redundant sites, which were available for development for residential, commercial and community uses.
Of the six sites, we retained two, including RAF Uxbridge St. Andrews Park which we are now transforming into a new residential-led mixed-use community.
Progress to date Extending over 110 acres, we secured planning consent for the new St. Andrews Park community in 2010, to include new homes, commercial space and community facilities.
Construction started in 2011 on 470 homes, delivered through our JV with Persimmon plc of which over 275 are sold.
In 2016, St. Modwen Homes started on site with a phase of 85 family homes, forming part of the town centre extension.
Planning permission was secured in the period for 120,000 sq ft of office space Our innovative approach which will create around 1,000 jobs and could be delivered as early as 2018. enables us to tackle complex Next steps and challenging sites whilst In 2017, we anticipate starting work on the first phase of the consented 249 managing risk throughout apartments.
As the town centre begins to take shape, the offices will be developed to reflect occupier demand.
thedevelopment lifecycle, The 40 acre public park, the largest new park in Greater London, will come to fruition tocreate inspirational and in 2017 with 167 new trees planted, over 4,800 cubic metres of top soil moved and thriving new business and almost 20 acres seeded.
Works to the landscaping will also progress well into residential communities.
2017 as St. Modwen Homes continues to develop the new phase of housing.
Above from left St. Modwen Homes started on site with 85 homes in 2016.
Over 275 homes built by Persimmon plc are already sold.
The John Locke Academy primary school opened in 2014.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 4 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 1,340 New new homes to be created primary school 40 acre new park St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 5 Longbridge, Birmingham A long-term commitment to the areas in which we build The birthplace of classic British motoring, the 468 acre Longbridge site was acquired by St. Modwen in 2004, in partnership with the Homes We have a proven strategy and Communities Agency.
Since then, the site has been subject to a long ofadding value to the land treatment process, painstakingly removing hydrocarbons from the we own and generating soil and ground water.
Progress to date returns through commercial We have already added 134m of value to the regional economy and created and residential development 3,700 jobs, following a comprehensive redevelopment programme that has seen: at every stage of the property delivery of 400 new homes and six acres of new parkland: lifecycle.
The regeneration completion of a 70m town centre: ofLongbridge, Birmingham creation of the Longbridge Technology Park and the Cofton Centre, collectively creating almost 1,000 jobs: reflects this skillset well.
provision of a 30m infrastructure programme: and delivery of the 66m Bournville College for over 3,500 students.
This year, we welcomed a range of new tenants to the commercial areas of the scheme, including the town centre.
Here, a number of national brands opened their doors for trading including Smyths Toys, Holland and Barrett, Specsavers and Carphone Warehouse, joining Marks & Spencer, Sainsburys and Boots, along with other local retailers.
We have also recently started on site with the next phase of housing for 215 homes on land south of the new town centre.
This new phase will be delivered by St. Modwen Homes.
Next steps During the first half of 2017 the works to the 35m ExtraCare retirement village will complete, along with the 180 bedroom accommodation for the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine.
In line with occupier demand, we will also seek to progress 500,000 sq ft of manufacturing facilities at Longbridge West and phase three of the town centre.
Above from left The 180 bedroom facility for the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine will complete in 2017.
We have uncovered 255m of the River Rea which has been in culvert for over 100 years.
30m The Longbridge Light Festival 2016 saw 6,000 people visit the town centre.
infrastructure programme St. Modwen Properties PLC 6 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 70m town centre completed 30m 3,700 infrastructure programme new jobs created St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 7 Centurion Park, Tamworth Excellent track record in value creation 1 53,000 sq ft under construction We have a strong track record in identifying sites with excellent potential for value creation that we realise through our skills in planning, development and asset management.
We deliver sitesready for development and will make a commitment to their regeneration in the short, medium and long-term.
Above from left Our development activity at Tamworth is a long-standing commitment.
The 153,000 sq ft speculative industrial unit is progressing well.
53,000 sq ft space has also been let and sold during 2016.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 8 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 1 53,000 sq ft Prime under construction industrial and logistics hub St. Modwen has had a long-standing commitment to Tamworth and continues to invest in this strategic area.
In recognition of its strategic position, since commencing development of Centurion Park in 1994 our presence has grown with a number of other developments capitalising on the location.
It is now recognised as a logistics and distribution hub for the Midlands.
Following this early success, in 2014 we acquired a site, located adjacent to Centurion Park, situated on junction 10 of the M42, and for which we subsequently secured planning consent for 200,000 sq ft of industrial and distribution space.
Progress to date In response to the lack of supply of new warehouse space across the Midlands, we speculatively commenced works to a 53,000 sq ft distribution unit in 2015.
In advance of its completion, we leased this unit to national furniture brand DFS for its customer distribution centre, at a rent of 314,000 per annum.
The unit was subsequently sold to Limes Developments Ltd for 5.1m.
We have since speculatively commenced works on a 153,000 sq ft distribution unit in this popular logistics location.
More recently, in 2016, we secured planning permission for 700,000 sq ft of industrial and logistics space at Tamworth East, which is located opposite Centurion Park.
Next steps In 2017, we will progress works on the 153,000 sq ft unit at Centurion Park and anticipate its completion in the first half of 2017.
It is also expected that works to the first phase of Tamworth East will commence in the year.
Already in progress across the Midlands we have around 400,000 sq ft of industrial space under development, and we plan to add to this pipeline with additional projects over the course of the next 12 months.
700,000 sq ft of planning secured St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 9 Regeneration and remediation The UKs leading regeneration specialist The recycling and returning of previously developed brownfield land to beneficial use safeguards the countryside and helps to preserve natural habitats.
Glan Llyn is a 25 year It helps tackle the blight of dereliction in communities by bringing poor quality brownfield regeneration sites back into use and enables the reuse of existing infrastructure and utilities.
project, located in Newport, As experts in this field we have reclaimed thousands of acres over the last 30 years South Wales.
It occupies the and brownfield land now makes up over 80% of our land bank with specified use.
site of the former Llanwern Once on site, we reclaim and recycle as many of the waste materials as possible to avoid unnecessary transportation from site Steelworks and comprises that in turn could cause road congestion and unnecessary CO emissions.
This year 2 800 acres of former we reclaimed and recycled hundreds of thousands of tonnes of materials from site, derelict land.
including 128,000 tonnes of concrete waste which, in accordance with the Specification for Highways Works, is retained in order to avoid the use of natural quarried materials.
Equally, we ensure that protected species and habitats are safeguarded or new habitats provided in our developments, with site design allowing for the movement of protected wildlife.
We also seek to enhance the wildlife value of sites by the retention or introduction of native species appropriate to the site and prevailing conditions, the creation of new wildlife habitats and corridors and by limiting the area of hard surfaces.
83% of our land bank with specified use is brownfield St. Modwen Properties PLC 10 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 4,000 new homes c. 1.5m sq ft Celtic Business Park During construction of the steelworks Glan Llyn in the 1960s a fill was used across The Llanwern Steelworks was the first the site to raise levels and provide a oxygen blown integrated steelworks working platform.
Major structures in the UK and, at its peak, produced were piled with approximately 90,000 a combined four million tonnes of steel piles being installed.
engineering was not appropriate for Glan Llyns residential end use and The site benefits from planning therefore a more appropriate treatment permission for: had to be implemented which produced 4,000 new homes for around a platform for residential development.
10,000 people A number of best practice techniques Two primary schools were therefore employed.
The highly technical process, designed and Community facilities and retail areas monitored by experienced brownfield Approximately 1.5m sq ft Celtic professionals, has resulted in an Business Park, providing 6,000 jobs exemplary residential scheme for the new community.
In 2004, following the purchase of the site an active reclamation and To date, we have delivered over remediation programme started in 400 homes and plan to start on site earnest.
The clean-up of this site is with a further phase in 2017, alongside complex.
In line with the remediation additional third party housebuilders.
of coal tars, metals and potentially In addition, we anticipate starting on expansive slags, one of the principal site with a new primary school this year constraints to redevelopment is the and have recently leased 50,000 sq ft ground is peat and soft clay.
to Amazon at the Celtic Business Park with further employment phases to come.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 11
