Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE At the heart of our sustained As reported within the Chief Financial Officers report on pages 24 and 25 the strong operating performance of the business during the year is growth is our commitment to reflected in the financial performance for the year.
As well as paying a growing dividend to shareholders we are continuing achieving good outcomes for to invest in the business for the future be it the Academy, our growing operations in Asia, our new investment into Discretionary Fund our clients and the importance Management or our back office infrastructure.
Whilst these investments are consuming capital today we are very pleased with how each initiative we place on building long-term is developing and we expect a good return for shareholders in the future.
relationships DIVIDEND At the half year, we increased the interim dividend by 15% and reaffirmed our commitment to continue to grow the dividend in line with the underlying performance of the business.
Consequently, and supported by the continued strong performance of the business, the Board has proposed a final dividend of 20.67 pence per share, up 20%, which brings the full year dividend to 33.0 pence per share, up 18%.
The final dividend for 2016, subject to approval of shareholders at our AGM, will be paid on 12 May to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 April.
As usual, a Dividend Reinvestment Plan continues to be available for shareholders.
CLIENTS Key to our sustained success has been our core commitment to achieving the best possible outcome for our clients and ensuring that they remain well served by our long-term, face-to-face approach to wealth management.
While the evolution of the UK wealth management landscape means that UK savers and investors have an array of options available to them today, we know that a highly personalised, relationship driven model is in high demand and we are confident that this will remain so in the future.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REPORT continued However, we are not complacent and we regularly take the opportunity The political surprises of 2016 offer a reminder of the importance of to seek feedback directly from all our clients.
The most recent research, diversification, whether by geography or asset class.
We will continue carried out in early 2017 following receipt of annual Wealth Account to adapt our investment approach to ensure we are responding to the statements, indicates that overall client satisfaction remains very strong evolving investment environment.
In doing so, we believe we can with 94% of clients who responded telling us that that they are either continue to help our clients fulfil their long-term financial goals.
satisfied or very satisfied with the overall relationship.
This sentiment is echoed by the fact that more than 97% of clients confirmed that they THE ST. JAMESS PLACE PARTNERSHIP would recommend St. Jamess Place to others, indeed 56% say they have Increasing the number of Partners and advisers, whilst at the same time already done so.
And, as I commented earlier, when asked to indicate providing them with the tools and support to deliver high quality whether they feel our proposition offers value for money, 99% of the outcomes for clients remains one of the key drivers to achieving our clients who responded, said reasonable, good or excellent, with 82% in long-term growth objectives.
I am therefore pleased to report that through the continued acquisition of We will build upon these excellent results and seek further highly established advisers, the integration of new Partners in Asia and improvements, to our standards of service and proposition, to ensure the success of our extended Academy programme, our qualified Adviser clients continue to receive high quality, face-to-face advice they can trust population increased by 10% to 3,415, across the 2,378 Partner and demonstrable value creation for their wealth.
In many ways, the added momentum in growth in our qualified adviser population reflects the evolution of Partner businesses, INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT as they seek to acquire more clients and continue to provide a high level 2016 was a year of strong growth for many major stock markets across the of service to their existing clients.
There were two great political events that dominated much of the political and economic debate during the year, the UKs Brexit vote and As our Partner practices grow and the administration of their clients election of Donald Trump as US President but these surprise outcomes affairs becomes increasingly complex, we will continue to look to find ultimately did little to dent market momentum as both the S&P 500 and ways to make it easier for our Partners, advisers and their support staff to FTSE 100, for example, struck new highs in late 2016. serve their clients well and build even more successful businesses.
This is the driver behind our investment in our back office development and the Meanwhile, our funds performed strongly over the period, and all eight extension of our Academy concept to the training of specialist support of our portfolios delivered positive returns, ranging from 5.2% for the staff for our existing Partners.
Defensive portfolio to 20.7% for the Adventurous portfolio, net of all charges.
Alongside the Partnership we completed the acquisition of Rowan For much of the year, low and negative interest rates created headwinds Dartington in the first half of 2016 and we have seen the number of for those seeking income, and a summer interest rate cut by the Bank of investment executives increase by 21% from 34 to 41.
England only added to the challenge.
By the end of the year, however, the tide appeared to be turning, as US yields rose following the presidential THE ST. JAMESS PLACE FOUNDATION AND COMMUNITY election, and the Federal Reserve used its December meeting to raise ENGAGEMENT interest rates.
Raising funds for those less fortunate has always been at the heart of the Groups culture, and the collective efforts of the whole of our community, It was against this backdrop that we launched our new Worldwide including employees, Partners, suppliers and others connected to St. Jamess Income fund in October.
The fund aims to obtain an attractive level of Place, resulted in total funds raised of 7.6 million including company income through investing largely in global equities.
This means the total amount raised to date is now over source of long-term income, and the new fund adds to the diversity of 54 million, benefitting the hundreds of causes it has and will continue income sources we can provide our investors.
The fund is managed by to support and quite literally changing peoples lives.
Clyde Rossouw of Investec Asset Management based in Cape Town, demonstrating once again the global nature of our investment manager selection process.
4 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information To mark our 25th Anniversary year and in keeping with our strong desire On behalf of the Board and to further support fund raising efforts, the Board, on behalf of shareholders, has agreed to double the matched funding.
It is a special shareholders I thank everyone incentive for 2017 only and subject to an overall cap of 10 million.
In addition to these fund-raising efforts, the cultural driver of doing the connected with St. Jamess right thing runs through the whole organisation, underpinning all our interactions with our local and extended communities.
Our continued Place for their contribution to membership of FTSE4GOOD recognises the positive nature of our work in these areas.
these results and for their We take a great deal of pride in the significant contribution we make continued enthusiasm, through the Foundation and other initiatives including our structured programmes for summer interns and Apprenticeships.
We are also committed to maintaining our Living Wage accreditation, being one of dedication and commitment only 20 FTSE100 companies to achieve this status.
Further details of our CSR activities are set out on pages 54 to 59 and an update on the Foundation is provided on pages 62 to 65.
OUR COMMUNITY The strength and continued growth of the business is due to the hard work and dedication of our Partners, their staff, our management teams and all our employees and administration support teams.
On behalf of the Board and shareholders I thank everyone connected with St. Jamess Place for their contribution to these results and for their continued enthusiasm, dedication and commitment.
OUTLOOK Looking forward, we entered 2017 with a stronger adviser team and a more diversified investment proposition and a greater need for advice clients can rely on.
We remain committed to relationship based advice and believe we are better placed than ever to serve our clients well and for the opportunities that lie ahead.
David Bellamy Chief Executive 27 February 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 5
