Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Board of Directors Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS SARAH BATES DAVID BELLAMY ANDREW CROFT CHAIR CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Chair January 2014.
Joined St. Jamess Place Chief Financial Officer September 2004.
1991 and appointed to the Board 1997.
Experience Experience Experience Sarah brings over 30 years experience from the David has worked in the financial services Andrew joined the Company in 1993 and has been investment and investment management sectors, industry since 1973.
He joined the Founders of Chief Financial Officer since 2004.
Having trained in both senior executive and non-executive the Company at the outset to establish the back as an Accountant with Deloitte Haskins and Sells capacities.
She served as Chair of the Association office.
Since then he has held a number of roles at now part of  LLP he of Investment Companies from 2011 to 2013.
St. Jamess Place, including Group Operations then worked in the Financial Services sector.
She retains a range of investment related Director and Managing Director.
He is a Trustee Since joining St. Jamess Place he has held responsibilities which support her Chairship of of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
a number of roles within the Finance department, St. Jamess Place.
assuming the role of Finance Director in 2002.
He is a Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
External Appointments External Appointments External Appointments Chair of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc, Deputy chair of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Lay member of the Audit, Risk and Investment and Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc.
Committees of the Royal College of Surgeons executive director of Worldwide Healthcare Trust of England.
plc and Polar Capital Technology Trust plc.
Member of the investment committee of the Universities Superannuation Fund and on a voluntary basis, chair of the St. Josephs Hospice investment panel and trustee of the Liver Group Charity.
IAN GASCOIGNE DAVID LAMB MANAGING DIRECTOR MANAGING DIRECTOR Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Executive Director December 2007.
Experience Experience Ian is Managing Director responsible for the David is Managing Director with responsibility for management and development of the Partnership.
Private Client, International and the Groups He has worked in the financial services industry investment businesses including the fund range.
He is a Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, since 1986 and has considerable experience in the financial advisory space.
Ian is a Trustee of the having worked in the financial sector since 1979 and St. Jamess Place Foundation.
has significant experience in wealth management, together with investment and portfolio management.
External Appointments External Appointments Member of the Strategic Advisory Board of Non-executive director of The Henderson Loughborough University School of Business and Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Governor of the University of the West of England.
68 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: IAIN CORNISH SIMON JEFFREYS SENIOR INDEPENDENT SID INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Senior Independent Director January 2014.
Experience Experience Iain brings experience from both the financial and Simon brings experience of the auditing world and regulatory environments.
He was a senior financial services.
He was a senior audit partner consultant at KPMG, specialising in the banking with  LLP from 1986 to and finance sector, and then served as chief 2006 where he also led their Global Investment executive of the Yorkshire Building Society.
Between 2006 and 2014, recent years he has been an independent director Simon was CFO and chief administrative officer at of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
Fidelity International and then CFO and chief operating officer at the Wellcome Trust.
External Appointments External Appointments Chair of Shawbrook Group plc, Non-executive Chair of AON UK Limited, non-executive director director of Arrow Global Group plc and Treasurer and chair of the Audit Committees of Henderson of MacMillan Cancer Support.
International Income Trust plc and SimCorp A S, a listed Danish financial services software company, and non-executive director of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Full biographical details may be found on the corporate website at www.
co. uk Committee key: Member of Audit Committee Member of Risk Committee Member of Remuneration Committee Member of Nomination Committee Member of Investment Committee Denotes Chair of Committee BARONESS WHEATCROFT ROGER YATES INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Date of Appointment: Date of Appointment: Non-executive Director April 2012.
Experience Experience Baroness Wheatcroft brings experience of the Roger brings over 30 years of investment media and also the legislature.
Her career has management experience.
He started his career included editorial roles at both the Sunday with GT Management Limited in 1981 and has Telegraph and The Times, as well as being subsequently held positions at Morgan Grenfell, editor-in-chief at the Wall Street Journal, Europe.
Invesco and Henderson Group plc, where he was She is a member of the House of Lords.
Most recently, he was chair financial services experience includes previous of Electra Private Equity plc and a non-executive appointments as a non-executive director of director of IG Holdings plc.
Barclays Group plc and Shaftesbury plc.
External Appointments External Appointments Non-executive director of Fiat Chrysler Non-executive chair of Pioneer Global Asset Automobiles.
Chair of the Financial Times Management S. p. A.
Non-executive director of J. P. Morgan Elect plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 69
