Our business model The value we create Inputs Investment Our business model generates Resources and recurring revenue and drives portfolio value.
relationships It is successful because it enables Employees us to reinvest continually into the Financial capital business, ensuring a steady stream of development opportunities Land bank and income.
Buildings Investment Land bank cleaning Local communities and tenants What makes We acquire new assets We have over 30 years of Partners and joint ventures that present opportunities experience in remediating us different?
for value creation throughout and reclaiming brownfield land Supply chain Our land bank of over 6,000 acres the development lifecycle.
in advance of its redevelopment.
provides us with the flexibility to move We continually reinvest in the We continue to make a long-term with market demands and pursue business through acquiring new commitment to the areas in which those projects that generate the opportunities that we hold for we build.
Both new and existing greatest opportunity at any one time.
income in the short-term and then partners trust our proven capability We are a resilient business, operating actively enhance their value at all to remove risk from any site and from a strong financial position, with stages of the development lifecycle leave a positive and inspiring legacy our income generating portfolio through our planning, development for business and communities to underpinning our cost base.
CSR sits at our heart Cleaning up or remediating brownfield land is fundamental to almost everything we do, enabling us to breathe new life into run-down or disused areas of the UK and create new communities that have a positive impact on the environment, the economy and socially.
Our values underpin the business model They define our employee behaviour, our culture as a business and our approach to development and regeneration.
Ultimately, they drive value creation.
We think long-term Income generating Regeneration and portfolio remeditation Our resources and See pages 34 to 37 See pages 10 and 11 relationships See pages 26 to 29 We are innovative We do what we say St. Modwen Properties PLC 24 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Returns Outputs and outcomes The business model enables us to invigorate once neglected spaces, former industrial estates and disused brownfield land and create thriving new business parks and new town centres that help to satisfy housing demand, create new jobs and provide a boost to the immediate regional and national economy.
Asset development Sales rental income Shareholder It also helps to ensure that we put returns Once a site is cleaned we start We also secure income through into place the right mix of uses and to realise our vision through our disposals of mature assets and supporting infrastructure and create Our proven value-added approach regional teams of planning experts retained rental income.
new places that can be enjoyed for promotes NAV growth and deliver who have local knowledge and are generations to come.
At the right time, we dispose of shareholder returns.
in touch with local communities.
those assets to which we can We are a true mixed-use developer add no further value and reinvest with a diverse development portfolio.
the capital back into the business, We have a strong track record acquiring new opportunities and in securing planning consents ensuring that we have a constant making us a reliable and attractive and reliable income stream.
We also commercial and residential partner sell remediated brownfield land with that delivers sites ready for planning permission to housebuilders development and will make a at a significantly higher value than Chairmans statement commitment to their regeneration initially acquired.
See pages 14 and 15 in the short, medium and long-term.
Whether awaiting redevelopment or newly completed, our robust asset management skills enable us to extract maximum value from our properties and deliver a strong income stream for the business.
Our innovative approach to development enables us to use our existing land bank to generate other sources of revenue.
Cash flow The revenue raised through any of our value creating activities helps to underpin the running costs of the business and is reinvested into new property.
Income generating Income generating Commercial land portfolio portfolio and development See pages 34 to 37 See pages 34 to 37 See pages 37 and 38 What we do See pages 2 to 9 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 25
