Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information PARTNERS MEMBERS OF THE ST. JAMESS PLACE PARTNERSHIP PLAY THE LEADING ROLE IN DELIVERING OUR WEALTH MANAGEMENT SERVICE Given the importance of our Partners, we are A new initiative in 2016 has been our OUR APPROACH committed to providing ongoing professional Paraplanning Academy, aimed at training Our Partners, so called because of the way they development to ensure they remain Partners support staff to plan and prepare work in partnership with both their clients and appropriately qualified, technically able and business to our high standards across two their colleagues, are some of the most equipped to deliver a first class service.
We expect 25 students to graduate experienced and able professionals working in encourage and provide support for Partners in 2017, whilst enrolling a further 90 new wealth management today.
St. Jamess Place has who choose to pursue further qualifications, students in stages during the year.
chosen to promote our services exclusively with many Partners having already progressed through the Partnership, reflecting the to Chartered Status.
As a result of the Our presence in Asia, with St. Jamess Place confidence we have in Partners ability to build professionalism of our Partners, we are happy offices in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Singapore, and maintain long-term working relationships to guarantee the suitability of the advice that continues to grow as we invest behind the with their clients, and so be able to provide they give when recommending any of the business for the long-term.
Our brand and sound financial advice.
The exclusive wealth management products and services strong investment proposition is proving arrangement also provides clients with clarity provided by companies in the Group.
compelling as we make progress in attracting of responsibility in relation to their financial advisers and clients to the business.
St. Jamess Place works hard to GROWING THE PARTNERSHIP pleased to have established a life insurance support these client Partner relationships, Growth in the Partnership remains a crucial company in Hong Kong and launched placing them at the heart of all we do.
In addition to our existing St. Jamess Place products in all three regions.
successful recruitment proposition, we continue Establishing long-term relationships is key.
to develop the St. Jamess Place Academy.
This Clients need to be able to place a high degree of provides an opportunity for suitable second reliance on financial advice and so being able to careerists to receive training and assistance to call upon the services of long-term advisers build a Partner business with us.
We now have who understand their individual personal four regional centres in the UK, with the circumstances is important.
But it is also opening of our Edinburgh Academy in important that clients are dealt with in the way February 2016 complementing our existing they would choose and not simply in a single, centres in London, Manchester and Solihull.
Long-term relationships clearly During 2016 we enrolled nearly 150 new work for clients but are also good for business, students onto our Academies and expect a with 90% of our new business estimated to similar number in 2017.
Also in 2016, we come from existing clients and their referrals.
graduated around 70 Academy Partners following the two year programme and expect DEVELOPING PARTNERS this to rise in 2017 in line with our regional New Partners are provided with a document expansion.
Around half of our new students are entitled What it means to be a member.
This from non financial backgrounds and the average sets out a philosophy and some principles.
We age, at 38, is ten years younger than the average believe the shared commitment to living up to Partner.
these principles is what gives the Partnership its competitive edge and makes it a group of In addition, our next generation Academy professionals that other advisers aspire to join.
initially aimed at bringing sons and daughters Our principles emphasise integrity, trust, of existing Partners into their businesses also openness, partnership and teamwork and are supports growth and builds succession for our designed to guide individual and corporate existing successful businesses.
So far we have actions, decisions and standards across our enrolled over 150 new students onto this community.
programme now widened to include non family, with an average age of 29.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 15
