OUR STRATEGY EXPLAINED OUR KEY BUSINESS OBJECTIVE IS GROWTH CLIENTS IN FUNDS UNDER MANAGEMENT FUM Deliver positive THROUGH OFFERING A HIGH QUALITY outcomes to clients SERVICE TO CLIENTS Growth in FUM and Net Inflows requires growth in Gross Inflows and retention of FUM.
GROWTH STRATEGY Growing the size of the Our growth strategy for Partnership: and PARTNERS delivering increasing Improving Partner productivity.
Gross Inflows involves: Grow and develop the Partnership SUPPORT STRATEGY Delivering high quality service Our support strategy for to Partners and clients: and delivering sustained retention Driving consistently good of FUM involves: investment performance.
FUNDS Increase funds under management FINANCIAL Achieve sustainable growth in profits 12 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information WHAT THIS MEANS: OUR FOCUS FOR 2017: For further information: Through our face-to-face advice service, we aim to help Ensure the underlying administration of our client see our clients on clients in a way which reflects their personal circumstances.
offering meets all expectations: page 14.
Our approach is based on development of long-term Fully roll out our Retirement Account, enhancing client relationships, founded on trust.
By continually seeking experience of pension planning and pension freedoms: to enhance our processes and make improvements to the Expand the Rowan Dartington Discretionary Fund client experience we achieve client satisfaction, leading to strong retention and high levels of client advocacy.
As Management DFM offering as part of our holistic a result, we are able to attract new clients through both client offering: referrals and introductions.
Continue our relationship with Metro Bank and the services they provide for our clients: and Further develop our proposition for supporting clients wanting to make inter-generational financial arrangements.
WHAT THIS MEANS: OUR FOCUS FOR 2017: Through providing an attractive proposition we are able to For further information: Continue to attract high quality advisers to join recruit new members to the Partnership and, by providing see our Partners on the Partnership: high quality support, we can help them to grow.
Support existing Partners in gaining further Our Partners play the leading role in delivering our wealth qualifications, including Chartered Status: management service.
Expanding their number is central to Continue our regional academies initiative, our growth aspirations.
Our support for them includes ongoing professional development as well as support including our next generation succession and systems and infrastructure, to ensure they are equipped to paraplanning academies: deliver a first class service to their clients.
Support Partners to grow their businesses, as well as to develop their back office operations, allowing them to spend more time with clients: Continue to develop our Asia operations: and Continue to integrate Rowan Dartington into our Partner proposition.
WHAT THIS MEANS: OUR FOCUS FOR 2017: Management of client funds is at the heart of our business.
For further information: Continue to focus on the IMA proposition in They are managed through our distinctive Investment see our funds on support of client outcomes, particularly select, Management Approach IMA.
page 16. monitor, change process: Overall FUM growth is driven by successful Partners Broaden the investment proposition: supporting satisfied clients, underpinned by consistent Further develop our responsible investing delivery of the IMA.
focus: and Focus on delivering for clients has resulted in doubling of FUM over the past five years, as well as in the five years Further expand our DFM offering and continue preceding that.
Funds under management has historically its integration into our overall approach to increased organically through 15 to 20% growth over the investment management.
longer term in gross inflows, market leading retention experience and superior investment returns.
WHAT THIS MEANS: OUR FOCUS FOR 2017: The principal source of income for the Group is For further information: Manage expense growth to around 10% p. a. : see our financial KPIs annual management income from funds under Focus expenditure on safely delivering our on page 23. management.
As a result, it grows with new business strategy, including achieving 15 to 20% p. a. and with growth in investments.
growth in gross inflows: and Profits, and ultimately dividends, reflect expense Invest in the business to support long-term growth.
Sustainable growth in profits involves effective management of expenditure, including development expenditure in order to achieve increasing FUM.
Current year events will inevitably impact the result in any one year, but focus on building the underlying fundamentals will lead to growth in profits.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 13
