CLIENTS PUTTING CLIENTS AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO IS CORE TO OUR CULTURE AND ENABLES US TO WORK TOGETHER TO RUN A GENUINELY CLIENT FOCUSED BUSINESS 94% are either very satisfied or satisfied launched an intergenerational mortgage range OUR APPROACH with their overall relationship with in association with Metro Bank, allowing It is important for clients to have a clear St. Jamess Place: clients to use their St. Jamess Place understanding of the level of service they can 82% rated the proposition as either good or investments as the collateral for a relatives expect from their Partner, so they can be excellent value for money, with a further mortgage application and helping them to confident that this will meet their needs.
17% describing it as reasonable: and access lower rates.
We also broadened our 97% of clients would recommend capabilities following the completion of our The level of ongoing service is agreed between St. Jamess Place to others, with an acquisition of Rowan Dartington early in the the Partner and the client and, most importantly, increased proportion of 56% already having year, as well as launched the initial roll out of is tailored appropriately to the level of care and done so.
our new retirement account proposition.
Clear and robust systems and controls are in place to enable us to deliver DEVELOPING INTERGENERATIONAL In 2017 we look forward to making further the agreed level of service and support the PROPOSITION improvements in both our client proposition delivery of positive client outcomes.
Despite receiving much positive feedback from and the service experienced by our clients, clients, we are never complacent and in 2016 with a particular focus on extending our Delivering a positive client experience is we continued to evolve our client proposition.
intergenerational initiatives and ensuring the integral to any successful and productive Recognising that a key area of concern for many very highest standards in the underlying business.
It requires an effective business plan, clients is the intergenerational challenge, we administration of our client offering.
robust infrastructure and processes that work.
The result is satisfied clients who understand the ongoing service that they receive and whose CLIENT GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION expectations are met, or exceeded.
As of 31 December 2016 We achieve this primarily through the activity of Overseas Clients currently account the St. Jamess Place Partnership see page 15. for 2% of our business Our Partners recognise that no one clients objectives or circumstances are the same as 6% anothers, and so tailor the advice and service to suit them.
Clients often continue the working relationship with their Partner over many years, appreciating a source of trusted advice as their financial needs evolve over the years.
2% In order to ensure that our business continues 24% to be client focused, we monitor all areas of the business which can affect the client experience.
Monitoring covers all stages of the client life cycle, including the suitability of advice, 14% administration, investment experience, 3% client feedback and client complaints.
4% Our annual Wealth Account survey, which we have now been running for six years, continues 22% to be an invaluable opportunity to obtain 10% feedback from clients, with over 33,000 13% responses to the 2016 questionnaire received to date.
Highlights include: 14 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
