Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Directors report The directors present their report for the year ended such that dividends are waived with the exception of a hundredth th 30 November 2016. of a penny per share.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to shares held by the Trust would be taken by the Trustee, who As permitted by legislation, some of the matters historically may take account of any recommendations of the Company.
There included in this report have instead been included in the Strategic were no purchases of shares by the Trust during the financial year.
report on pages 1 to 52 as the Board considers them to be of strategic importance.
Specifically these relate to the Companys Further details regarding the Trust and of shares issued pursuant business model and strategy, future business developments and to the Companys share-based incentive arrangements are set out risk management.
The corporate governance statement as required in note 17 to the Group financial statements.
by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA is set out on pages 53 to 98 and is incorporated Rights and obligations attaching to shares into this report by reference.
The holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys annual Annual general meeting report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, th to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Full details of the The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 29 March 2017 in the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to Evolution Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge be considered at the 2017 AGM are set out in the notice of meeting Technology Park, Birmingham B31 2TS, commencing at 12.00 on pages 166 to 177. noon.
The notice of meeting, which includes the special business to be transacted and an explanation of all the resolutions to be Restrictions on the transfer of shares considered at the meeting, is set out on pages 166 to 177. th As at 30 November 2016 and the date of this report, except as Dividend referred to below: An interim dividend of 1.94 pence per ordinary share 2015: 1.9 pence there were no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares th was paid on 5 September 2016. in the Company: The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.06 pence per there were no limitations on the holding of ordinary shares: th ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30 November 2016 there were no requirements to obtain the approval of the 2015: 3.85 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 6.00 Company, or of other holders of ordinary shares in the th pence per share 2015: 5.75 pence, payable on 4 April 2017 Company, for a transfer of shares: and th to shareholders on the register on 10 March 2017. no person held shares in the Company carrying any special Other than as referred to under the heading Share capital below, rights with regard to control of the Company.
during the year there were no arrangements under which a shareholder had waived or agreed to waive any dividends nor The directors may refuse to register the transfer of a share in any agreement by a shareholder to waive future dividends.
certificated form which is not fully paid or on which the Company has a lien, where the instrument of transfer does not comply with the requirements of the Companys articles of association Articles, Share capital or if the transfer is in respect of more than one class of share or is in favour of more than four joint holders.
The directors may also refuse Capital structure to register a transfer of a certificated share, which represents an The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided interest of at least 0.25% in a class of shares, following the failure into ordinary shares of 10 pence each, all ranking pari passu.
by the member or any other person appearing to be interested in Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the shares to provide the Company with information requested the Company.
under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 Act.
th At 30 November 2016, there were 221,876,988 ordinary shares in Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using issue and fully paid.
Further details relating to share capital, including CREST and the directors can refuse to register the transfer of an movements during the year, are set out in note 17 to the Group uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing financial statements.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Share allotments shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer At the 2016 AGM, shareholders renewed the directors authority of shares or on voting rights.
to allot shares in the Company.
No shares were allotted during the year.
A resolution to renew this standard authority will be proposed Interests in voting rights at the 2017 AGM.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 is published on a Purchase by the Company of its own shares Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
At the 2016 AGM, shareholders renewed the Companys authority th As at 30 November 2016, the information overleaf had been to make market purchases of up to 22,187,698 ordinary shares, received in accordance with DTR 5 from holders of notifiable representing 10% of the issued share capital at that time.
No shares interests in the Companys issued share capital.
were repurchased during the year and the Company does not hold The information provided was correct at the date of notification: any shares in treasury.
This standard authority will expire at the however, the date the notification received may not have been 2017 AGM and a resolution to renew it will be proposed.
within the current financial year.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since the Company was Employee Share Trust Trust notified.
Notification of any change is not required until a notifiable th As at 30 November 2016, the Trust held 269,334 shares threshold is crossed.
2015: 690,274 shares, representing 0.12% 2015: 0.31% of the Companys issued share capital.
The Trust deed contains a dividend waiver provision in respect of shares held by the Trust, St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 99 Directors report continued Shareholder Date of notification Nature of holding Total voting rights % of total voting rights rd Simon Clarke and connected parties 3 April 2014 Direct interest 18,575,196 8.43% rd J. D. Leavesley and connected parties 23 April 2015 Direct interest 13,447,099 6.07% th Aviva plc 19 September 2014 Direct interest 8,889,142 4.02% Indirect interest 5,582,987 2.52% Total 14,472,129 6.54% th Royal London Asset Management Ltd 7 October 2015 Direct interest 11,186,531 5.04% th TR Property Investment Trust plc 12 July 2012 Direct interest 6,802,638 3.40% th Norges Bank 14 September 2016 Direct interest 6,680,599 3.01% th Changes to the interests in the voting rights which have been notified to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 between 30 November th 2016 and 6 February 2017 are set out below: Shareholder Date of notification Nature of holding Total voting rights % of total voting rights rd Henderson Group plc 3 February 2017 Indirect interest 11,157,532 5.02% Contracts for difference 55,000 0.02% Total 11,212,532 5.05% Appointment and replacement of directors Directors The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the The Board Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, the Act and related legislation.
Under the Articles: The following served as directors during the year ended th 30 November 2016: the number of directors is not subject to any maximum but st must not be less than three, unless otherwise determined by Mark Allan appointed on 1 November 2016 the Company in general meeting: Ian Bull directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the Steve Burke Company or by resolution of the directors, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director: and Kay Chaldecott all directors must retire at each AGM and shall, subject to his or Simon Clarke her terms of appointment, be eligible for election or re-election.
Rob Hudson At the 2017 AGM Mark Allan, who was appointed by the directors Lesley James in November 2016, will retire and offer himself for election: all other directors will offer themselves for re-election.
Richard Mully th A director may be removed by a special resolution of the Company.
Bill Oliver retired on 30 November 2016 In addition, a director must automatically cease to be a director if Bill Shannon he or she: th The biographical details of all the directors serving at 30 November resigns from his or her office by notice in writing to the Company 2016, including details of their relevant experience and other significant or, in the case of an executive director, the appointment is commitments, are shown on pages 54 and 55. terminated or expires and the directors resolve that his or her office be vacated: The Directors remuneration report, which includes details of directors service agreements and their interests in the becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or composition Companys shares, is set out on pages 74 to 98.
Copies of with his or her creditors generally: the service agreements of the executive directors and the letters a registered medical practitioner who is treating the director of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for gives a written opinion to the Company stating that he or she inspection at the Companys registered office during normal has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a business hours and will be available for inspection at the director and may remain so for more than three months: Companys AGM.
is absent from meetings of the directors for more than six consecutive months without permission of the directors and the directors resolve that his or her office be vacated: or becomes prohibited by law from acting as a director.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 100 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Powers of the directors Financial instruments The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to The Groups exposure to and management of capital risk, market the Articles, UK legislation including the Act and any directions given risk, credit risk and liquidity risk is set out in note 16 to the Group by the Company in general meeting.
The directors have been authorised by the Articles to allot ordinary Employee involvement shares and to make market purchases of the Companys own shares.
These powers are referred to shareholders for renewal St. Modwen is committed to regular communication and consultation at each AGM.
Further information is set out under the heading with its employees and encourages employee understanding of and Share capital on page 99. involvement in its performance.
News concerning St. Modwen, its activities and performance is published on the Companys intranet.
Conflicts of interest Regular management meetings are held to inform senior staff about matters affecting them as employees, at which their feedback With the exception of service agreements or those contracts is sought on decisions likely to affect their interest, and where a detailed in note 21 to the Group financial statements, no director common awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company the Companys performance is developed: this information is then or any of its operating companies at any time during the year.
A performance-related annual bonus Under the Act, directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts scheme and share option arrangements are designed to encourage of interest with the Company.
As permitted by the Act, the Articles and support employee share ownership.
enable non-conflicted directors to authorise actual or potential conflicts of interest, either with or without limits or conditions.
Employment of disabled persons Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such It is the policy of the Company to give full and fair consideration conflicts are in place.
Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to applications for employment received from disabled persons, to newly appointed directors are considered by the Board prior having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, to appointment.
All directors have a continuing duty to update where practicable, the continued employment of those who may any changes to conflicts.
become disabled during their employment with the Company and the provision of appropriate training.
St. Modwen provides the same Indemnities and insurance opportunities for training, career development and promotion for The Company has granted indemnities to each of its directors and disabled as for other employees.
the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law in respect of costs of defending claims against them and third party liabilities.
Greenhouse gas emissions These provisions, deemed to be qualifying third-party indemnity provisions pursuant to section 234 of the Act, were in force during The disclosures required by law relating to the Groups greenhouse th the year ended 30 November 2016 and remain in force as at the gas emissions GHG are set out in the table overleaf.
GHG from date of this report.
those sources for which the Company is deemed to be directly responsible are monitored for reporting purposes, namely gas A copy of the indemnity is available for inspection at the Companys and electricity purchased for consumption at properties under registered office during normal business hours and will be available the Companys operational control such as Head Office, certain for inspection at the Companys AGM.
regional offices, St. Modwen Homes sales offices and vacant The Company also maintains directors and officers liability space, and petrol and diesel used in Company cars.
insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action For information on our energy initiatives, please see our CSR Report taken against its directors.
co. uk  Articles of Association The Articles can only be amended, or new Articles adopted, by a special resolution passed at a general meeting of the Company.
The Companys current Articles are available on its website www.
Change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
These include committed bank facilities, which would be terminable at the banks discretion, and the Companys retail and convertible bonds, holders of which would have an option to require the Company to redeem the bonds.
The Companys share-based incentive arrangements contain provisions that take effect in the event of a change of control but do not entitle participants to a greater interest in the shares of the Company than created by the initial grant or award under the relevant plan.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs specifically as a result of a takeover bid.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 101 Directors report continued 2016 intensity ratio 2015 intensity ratio tCO2 tCO2 tCO2 tCO2 CO2 emissions emissions m CO2 emissions emissions m emissions full-time property emissions full-time property 1 2 1 2 GHG tonnes employees portfolio tonnes employees portfolio Scope 1: Total purchased gas 129 433 Petrol and diesel 955 586 Total Scope 1 1,084 3.1 0.5 1,019 3.3 0.5 Scope 2: Total purchased electricity 788 1,529 Total Scope 2 788 2.3 0.4 1,529 4.9 0.7 Total Scope 1 & 2 1,872 5.4 0.9 2,548 8.2 1.2 1 Equivalent CO emissions per full-time employee.
2 2 Equivalent CO per m of property portfolio held by the Company.
2 Methodology Emissions from gas and electricity consumption have been calculated using the main requirements of the GHG Protocol Standard revised edition and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The measurement of emissions from Company cars is based on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance June 2013 issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra.
Defras 2013 conversion factors have also been used within the reporting methodology.
Organisation boundary and responsibility The Company does not have responsibility for GHG that are beyond the boundary of the Companys operational control.
As such, gas and electricity purchased and consumed by tenants is not included within the Scope 1 and 2 data above.
Data also excludes the purchase for and consumption by those sites which fall within the Persimmon joint venture as Persimmon controls the procurement of utilities to these sites.
GHG for all other joint ventures has been included as the Company is deemed to be wholly responsible for such GHG.
Political donations Disclosure required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R In accordance with the Companys policy, no political donations The information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R of the were made and no political expenditure was incurred during FCAs Listing Rules can be found on the following pages of this the year.
Annual Report: Section Topic Page reference Going concern 1 Interest capitalised N A The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out 2 Publication of unaudited N A in the Strategic report.
The directors have considered these factors information and reviewed the financial position of the Group, including its joint 4 Details of long-term incentive 90 ventures and associates.
schemes established specifically The review included an assessment of future funding requirements to recruit or retain a director based on cash flow forecasts extending for 18 months from 5 & 6 Waiver of emoluments by N A the date of signing the financial statements, valuation projections a director and the ability of the Group to meet covenants on existing 7 & 8 Non-pre-emptive issues of equity 144 borrowing facilities.
The directors were satisfied that the forecasts for cash and projections were based on realistic assumptions and that the sensitivities applied in reviewing downside scenarios 9 Parent company participation N A were appropriate.
in placing by a listed subsidiary As described in the financial review on pages 41 to 44, there are 10 Contracts of significance N A no corporate or joint venture facilities requiring renewal before 2019.
11 Provision of services by a N A As a result, the directors are satisfied that the Group will have sufficient controlling shareholder ongoing facilities available to meet its financing requirements.
12 & 13 Shareholder waiver of dividends 99 Based on their assessment, the directors are of the opinion that the Group has adequate available resources to fund its operations 14 Agreements with controlling N A for the foreseeable future and so determine that it remains shareholders appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 102 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information th The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Important events since 30 November 2016 records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys There have been no important events affecting the Company or any transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time th subsidiary since 30 November 2016. the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act.
They are also Auditor responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Resolutions to appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company and and other irregularities.
to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Management report governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements The Strategic report and the Directors report together comprise the may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
management report for the purposes of the FCAs Disclosure and Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report, whose Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
names and functions are set out on pages 54 and 55, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Statement of directors responsibilities the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view and financial statements in accordance with applicable law of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the and regulations.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements taken as a whole: for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required the management report which comprises the Strategic to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with report and the Directors report includes a fair review of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the development and performance of the business and the the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have position of the Company and the undertakings included in the elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position affairs of the Company and of the Group and of their profit or loss and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report also In preparing the Group financial statements, International confirms that: Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit properly select and apply accounting policies: information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and present information, including accounting policies, in a manner the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any information: relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events with the provisions of section 418 of the Act.
and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial The Directors report, prepared in accordance with the performance: and requirements of the Act and the FCAs Listing and Disclosure make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as and Transparency Rules and comprising pages 99 to 103, a going concern.
was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by In preparing the Company financial statements, the directors are required to: Tanya Stote select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Company Secretary th consistently: 6 February 2017 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 103
