Our markets Responding to key opportunities Whilst the outcome of the EU Referendum Retail has reverberated across the property Three mega trends Online retail has undoubtedly caused industry, there is little evidence to impacting our market significant structural change in the sector, suggest that it has had any fundamental which is continuing to evolve to meet negative impact on the sector.
Until Changing lifestyles changing consumer demand.
The retail the scope and impact of our separation market is also facing other pressures arising We are living and working longer from the EU becomes clearer and other from inflation and its impact on disposable and are developing multi-phased, macro-economic factors continue to income, increased costs following the fall less structured lives, such that across play out, it is inevitable that uncertainty in value of sterling and reduced investment all demographic groups, people are over the UK economy will remain.
demand following the outcome of the reassessing their career and lifestyle Our diverse portfolio, the flexibility of EU Referendum.
Modest levels of yield choices, as well as their needs from our land bank and our strong financial expansion are anticipated during 2017 property and their wider environments.
base support our resilience in uncertain whilst rental values are likely to remain times, whilst our vision and innovative broadly flat.
There is a focus on Urbanisation approach enable us to adapt with repositioning to create destination agility to changing trends and an The United Nations has recently retail centres, which offer a range of ever-evolving marketplace.
projected that nearly all global shopping, dining and leisure facilities.
population growth from 2016 to 2030 Trends will be absorbed by cities.
This equates Investment market to over 1bn new city-dwellers over the Whilst the investment market had seen Industrial logistics next 14 years.
Urbanisation is already strong demand in 2015, this noticeably impacting town and urban planning The industrial and logistics sector has weakened in 2016 caused in the main as people demand more convenience proved resilient in the last 12 months, by uncertainty in the UK economic from their environment and more with robust demand for good value, outlook following the EU Referendum.
secure and flexible space with longer-term Interest from overseas purchasers, who re-planning potential.
Strong occupier are able to benefit from the fall in the value Technology demand, coupled with a lack of ready of sterling, remains strong, particularly for to occupy space, is driving an increase Innovations in energy, technology, property in supply-constrained markets in speculative development.
The Midlands science and food will have a significant with long income and good covenants.
golden triangle of the M1, M6 and M42 macro impact over the next 15 years.
The investment market is influenced by continues to dominate the logistics sector, In the nearer term, technology as a trends experienced across the wider offering access to over 90% of the UK catalyst for cultural and social change property sector, as well as macro-economic population within a four-hour drive, but will also affect the property industry factors, and is anticipated to remain subdued there is also increasing demand for space in areas such as retail and housing.
in line with reduced transaction activity.
Prospects for continued growth in the sector are good as online retailing continues to increase.
Residential Stamp duty and other tax changes, combined with Brexit, have created some hesitation in the prime London residential market.
However, regional demand for housing remains strong despite some uncertainties as to how the UK economy will evolve in the near term.
The shortage of property for sale, low levels of housebuilding and exceptionally low interest rates are expected to support UK house prices.
Demand for new homes remains robust against the backdrop of a housing shortage in the UK.
Government policy will continue to stimulate growth in terms of facilitating demand but also, increasingly, through addressing supply.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 22 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Opportunities for St. Modwen Growth of St. Modwen Homes With a 49% increase in profitability this year, the growth of St. Modwen Homes demonstrates real demand for housing.
Now build active on 18 sites and with an additional eight planned in 2017, the business is perfectly positioned to take advantage of the continued regional demand for new homes.
With a substantial land bank, we can also satisfy the continued appetite from housebuilders for oven ready land for development and exploit initiatives to drive housing supply.
Delivering mixed-use communities We are a true mixed-use developer with a diverse development portfolio.
We are increasingly using technology in order to understand customer spending habits and what drives footfall.
This is helping us to better understand the spaces we are creating as well as finding and retaining the right retailer match.
Often situated outside of established town centres, our mixed-use communities reflect the growth of urbanisation.
They combine shopping, leisure, workspace and new homes and thus offer a hub that is well-suited to the growing market for convenience living.
Well positioned in the regions to capture the growing industrial marketplace Our industrial portfolio is perfectly placed to capitalise on the growing regional demand for space, particularly in the historically strong Midlands and South West regions.
We continue to develop speculatively in areas that demonstrate demand and currently have 1m sq ft of speculative schemes in the pipeline.
Our ability to secure planning permissions and offer oven ready land for development from our land bank enables us to react quickly to occupier demand, whilst continuing to add value through our own actions.
Well positioned sites attract investors Our regional portfolio is well-spread across the UK and we have realised 76m of value through asset sales in 2016.
We anticipate continued interest in 2017 but with the focus predominantly on the industrial and logistics marketplace for which we have a good pipeline of speculative development that should capture demand for much needed space.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 23
