FUNDS AT THE HEART OF THE PROPOSITION TO OUR CLIENTS IS OUR INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH INDEPENDENT Appoints the fund managers EXPERTISE Sets performance objectives INVESTMENT MANAGE THE COMMITTEE MANAGERS Risk management and strategy INVESTMENT Decisions: Change firm?
CONSULTANTS Against such a backdrop of unpredictability it is not possible for us, nor any business, to OUR APPROACH it has never been more important to have a employ best in house investment managers This past year has been full of surprises, from reliable framework against which to make across multiple asset classes at any given time, shock referendum and election results, to investment decisions.
At St. Jamess Place, we so we do not attempt to.
Our IMA is based on a commodity price crashes and interest rate have a very simple but effective process that has process of selecting the best managers from changes.
The pound weakened, the dollar remained consistent throughout our history, companies across the globe, in a manner that is strengthened, and US $13.4 trillion of bonds in and can be described in three words: Select, well structured and avoids conflicts of interests issue traded on negative yields.
Despite all of Monitor and Change.
to the benefit of our clients.
The responsibility this, we have seen both the FTSE 100 and S&P of selecting the range of funds and fund 500 reaching record highs in October and The basis of our Investment Management managers that are made available to the clients December respectively.
These are Approach IMA is our strongly held view that of St. Jamess Place at any one time falls upon unprecedented times.
Exclusive to UK Funds Fund houses Lead fund managers retail investors 36 36 69 17 16 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information the Investment Committee.
The committee is As well as maintaining our existing investment Our Investment made up of a small group of executives and four offering, we continually strive to offer independent investment experts, and is appropriate breadth of choice for clients, and in advised by respected independent investment 2016 we launched a new Worldwide Income Management research consultancies, including Stamford fund equity income to meet the client demand Associates, Redington and AON Consulting.
This followed Approach offers the extensive development to our fixed income Once a manager has been selected, they are proposition in 2015, which is continuing to clients a process then carefully monitored to ensure they serve clients well.
continue to apply their investment process in that has a manner which is consistent with what is Looking to the future, the only certainty is expected of them, to ensure they retain the that there is continued uncertainty in financial consistently best possible chance of delivering positive real markets.
Rather than be confused by the returns for our clients over the medium to plethora of information and options available, long-term.
This is a process that involves our our Investment Management Approach offers demonstrated consultants, our in-house investment team, and clients a process that has consistently our Investment Committee, which provides demonstrated success over the years through a success over the reassuring depth of analysis to ensure we have number of different market environments.
visibility on whether our managers continue to years operate in a manner we expect.
2016 DEVELOPMENTS However, there are always instances where circumstances dictate that a change is necessary, such as a manager leaving to join another investment firm, or something that causes a managers approach to change for the worse.
In such instances, after careful consideration, our Investment Committee may take the decision to change that manager.
2016 presented us with a number of these circumstances, each one different from the other, but which led to six fund manager changes.
To emphasise that our approach is truly global, the location of our appointments ranged from Hong Kong, Cape Town, California and Copenhagen and many of the managers are not otherwise available in the UK wealth market, unless you are a client of St. Jamess Place.
All of this occurred within the SJP funds without our clients being disrupted, which is the true essence of our IMA.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 17
