Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Chairs Report CHAIRS REPORT David Bellamy has decided to step down from the Board at the end of 2017 after 26 years as an executive, the last eleven of which he has served as Chief Executive.
Under his leadership, St. Jamess Place has gone from strength to strength and is now the leading wealth manager in the UK.
It has demonstrably delivered for all of our stakeholders: clients, shareholders, Partners, employees Sarah Bates and the charities supported by the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
David has been an outstanding Chief Chair Executive and, although he will continue to lead the business for the remainder of the year, on behalf of the Board and the entire St. Jamess Place community, I AS YOU WILL ALREADY HAVE would like to thank him.
We are especially pleased that he will remain with the Group in an advisory capacity and READ IN THE CHIEF EXECUTIVES will take on the role of Non-executive Chair of our new AND THE CHIEF FINANCIAL International operations.
OFFICERS REPORTS, 2016 I am delighted that Andrew Croft will become Chief Executive from the 1st of January 2018.
Andrew has WAS ANOTHER STRONG YEAR already played a key role in the success of the Group FOR ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC serving as Chief Financial Officer for the last twelve years and is the ideal person to lead St. Jamess Place.
At the same time, Craig Gentle, who joined the Group in 2016 as Chief Risk Officer, will be appointed as Chief Financial Officer.
In recent years we have expanded our senior management In my Statement of last year, I commented that 2015 had team such that we have an outstanding leadership group seen much political, economic and social upheaval but with real strength and depth which Andrew will lead.
2016 was perhaps even more startling.
Much has been The management changes we have announced reflect the written about the potential impacts of the Brexit continued development of the executive team as well as referendum and the election of President Trump, but our commitment to the strategy which has been so predicting the future is difficult and relying on such successful over the years.
We will therefore continue to focus on the fundamentals of the business: delivering Having come far in our first 25 years, we are excited good outcomes for our clients through the St. Jamess about the opportunities that lie ahead.
We recognise that Place Partnership.
Naturally, we keep a watchful eye on it is incumbent on us to build on our strong foundations developments within the world around us, which will no by continuing to make incremental improvements in all doubt continue to change.
However, we benefit from our aspects of the business and by learning fast where we do Partner-client centric model which provides a rapid and not do as well as we would like.
That includes the further direct source of information about how the landscape is development of our proposition for both clients and developing on the ground and therefore how to respond.
Partners alike, maintaining our ability to deliver superior In times of uncertainty, the benefits of St. Jamess Places client outcomes, expanding our use of technology to long-term approach to advice and investment should stand support Partners, and completing the transfer of our back our clients in good stead.
It also means sustaining our focus on our core areas of expertise and retaining our low strategic risk appetite.
70 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: It is crucial that we preserve the distinct culture that simply adhering to box ticking exercises.
It is in all our characterises St. Jamess Place.
Much is written about interests to make sure we continue to deliver good culture these days but it is important to be focused on outcomes for our clients and take care of our good evidence of what makes organisations behave in a communities.
By doing so we are much more likely to responsible, fair and sustainable way in respect of all in deliver safe, sustainable growth for our shareholders.
We aim to keep those principles firmly in mind in all that we do.
It would be rash to claim 2016s results are a result of that approach and the work that we never make mistakes, but if we do, we seek to done over many years as the business has evolved and rectify and to learn as quickly as we can.
Our strategic and operational progress in 2016 should bear fruit in future years.
The strength of One cornerstone of our distinct culture which brings our performance in 2016 and our confidence in our together the entire St. Jamess Place community is the future growth prospects, means that the Board is pleased commitment to the St. Jamess Place Foundation, to propose a 20% increase in the final dividend to together with the charities that it supports.
Therefore, 20.67 pence per share, giving an increase of 18% for the Board is pleased to announce the doubling of matched the full year.
I look forward to supporting the business funding for our 25th anniversary year.
Alongside our in continuing to deliver to client, Partners, employees support for the Foundation, we remain committed to and shareholders in 2017. being involved in our local communities by way of volunteering and support, as well as through providing employability skills training for young people and through Sarah Bates delivering financial education courses for school children.
Chair 27 February 2017 We have taken seriously our responsibilities to develop our people.
For example, we are progressing our Academy concept further with a new programme for para-planners and accreditation schemes for our Partner support teams.
We are also enjoying the successes of our apprenticeship and graduate schemes, are working on our management development programmes, and have made advances on gender and diversity.
The SJP community is a broad church in many ways but we keep working to make sure we do not unwittingly deter good people from joining us, nor fail to support their continued development once part of the business.
We do operate in a complex world and our stakeholders understandably make many demands of us.
We participate frequently in regulatory and government consultations.
We survey our clients, Partners and employees, and we engage very actively with our shareholders not only regarding our financial results and strategy, but also around many governance matters.
We describe our approach to our social responsibilities on page 54.
All of these are discussed by your Board and we think it is to all stakeholders benefit that lines of communication are very short.
We have always favoured identifying how developments in the governance environment lead to more effective returns for stakeholders, rather than Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 71
