OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS SEEKS TO ATTRACT CLIENT WEALTH THROUGH OFFERING TRUSTED, FACE-TO-FACE FINANCIAL ADVICE TWINNED WITH A COMPELLING INVESTMENT PROPOSITION CLIENTS PARTNERS FUNDS OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVES To deliver positive To continue to grow To increase outcomes to an and develop the funds under increasing population Partnership management of clients FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES Deliver value for Clients and Shareholders 10 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Attracting new funds under management is DEVELOPING THE ST. JAMESS A simple and core to the success of the Group, and growth PLACE PARTNERSHIP in new business arises as a result of both St Jamess Place SJP is a wealth management increasing Partner numbers and also scalable model business: the Groups advisers, the St. Jamess encouraging further development by existing Place Partnership, provide clients with a Partners.
By providing an attractive financial planning service and face-to-face that delivers value proposition, the Group is able to recruit new advice: clients wealth is managed through the members to the Partnership, and the provision Groups distinctive Investment Management of high quality support enables Partners to Approach IMA.
Almost uniquely within the grow both their own businesses and ours.
UK wealth management market, this vertically integrated model means that the Group is CONTROLLING EXPENDITURE directly responsible for the whole offering, Group expenditure is carefully managed with including advice, management of investments clear objectives set and with a particular focus and any related services.
Many activities are outsourced so we can benefit from industry The Partnership is critical to the success of the specialists and expenses that vary with business business.
Partners are able to attract clients levels.
Such expenses include the costs of client and, through building trust, develop long-term administration and investment administration, relationships, supporting clients with their the costs of which can then be met from financial needs over time.
This relationship margins in our products.
Overall, a small based approach is greatly valued by the Groups proportion of expenditure is required to clients, no more so than in periods of financial maintain existing funds, but the majority is uncertainty.
The Groups experience is that invested in supporting and growing the there is an increasing demand for trusted advice Partnership and acquiring new funds.
from experienced advisers, backed by a strong brand and an organisation which takes Profits emerge from the business principally as responsibility for all aspects of the service.
a result of the annual management income from funds under management exceeding expenses.
DRIVING GROWTH IN FUNDS UNDER MANAGEMENT As a result, the Group is able to attract and retain retail funds under management from which it receives an annual management fee.
This is the principal source of income for the Group, and it grows with additional new business and also as a result of growth in markets and the success of our approach to investment management.
Read more on how our business model drives our strategy on page 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 11
