Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 3 5 Martin Griffiths Sir Brian Souter Gregor Alexander Chief Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: 2000 Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Appointment to the Board: 2013 Age: 50 Age: 62 Age: 53 Committee membership: Health, Safety Committee membership: Nomination Chair.
Committee membership: Audit Chair and Environmental.
Skills and previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, and Remuneration.
Executive responsibilities: Martin Griffiths was appointed Sir Brian Souter co-founded Stagecoach.
Sir Brian was Skills and previous experience: Gregor Alexander is a Chief Executive from 1 May 2013.
Martin Griffiths is named UK Master Entrepreneur of the Year at the 2010 Chartered Accountant and has significant recent and responsible for Group health, safety and environmental Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Awards and, in relevant financial experience.
He is the Finance Director of matters, overall strategy and management of all of the 2012, became the first public transport entrepreneur to SSE plc, a FTSE 100 company.
He has worked in the energy Groups operations.
be inducted into the British Travel and Hospitality Industry industry since 1990, when he joined Scottish Hydro Electric.
Skills and previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Hall of Fame.
Sir Brian is the architect of the Groups strategy He was appointed Finance Director and joined the Board of Martin Griffiths joined Stagecoach in 1997 as Group and philosophy and was the Groups Chief Executive until SSE in 2002, having previously been its Group Treasurer and Business Development Manager, before being appointed 1 May 2013.
He has extensive knowledge of the ground Tax Manager.
to the Board as Finance Director in April 2000.
He has also transportation industry around the world and continues External appointments: Finance Director of SSE plc.
served as the senior independent non-executive director of to support Martin Griffiths and the rest of the management Chairman of Scotia Gas Networks, a company 50% owned Robert Walters plc and as a non-executive director of Troy team.
Sir Brian has responsibility for the running of by SSE plc.
He was young Scottish Finance the Board.
External appointments: Chairman, Souter Investments.
External appointments: Virgin Rail Group Holdings Vice-President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 6 James Bilefield Limited Co-Chairman, AG Barr plc Non-Executive of Scotland.
Non-Executive Director Director, Rail Delivery Group Limited Chairman.
Appointment to the Board: 1 February 2016 4 Will Whitehorn Age: 46 2 Ross Paterson Deputy Chairman and Senior Committee membership: Remuneration Finance Director and Nomination.
Independent Non-Executive Director Skills and previous experience: James Bilefield has an Appointment to the Board: 2013 international track record of successfully leading growing Appointment to the Board: 2011 Age: 44 digital businesses.
He managed the digital transformation Age: 56 Committee membership: Pensions Oversight.
of media group, Cond Nast, across 27 countries, scaled Committee membership: Health, Safety and Executive responsibilities: Ross Paterson is responsible Skypes global operations as part of its founding Environmental Chair, Audit and Nomination.
for the Groups overall financial policy, taxation, treasury, management team and held senior commercial and Skills and previous experience: Will Whitehorn joined corporate finance, City relations, financial reporting, management roles at Yahoo!.
In 2015, he joined ticketscript, the Virgin Group in 1987 and served as Group Public information technology and employee benefits.
He Europes leading multichannel event ticketing business, Relations manager and as Brand Development and supports the Chief Executive in the management of the as non-executive Chairman.
Formerly CEO of global Corporate Affairs Director, before being appointed as Groups operations and new business development.
advertising technology company, OpenX, he also President of Virgin Galactic from 2007 to 2011.
Will is Skills and previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, co-founded the local information business, UpMyStreet, a former non-executive Chairman of Next Fifteen Ross Paterson joined Stagecoach in 1999.
He became following an investment banking career at JP Morgan Chase.
Communications Group plc and of Crowd Reactive Limited.
Director of Finance & Company Secretary in 2007, with External appointments: Ticketscript TSTM Group He was a member of the Science & Technology Facilities responsibility for treasury, corporate finance, City relations, Limited Chairman, McKinsey & Company Senior Council STFC until 2012, chaired its Economic Impact financial reporting, internal audit and the company Advisor, Advent International Industry Advisor, UK Advisory Board and was a non-executive director of STFC secretariat.
He succeeded Martin Griffiths as Finance Government Digital Service Advisory Board Member, Innovations Limited.
He was appointed Stagecoach Deputy Director in 2013.
He is former Deputy Convenor of the Audit Teach First Trustee.
Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Assurance Committee of the Institute of Chartered effective from 1 April 2016.
External appointments: Speed Communications Agency External appointments: Director and Chairman of Audit Limited Chairman, Scottish Exhibition Centre Limited Committee, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited.
Member of Chairman, Purplebricks Group plc Non-Executive the Business Policy Committee of the Institute of Chartered Director.
Member of the First Minister of Scotlands Accountants of Scotland.
President of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Scottish Gallery Aitken Dott Limited Chairman.
page 28 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Emperor.
indd 2 12 07 2016 14:31 7 8 9 10 11 7 9 11 Sir Ewan Brown CBE Ray OToole Garry Watts MBE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: 1988 Appointment to the Board: Proposed election with Appointment to the Board: 2007 Age: 74 effect from 1 September 2016 Age: 59 Committee membership: Pensions Oversight Chair Age: 60 Committee membership: Remuneration Chair and and Nomination.
Skills and previous experience: Sir Ewan Brown served Skills and previous experience: Ray OToole served as Skills and previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, as an executive director of Noble Grossart for 35 years and Chief Operating Officer of National Express Group until May Garry Watts is a former Chief Executive of SSL International continues to serve as a non-executive director of Noble 2010.
Ray stood down from the main board of National plc, Non-Executive Director of Medicines and Healthcare Grossart Holdings Ltd. Sir Ewan was Chairman of Lloyds TSB Express plc in 2010 after ten years as Group Chief Operating Products Regulatory Agency and Protherics plc and Scotland from 1999 to 2008.
He has also served as a Officer and UK Chief Executive.
Ray was responsible for the Executive Director of Celltech plc.
He is also former Finance non-executive director of Wood Group and Lloyds Banking National Express Groups bus and coach businesses and rail Director of Medeva plc and partner with KPMG.
Group and as Chairman of Creative Scotland 2009 Ltd. franchises, with operations in Spain, the USA, Canada and Until April 2016, Garry was the Stagecoach Deputy External appointments: Scottish Financial Enterprise the UK.
In November 2013 Ray joined Kier Group, Fleet and Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Noble Grossart Holdings Ltd Non-Executive Passenger Services as Managing Director.
In July 2015 he led He intends to step down from the Board in July 2016.
Director and Senior Governor of St Andrews University.
a management buy-out team with private equity investor, External appointments: Spire Healthcare Group plc Endless LLP, to create Essential Fleet Services Limited, a Chairman, BTG plc Chairman, Foxtons Group plc company which provides 3,500 vehicles with contract hire Chairman, Coca-Cola European Partners plc Nonand leasing to the Local Authority and Corporate markets Executive Director.
Ray continues to serve as Chief Executive of Non-Executive Director Essential Fleet Services Limited.
External appointments: Yorkshire Water Services Limited Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Non-Executive Director.
The British Transport Police Age: 73 Authority Non-Executive Director.
Committee membership: Health, Safety and Environmental.
Skills and previous experience: Ann Gloag co-founded 10 Karen Thomson Stagecoach and served as an executive director until 2000.
Non-Executive Director She has extensive experience in transport operations, health and safety matters, property management and Appointment to the Board: 31 March 2016 wider business management.
Age: 54 External appointments: Mercy Ships International Committee membership: Audit, Health, Safety Board Member.
Skills and previous experience: Karen served as Chief Executive of AOL UK and President of AOL Europe, developing both the telecoms and advertising lines of the business.
As a member of the Vodafone UK Board, Karen had responsibility for developing online strategy, customer experience and online sales performance.
Karen was a non-executive director of UBM plc from 2006 to 2014 and served on its Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees.
External appointments: Outplay Entertainment Limited Chairman.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 29 132577 STC Emperor.
