Strategic report 1.1 Introduction Stagecoach Group plc the Company is the ultimate parent company of a group of companies the Group principally involved in the sale and operation of passenger transport.
The directors of Stagecoach Group plc the Directors are pleased to present their report on the Group for the year ended 30 April 2016.
This section contains the Strategic report, which includes the information that the Group is required to produce to meet the need for a strategic report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Biographies of each director are contained in section 2 of this Annual Report and the Directors report is set out in section 3.
1.2 Cautionary statement The Strategic report has been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Its purpose is to inform shareholders of the Company and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
This Strategic report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this Strategic report will be realised.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation.
1.3 Overview of the year ended 30 April 2016 We are pleased to report a solid set of underlying results for the year ended 30 April 2016.
Our priority remains delivering safe, high quality and value-for-money travel for our customers.
Our bus and rail businesses across the UK, mainland Europe and North America have experienced more challenging trading conditions over the last six to twelve months.
However, we have achieved further revenue and underlying profit growth during the year, while the investment and management actions we are taking now should help ensure we have a strong, sustainable business for the long-term.
Total operating profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items was up 0.7% at 228.8m 2015: 227.1m.
Earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items were 3.7% higher at 27.7p 2015: 26.7p.
The results include the contribution from Virgin Trains East Coast, which began operating the East Coast rail franchise in March 2015.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the year of 7.9p per share 2015: 7.3p which, if approved, would give a total dividend for the year up 8.6% to 11.4p per share 2015: 10.5p.
The proposed final dividend would be payable on 5 October 2016 to shareholders on the register at 2 September 2016.
A core part of our strategy is ongoing investment in new vehicles, technology and other assets to deliver a better experience for our customers.
In the year ended 30 April 2016, net capital expenditure was 187.0m 2015: 140.9m.
Across all of our divisions, we are prioritising investment in measures which will make our bus and rail services more attractive, easier to use and generate future growth.
Our locally-managed bus companies in the UK have strong partnerships with local authorities.
We believe this approach will continue to offer the best and most sustainable bus networks in the future, particularly against a backdrop of tight public sector funding.
In light of that, we are cautious regarding the proposals on the Bus Services Bill, which the UK Government introduced in May 2016, and we will maintain our engagement with Government to discourage it from introducing measures that would hinder the continued development of bus services.
Revenue growth in the UK Bus regional operations Division over the last year has been low.
In light of that, we have kept recent fare increases to a minimum and are seeking to stimulate demand through those low fare increases, enhanced marketing and the further development and promotion of our digital offering.
In the trading update we published in April 2016, we noted that the outlook for the UK rail industry was more challenging than it was a year ago and that the overall industry rate of revenue growth had slowed.
We are working hard to deliver on our franchise obligations and to improve the financial prospects of the Division.
We have taken and will take further steps to mitigate the effects of lower revenue growth, focusing on cost control and additional initiatives to grow revenue.
We continue to work constructively with the Department for Transport and other industry partners to meet our obligations, manage contract changes and ensure the continued stability and growth of our rail businesses.
We have confirmed the sale of our megabus.
com inter-city coach retailing operations for journeys involving mainland Europe.
That retailing business has been sold to FlixBus, a retailer of inter-city coach services across a number of countries in Europe.
The Group will continue to operate a number of intercity coach services on behalf of FlixBus and we look forward to building on that new partnership.
com services within the UK and North America are not part of the sale.
In North America, we have taken steps to match our megabus.
com inter-city coach services to changing patterns of demand and are well placed to expand our networks as conditions improve.
After almost nine years on the Board, Garry Watts has stepped down as the Company's Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director and will leave the Board on 31 July 2016.
Non-Executive Director, Will Whitehorn, has assumed the role of Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Helen Mahy stepped down from the Board to become a non-executive director of SSE plc, while Phil White has resigned from the Board to reduce his public company directorships and to pursue other interests.
The Board would like to thank Garry, Helen and Phil for their valuable service over several years.
We are pleased to have welcomed James Bilefield and Karen Thomson to the Board as non-executive directors.
Both have a strong background in digital businesses, as well as broader business expertise, and will be great assets as we deliver on our strategy to transform our customers' experience and harness the significant potential of new technology to help grow our business.
We are also pleased to have announced the proposed election of Ray OToole as a nonexecutive director effective from 1 September 2016.
Ray will bring further, extensive experience of the transport sector to the Board and it is planned that he will chair the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee.
We note the result of the recent referendum in favour of the UK leaving the European Union.
As with other businesses, we are closely following developments in this area.
Although we have little business inEurope outside the UK, we acknowledge the referendum result may lead to continuing economic, consumer and political uncertainty.
We remain proud of the commitment and professionalism of our employees across the Group.
They make a significant contribution to the high levels of passenger satisfaction at our companies and our efforts as a responsible business to deliver on our sustainability targets around carbon, water and waste.
We have made a satisfactory start to the year ending 30 April 2017, although it is still early in the year.
While trading remains challenging, we have not significantly changed our expectation of adjusted earnings per share for the year ending 30 April 2017.
We remain positive on the strong long-term prospects for public transport.
Public transport can help address the challenges and secure the opportunities presented by population growth, greater urbanisation, rising road congestion, environmental concerns and advances in technology.
What is important, therefore, is that we continue to manage the Group in view of those longer term prospects and take the right actions in these more challenging times to ensure the Group is best positioned to capitalise on the longer term opportunities.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 1 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 2 Strategic report 1.3 Overview of the year ended 30 April 2016 continued Revenue by division is summarised below: REVENUE Year to 30 April 2016 2015 Functional 2016 2015 Growth m m currency Functional currency m % Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 1,032.8 1,036.3 1,032.8 1,036.3 0.3 % megabus Europe 18.4 9.2 18.4 9.2 100.0% UK Bus London 267.1 260.6 267.1 260.6 2.5% North America 430.9 425.4 US$ 647.7 680.1 4.8 % UK Rail 2,129.1 1,478.4 2,129.1 1,478.4 44.0% Intra-Group revenue 7.2 5.5 7.2 5.5 Group revenue 3,871.1 3,204.4 Operating profit by division is summarised below: OPERATING PROFIT Year to 30 April 2016 2015 Functional 2016 2015 m % margin m % margin currency Functional currency m Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 137.3 13.3% 145.3 14.0% 137.3 145.3 megabus Europe 24.1 131.0 % 4.2 45.7 % 24.1 4.2 UK Bus London 20.2 7.6% 26.3 10.1% 20.2 26.3 North America 18.9 4.4% 22.1 5.2% US$ 28.4 35.3 UK Rail 66.7 3.1% 26.9 1.8% 66.7 26.9 Group overheads 11.9 13.9 Restructuring costs 3.1 0.8 204.0 201.7 Joint ventures share of loss profit after tax Virgin Rail Group 24.2 22.3 Citylink 1.4 1.1 Twin America 0.8 2.0 Total operating profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 228.8 227.1 Intangible asset expenses 15.8 11.9 Exceptional items 41.9 2.7 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures loss profit after taxation 171.1 217.9 More details on the financial results for the year are provided in sections 1.5 and 1.6 of this Annual Report.
1 Overview of the Stagecoach Group Stagecoach Group is a leading international public transportation group, with extensive operations in the UK, mainland Europe, the United States and Canada.
The Group employs around 40,000 people and operates bus, coach, train and tram services.
The Group has five main divisions UK Bus regional operations, megabus Europe, UK Bus London, North America and UK Rail.
We are committed to conducting business in a socially responsible way and we believe this to be consistent with our business objectives and strategy.
Indeed, by taking a responsible approach towards the environment and the wider community, we believe we will enhance our objective to deliver organic growth.
The Group aims to maintain an entrepreneurial culture, reflecting its family heritage.
That involves encouraging sensible risk taking while managing risks appropriately and responding to risks that do crystallise.
It is inevitable and appropriate for a group of its size that the Group has a number of policies and procedures to ensure appropriate behaviours but these are designed to avoid stifling entrepreneurism.
More information on the Groups core values and policies is provided in section 1.8.
Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its ordinary shares are publicly traded and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
Throughout this Annual Report, Stagecoach Group plc is referred to as the Company and the group headed by it is referred to as Stagecoach and or the Group.
In the remaining parts of this section 1.4, we: Section Summarise the Groups business objectives and long-term strategy 1.4.
2 Describe each of the Groups business segments, their regulatory environments, their strategy, the market opportunities, the competitive position and likely future market developments 1.4.
3 Summarise how we aim to create value, by providing an overview of the Groups business model 1.4.
4 Discuss the key resources and relationships, including contractual relationships, that underpin the Groups business and strategy 1.4.
5 Set out the principal risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives and strategy 1.4.
6 Describe how we measure and monitor progress against our objectives and strategy, and how we are performing 1.4.
2 What we look to achieve business objectives and long-term strategy Group strategy The key elements of the Groups business strategy to deliver long-term shareholder value are: To deliver organic growth across all of the Groups operations by providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused transport services that deliver a positive customer experience at a reasonable price: To acquire businesses that are complementary to the Groups existing operations, in areas where the Groups management has proven expertise and which offer prospective returns on capital in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital: In addition to organic and acquisition growth, to maintain and grow the business by bidding for selected rail franchises and bus contracts to seek to secure new franchises and contracts where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment UK Bus regional operations Description The UK Bus regional operations Division connects communities in more than 100 towns and cities across the UK on bus networks stretching from the Highlands of Scotland to south west England.
These include major city bus operations in Liverpool, Newcastle, Hull, Manchester, Oxford, Sheffield, Cambridge and Exeter.
The UK Bus regional operations Division operates a fleet of around 7,200 buses and coaches across a number of regional operating units.
Each regional operating unit is managed independently and is led by a managing director.
In addition to local bus services in towns and cities, Stagecoach operates inter-urban services linking major towns within its regional operating company areas.
The Group also runs the budget inter-city coach service, megabus.
com, and the UK Bus regional operations Division includes megabus.
com coach services within the UK.
In Scotland, Stagecoach has a joint venture Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited with international transport group, ComfortDelGro.
The joint venture is responsible for the Scottish Citylink express coach network and megabus.
com branded services to, from and within Scotland.
Stagecoach owns 35% of the share capital of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited and ComfortDelGro owns the remaining 65%.
The joint venture is the leading retailer of scheduled, inter-city coach services in Scotland.
Stagecoach is responsible for the day-to-day operational management of the business, which is overseen by a joint board.
Regulatory environment The current structure of the bus market in Great Britain outside London was established by the Transport Act 1985.
This is essentially a deregulated structure: any holder of a Public Service Vehicle operators licence may operate bus services, having first registered various details with the relevant traffic commissioner.
The traffic commissioners are responsible for enforcing compliance with these registered details, including standards of maintenance, reliability and punctuality.
The UK Bus regional operations bus and coach services are operated on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
Most of the Divisions revenue is from customers paying for their own travel by bus.
The Division also operates tendered services, including schools contracts, on behalf of local authorities.
Around 11% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is receivable from local authorities in respect of such tendered and school services.
For some services, the Group receives revenue from passengers as well as tendered revenue from a local authority.
Around 24% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is earned from statutory concessionary fare schemes, whereby the Group is reimbursed by public authorities for carrying older people and people with disabilities, at no charge to the passenger, on the same bus services that are also available to the wider public.
So, the Group would typically receive both revenue from passengers and also, concessionary revenue from a local authority in respect of a single bus service and in some cases, may also receive tendered revenue for the same service.
Strategy The strategy of the UK Bus regional operations is to deliver value over time driven by organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes as a result of providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused bus services at a reasonable price to customers.
This may be supplemented by winning new tendered or contract work and or acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise.
Market opportunity The Group has around 23% of the UK Bus market excluding London.
The UK Department for Transports National Travel Survey NTS is a household survey of personal travel within Great Britain by residents of England.
The NTS found that in 2014, there was an average of 921 trips per person per year.
Trips by car or van accounted for 78% of distance travelled, bus trips accounted for 5%, rail trips accounted for 10% and walking, cycling and other modes accounted for 7%.
There therefore remains significant market opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus.
According to the NTS, around 25% of bus journeys are for shopping, 20% for leisure, 19% for education, 20% for commuting and business, 12% are for personal business e. g. visits to services such as banks, medical consultations etc.
and the balance are for other purposes.
Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus regional operations have performed well during more challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Although revenue is not immune to macroeconomic changes, it is less exposed than in many other types of business.
In addition, the Group can adjust the pricing and frequency of the majority of its services and is therefore well placed to respond to any changes in demand for particular services.
We estimate that around 70% of the costs vary with operating miles.
Competition The UK Bus regional operations face competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
The Group regards its primary competitor as the private car and aims to encourage modal shift from car to public transport.
The other major groups that operate buses in the UK outside of London are three other groups publically quoted on the London Stock Exchange FirstGroup, National Express Group, and Go-Ahead Group and Arriva, which is owned by Deutsche Bahn.
New, potential, sources of competition are emerging, often enabled by digital developments.
Potential new competitors include ride-sharing websites, digitally-driven taxi services and aggregators of travel services.
Future market The level of Government investment in the UK Bus Industry has come under pressure in recent years with reductions in developments Bus Service Operators Grant a rebate of fuel tax and constraints on the payments made by Government to bus operators for carrying older people and people with disabilities at no charge to the passenger.
Funding of tendered services by local government has also reduced.
The Group is therefore gradually becoming less reliant on Government and a greater proportion of its revenue is coming directly from passengers.
The Division does continue to face risks related to regulatory changes and availability of public funding as noted in section 1.4.
Technological developments present both opportunities and threats to growing passenger volumes.
There are positive long-term conditions for further growth in demand for UK Bus services created by population growth, increasing urbanisation, rising road congestion, supportive government policy and public concerns for the environment, which augur well for the future of the Division.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 3 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 4 Strategic report 1.4.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued megabus Europe Description The megabus Europe Division operates megabus.
com inter-city coach services within mainland Europe and between the UK and mainland Europe.
The Divisions revenue is principally derived from the sale of inter-city coach journeys via its own websites.
com business was formerly a component of the UK Bus regional operations Division but for reporting purposes, is now treated as a separate division.
The megabus Europe Division operates a fleet of around 100 coaches and serves destinations in the UK, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium and Spain.
Regulatory environment The regulatory environment for inter-city coach services in Europe varies by country.
The principal countries served by the Division are the UK, France, Germany and Italy.
Each of those countries permits commercially operated inter-city coach services but some require specific route authorisations to be held.
Strategy and As noted in section 1.3 of this Annual Report, the Group has now sold the retailing part of the megabus Europe market opportunity Division to FlixBus.
The Group will continue to operate a number of inter-city megabus.
com services involving mainland Europe under contract to FlixBus.
The Group aims to build on its new partnership with FlixBus.
Macroeconomic factors Following the sale of the retailing part of the megabus Europe Division to FlixBus, the Division is less exposed to shortterm macroeconomic changes because the business receives a fee from FlixBus for operating services irrespective of the passenger volumes on those services.
Its costs and in particular, labour costs, can vary due to macroeconomic changes and also, in the longer term, the level of services that FlixBus offers might be affected by the macroeconomy.
Competition Following the sale of the retailing part of the megabus Europe Division to FlixBus, the Divisions principal competition is from other coach operators for future contract opportunities.
Future market The European inter-city coach market remains highly competitive following the fide-regulation of the market in a number developments of countries.
We may see a reduction in the number of retailers of inter-city coach services over time as they each seek to improve financial returns.
UK Bus London Description The Group is the fourth largest operator in the London bus market, with an estimated 15% share of that market.
The business operates from 9 depots and has a fleet of around 1,300 buses serving routes in and around east and south-east London.
Regulatory environment The UK Bus London business operates bus services under contract to Transport for London, receiving a fixed fee subject to adjustment for certain inflation indices and taking the cost and capital risk.
Bus operators tender to win contracts and each contract is typically for a five-year period with the potential for it to be extended by two years.
The UK Bus London Division currently has over 80 separate contracts to provide bus services on behalf of Transport for London this spreads the Divisions risk of financial performance being adversely affected when a contract expires and the business is unsuccessful in winning the replacement contract.
Strategy Our strategic focus in the London bus market is now on maintaining good operational performance and tight control of costs while seeking to bid competitively for new contracts.
Market opportunity The Group operates approximately 15% of the bus operating mileage contracted by Transport for London to bus operators.
The Group does not seek to gain market share for its own sake and remains disciplined in ensuring that its bids for new contracts offer an acceptable trade-off of risk and reward.
Transport for London has plans to increase the level of contracted bus services in coming years, which may present some growth opportunities for the business.
Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus London operations are not especially exposed to short-term changes in macroeconomic conditions because the business receives a fee from Transport for London for operating services irrespective of the passenger volumes on those services.
Its costs and in particular, labour costs, can vary due to macroeconomic changes and also, in the longer term, the level of services that Transport for London offers for tender might be affected by the macroeconomy.
Competition UK Bus London faces competition to win contracts from Transport for London from other bus operators, the largest of which are Go-Ahead Group, Arriva, Metroline, RATP, Transit Systems and Abellio.
Future market In the short-term, revenue growth could come from inflationary price increases, retaining work on tender but at higher developments rates and or winning contracts from other operators.
There are longer term opportunities to benefit from Transport for Londons plans to expand the network of bus services in London.
Continuing population growth in London and positive government policy on public transport contribute to a positive long-term outlook for the business.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued North America Description The North America Division provides bus and coach transport services in the United States and Canada.
Our businesses include the operation of bus services under contract to transit authorities and others: commuter bus services: inter-city coach services: bus tours: charter operations: and sightseeing bus services.
com North America, a low cost inter-city coach business, which sells inter-city coach journeys within North America and operates or sub-contracts the coach services.
The North America business is headed by a chief operating officer.
Stagecoach excluding its joint venture currently operates approximately 2,300 vehicles in the United States and Canada.
In addition to its wholly-owned operations in North America, Stagecoach has a joint venture, Twin America LLC, with CitySights NY.
The joint venture principally operates sightseeing bus services in New York.
The Group holds 60% of the economic rights and 50% of the voting rights in the joint venture.
Twin America LLC is headed by a chief executive and is overseen by a joint board.
Regulatory environment The North America business operates on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
It also operates some tendered services for local authorities and services contracted by corporations.
Strategy The strategy of the North America Division is to deliver organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes as a result of providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused services at a reasonable price to customers.
This may be supplemented by winning new contract work and or acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise.
Market opportunity The Group estimates that it has less than 4% of the bus and coach market in North America and is growing this through innovative services such as megabus.
The latest US Department of Transportations Bureau of Transportation Statistics, published in 2016, show that in 2014 some 86% of transportation to work was by car, compared with only 5% by public transport.
The opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus and coach is substantial and megabus.
com has been successful in doing this.
Macroeconomic factors The North American operations are more exposed to macroeconomic factors than the UK Bus operations as a greater proportion of their revenue is derived from customers using its services for leisure purposes, including its charter, tour and sightseeing services.
Demand for its services, particularly megabus.
com, is also affected by movements in oil prices.
It nevertheless has some flexibility over pricing and supply, enabling it to effectively respond to changes in macroeconomic conditions.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
com faces competition from the car but also from other coach operators, airlines and train operators.
FirstGroup and National Express Group are also major operators of coach and bus services in North America.
Future market The Group has taken a leading role in the development of bus and coach travel in North America through its megabus.
The market for inter-city coach travel, such as that provided by megabus.
com, has grown rapidly and while megabus.
com revenue has declined more recently reflecting lower oil prices, we expect the inter-city coach market to continue to present significant long-term opportunities to the Group.
UK Rail Description Stagecoach Group has major rail operations in the UK.
Our principal rail subsidiaries are South West Trains, East Midlands Trains and Virgin Trains East Coast.
South West Trains runs train services in south west England out of London Waterloo railway station, and operates Island Line services on the Isle of Wight.
The South West franchise is contracted to run until February 2017.
The UK Department for Transport has the option to extend the franchise by up to around six months and has already announced its intention to extend the franchise until at least June 2017.
From 11 November 2007, we have operated the East Midlands Trains business.
The business comprises main line train services running to London St Pancras, regional rail services in the East Midlands area and inter-regional services between Norwich and Liverpool.
The East Midlands Trains franchise is contracted to run until at least March 2018.
The UK Department for Transport has the option to extend the franchise by up to one-year and has already announced its intention to extend the franchise until at least July 2018.
Stagecoach has a 90% share in the Virgin Trains East Coast business with the Virgin Group of Companies holding the other 10%.
The Virgin Trains East Coast franchise began in March 2015 and is planned to run until 31 March 2023, with the option for a one-year extension at the discretion of the UKDepartment for Transport.
It provides inter-city train services between London and a number of locations including Edinburgh, Newcastle, Leeds and York.
We also operate Supertram, a 28km light rail network incorporating three routes in the city of Sheffield, on a concession running until 2024.
Stagecoach Group has a 49% shareholding in a joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, which operates the West Coast Trains rail franchise.
The current West Coast Trains rail franchise runs until March 2018.
The other shareholder in Virgin Rail Group is the Virgin Group of Companies.
South West Trains, East Midlands Trains, Virgin Trains EastCoast and the tram operations each have a managing director, who reports to the Managing Director of the UK Rail Division, who in turn reports to the Chief Executive.
Virgin Rail Group has a managing director, who reports to the Virgin Rail Group board, which includes Stagecoach Group and Virgin Group representatives.
Regulatory environment The UK rail operating market is split into a number of separate franchises, which are awarded by the Government for set time periods to a specification set by the Department for Transport on the basis of competitive bids.
Train operating companies operate passenger trains on the UK rail network.
The UK railway infrastructure is owned and operated by Network Rail, a not for dividend company that invests any profits into improving the railway.
Network Rail runs, maintains and develops tracks, signalling systems, bridges, tunnels, level crossings and key stations.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 5 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 6 Strategic report 1.4.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued UKRail continued Strategy In rail, we seek to deliver organic growth across all of our existing operations and to maintain and grow the business by bidding for selected new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
Market opportunity The market opportunity in rail arises from the potential to retain existing and or win new franchises, and also, from the potential to attract increased use of the Groups rail services.
With a number of franchises expected to be tendered within the next few years, there is scope to win new franchises.
Macroeconomic factors The rail operations are exposed to macroeconomic factors with passenger revenue correlated to Gross Domestic Product GDP and employment levels.
The exposure is further increased by the relatively fixed cost base of the business which restricts the scope to reduce costs in response to reduced demand.
The Groups South West Trains franchise has significant protection against macroeconomic risks due to the receipt of revenue support from Government whereby Government pays the Group a proportion of the shortfall of actual revenue to the revenue expected when the Group bid for the franchise.
The Groups East Midlands Trains and Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, as well as the West Coast Trains franchise operated by the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint venture, are not entitled to revenue support in the form received by South West Trains.
They do, however, have GDP sharing agreements that are intended to ensure that the Department for Transport bears most of the risk of variances in revenue resulting from UK GDP differing from that expected at the time of the applicable franchise agreement.
On bids for new franchises, the Groups evaluation of macroeconomic risks is a key component of the bid process.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other train operators but also from other modes of transport.
The main competitors that bid against the Group for UK rail franchises are FirstGroup, National Express Group, Go-Ahead Group, Arriva, MTR, Keolis, SNCF, Eurostar, Serco and Abellio.
Future market The UK Department for Transport has a clear schedule in place for re-tendering rail franchises.
The Group will assess each developments opportunity to bid for a new rail franchise on a case-by-case basis.
The UK continues to see growth in demand for rail services presenting opportunities for the Groups existing rail interests and also in its bids for new franchises.
4 How we create value the business model The Groups overall business model is illustrated below.
Stagecoach factors driving demand for public transport Other drivers of Safe and Advertising Value for CustomerCost factors Investment reliable and money growth focused in services transport marketing pricing services Flexible cost Contract base franchise in bus bids Economic returns Strong Group-wide Acquisitions cost control External factors driving demand for public transport Increasing Rising Supportive Long-term Urbanisation Lower cost Contract road environmental government economic and population rail business management congestion awareness policy growth growth model The right environment Decentralised Emphasis on Sustainable, Short chains of Environment to to underpin the management operational efficient long-term command support innovation business model structure performance capital structure The business model varies to some extent by division.
The business model is intended to deliver the business objectives and long-term strategy explained above in that it is designed to preserve and add value through organic growth, targeted acquisitions and contract rail franchise wins.
The overall model of the Group is based on a relatively decentralised management structure with short chains of command and close monitoring and direction from the centre.
Across the Group, there is an emphasis on achieving strong operational performance as an underpin of strong financial performance.
The business model for the Groups UK Bus regional operations and North America Divisions is designed to be sufficiently flexible to respond to developments in the markets in which they operate and to changes in demand.
The key features of this business model are: A decentralised management structure enabling local management to quickly identify and respond to developments in each local market: An emphasis on lightly regulated bus operations enabling management to vary prices, operating schedules and timetables in response to developments in each local market without significant hindrance from regulation: A flexible cost base whereby operating mileage and operating costs can be flexed in response to changes in demand.
The business model of the UK Bus London and UK Rail Divisions is different.
The businesses are more highly regulated and their cost base is less flexible so there is greater management focus on agreeing the right contractual arrangements, including appropriate risk-sharing arrangements, and ensuring these are appropriately managed for the duration of each contract.
The business model of the megabus Europe Division is also akin to this following the sale of the megabus Europe retailing business to FlixBus.
page 6 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 7 Strategic report 1.4.
5 What we need, to do what we do resources and relationships Stagecoach Group has a range of resources and relationships, including contractual relationships, that underpin its business and support its strategy.
These assist in giving the Group a competitive advantage in the markets in which it operates.
Customers Millions of people use our services and our relationship with our customers is important to us.
To deliver organic growth in revenue, a key element of our strategy, we need to provide services that people want to use.
We conduct customer research to monitor our performance and to determine how we can improve the quality, delivery and accessibility of our services.
We are passionate about providing good customer service and our businesses have regular and ongoing discussions with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from managers on aspects of our service as well as consultation and information sharing on particular issues.
An important element of the Groups success in growing its customer base lies in its record of product innovation and new ideas on developing effective public transport systems.
Employees Human resources are key to the Groups business and the Groups relationship with its employees is therefore fundamental to achieving its objectives.
We aim to recruit and retain the best employees in our sector, offering an excellent package of benefits, which allows us to deliver good customer service to our passengers.
The Groups individual divisions invest significantly in the training and development of our people and we operate a successful graduate training scheme which provides one source of training for the managers of the future.
We have established strong working relationships with trade unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other employee benefits.
We also communicate with our people face to face and through a number of internal publications.
The financial community Our shareholders and lenders are critical to our business success.
We have a regular programme of meetings with investors and provide frequent updates to the markets and financial community on our performance.
We have contractual arrangements with banks and other finance providers for the provision of funds and financial products to the Group.
Government and regulatory bodies Our managers have ongoing relationships with national and local government in our main countries of operation to ensure the effective delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting wider objectives.
We work with local authorities, including passenger transport executives, regional transport committees and transit authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
Many of our businesses have partnership agreements in place to improve the delivery of public transport in their areas.
In the UK, we work closely with the Department for Transport, the Scottish Government, Transport Scotland, the Welsh Government and Transport for London.
We contract with local authorities, government bodies and other parties for the supply of bus services on a contracted or tendered basis.
We have franchise agreements with the Department for Transport governing the supply of franchised rail services in the UK.
We have constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for Integrated Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and lobbying groups such as the Campaign for Better Transport.
Suppliers We rely on a range of suppliers to provide goods and services linked to our bus and rail operations.
All of our businesses have various contractual relationships with suppliers, including purchase contracts with fuel suppliers, vehicle suppliers, IT companies and spare part suppliers.
The operation of our rail franchises depends upon a number of contractual relationships with suppliers, including contracts with Network Rail governing station and track access arrangements, leases with rolling stock companies for the lease of trains and maintenance contracts for the maintenance of trains.
Information technology is increasingly important to effectively operate our services and to meet our customers expectations.
Significant investment, internal management resource and external supplier input support the development and operation of IT systems.
Corporate reputation, brand strength and market position Stagecoach is one of the best-known public transport operators in the UK and is consistently rated highly for the quality of its services in research by independent organisations.
We value our reputation, both as a public transport provider and as a key part of the communities in which we operate.
Stagecoach has a strong set of brands that support our strategy of organic growth in our business and that help maintain our leading market position.
Natural resources and manufacturing technology Operating our bus and rail services requires considerable use of natural resources, including diesel and electricity.
We have arrangements in place to ensure that these resources are sourced efficiently and that our supplies are maintained to ensure the smooth functioning of our business.
A number of experienced manufacturers supply our buses, coaches, trains and trams, which are produced to detailed specifications relevant to the individual markets in which they are required.
Licences Various licences are held by Stagecoach giving authority to operate our public transport services and these are maintained up to date as required.
Transport and industry representation groups We are active members of industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK which covers buses and light rail, the Rail Delivery Group and the American Bus Association.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 7 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 8 Strategic report 1.4.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties Like most businesses, there is a range of risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the matters described below are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all possible risks and uncertainties.
Generally, the Group is subject to risk factors both internal and external to its businesses.
External risks include global political and economic conditions, competitive developments, supply interruption, regulatory changes, foreign exchange, materials and consumables including fuel prices, pensions funding, environmental risks, industrial action, litigation and the risk of terrorism.
Internal risks include risks related to capital expenditure, acquisitions, regulatory compliance and failure of internal controls.
The Board of Directors determines the nature and extent of the principal risks that it is willing for the Group to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Information on the risk management process is provided in section 4.13.
The focus below is on those specific risks and uncertainties that the Directors believe are the most significant to the Group, taking account of the likelihood of occurrence of each risk and the potential effect on the Group.
Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2016 Annual Report Catastrophic events There is a risk that the Group is While it is not possible to fully No significant matters to report.
involved directly or indirectly in a eliminate these risks, the Group has a major operational incident resulting proactive culture that puts health and in significant human injuries or safety at the top of its agenda in order damage to property.
This could have to mitigate the potential for major a significant impact on claims against incidents.
In the unlikely event that a the Group, the reputation of the major incident did occur, the Group has Group and its chances of winning procedures in place to respond.
The and retaining contracts or franchises.
Group periodically rehearses its In extreme cases, services could be response to a hypothetical major suspended or structural changes incident.
The Group has insurance imposed on the Group as a result of arrangements in place to reduce the regulatory or other action.
financial effect on the Group of certain claims against it.
A series of less severe incidents could have similar consequences.
Terrorism There have been multiple acts of The Group has plans in place 1.5.
5 We believe that the high profile terrorism on public transport systems designed to reduce the operational terrorist attacks that occurred in Paris and other terrorist attacks that, whilst and financial impact of a terrorist and Brussels during the year not directly targeting public transport, incident.
It also has checks in place discouraged some travellers from have discouraged travel.
There is a risk such as vehicle inspections to visiting major European cities.
We that the demand for the Groups reduce the risk.
believe this contributed to lower services could be adversely affected by growth in passenger journeys on our a significant terrorist incident.
Such a longer distance UK Rail services and our fall in demand would have a negative megabus.
com inter-city coach services effect on the Groups revenue and in the UK and mainland Europe.
5 The economic environment in the Management monitors actual and During the year ended 30 April 2016, geographic areas in which the Group projected economic trends in order the Groups wholly owned South West operates affects the demand for the to match capacity to demand and Trains rail franchise received revenue Groups bus and rail services.
In where possible, minimise the impact support from the Department for particular, the revenue of the of adverse economic trends on the Transport, such that the Department Groups UK rail operations is Group.
External forecasts of was and is at risk for the majority of any historically correlated with factors economic trends form part of the difference between actual and such as UK Gross Domestic Product Groups assessment and expected revenue.
In management of economic risk.
From June 2014, the West Coast Trains North America, a greater proportion In bidding for new rail franchises, franchise, operated by the Groups of the revenue from bus operations the evaluation of macroeconomic Virgin Rail Group joint venture, has a is derived from tour, charter and risks is a key element of the bid GDP sharing agreement that is sightseeing services than in the UK process.
intended to ensure that the and these services tend to be more Department for Transport bears most of Further information on the susceptible to economic changes.
the risk of variances in West Coast relevance of macroeconomic factors Other factors, such as movements in Trains revenue resulting from UK GDP to each business segment is fuel prices, can also affect revenue, differing from that expected at the time provided in section 1.4.
The revenue and of the June 2014 franchise agreement.
profit of the Group could therefore Up to June 2014, the franchise be positively or negatively affected operated under a management contract by changes in the economy.
meaning that the Department for Transport bore virtually all of the risk of revenue and costs being significantly different from those expected.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2016 Annual Report Economy continued The Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, 1.5.
5 which commenced in March 2015, also operates with a GDP sharing agreement similar to the West Coast Trains franchise.
The East Midlands Trains franchise, which ended in October 2015, received revenue support similar to that received by South West Trains.
The new East Midlands Trains franchise, that began in October 2015, operates with a GDP sharing agreement similar to the West Coast Trains franchise.
We believe that macroeconomic factors have contributed to slower revenue and passenger volume growth in the UK businesses over recent months.
The recent referendum in favour of the UKleaving the European Union may lead to continuing economic, consumer and political uncertainty.
That may in turn affect asset values and foreign exchange rates, which have a bearing on the amounts of our pension, financial instruments and other balances.
Rail cost base A substantial element of the cost base The Group looks to achieve sensible No significant matters to report.
4 in the Groups UK Rail Division is risk sharing arrangements in its rail essentially fixed because under its UK franchise agreements.
The Groups rail franchise agreements, the Group is franchise bids are designed to obliged to provide a minimum level of deliver an acceptable risk-reward train services and is therefore unable to trade-off.
As described above, flex supply in response to short-term economic and terrorism risks are 2.5.
In addition, the significant part of the cost base is Group remains focused on comprised of payments to the controlling costs in the UK Rail infrastructure provider, Network Rail, Division.
4 and payments under train operating leases which are committed and do not vary with revenue.
Accordingly, a significant proportion of any change in revenue for example, arising as a result of the risks described above in respect of terrorism and the economy will impact profit from the UK Rail Division.
Sustainability of rail profit A significant element of the Groups In order to manage the risks, the During the year, the previous East 1.5.
5 revenue and profit is generated by Group has devoted significant Midlands Trains franchise ended and from October 2015, the Group began UK rail franchises, which have a management resource and financial operating a new Direct Award East finite duration.
There is a risk that investment to bidding for new rail Midlands Trains franchise.
The the Groups revenue and profit franchises.
franchise is contracted to run until at could be significantly affected Appropriately experienced least March 2018.
The Department for either positively or negatively as a personnel are retained to work on Transport has now indicated its result of the Group winning new rail bids and third party consultants intention to extend the franchise until franchises or failing to retain its are engaged to provide additional at least July 2018 and it has an existing existing franchises.
The Board approves the contractual option to extend it up until overall rail bidding strategy and the March 2019. key parameters for each bid.
6.1 During the year, the Department for Transport formally confirmed the extension of Virgin Rail Groups West Coast Trains franchise from March 2017 to March 2018.
The Group is shortlisted as one of two 1.5.
5 bidders for a new South West Trains franchise, planned to run from June 2017, when the Groups existing South West Trains franchise is expected to end.
Further rail franchises are expected to 1.5.
5 be tendered over the next few years.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 9 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 10 Strategic report 1.4.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2016 Annual Report Breach of franchise The Group is required to comply with Our UK Rail businesses are subject to No significant matters to report.
4 certain conditions as part of its rail complex contractual arrangements.
If it fails to Contractual management is an comply with these conditions, it may important part of our rail activities be liable to penalties including the because the way in which contracts are potential termination of one or more managed can be a significant of the rail franchise agreements.
This determinant of financial performance.
4 would result in the Group losing the Compliance with franchise conditions is right to continue operating the closely managed and monitored and affected operations and consequently, procedures are in place to minimise the the related revenues and cash flows.
The Group may also lose some or all The Group maintains an overview of of the amounts committed for the Virgin Rail Groups business risk shareholder loan facilities, the management process through performance bonds and the season representation on its board and audit ticket bonds.
The Group can do more committee.
to prevent breaches of franchise where it has control than where it has joint control.
As the holder of a 49% joint venture interest in Virgin Rail Group, the Group has less control over the joint ventures operations and that means the Groups management may be less able to prevent a breach of the Virgin Rail Group franchise agreement.
Pension scheme funding The Group participates in a number of Decisions on pension scheme funding, Pension scheme liabilities have 1.6.
There asset allocation and benefit promises decreased during the year due to is a risk that the reported net pension are taken by management and or market changes.
asset liability and or the cash pension scheme trustees in During the year, the Pensions contributions required to these schemes consultation with trade unions and Regulator completed a review of the increases or decreases due to changes in suitably qualified advisors.
A Pensions valuation basis applied by the Groups factors such as investment performance, Oversight Committee has been main defined benefits pension the rates used to discount liabilities and established comprising the Finance scheme.
This is consistent with life expectancies.
Intervention by Director, a Non-Executive Director and regulators could also affect the other senior executives, to oversee reviews the Regulator has undertaken contributions required.
Any increase in the Groups overall pensions strategy.
of other pension schemes as part of contributions will reduce the Groups The Board participates in major its remit.
Any significant increase in decisions on the funding and design of pension liabilities could affect the pension schemes.
Insurance and claims environment The Group receives claims in respect The Group has a proactive culture No significant matters to report.
of traffic incidents and employee that puts health and safety at the and claims.
The Group protects itself top of its agenda and this helps 2.5.
3 against the cost of such claims mitigate the potential for claims through third party insurance policies.
Where claims do arise, they An element of the claims is not are managed by dedicated insurance insured as a result of the excess on and claims specialists in order to insurance policies.
minimise the cost to the Group.
There is a risk that the number or Where appropriate, legal advice is magnitude of claims are not as obtained from appropriately expected and that the cost to the qualified advisors.
The balance Group of settling these claims is between insured and retained risks significantly higher or lower than is re-evaluated at least once a year expected.
In the US, in particular, and insurance and claims activity is there is a risk that given the size of the monitored closely.
excess, that a small number of largevalue claims could have a material impact on the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2016 Annual Report Regulatory changes and availability of public funding Public transport is subject to varying Management closely monitors Growth in concessionary revenue in 1.5.
1 relevant proposals for changes in the degrees of regulation across the the UK Bus regional operations is locations in which the Group operates.
regulatory environment and expected to be low in the short-term.
communicates the Groups views to There is a risk that changes to the The current UK Governments plans 1.5.
1 regulatory environment could impact key decision makers and bodies.
The for greater devolution of powers the Groups prospects.
We see the Group actively participates in various within the UK could see the greatest risk in this respect as being industry and national trade bodies introduction of franchised bus the risk that some bus services in the along with domestic and international networks in some areas, which could UK outside London become subject to government forums.
affect our commercialised bus franchising whereby a government The Group seeks to maintain good, cooperations.
The Governments plans body specifies the bus services and operative relationships with all levels are reflected in the Bus Services Bill, puts them out to tender compared to of government, by developing and which was first published in May the current model where commercial promoting ideas that offer cost 2016.
4 bus operators are free to design and effective ways of improving public As explained in section 1.6.
4, in operate their own services.
February 2016, a first First Tier Tax Similarly, many of the Groups Where changes are known or Tribunal ruled in favour of Her businesses benefit from government reasonably likely, the Group develops Majestys Revenue and Customs investment in bus and train services, plans to seek to mitigate any adverse HMRC on a tax case involving the including tax rebates, the provision of effects on it.
equipment, contracted services and The Group uses internal and or concessionary travel schemes for external experts to advise it on passengers.
There is a risk that the compliance and management in availability of government finances specialist areas such as tax and changes due to regulatory or other transport law.
There is also a risk that the Group suffers financial or reputational damage as a result of non-compliance with laws or regulations or as a result of the Group having a different interpretation of laws or regulations from others.
In addition, in the case of tax, there is a risk the Group suffers reputational damage because of how others perceive the Groups approach to a tax matter even where the Group has complied with the applicable laws and regulations.
Management and Board succession The Group values the continued Succession planning for the Directors Changes in the Companys Board of services of its senior employees, and senior management is an Directors during the year are explained including its directors and important issue and as such is in section 1.3 of this Annual Report.
management who have skills that considered by the Nomination are important to the operation of Committee as described in section 6.5 the Groups business.
The success of and the Board.
The appropriate level of the Group could be adversely management deals with recruitment affected if effective succession and retention of other staff.
Disease There is a risk that demand for the The Group has plans in place to No significant matters to report.
Groups services could be adversely respond to any significant outbreak affected by a significant outbreak of of disease.
Such a fall in demand would have a negative impact on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
Information security There is a risk that confidential and or An Information Security Board No significant matters to report.
commercially sensitive information oversees the management of relating to and or held by the Group information security risks, and takes is subject to unauthorised access, use, appropriate advice from suitably disclosure, modification, perusal, experienced third party consultants recording or destruction.
There is also a risk that the Groups Investment is made in appropriate information and or systems are policies, people and technology to subject to disruption, corruption or reduce the severity and likelihood of failure due to security breaches.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 11 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 12 Strategic report 1.4.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2016 Annual Report Information technology The Group is reliant on information The Group is continually investing in No significant matters to report.
technology for sales, operations and its information technology systems, back office functions.
Information people and suppliers to ensure the technology failures or interruptions robustness of its information could adversely affect the Group.
It is developing new digital platforms and continues to An increasing proportion of the look to ensure that it secures reliable Groups sales are made digitally.
is a risk that the Groups capability to make sales digitally either fails or cannot meet levels of demand and the time taken to implement restorative actions is unacceptably long due to insufficient resource being available and or over reliance on a small number of service providers.
This risk could result in significant levels of lost revenue at a time when the Group is investing in megabus.
com coach operations, of which Internet sales is a fundamental part.
com website failure could severely affect the megabus.
com brand and also give a competitor an advantage during the time of the failure.
Litigation The Group is exposed to the risk of The Group has compliance No significant matters to report.
commercial and consumer litigation programmes in order to reduce the and arising from the legal environment in risk of material litigation against the 2.5.
3 some markets, particularly the United Group.
Competition Loss of business to existing We monitor competitive developments We have seen increased competition 1.5.
5 competitors or new entrants to the in each of our markets and respond as from cars and airlines affecting our rail markets in which we operate could appropriate.
That includes monitoring business during the year, partly have a significant impact on our developments in technology and reflecting the impact of lower fuel 5.1 business.
We face competition for business models that could affect the prices.
customers not only from other competitive landscape.
Multi-modal operators of trains, trams, coaches travel portals, taxi hailing technology and buses but also from other modes and businesses, ride-sharing of transport.
The Group regards its technology and businesses, and primary competitor as the private car driverless vehicles are amongst the and aims to encourage modal shift developments we are monitoring and from car to public transport.
We work with local authorities, Developments in new technology including passenger transport and or new business models could executives, regional transport affect the competitive environment in committees and transit authorities, in which the Group operates.
the delivery and planning of bus and Technological developments could rail services.
enable new competitors and or business models to be developed that disrupt or compete with the Groups business.
3 of this Annual Report includes comments on competition in the context of each of the Groups key divisions.
Details of the Groups treasury risks are discussed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, and include the risk to operating costs arising from movements in fuel prices.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators The Group uses a wide range of key performance indicators KPIs across its various businesses and at a Group level to measure the Groups progress in achieving its objectives.
The most important of these KPIs at a Group level focus on four key areas: Profitability Organic growth Safety Service delivery KPI 1 profitability The overall strategy of the Group is intended to promote the success of the Group and create long-term value to shareholders.
In the shorter term, we measure progress towards this overall aspiration by monitoring growth in adjusted earnings per share.
KPI 2 organic growth To create long-term value, we aim to deliver organic growth in revenue.
We measure progress on this by division, looking at like-for-like growth in passenger volumes and or revenue as we consider most appropriate for the particular division.
KPIs 3 and 4 safety and service delivery To deliver organic growth in revenue, we aim to provide safe and reliable transport services that people want to use.
We measure safety and service delivery by division using a range of measures appropriate for each business.
Further details on how we calculate these key performance indicators, our targets and our recent performance is summarised below.
Profitability Adjusted earnings per share is earnings per share before exceptional items and intangible asset expenses Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated based on the profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangible asset expenses divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the relevant period.
Adjusted EPS was as follows: Year ended 30 April 2016 2015 2014 Target pence pence pence Adjusted EPS To increase in excess of inflation 27.7p 26.7p 26.0p Organic growth The following measures of organic growth are monitored: UK Bus regional operations and megabus Europe growth in passenger journeys measured as the percentage increase in the number of passenger journeys relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
Rail growth in passenger miles measured as the percentage increase in the number of miles travelled by passengers relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
UK Bus London and North America growth in constant currency revenue from continuing operations measured as the percentage increase in revenue relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
The measures vary by division reflecting differences in the underlying businesses for example, a significant proportion of the revenue in North America and all of the revenue in UK Bus London is not determined on a per passenger basis.
Throughout this Annual Report, references to passenger volume growth for UK Bus or Rail businesses mean growth determined on the basis set out here.
Certain of these growth KPIs involve a degree of estimation in respect of passenger volumes.
All of the organic growth KPIs are normalised to exclude businesses that have not been held by the Group for the whole of the relevant year and the preceding year.
Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 April 2016 30 April 2015 30 April 2014 Target Growth % Growth % Growth % UK Bus regional operations passenger journeys 0.8 % 0.1% 1.2% megabus Europe passenger journeys 235.0% 65.1% 74.4% UK Bus London revenue 2.5% 6.4% 5.2% UK Rail passenger miles Positive growth South West Trains 2.7% 3.9% 3.4% each year East Midlands Trains 1.2% 6.3% 0.8 % Virgin Trains East Coast 1.7% n a n a Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 2.6% 10.2% 4.5% North America revenue 3.5 % 0.9% 3.9% The reduction in passenger journeys at UKBus regional operations in the year ended 30 April 2016 is partly a result of local authorities reducing spending on supported services due to budget constraints.
It also reflects a fall in the number of journeys by concessionary passengers being older people and people with disabilities, who are legally entitled to free bus travel during the year, which we believe is partly due to the poor weather conditions in some areas of the UK between November 2015 and January 2016.
The increase in passenger miles at South West Trains during the year ended 30 April 2014 is artificially inflated by changes in travelcard factors used to determine cross-industry passenger volumes in the London area.
The decline in passenger miles at East Midlands Trains during the year ended 30 April 2014 includes the disruptive effect of engineering works on the rail network, which reversed in the year ended 30 April 2015.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 13 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 14 Strategic report 1.4.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators continued Safety Safety is monitored in various ways, including through a range of KPIs.
Businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are excluded from the safety KPIs.
Eight of the more important safety KPIs are reported below: Year ended Year ended Year ended Target 30 April 2016 30 April 2015 30 April 2014 UK Bus regional operations number of blameworthy 20.4 19.8 19.2 accidents per 1 million miles travelled megabus Europe number of blameworthy 11.9 6.7 7.4 accidents per 1 million miles travelled UK Bus London number of blameworthy 35.6 28.5 26.2 accidents per 1 million miles travelled US number of blameworthy accidents per 6.2 4.4 4.9 1 million miles travelled To decrease each year ultimate target South West Trains workforce lost time injuries is zero 1.4 1.5 1.4 per 1,000 staff East Midlands Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.3 1.1 1.3 per 1,000 staff Virgin Trains East Coast workforce lost time injuries 1.5 n a n a per 1,000 staff Virgin Rail Group West Coast workforce lost time 1.3 1.8 1.3 injuries per 1,000 staff Service delivery Our measures of service delivery include: UK Bus regional operations, megabus Europe and UK Bus London reliability measured as the percentage of planned miles to be operated that were operated.
Rail punctuality measured on the basis of the Department for Transports Public Performance Measure moving annual average being the percentage of trains that arrive at their final destination within 5 minutes or 10 minutes for inter-city services of their scheduled arrival time having called at all scheduled stations.
References to rail punctuality throughout this Annual Report refer to punctuality calculated on this basis.
Due to the nature of the North American business, there is no single measure of service delivery for the North American Division as a whole.
Service delivery KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year.
The service delivery KPIs were as follows: Year ended 30 April 2016 2015 2014 Target % %% UK Bus regional operations reliability 99.0% 99.4% 99.5% 99.5% megabus Europe reliability 99.0% 99.7% 99.3% 99.7% UK Bus London reliability 99.0% 97.4% 97.2% 98.0% UK Rail punctuality South West Trains 90.0% 90.0% 90.1% 89.5% East Midlands Trains 85.0% 92.8% 92.3% 91.2% Virgin Trains East Coast 85.0% 85.0% n a n a Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 85.0% 86.2% 84.4% 86.1% The deterioration in UKBus London reliability in the year ended 30April 2015 reflects services not being operated during two days of strike action by bus drivers and to a lesser extent, increased traffic disruption in London.
page 14 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 15 disabilities, free of charge to the passenger.
Revenue from tendered and 1.5 Divisional Performance school services provided under contract declined, as a result of local 1.5.
1 UK Bus regional operations authorities reducing spending on supported services due to budget Financial performance constraints.
Revenue from other contracts, hires and excursions also fell in The financial performance of the UK Bus regional operations Division for the year, which partly reflects the megabus sleeper services that we the year ended 30 April 2016 is summarised below: formerly operated under contract for Scottish Citylink being directly operated on our own behalf from January 2015.
Year to 30 April 2016 2015 Lower oil prices have reduced the marginal cost of operating a car and m m Change while we believe that the impact of that on the Divisions revenue has been Revenue 1,032.8 1,036.3 0.3 % proportionately less than we have seen in North America, our market Like-for-like revenue 1,029.2 1,034.0 0.5 % research indicates that there has been some adverse effect.
Operating profit 137.3 145.3 5.5 % Road works and increasing road congestion have also had some negative Operating margin 13.3% 14.0% 70 bp impact on revenue.
The bus can help in addressing road congestion if local authorities work in partnership with bus operators including in respect of bus priority measures.
The above figures exclude the results of the megabus.
com inter-city coach business involving mainland Europe, which has now been reported as a Excluding concessionary volumes, estimated like-for-like passenger journeys separate operating segment.
Taking megabus Europe and the UK Bus fell by around 0.2%.
In some of our regional bus companies, estimated regional operations Division together, like-for-like revenue growth was journey growth was over 4%.
We continue to see growth rates vary across 0.4%.
As megabus Europe has developed, we have reported that business the country with local economic conditions having a significant effect.
within the results of the UK Bus regional operations Division.
Reflecting its The decrease in operating margin was built up as follows: growth, we now report the business as a separate operating segment to Operating margin 2014 15 14.0% provide a clearer view of its financial performance distinct from the UK Change in: businesses.
The prior year figures for the UK Bus regional operations Division have been re-stated to exclude megabus Europe.
Staff costs 2.1 % Fuel costs 1.4% While the operating profit for the year ended 30 April 2016 of 137.3m fell Insurance and claim costs 0.5% short of the target we set at the start of the financial year, the UK Bus Other 0.5 % regional operations Division remains a strong business.
Operating margin was over 13% and the business continues to generate a double-digit Operating margin 2015 16 13.3% percentage annual rate of return on capital.
The main changes in the operating margin shown above are: Revenue and operating profit in the year was adversely affected by a number Staff costs, including pension costs, rose by more than inflation, of factors including lower underlying demand: the effects of severe weather whereas revenue growth has been more modest.
in late 2015 and early 2016 particularly in Cumbria, Scotland and Greater Fuel costs have reduced reflecting market fuel prices and our fuel Manchester: and severe road congestion especially in Manchester.
In our view, the lower underlying demand partly reflects a deterioration in hedging programme.
provincial high streets coupled with a rise in online shopping and we continue Insurance and claims costs have reduced due to lower costs on the selfto review and adjust our bus networks to respond to that trend.
Revenue fell year-on-year reflecting the above factors as well as contract Our costs remain generally well controlled, which has allowed us to keep and tender losses.
The year-on-year reduction in operating profit reflects recent fare increases to a minimum.
Our fuel costs have reduced this the revenue decline in the year with savings in fuel costs being insufficient year and are forecast to reduce again in 2016 17, reflecting the profile of to offset inflation in other costs, particularly staff costs.
Staff costs, which are the biggest component of our cost base, have increased in line with our expectations.
Like-for-like revenue can be analysed as follows: Only a small minority of our employees previously received a wage rate Year to 30 April 2016 2015 below the new National Living Wage that applies from April 2016, but we m m Change remain mindful that the introduction of and subsequent increases in the National Living Wage could add to wage inflation generally across the UK.
Commercial on and off bus revenue 604.0 600.6 0.6% We will also incur increased payroll tax costs when the new Apprentice Concessionary revenue 247.7 248.7 0.4 % Levy is imposed from April 2017.
We still anticipate that any increased Tendered and school revenue 111.0 116.1 4.4 % wage inflation will be manageable over the coming years as part of our Contract revenue 39.5 41.5 4.8 % usual management of costs.
com UK 24.1 23.1 4.3% Hires and excursions 2.9 4.0 27.5 % Customer improvement initiatives Like-for-like revenue 1,029.2 1,034.0 0.5 % We are continuing to invest in enhancing the quality of our UK bus and coach services, and in initiatives to further increase customer Like-for-like revenue excludes the revenue earned in the prior year from satisfaction.
Around 480 new buses and coaches will be introduced in contracts to provide transport for the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow.
2016 17 at a cost of nearly 100m, with most built by UK manufacturers.
Overall like-for-like revenue fell 0.5% and estimated passenger journeys on During the year ended 30 April 2016, we launched a new mobile website an equivalent basis fell 0.8%.
After normalising on a pro rata basis for the as part of our digital investment programme.
Stagecoach bus passengers extra leap day year in 2016, the equivalent revenue and journey declines are benefiting from easier journeys through the new website, which were 0.7% and 1.0% respectively.
allows customers to check live running times for their services and buy travel straight from their smart phone.
We will introduce further digital Commercial revenue i. e. revenue earned directly from fare-paying investments, including an app for our local bus customers, later this year.
passengers grew in the year but this was offset by weakness in the other categories of revenue.
Concessionary revenue fell modestly, with lower Stagecoach and other major bus operators delivered on their pledge to journey numbers and continued pressure from local authorities to introduce smart multi-operator bus ticketing in all nine of England's smart minimise the rates they pay us for carrying older people and people with city regions during the year.
In addition, Stagecoach is working with other See definitions in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements Stagecoach Group plc | page 15 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 16 Strategic report bus companies to explore the introduction of next generation contactless Stagecoach is proud to offer the best value fares of any major bus operator in the country.
We are also investing in new digital solutions for our travel across all of Britains buses and to deliver multi-operator smart ticketing across Scotland's largest cities during 2016 17.
The project in customers and playing a leading industry role in the delivery of smart ticketing.
We support the Government's objectives around open data on Scotland is expected to extend to rail, ferries and the Glasgow information and ticketing.
This can deliver significant benefits to passengers Underground.
through the development of new apps and we have already started the Our strong focus on our customers is reflected in the latest Independent process to proactively make this data available.
Passengers rated Stagecoach the best value major bus operator in Britain for the third consecutive year and our We support the principle of devolution and the growth ambitions of regions across the country.
Public transport in general and buses specifically are a services were given an approval rating of 86%.
The research also highlighted the impact of road congestion on bus passenger satisfaction and we are key part of making that a reality.
However, devolution must be about practical improvements, not just new structures.
The ultimate objective pursuing this issue with local authorities.
should be to improve the wider environment for buses and support We are also continuing to develop our customer offer for our express coach efforts to make bus travel a real and attractive alternative to car use.
Customers using Oxford Tube, our London-Oxford and urgent measures are required to tackle the road congestion crisis and frequent express coach service, are now benefiting from a new mobile associated pollution which is damaging the health and well-being of our phone app.
We have invested further in new vehicles for key inter-urban local communities and our economy, otherwise the benefits of devolution express routes in Scotland and the launch of a new premium coach service for public transport will not be realised.
We will continue to monitor and in the south-west of England.
help inform the progress of the Bus Services Bill, together with any associated secondary legislation and guidance issued by the Department Enhanced partnerships for Transport.
We continue to believe that enhanced partnership working is central to the future growth of bus use.
In the past year, we have built on our Outlook strong existing links and have worked with other private bus operators We continue to expect underlying revenue growth from our local bus and public sector transport authorities to launch new bus alliances in services to remain modest in the short-term.
We have kept recent fare Merseyside, the West Midlands and Yorkshire.
These alliances have set increases to a minimum and are seeking to stimulate demand through ambitious targets to generate growth and make bus a transport mode of those low fare increases, enhanced marketing and the further development choice for more people through investment in new vehicles, multiand promotion of our digital offering.
Modest revenue growth is balanced operator smart ticketing and network improvements.
with costs continuing to be well controlled and with some further reduction in fuel costs anticipated.
Given that, we have not significantly changed our Regulatory matters expectation of the Divisions operating profit for the year ending 30 April The UK Government has now published a Bus Services Bill as part of its plans 2017 since our last update on trading.
to devolve a range of powers and funding to regional authorities.
We welcome the strong focus and encouragement in the Bill on strengthened 1.5.
2 megabus Europe partnership working between local transport authorities and local bus Financial performance companies.
We share the Government's view of the value of joint working to The financial performance of the megabus Europe Division for the year address bus quality, accessibility and reliability.
This proven and successful ended 30 April 2016 is summarised below: approach allows partners to deliver more collectively than they can alone, and at better value for taxpayers than other approaches.
Year to 30 April 2016 2015 m m Change The Bill also proposes to give powers to some English local authorities outside London to introduce bus franchising.
We note that the planned Revenue and like-for-like revenue 18.4 9.2 100.0% legislation does not impose this approach.
Any planned franchising scheme Operating loss 24.1 4.2 437.8 % would require the development of a business case, which would be subject Operating margin 131.0 % 45.7 % 8,530 bp to assessment, audit and consultation.
In addition, authorities other than a mayoral combined authority would need the approval of the Secretary of megabus Europe has delivered further revenue growth in the year as it State for Transport to implement a bus franchising scheme.
expanded its network of inter-city coach services between the UK and In the majority of the geographic areas served by our regional bus mainland Europe, and within mainland Europe.
operations, there is no major pressure for bus franchising.
It is also likely to The operating loss for the year of 24.1m is higher than we forecast at be some years before any significant bus franchising, if proposed, is the start of the year.
Around half of that variance is due to us adding implemented.
We do, however, recognise that any franchising scheme further inter-city services that were not anticipated at the start of the introduced outside London may have the potential to affect the profitability year, principally in response to the fide-regulation during the year of interof our bus business.
city coach services in France.
The remainder of the variance is due to The Bill states that a transport authoritys assessment of a proposed higher than forecast losses on the services we planned to operate.
We continue to see an impact from low fuel prices, strong competition from franchising scheme would need to consider several factors: whether the other inter-city transport operators and also, we believe that the high proposal would contribute to the implementation of the authority's policies, profile terrorist attacks that occurred in Paris and Brussels during the how the scheme would operate, whether it would be affordable and year discouraged some travellers from visiting major European cities and represent value-for-money, and the likelihood that the authority would be therefore had an adverse impact on the Divisions revenue.
able to secure the proposed local services.
However, we believe the Bill requires tougher taxpayer safeguards, steps to ensure greater transparency megabus Europe sold inter-city coach journeys to customers primarily and clearer legal protections to prevent a franchising authority from pressing through its own websites and operates most of the coach services that ahead with a scheme that does not meet key tests.
We note that last year a provide those journeys.
Others in the market, such as FlixBus, sell the scheme proposed by the North East Combined Authority, the only fully journeys and sub-contract the operation of the coach services.
We have worked up proposal for bus franchising in the UK outside London, failed on sold the retailing part of megabus Europe to FlixBus, who has contracted numerous counts to meet the applicable statutory tests under current us to operate a number of ongoing coach services.
This is clear evidence of the value and need for proper on 1 July 2016.
We look forward to building on that new partnership protections.
page 16 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 17 The agreed amount of the consideration for the sale of the retail a result of the reduced quality incentive income.
The resulting reduction operations has been satisfied by the issue of a loan note from FlixBus to in margin has been partially offset by the lower fuel costs, which reflect Stagecoach.
We expect the loan note to be fully settled by the end of market fuel prices and our fuel hedging programme.
Payment of the loan note is not subject to any conditions or Outlook performance criteria which need to be fulfilled.
We have additionally The outlook for the London Bus operations is positive with continuing good agreed to transfer vehicles at a future date to FlixBus or other parties profitability expected from our portfolio of contracts with Transport for nominated by it.
The Group expects to report an exceptional gain on the London.
We still aim to deliver long-term operating margins of 7% or more.
In addition, the Group expects to profitably New development land is being made available for residential housing operate a number of inter-city coach services on behalf of FlixBus for at projects in East London to accommodate the capitals growing population.
This is expected to lead to the procurement of new or extended contracts megabus.
com services operating wholly within the UK or North America by Transport for London in the next few years.
We are well-placed to are not part of the sale to FlixBus.
benefit from this expansion and have available depot capacity to Outlook accommodate new contract wins.
megabus Europe has continued to incur losses into the new financial year ending 30 April 2017.
Those ongoing operating losses should cease with 1.5.
4 North America the sale of the retail business.
The Group may incur some costs as a Financial performance result of the sale and such costs will form part of the calculation of the The financial performance of the North America Division for the year overall gain on disposal of the business.
ended 30 April 2016 is summarised below: Year to 30 April 2016 2015 1.5.
3 UK Bus London US$m US$m Change Financial performance Revenue 647.7 680.1 4.8 % The financial performance of the UK Bus London Division for the year Like-for-like revenue 656.2 680.1 3.5 % ended 30 April 2016 is summarised below: Operating profit 28.4 35.3 19.5 % Year to 30 April 2016 2015 Operating margin 4.4% 5.2% 80 bp m m Change Trading in our North America Division continues to be affected by lower Revenue and like-for-like revenue 267.1 260.6 2.5% fuel prices which are impacting demand for inter-city coach services.
The Operating profit 20.2 26.3 23.2 % operating profit for the year of US$28.4m is in line with our recent Operating margin 7.6% 10.1% 250 bp expectations, and the reduction in the year is mainly due to lower operating profit from megabus.
com reflecting the low fuel prices.
The Division continues to perform in line with our expectations.
During We have revised our revenue categories in the year to try to better reflect the year, we have experienced a small net reduction in contracts with the different risk-reward profiles of the various components of the Transport for London.
However, we believe our strategy of bidding Divisions revenue.
Like-for-like revenue, using the new categorisation, prudently is the right one for the long-term sustainability of the business.
was built up as follows: Road works remain a significant operational challenge.
A recent study by INRIX suggested that planned road works in London had increased by Year to 30 April 2016 2015 362% since 2012 and, together with a rise in light goods vehicles was the US$m US$m Change major cause of increased road congestion.
However, there are signs that megabus.
com 206.8 222.5 7.1 % the impact of major road work schemes is starting to ease as these move Scheduled service towards completion.
An improved operating environment should also be Commercial revenue 157.5 162.3 3.0 % a positive factor in determining financial performance, including quality Support from local authorities 19.0 17.6 8.0% incentive income.
Charter 125.5 127.9 1.9 % The reduction in operating margin was built up as follows: Sightseeing and tour 28.6 31.6 9.5 % Operating margin 2014 15 10.1% Contract services 118.8 118.2 0.5% Change in: Sightseeing and tour 28.6 31.6 9.5 % Insurance and claims costs 1.2 % Like-for-like revenue 656.2 680.1 3.5 % Prior year gain on sale of property 0.6 % Staff costs 1.4 % The fall in oil prices has continued to impact demand adversely for our Materials and consumables 0.6 % megabus.
com inter-city coach services, with like-for-like revenue at Fuel costs 1.8% megabus.
com North America being 7.1% below last year.
com revenue figures now include revenue from megabus.
com branded services in Canada, which were originally operated under Operating margin 2015 16 7.6% different brands.
The prior year margin benefited from one-off items in respect of a 3.0m During the year, we reduced the mileage operated by megabus.
com to insurance provision release and a 1.5m gain on disposal of a depot.
better match changed levels of demand and have launched a new The reduction in quality incentive income has also impacted the Divisions marketing campaign to capitalise on the 10th anniversary of the operating margin.
Staff, and certain other costs, that increase with the megabus.
com brand in North America, with a particular focus on digital vehicle mileage operated have increased at a faster rate than revenue as channels.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 17 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 18 Strategic report The reduced scheduled service revenue includes the adverse effect on 1.5.
5 UK Rail demand for some services resulting from the strong US dollar impacting Financial performance the number of European visitors to the US and spending by those The financial performance of the UK Rail Division excluding exceptional visitors.
Our scheduled services to and from the major Woodbury items for the year ended 30 April 2016 is summarised below: Commons retail outlets centre, for example, have seen revenue decline.
Year to 30 April 2016 2015 We have also seen some decline in revenue on certain scheduled, m m Change airport express services reflecting competition and reduced visitor numbers.
Revenue 2,129.1 1,478.4 44.0% Like-for-like revenue 1,398.8 1,360.4 2.8% Charter revenue has reduced during the year, partly reflecting Operating profit 66.7 26.9 148.0% decreased volumes from a major customer in Canada.
Contract revenue includes transit contracts operated by us for local Operating margin 3.1% 1.8% 130bp authorities, akin to the business of our UK Bus London Division.
Some The UK Rail Division has performed well during the year, which includes of those contracts were not retained when re-tendered resulting in the first full year of operating the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise.
reduced revenue but the contracts lost did not earn a significant profit.
However, the outlook for the UK rail industry has become more This loss of transit contracts has been offset by other new contract work challenging in recent months.
Revenue growth in our UK Rail Division secured.
slowed significantly in the second half of the year ended 30 April 2016.
The sharp fall in sightseeing and tour revenue reflects weak trends in We believe the reduced rate of growth reflects the effects of weakening that market, particularly in the highly competitive markets in which we consumer confidence, increased terrorism concerns, sustained lower fuel operate hop-on, hop-off sightseeing tours.
prices, the related effects of car and air competition, slower UK GDP The decrease in operating margin was built up as follows: growth and slowing growth in real earnings.
Operating margin 2014 15 5.2% Change in: East Midlands Trains Staff costs 1.0 % Revenue at East Midlands Trains grew 4.1% in the year.
The business is Depreciation 0.8 % delivering a strong financial performance and a share of that strong Fuel costs 1.6% performance is being paid to the Department for Transport under the franchise profit share arrangement.
That arrangement also provides Insurance and claim costs 0.5 % Other 0.1 % some financial protection to the business if future revenue is less than currently anticipated because, all other things being equal, the revenue Operating margin 2015 16 4.4% shortfall would be partly offset by profit share payments also being lower than currently anticipated.
The main changes in the operating margin shown above are: In September 2015, the Group agreed a new East Midlands Trains Staff costs have declined at a slower rate than the fall in revenue.
After franchise with the Department for Transport, which commenced on adjusting for vehicle mile reductions, staff costs have increased in line 18 October 2015 and is scheduled to run until 4 March 2018.
Department for Transport has the option to extend the contract by up to Depreciation costs have increased as expected, given we have largely one year on commercial terms that have been agreed, and the maintained the size of our fleet, which provides us with the flexibility to Department has already indicated that it expects the franchise to run increase mileage in response to market conditions and customer until at least July 2018.
East Midlands Trains remains Britains most demand.
punctual long-distance train operator and passengers are benefitting Fuel costs have reduced reflecting market fuel prices and our fuel from the previously announced investments of around 13m under the hedging programme.
Insurance claims costs increased as a percentage of revenue as we We have made a good start to the new franchise and have launched a continue to see inflation in USclaims costs.
new mobile app to make travel easier for our customers and support our growth plans.
We recently launched a new marketing campaign, Regulatory matters including regional TV, direct mail and digital advertising, to promote our We welcome the passing in December 2015 of the Fixing America's strong customer service offer.
Investment is continuing in improved Surface Transportation FAST Act, which brings certainty to United States stations, such as the introduction of new cycling facilities.
federal surface transportation spending through to 2020.
As well as addressing improvements to key highway infrastructure, it recognises the South West Trains key contribution of motor coaches to the economy, provides for greater South West Trains revenue grew by 2.4% in the year.
It currently input from operators in the transportation planning process, and supports receives revenue support from the Department for Transport such that public-private partnership initiatives and intermodal connectivity between any future shortfall in revenue versus our current expectation would be passenger rail and inter-city buses.
80% offset by increased revenue support income from the Department.
Outlook South West Trains is progressing a previously announced 50m package Oil prices fell sharply towards the end of 2014 with a consequential of investment.
In December 2015, we launched extra services and new adverse effect on megabus.
While US at the pump gas links to London for many communities across the West of England, as prices remain below the prices of a year ago, the business remains well as other improvements, as part of the introduction of an improved profitable and we have operational plans in place and fleet capacity to timetable.
Working with the Department for Transport and Network grow the business if and when we see revenue recover.
However, Rail, South West Trains has announced the start of an 800m megabus.
com revenue trends are not yet improving to the extent we had investment programme to provide an overall 30% increase in peak time anticipated and we have revised our forecast 2016 17 North America capacity by 2019.
It includes an expanded and improved London Waterloo station, a new fleet of Siemens built Class 707 trains, extended operating profit accordingly.
platforms at 10 stations for longer trains on the Reading line, We continue to seek to improve the profitability of the rest of the North improvements to depots and maintenance facilities, and new American business by remaining focused on further improving the technology to boost the efficiency and punctuality of our fleet.
We see opportunities for new contracts wins but will remain disciplined in ensuring that our contract bids remain designed We note the Government consultation on high-level plans for rail services that operate mostly or wholly within the Greater London to deliver a satisfactory rate of return on capital.
page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 19 boundary to transfer to Transport for London, which could include inner find local sources of funding and financing.
Options include allowing suburban rail services operating out of London Waterloo that currently private firms to run part of the rail network for a fixed period.
We form part of the South West Trains business.
Although this transfer will believe that any future structure and approach should support the not happen during our current franchise term, we will continue to delivery of a more integrated rail service, with decision-making which monitor developments and press the case for any decisions to balance puts the interests of customers first and delivers a more optimal and long-term capacity improvements for customers, continued value for efficient management of the network.
money for taxpayers, and the retention of the benefits of an integrated Separately, the Competition and Markets Authority CMA has rail network.
concluded a project looking at the possibilities for introducing greater competition between passenger train operators.
The CMA said that, for Virgin Trains East Coast the major inter-city routes, increasing the number of open access We began operating the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise in March 2015, services or splitting franchises offered the most immediate benefits in which we have a 90% interest, and have made significant strides in the from increased competition, but that a move towards a system of delivery of our planned 140m programme of investment to transform multiple licensed operators replacing franchises could also be worth customer journeys.
Although, as expected, our initiatives have yet to consideration in the future.
As Stagecoach and our partners Virgin have have a significant impact on revenue, the business revenue did grow by previously made clear, competition for the market through franchising 5.2% in the year.
has a proven track record of delivering improved customer service and Virgin Trains East Coast does not benefit from revenue support in the good value for taxpayer investment.
We do not believe a hybrid model form received by South West Trains and nor is it currently making profit of franchised and open access operators on the same network offers share payments like East Midlands Trains.
Accordingly, its future either a level playing field or the best use of limited network capacity.
profitability is more exposed to changes in forecast revenue than the For inter-city networks, however, we believe a licensing system could revenue of those other franchises.
However, we are pursuing a wide boost competition and bring benefits to both passengers and range of actions to grow the business.
In the first 12 months of the franchise, we have invested almost 18m.
Franchising update Customer-focused investment is delivering new interiors across the Stagecoach Group is one of two operators to have been shortlisted by existing train fleet, including leather seats in First Class and new seats the Department for Transport for the new South Western rail franchise, and carpets in Standard class.
We have also unveiled the first of our new which is expected to start in June 2017.
We are proud to have operated fleet of Azuma trains which are set to revolutionise travel on the East the network under the South West Trains brand since 1996.
We are Coast franchise from 2018.
A fleet of 65 trains will provide 12,200 extra already well underway with the development of our plans to build on seats under a new and expanded timetable, increasing peak capacity into that success.
Our detailed knowledge of the business places us in a Kings Cross station in London by around 28% as well as cutting journey strong position to bid for the new franchise and we expect a new times.
We have already launched new routes from Sunderland and operator to be selected in early 2017.
Stirling, as well as more than 40 additional services a week between During the year ended 30 April 2016, the Group was a 40% partner in a Edinburgh and London, amounting to 22,000 extra seats per day.
Eight joint venture with Abellio, which was shortlisted to bid for a new East lounges have been transformed at stations between London and Anglia rail franchise.
We were unable to reach an agreement with Edinburgh, doubling the seating capacity and offering an improved Abellio on elements of the proposed bid and took a decision not to environment for our customers.
We have also started a trial of paperless proceed with an equity participation in the bid.
m-Tickets, which provide customers with a barcode that can be scanned We will continue to consider other rail bidding opportunities that we directly from a smart phone or tablet.
These are just some of the many believe will deliver benefits to passengers and add value for our initiatives that we are pursuing to improve the customer experience and investors.
In May 2016, the Office of Road and Rail the ORR approved the Outlook application made by Virgin Trains East Coast to run new services The slower UK Rail revenue growth experienced in the second half of between London and Edinburgh, Harrogate, Lincoln and Middlesbrough.
the financial year ended 30 April 2016 has continued, and the financial These services formed part of our successful bid for the East Coast rail outlook for the year ahead is somewhat uncertain.
Virgin Trains East Coasts core existing timetable has been remain cautious and have updated our forecast of 2016 17 UKRail approved from December 2017 when the current access contract operating profit accordingly.
We will continue to focus on delivering our expires.
In addition, it has been granted firm rights for service extensions commitments and driving growth.
to Bradford, Lincoln and Harrogate from May 2019, and for Edinburgh and Middlesbrough from May 2021.
6 Joint Ventures The ORR has also approved an application from another train operator to run open access train services between London and Edinburgh with 1.5.
6.1 Virgin Rail Group firm rights from May 2021.
As noted by the ORR, when these services Financial performance commence they are expected to impact revenue from Virgin Trains East The financial performance of the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint venture Coast services, although we also note that it is not certain that the excluding exceptional items for the year ended 30 April 2016 is infrastructure will be in place to reliably accommodate all of the summarised below: approved services.
We do not believe the granting of open access services within a franchised system and without a level playing field is in Year to 30 April 2016 2015 the best interests of passengers, taxpayers or communities.
We are 49% share m m assessing the ORR decision and implications in detail and reviewing our Revenue 525.3 510.3 options.
Operating profit 32.6 28.0 Net finance income 0.7 Rail industry structural and regulatory matters Taxation 9.1 5.7 We note the publication of the Shaw review on the future shape and funding of Network Rail.
The report has recommended route Profit after tax 24.2 22.3 devolution to give parts of the rail network more power.
It suggested Operating margin 6.2% 5.5% Network Rails eight regions should also be required and empowered to Stagecoach Group plc | page 19 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 20 Strategic report Virgin Rail Group's West Coast rail franchise continues to perform 1.5.
6.2 Twin America strongly and that is benefitting taxpayers through profit share payments Financial performance by the business to the UK Department for Transport.
The Department The financial performance of the Groups Twin America joint venture for Transport has formally extended the current franchise, which excluding exceptional items for the year ended 30 April 2016 is commenced in June 2014, to run until 31 March 2018 on the summarised below: commercial terms already agreed.
Year to 30 April 2016 2015 The Groups share of the results of Virgin Rail Group is based on the 60% share US$m US$m management accounts of Virgin Rail Group to the period end that falls Revenue 69.8 74.7 closest to the Groups balance sheet date of 30 April.
The Groups results for the year ended 30 April 2015 incorporate its share of Virgin Operating loss profit 0.9 3.4 Rail Groups results for the period from 27 April 2014 to 2 May 2015 and Finance costs net 0.3 0.2 for the year ended 30 April 2016, incorporate its share of Virgin Rail Loss profit after tax 1.2 3.2 Groups results for the period from 3 May 2015 to 30 April 2016.
The impact on the Groups share of Virgin Rail Groups profit and net assets Operating margin 1.3 % 4.6% of using these periods rather than the years ended 30 April is not Trading at our Twin America joint venture remains challenging.
However, the revenue figures reported above are affected.
After normalising the revenue to an equivalent number of days in each continued strong competition in the New York sightseeing market.
In year, the estimated revenue growth was around 5%.
addition, as part of a previously reported litigation settlement, Twin America surrendered its rights from May 2015 to use certain bus stops Virgin Trains West Coast has continued to work to improve customers and adjusted its service levels accordingly.
experience and grow revenue notwithstanding that its current franchise now has less than two years to run.
The revenue growth in the year has Impairment review been supported by continued investment in marketing, new ticket gates The Directors undertook an impairment review as at 30 April 2016 of the at key stations and the conversion of one carriage coach G on each of carrying value of the Groups interest in Twin America.
An exceptional the 21 nine-carriage trains from a first class carriage to a standard class charge of 37.9m was recognised, which reflects our expectation of a carriage.
Revenue in the second half of the year was adversely affected continuation of the highly competitive market environment for the by the closure of a viaduct in south Scotland on the West Coast foreseeable future.
We remain supportive of the joint ventures Mainline.
However, the business received contractual compensation management team and the plans it has developed to improve the from Network Rail in respect of that.
profitability of the business in the years ahead.
In October 2015, Virgin Trains West Coast became the first train Litigation company to automatically compensate some customers if they are In December 2012, the United States Department of Justice and the delayed.
A customer who buys an Advance ticket through Attorney General of the State of New York initiated legal proceedings virgintrains.
com or the app will automatically receive money directly against Twin America and others alleging that the formation of Twin in back onto his or her payment card when their train service is delayed by 2009 was anticompetitive.
Several private actions were also filed in 30 minutes or more.
Virgin Trains West Coast also introduced a new relation to this matter.
A settlement was reached with the private text-messaging service offering personalised, customised boarding plaintiffs in 2014.
A settlement was agreed with the US Department of information.
It is available for people booking on the Virgin Trains Justice and the New York Attorney General's office earlier this year and website travelling with Virgin Trains from London Euston on all services has now received court approval.
Related to the Twin America litigation on the West Coast Mainline including Birmingham, Manchester, involving the Groups North America Division, the Department of Justice Liverpool and Glasgow.
These are excellent examples of private sector is continuing to investigate the conduct of company personnel in innovation delivering customer improvements commercially without the responding to discovery obligations in the investigation and litigation.
need for overly restrictive contractual commitments or government The Department of Justice has not taken any enforcement action related intervention.
to these issues, and the Group is co-operating with the investigation.
Franchising The current Virgin Trains West Coast franchise is due to end in March 1.6 Other financial matters 2018.
The Department for Transports most recent rail franchise schedule 1.6.
1 EBITDA, depreciation and intangible asset expenses envisages a competitive tender process being held to select the operator Earnings from continuing operations before interest, taxation, for a new West Coast franchise, with a view to the new franchise depreciation, intangible asset expenses and exceptional items prebeginning in April 2018.
We look forward to seeing more detail on the exceptional EBITDA amounted to 370.0m 2015: 353.3m.
PreDepartments plans for the West Coast business beyond March 2018. exceptional EBITDA can be reconciled to the consolidated financial statements as follows: Outlook Despite a recent reduction in revenue growth, the West Coast franchise Year to 30 April 2016 2015 continues to perform ahead of our expectations at the time the contract m m was agreed.
As with our UK Rail businesses, we will seek to mitigate the Total operating profit before effects of lower revenue growth, through additional initiatives to grow intangible asset expenses and revenue and a continuing focus on strong cost control.
The contract exceptional items 228.8 227.1 includes protections for taxpayers which limit the level of profit that the Depreciation 132.2 120.1 business can earn and, as a result, there is limited scope for further profit Add back joint venture growth, within the term of the current West Coast franchise.
finance income & tax 9.0 6.1 Pre-exceptional EBITDA 370.0 353.3 The income statement charge for intangible assets increased from 11.9m to 15.8m, principally due to the first full year of amortisation of intangible assets in respect of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise.
page 20 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 21 In February 2016, a first First Tier Tax Tribunal ruled in favour of Her 1.6.
2 Exceptional items Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC on a tax case involving the The following exceptional items were recognised in the year ended 30 Group.
The case involved the interpretation of historical and technical April 2016: issues where the Groups interpretation of the legislation differed from As explained later in this report at section 1.6.
The issues are no longer relevant under current legislation.
No of 23.3m was recognised relating to the re-financing of bonds.
additional tax is payable by the Group in respect of the matter and no As explained in section 1.5.
6.2, an exceptional charge of 37.9m was additional expense arises in the consolidated financial statements.
The recognised in respect of the Groups interest in Twin America.
transactions involved investment in Stagecoach companies and, while the Tribunal ruling did not dispute the commercial rationale behind those A pre-tax exceptional impairment loss of 6.0m has been recorded in transactions, it did not agree with the tax treatment the Group had relation to the impairment of assets at Sheffield Supertram.
Having taken all factors into account, we decided not to appeal financial performance at Sheffield Supertram was adversely affected by the decision.
the closure of parts of the tram network to undertake replacement of the tram track.
The financial performance has not recovered to the Stagecoach is a major contributor to the UK Exchequer both in taxes and extent we previously forecast and as a result, we undertook an other payments.
We believe it is right that we pay our fair share of taxes impairment review of the business assets and concluded that they and we are committed to doing so.
3 Net finance costs The Groups operations as at 30 April 2016 consume approximately Net finance costs, excluding exceptional items, for the year ended 425.3m litres of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profit is 30 April 2016 were 41.4m 2015: 42.1m and can be further analysed exposed to movements in the underlying price of fuel.
The Groups fuel as follows: costs include the costs of delivery and duty as well as the costs of the underlying product.
Accordingly, not all of the cost varies with Year to 30 April 2016 2015 movements in oil prices.
m m The proportion of the Groups projected fuel usage that is now hedged Finance costs, excluding exceptional items using fuel swaps is as follows: Interest payable and other facility costs on bank Year ending 30 April 2017 2018 2019 2020 loans, loan notes, overdrafts and trade finance 5.9 7.9 Hire purchase and finance lease interest payable 2.1 2.5 Total Group 91% 72% 45% 2% Interest payable and other finance costs on bonds 25.9 27.3 Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.9 3.8 The Group has no fuel hedges in place for periods beyond 30 April 2020.
Interest charge on defined benefit pension schemes 5.3 3.3 1.6.
6 Cash flows and net debt 43.1 44.8 Net debt as analysed in note 30 c to the consolidated financial Finance income statements has, as expected, increased from 30 April 2015, reflecting Interest receivable on cash 1.4 1.5 additional investment, the acceleration of interest and premium payable Effect of interest rate swaps 0.3 1.2 associated with redeeming our 5.75% bonds and the reversal of some 1.7 2.7 favourable UK Rail working capital timing differences in the previous financial year, partly offset by continued strong cash generation from Net finance costs, excluding exceptional items 41.4 42.1 operations.
Net cash from operating activities before tax for the year ended 30 April 1.6.
4 Taxation 2016 was 301.9m 2015: 346.4m and can be further analysed as The effective tax rate for the year ended 30 April 2016, excluding follows: exceptional items, was 18.9% 2015: 19.0%.
Year to 30 April 2016 2015 The current year effective tax rate is depressed by adjustments in respect m m of the utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses.
It also reflects the impact of the reduction in the rate at which deferred tax is calculated, EBITDA of Group companies before with legislation substantively enacted in October 2015 reducing the exceptional items 336.2 321.8 applicable UK corporation tax rate to 19% from April 2017 and 18% from Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and April 2020.
A subsequently announced reduction in the rate to 17% from equipment 0.5 2.3 April 2020 has not yet been substantively enacted and so its effect is not Equity-settled share based payment expense 2.2 2.2 reflected in the financial statements to 30 April 2016.
Working capital movements 35.2 46.0 Net interest paid 30.6 35.8 The tax charge can be analysed as follows: Dividends from joint ventures 28.8 14.5 Year to 30 April 2016 Pre-tax profit Tax Rate Net cash flows from operating activities before taxation 301.9 346.4 m m % Excluding intangible asset expenses 196.9 36.3 18.4% Net cash from operating activities before tax was 301.9m 2015: and exceptional items 346.4m and after tax was 278.9m 2015: 315.5m.
Net cash outflows Intangible asset expenses 15.8 2.0 12.7% from investing activities were 178.9m 2015: 151.5m, which included 0.5m 2015: Nil in relation to the acquisition of businesses.
Exceptional items 67.2 19.4 The net impact of purchases of property, plant and equipment for the year on net debt was 213.5m 2015: 188.8m.
This primarily related to 113.9 14.9 13.1% expenditure on passenger service vehicles, and comprised cash outflows Reclassify joint venture taxation for of 191.2m 2015: 182.4m and new hire purchase and finance lease reporting purposes 9.5 9.5 debt of 22.3m 2015: 6.4m.
In addition, 26.5m 2015: 47.9m cash Reported in income statement 104.4 5.4 5.2% was received from disposals of property, plant and equipment.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 21 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 22 Strategic report The net impact of purchases and disposals of property, plant and 1.6.
7 Financial position and liquidity equipment on net debt, split by division, was: The Group maintains a strong financial position with investment grade credit ratings and appropriate headroom under its debt facilities.
Year to 30 April 2016 2015 On 29 September 2015, the Group issued 400m of 10-year bonds with m m an annual coupon of 4.00%.
The Group subsequently redeemed the UK Bus regional operations 118.5 104.7 400m of 5.75% bonds that were due to mature in December 2016.
The megabus Europe 7.0 14.4 premium payable to redeem the 5.75% bonds in excess of their par UK Bus London 2.8 2.1 value, together with the cost of terminating interest rate swaps that North America 45.6 27.3 became ineffective as a result of the re-financing, was 23.3m and has UK Rail 13.1 3.4 been reported as an exceptional item in the Group's consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 April 2016.
187.0 140.9 In addition to the bond re-financing, we extended the duration of 535m of committed, bi-lateral bank facilities by one year to October 2020.
The movement in net debt, showing train operating companies separately, was: We are pleased by the successful re-financing of bonds and the continuing support we receive from the debt capital markets.
The new Year to 30 April 2016 Train operating bond issue attracted a range of high quality investors.
That issue, companies Other Total together with the one-year extension of bank facilities, ensures that the m m m Group continues to have an appropriate mix of long-term debt enabling EBITDA of Group companies it to plan and invest with some certainty.
before exceptional items 91.6 244.6 336.2 The Groups financial position remains strong and is evidenced by: Loss on disposal of property, The ratio of net debt at 30 April 2016 to pre-exceptional EBITDA for plant and equipment 0.5 0.5 the year ended 30 April 2016 was 1.1 times 2015: 1.1 times.
Equity-settled share based payment Pre-exceptional EBITDA for the year ended 30 April 2016 was 9.0 times expense 0.5 1.7 2.2 2015: 8.4 times pre-exceptional net finance charges including joint Working capital movements 34.8 0.4 35.2 venture net finance income.
Net interest paid 1.0 29.6 30.6 Undrawn, committed bank facilities of 281.2m at 30 April 2016 Dividends from joint ventures 28.8 28.8 2015: 298.8m were available to be drawn as bank loans with Net cash flows from operating further amounts available only for non-cash utilisation.
In addition, the activities before taxation 56.3 245.6 301.9 Group has available asset finance lines.
Inter-company movements 24.1 24.1 The three main credit rating agencies continue to assign investment Tax paid 11.7 11.3 23.0 grade credit ratings to the Group.
Investing activities 18.4 182.8 201.2 Financing activities 64.4 64.4 Foreign exchange other 31.3 31.3 1.6.
Opening net debt 281.0 662.3 381.3 The increase is after 62.0m of dividend payments and is principally due to the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and actuarial Closing net debt 283.1 682.4 399.3 gains on defined benefit pension schemes.
The Groups net debt at 30 April 2016 is further analysed below: 1.6.
9 Retirement benefits Fixed Floating Total The reported net assets of 177.8m 2015: 95.0m that are shown on rate rate the consolidated balance sheet are after taking account of net pre-tax m m m retirement benefit liabilities of 96.7m 2015: 160.5m, and associated Unrestricted cash 80.6 80.6 deferred tax assets of 21.0m 2015: 35.3m.
Cash held within train operating The Group recognised net pre-tax actuarial gains of 68.5m in the year companies 283.1 283.1 ended 30 April 2016 2015: losses of 65.5m on Group defined benefit Restricted cash 18.6 18.6 pension schemes.
10 Capital Sterling bond 393.7 393.7 The Group regards its capital as comprising its equity, cash, gross debt Sterling hire purchase and any similar items.
As at 30 April 2016, the Groups capital comprised: and finance leases 2.1 32.9 35.0 As at 30 April 2016 2015 US dollar hire purchase and m m finance leases 41.8 41.8 Loan notes 19.3 19.3 Market value of ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held in treasury 1,478.6 2,086.8 Bank loans 189.6 189.6 Cash 382.3 395.6 Net debt 437.6 38.3 399.3 Gross debt 781.6 776.9 The split between fixed and floating rate debt shown above takes Net debt see section 1.6.
6 399.3 381.3 account of the effect of interest rate swaps in place as at 30 April 2016. page 22 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 23 The Group manages its capital centrally.
Its objective in managing capital The discussion below should be read in conjunction with the full is to optimise the returns to its shareholders whilst safeguarding the statement of accounting policies.
Groups ability to continue as a going concern and as such its ability to The critical accounting policies summarised below cover the policies continue to generate returns for its shareholders.
The Group also takes regarded by the Directors as critical to the Groups financial reporting in account of the interests of other stakeholders when making decisions on general.
The Audit Committee summarises, in its report, the significant its capital structure.
financial reporting and accounting judgements that it specifically The capital structure of the Group is kept under regular review and will considered in respect of the year ended 30 April 2016 - see section of be adjusted from time to time to take account of changes in the size or 5.4.
As might be expected, there is considerable structure of the Group, economic developments and other changes in overlap between the significant judgements considered by the Audit the Groups risk profile.
The Group will adjust its capital structure from Committee in respect of the year and the critical accounting policies time to time by any of the following: issue of new shares, dividends, summarised below.
return of value to shareholders and borrowing repayment of debt.
There Pensions are a number of factors that the Group considers in evaluating capital The determination of the Groups pension benefit obligation and structure.
The Directors principal focus is on maintaining an investment expense for defined benefit pension schemes is dependent on the grade credit rating.
As well as considering the measures applied by credit selection by the Directors of certain assumptions used by actuaries rating agencies, the other principal ratios that the Directors consider are in calculating such amounts.
Those assumptions include the 1 Net Debt to EBITDA, 2 EBITDA to interest and 3 Net Debt to market discount rate, the annual rate of increase in future salary levels and capitalisation.
It is a matter of judgement as to what the optimal levels mortality rates.
The Directors assumptions are based on actual are for these ratios.
historical experience and external data.
While we believe that the It is the Groups objective to maintain an investment grade credit rating.
assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual The Group is currently rated investment grade by three major, experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially independent credit rating agencies.
That enhances our ability to access affect the pension obligation and future expense.
cost-effective funding on a timely basis and enables us to demonstrate financial strength when bidding for UK rail franchises and other Insurance contracts.
The financial standing of interested parties is considered by The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and government in determining the short list of bidders for a UK rail employee incidents.
The Group protects against the cost of such franchise.
claims through third party insurance policies.
An element of the The Group has no current plan to return additional funds to claims is not insured as a result of the excess or deductible on shareholders.
It keeps its capital structure under review and has insurance policies.
Provision is made for the estimated cost to the increased the proposed dividend for the year by over 8%.
Group net of insurance recoveries to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
11 Treasury policies and objectives balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the Risk management is carried out by a treasury committee and a central expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate of treasury department together, Group Treasury under policies settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior approved by the Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not been financial risks in co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The reported to the Group.
The eventual settlements on such claims Board provides written principles for overall treasury risk management, may differ from the amounts provided for at the balance sheet as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign date.
This is generally of greater risk in a younger operations exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial with a shorter claims history from which to make informed instruments and investing excess liquidity.
estimates of provisions and b operations, notably in the United States, where the deductible levels are generally higher than for the The funding policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, UK operations.
lease and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated by the business.
Taxation See note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, for details of The Groups tax charge is based on the pre-tax profit for the year the Groups exposure to financial risks: and tax rates in force.
Estimation of the tax charge requires an the Groups treasury risk management: assessment to be made of the potential tax consequences of certain the Groups management of interest rate risk: items that will only be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
Assessment of the likely outcome is based on historical the Groups fuel hedging: experience, professional advice from external advisors, and the the Groups management of foreign currency risk: and current status of any judgmental issues.
However, the final tax cost the Groups management of credit risk.
to the Group may differ from the estimates.
12 Critical accounting policies and estimates Acquired customer contracts and onerous contracts The Groups material accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the The Group has a number of contractual commitments most significantly consolidated financial statements.
in respect of its rail franchises and its London bus business.
In certain Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with circumstances, IFRS requires a provision to be recorded for a contract International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the that is onerous or when acquired as part of a business combination, European Union requires directors to make estimates and assumptions that is unfavourable to market terms.
A contract is considered onerous that affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial where it is probable that the future economic benefits to be derived statements and accompanying notes.
Actual outcomes could differ from from the contract are less than the unavoidable costs under the those estimated.
The Directors believe that the accounting policies and contract.
Determining the amount of any contract provision necessitates estimation techniques discussed below represent those that require the forecasting future cash flows and applying an appropriate discount rate greatest exercise of judgement.
The Directors have used their best to determine a net present value.
There is uncertainty over future cash judgement in determining the estimates and assumptions used in these flows.
Forecasts of cash flows for this purpose are consistent with areas but a different set of judgements could result in material changes managements plans and forecasts.
The forecast of future cash flows to the Group's reported financial performance and or financial position.
and the estimation of the discount rate involves a significant degree of Stagecoach Group plc | page 23 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 24 Strategic report judgment.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there can We now plan to reduce the number of scheduled trading statements, and be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
will no longer schedule pre-close trading updates for October and April.
We will schedule four updates each year: results announcements in June Goodwill and impairment and December and further trading updates around September and March.
In certain circumstances, IFRS requires property, plant, equipment and Additional updates may be provided where it is appropriate to update the intangible assets to be reviewed for impairment.
When a review for market on trading or other matters between the four scheduled updates.
impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by The reduction in the number of scheduled updates on trading is consistent reference to the net present value of the expected future cash flows of with the Groups philosophy of managing the business for the long-term the relevant cash generating unit CGU or net realisable value, if and will reduce the level of focus on very short-term trading trends.
The discount rate applied in determining the present value of change is also consistent with recent changes in reporting practice by future cash flows is based on the Groups estimated weighted average other UK-listed companies.
cost of capital with appropriate adjustments made to reflect the specific risks associated with the CGU.
1.7 Current trading and outlook Forecasts of cash flows for this purpose are consistent with The recent more challenging trading conditions have continued into our managements plans and forecasts.
The forecast of future cash flows financial year ending 30 April 2017 and the overall outlook is uncertain.
and the estimation of the discount rate involve a significant degree of However, we have made a satisfactory start to the year and have not judgement.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there can significantly changed our expectation of adjusted earnings per share for be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
Property, plant and equipment We remain positive on the long-term prospects for public transport.
Property, plant and equipment, other than land, are depreciated on a Public transport should benefit from continued population growth and straight-line basis to write off the cost or valuation less estimated growing urbanisation, and can form part of the solution to the residual value of each asset over their estimated useful lives.
Useful increasing problem of road congestion.
Predicted road traffic growth lives are estimated based on a number of factors, including the and the increasing cost of road congestion to the economy will require expected usage of the asset, expected deterioration and technological supportive public policy.
Pressure to address climate change and the obsolescence.
If another depreciation method for example, reducing impact of pollution on health should also support the growth of the balance was used or different useful lives or residual values were sector.
Tackling these in a cost-efficient way is best achieved by private applied, this could have a material effect on the Groups depreciation sector transport operators working in partnership with government charge and net profit.
authorities, supported by appropriate government policies.
We aim to manage the Group in view of those longer term prospects and take the The estimates currently applied in respect of the useful lives and right actions in these more challenging times to ensure the Group is residual values of property, plant and equipment at the Groups train best positioned to capitalise on the longer term opportunities.
operating companies could result in a residual net book value of certain assets at the end of the applicable, current rail franchises.
The net book The Group is in good financial shape.
Our core debt is committed and in values of the assets might be recovered through a sale of the assets to a place for over a further four years and we remain investment grade new train operator appointed by the Department for Transport to rated.
operate the train services covered by the relevant franchise.
The estimates regarding useful lives and residual values involve making 1.8 Corporate Social Responsibility assumptions on when existing franchises will expire and on the likely Our business and our people make a significant contribution to society.
sales values negotiated for assets with successor train operators and so On average, more than three million journeys a day are made on our involve an increased level of judgement.
transport services and in enabling those journeys, we: Rail contractual positions Connect people, families and communities The UK Rail industry is subject to a complex matrix of contractual Help individuals access health, education, employment and leisure relationships.
The Groups train operating companies are party to Support jobs, the skills base and economic growth contractual relationships with, amongst others, the UKDepartment for Play our part in tackling climate change Transport, Network Rail and rolling stock lessors.
The nature of these Like most businesses, we want to generate value for our employees and our contracts is such that there can be uncertainty and or disagreement as shareholders, but we want to do that responsibly and in partnership with all to amounts receivable or payable by the Group in accordance with the our stakeholders.
Our responsible approach to business includes taking an contracts.
The Group makes estimates of the amounts receivable or appropriate approach to our people and our customers: safety and security: payable taking account of the available, relevant information.
Actual the accessibility and affordability of our transport services: environmental outcomes can differ from the estimates made by the Group and there stewardship and performance: good governance: and building community can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions made by the Group relationships.
Our strong customer focus, commitment to sustainability, and will hold true.
sector-leading reputation has been independently recognised by a range of organisations.
Right across our global operations, we will continue to work 1.6.
13 Financial reporting calendar with our stakeholders to become a better employer, a stronger business Financial year-end and a more effective community partner.
The Group currently reports its financial results based on a financial year We have published separate documents setting out our approach to ending 30 April.
From 2016 17 onwards, the Group intends to report its corporate social responsibility.
These documents can be found on our financial results for a period broadly one-year in length that ends on a website at the following link: Saturday near to 30 April.
For most years, that period will be 364 days in http: www.
length but periodically, the period will be 371 days in length.
This section includes just a small number of examples of our work to Reporting cycle demonstrate the steps we are taking to meet our responsibilities.
In recent years, the Group has provided six, scheduled updates on trading each year.
These have typically involved results announcements in June and December, pre-close trading updates in October and April and further trading updates in August and March.
4 Diversity Stagecoach Group has a set of core values and policies, which are The Group recognises and values the individuality and diversity that each detailed in our Group Code of Conduct.
Stagecoach promotes a culture of employee brings to the business.
We value diversity in its wider sense openness across all its businesses and our objective is to ensure the and are particularly focused on promoting gender diversity.
During the highest standards of probity and accountability.
The Code, which was year, Stagecoach worked with television personality, Ferne McCann, on a updated in 2016, sets out key principles and provides practical examples campaign to attract more female bus drivers.
and guidance to help shape employees corporate behaviour across all The table below shows the gender split at different levels within the levels of the business.
The Board of Directors remains committed to organisation, as at 30 April 2016.
The Groups workforce is around 80.9% ensuring appropriate processes, controls, governance and culture exists male and that high proportion is common in the ground transportation to support the maintenance of these values and behaviours.
However, the composition of our teams is becoming more Conduct is subject to periodic review.
A copy of our Code of Conduct can diverse.
be found at the following link: http: www.
Population Male Female Total %% In addition, we have a Speaking Up policy, also updated in 2016, which is Male Female designed to ensure that employees can raise serious concerns without Board 82 10 80.0% 20.0% fear of victimisation, discrimination or disadvantage.
A copy of the Senior management 93 23 116 80.2% 19.8% document is available at http: www.
Whole workforce 32,453 7,672 40,125 80.9% 19.1% Senior management is defined as those employees who receive awards under 1.8.
2 Supporting and recognising our people the Groups Executive Participation Plan and individuals who are statutory Our employees are fundamental to the success of the Group and we directors of the corporate entities whose financial information is included in the encourage diversity across our business.
We believe in empowering and Groups 2016 consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report.
This engaging with our people, promoting a positive culture where employees satisfies the definition set out in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and are treated with respect and given equal opportunity to develop.
This Directors Report Regulations 2013. means that we are able to provide a better service to our customers.
We have initiatives in place designed to nurture the next generation of The equivalent figures as at 30 April 2015 were: talent to support the business and help our people achieve their Population Male Female Total %% potential.
We have strong vocational training programmes in our bus and Male Female rail businesses and we continue to invest in developing our people.
Board 82 10 80.0% 20.0% Stagecoachs bus and rail companies have delivered nearly 500 apprenticeships over the past 10 years, with a further 200 Senior management 95 19 114 83.3% 16.7% apprenticeships currently underway in areas such as engineering.
The Whole workforce 32,860 6,501 39,361 83.5% 16.5% apprenticeships delivered to date represent an investment of more than 30m by the Group.
5 Promoting safety Our Group-wide graduate development initiative continues to produce Safety is at the heart of our business and our overall approach is given directors, senior managers and experts in operations and engineering.
direction through the Groups Strategic Safety Framework.
We have a We also have programmes in place to promote the health and well-being strong focus on employee training, accident reduction, regulatory of our people.
Our annual Stagecoach Champions Awards, which are compliance and security preparedness.
Health and safety processes and open to all employees, recognise excellence in the areas of safety, performance are monitored and reported on across the Group with community, health, customer service, environment and innovation.
action taken should there be a need to address issues within our Further information is available here: procedures.
Our Health, Safety and Environmental Committee, chaired http: www.
by a non-executive director, considers this area of the business and monitors a range of performance indicators, reporting to the Board on 1.8.
We expect our suppliers and contractors to have the same We aim to have a motivated team of people that will meet the commitment as our employees to complying with appropriate health and expectations of our customers, improve our business and be rewarded safety regulations and policies.
Equality of opportunity is one of our key values, Each of our divisions and operating companies has policies which are regardless of disability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, belief, age, appropriate to the transport modes they deliver.
We are focused on nationality, race or ethnic origin.
The Group gives full consideration to meeting and in many cases exceeding regulatory requirements and applications for employment from people with disabilities.
Detailed policies, risk assessments and safe Where existing employees become affected by a disability and where working procedures are in place covering various aspects of our activities practicable, our Group policy is to provide continuing employment under including noise, vibration, display screen equipment and the Working normal terms and conditions.
We also provide training, career Time Directive.
Performance is measured and reviewed at operating development and equal consideration for promotion.
The Group is company and Group level.
This is supported by analysis of audit results committed to employee participation and we use a variety of methods to and review of civil liabilities claims to address any issues around inform, consult and involve employees.
Employees participate directly in policies and working procedures.
A core part of our approach is the success of the business through the Groups bonus and other encouraging employees to report any concerns.
remuneration schemes and are encouraged to invest through We work with local communities to encourage a safe environment participation in share schemes.
We are also committed to a continuing around our transport networks and use of our services, particularly dialogue with trade unions, which represent the majority of the Groups with young people.
We invest in technologies which can make our employees, on a wide range of issues.
A wide range of communications services safer for customers, our employees and other people.
Further channels are used to keep our people informed and engaged.
information and examples of our initiatives are available at: http: www.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 25 132577 STC Front PRINT 132577 STC Front V12 12 07 2016 13:12 Page 26 Strategic report The data below shows our greenhouse gas emissions for the year ended 1.8.
6 Accessible and affordable travel 30 April 2016 with comparative data for the year ended 30 April 2015 We believe that providing accessible and affordable travel is central to excluding Virgin Trains East Coast.
encouraging modal shift from the private car to greener, smarter public transport.
Stagecoach has regularly been independently assessed as 2015 16 having the lowest bus fares of any major operator in the UK.
Recent research by Transport Focus formerly, Passenger Focus found that bus Greenhouse Gas Emission Source tonnes CO e Kg CO e 2 2 passengers rated Stagecoach as the best national UK bus operator for of revenue value for money.
Scope 1 Stagecoach is the only UK bus operator to operate a long-term Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel, nationwide discounted travel scheme for jobseekers and we have a range petrol and heating oil 1,009,003 0.26 of discounted ticketing options for young people.
Operation of facilities refrigerants 23,586 0.01 We are committed to improving accessibility of our buses, trains and stations.
Our planned investment of nearly 100m in 480 new buses and Total Scope 1 1,032,589 0.27 coaches for 2016 17 will ensure that all of our local bus fleets in the UK Scope 2 are fully accessible.
It will mean Stagecoach Group has invested over Purchased electricity 394,906 0.10 1bn in more than 6,500 greener and more accessible buses and coaches since 2006 07.
We are also investing in automated vehicle location Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 1,427,495 0.37 systems to provide a technology platform to deliver audio visual next stop information via smartphones.
In the UK, Stagecoach is a founder 2014 15 partner in the national Accessible Travel Alliance, an industry-leading Greenhouse Gas Emission Source tonnes CO e Kg CO e 2 2 group of travel operators working with the Whizz-Kidz charity to improve of revenue transport accessibility for young wheelchair users.
On our rail networks, we are working with government to introduce easier disabled access at Scope 1 stations.
Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel, The Group is also investing in new digital technologies and working with petrol and heating oil 962,997 0.31 other transport partners to introduce simpler travel through smart, Operation of facilities refrigerants 32,704 0.01 integrated ticketing.
Total Scope 1 995,701 0.32 For further information, please go to http: www.
7 Environmental stewardship Stagecoach Group has a sustainability strategy covering the five years to Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by the Companies Act 30 April 2019.
It follows a 30% reduction in Stagecoach Groups carbon 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. intensity since 2007 08 and the achievement of previous targets 12 months ahead of schedule.
By April 2019, the Group is aiming to reduce The Group has used the UKGovernment Environmental Reporting buildings carbon emissions by 7%: cut like-for-like fleet transport carbon Guidance methodology in reporting its greenhouse gas emissions, emissions by 2%: lower water consumption by 9% and achieve a waste together with emissions factors from the DEFRA DECC Greenhouse Gas recycling rate of 83%.
The Group has already been awarded the Carbon Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015.
Trust Standard for measuring, managing and reducing its global carbon We define our organisational boundary using the financial control footprint, becoming the first public transport operator to have its approach and use a materiality threshold for the Group of 5% of boundaries certified outside of Europe.
A copy of the Groups estimated Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
We have reported on all the sustainability strategy and further information about our initiatives and emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic performance is available at Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
All of these sources fall http: www.
within businesses that are included in our consolidated financial Part of the Groups approach to sustainability is the ongoing review of its statements.
The Group is the majority shareholder of the Virgin Trains plans, performance and targets.
Policy information and annual East Coast franchise, which it has operated since 1 March 2015.
Since performance data is provided on the Groups website.
Stagecoach also this franchise had not been operated for the full financial year ended 30 makes an annual submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, an April 2015, it has not been included in the Groups greenhouse gas organisation focused on carbon disclosure which collates environmental emissions shown above for that year.
information and works with thousands of companies and investors to tackle climate change.
8 Supporting our communities and the economy Stagecoach Group is a major employer, supporting direct employment for around 40,000 people.
Our investment in improving our transport services also supports thousands of other jobs through the supply chain.
Further information is available at: http: www.
aspx We also share our success with local people and communities by investing part of our profits in good causes.
During the year ended 30 April 2016, 0.9m 2015: 0.9m was donated by Stagecoach Group to help a number of charities and to support fundraising events and vital services.
During the year, Stagecoach supported the charity Marys Meals with a 70,000 donation to extend its successful school feeding programmes, which are helping hungry children across Malawi and Zambia in Africa.
Significant additional in-kind support, such as complimentary bus and rail travel, is provided by the Group to good causes.
com brand partnered during the year with German charity, ArbeiterKind.
fide, to help make academic education accessible for everyone, regardless of their social background.
We have a number of other initiatives in place to help young people, including mentoring and internship programmes to help students gain a better understanding of the skills and routes to enter work, further and higher education and training.
We also have partnerships with veterans groups in the UK and North America.
Stagecoach Group has demonstrated its commitment to the UK Armed Forces by signing a corporate covenant to support the countrys military community.
More information on our community support and programmes is available at: http: www.
9 Human rights The Group does not see human rights matters as presenting material issues or risks for the Group and therefore the Group does not have specific, detailed policies in respect of human rights.
However, in the Groups code of conduct see section 1.8.
1, the Group recognises the fundamental civil, political, economic and social human rights and freedoms of every individual and strives to reflect this in its business.
A respect for human rights is reflected in our wider policies and in how we do business with customers, suppliers, employees and other stakeholders.
10 Conclusion Our responsible approach to business is reflected in the policies and examples set out in this section 1.8.
We continue to believe that corporate social responsibility and good financial returns go hand in hand, reflecting consideration of all stakeholders.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Mike Vaux Company Secretary 8 July 2016 Stagecoach Group plc | page 27
