OUR STRATEGY Our strategy An overview of the actions we are taking to deliver profitable growth The rapid economic development of Asia, At the heart of our strategy is the aim to toensure that it is well placed to capture Africa and the Middle East is accompanied meet the needs of our clients through global thestrategic opportunities in our markets.
by a growing demand for increasingly standards of conduct and compliance as This plan remains unchanged.
The focus is sophisticated financial services.
Our well as ensuring we support sustainable on disciplined execution of this plan, which strategy is to capture this opportunity economic and social development in will enable us to better serve the needs of bydeveloping long-term relationships with ourmarkets.
our clients and deliver long-term sustainable clients across our network of local markets.
value to all of our stakeholders.
Underpinning this is more than 150 years We place a particular focus onsupporting ofhistory in many of our markets and our In reaffirming our strategy and formulating clients who trade, operate or invest across commitment to our brand promise: Here our plan, we rigorously evaluated the our footprint.
This builds on our rich heritage, external longer-term trends that are shaping We combine our local expertise withour culture and values and is at the core of banking opportunities in our footprint international brand, products andnetwork who we are and how we work.
markets against our internal strengths and to differentiate ourselves fromdomestic areas of differentiation and the challenges In November 2015 we rolled out a plan andother international competitors.
tostrengthen and reposition the Group LONGER-TERM TRENDS There are several structural longer-term trends that are shaping the economies in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Although these trends may not evolve linearly, our footprint should uniquely position us to benefit from these trends.
Rise of urban Digital Increasing regional Financial The rise of The growth middle class revolution connectivity deepening renminbi RMB ofAfrica Markets in our Our markets are Notwithstanding Clients are The launch of the Backed by a large footprint are rapidly undergoing an current protectionist increasingly looking Cross-Border workforce and a urbanising and unprecedented digital sentiments in the US, for innovative Interbank Payment growing, connected becoming more revolution and, in the emergence of cross-border funding, System CIPS and urban middle class, consumption led.
certain areas, the complex supply chain cash management the inclusion of RMB there are many According to digital adoption in our technologies, and investment inthe International opportunities across anOrganisation markets is ahead of intra-regional trade solutions, coupled Monetary Funds African economies.
forEconomic more developed pacts and new with local hedging Special Drawing This is particularly Co-operation and western markets.
frameworks for instruments to better Rights basket of the case insectors Development study, Increasing internet cooperation, suchas manage risks.
currencies are major such asagriculture, by2030, 73 per cent connectivity and rapid One Belt, One Road This, along with the landmarks on the fast-moving of the worlds middle mobile telephony and ASEAN growing sophistication RMBs path to consumer goods class population will adoption have led Economic of the financial internationalisation.
be in our footprint to the emergence of Community, are services sector, and Although the trend As a result, the versus 36 per cent new and innovative reshaping trade and ongoing governmentslowed in 2016, favourable long-term in 2009.
By 2030, ways of conducting investment flows.
led reforms, is driving Standard Chartereds trends both in 29 of the top41 business activities.
These trends play to the deepening and Renminbi terms of GDP global mega-cities Digitisation offers our natural advantage internationalisation of internationalisation growth and opening will be inour an opportunity for as the leading trade local capital markets report suggests that up of the African footprint.
These us to deliver more and commerce bank in our footprint.
by 2020, 5 per cent of economies remain forces are driving convenient solutions in Asia, Africa and the global international intact.
rapid growth in to clients while MiddleEast.
payments could demand for wealth enabling us to be settled in and financing increase our RMB compared solutions.
14 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION AFRICA: GROWING ACROSS BORDERS The African Export-Import Bank Afreximbank closed its open to investors from China and Taiwan represents firstever Chinaand Taiwan-specific syndicated loan, with asignificant step for an important client a development theGroup serving as the solecoordinator, book runner and that we were keen to be involved in.
Afreximbank has been a client ofStandard Chartered for We have an ongoing commitment to build onour strong many years and this deal cements the strong relationship African foundations by investing and facilitating growth in between our two organisations, while strengthening the the region.
For Afreximbank to close its first deal that is only Africa-China trade corridor.
com 15 OUR STRATEGY Challenges going into 2016 these opportunities differently.
Changes and acyclical impact of higher inthe external operating environment, loanimpairments The Group adds value to its clients by particularly owing to regulation, economic leveraging certain strengths and sources While the Group has always strived to put developments and internal issues, such ofcompetitive advantage, as highlighted by impeccable conduct at the heart of how asorganisational scale and complexity, our business model.
These strengths were we do business, we still had more to do highlighted the following key challenges: instrumental in delivering a decade of rising to follow the letter and the spirit of the law profits and stakeholder value creation up The Group had to absorb greater across our diverse markets toensure we until 2012. regulatory risk-weighted assets RWAs play a robust role in the fight against and meet increasingly stringent capital financial crime However, the Groups performance requirements following the global financial started toplateau in 2012 and worsened The strategic review also highlighted crisis, resulting in a steady decline in progressively in subsequent years.
As the thatthe slowdown in the Groups financial theGroups capital ratios over time economic growth fide-accelerated in some performance was partly a result of ofour major markets, it created strain for Higher capital requirements and pastunderinvestment, particularly in some of our large corporate borrowers thesustained low interest-rate technology.
To reverse this and build a andimpacted our portfolio risk quality.
environment led to a structural foundation for sustainable future growth, Thestrategic review we conducted in late declineinbanking sector profitability, the Group had to create significant new 2015 highlighted that whilst our strategic especially forinternational banks.
investment capacity, while continuing opportunities remain compelling, the Group TheGroups profitability came under tobalance the trade-off between shorthad to consolidate and reposition to pursue further pressure from over-concentrations and longer-term profitability LEADING THE RENMINBI REVOLUTION In 2015, China launched its Cross-Border Inter-Bank Today, we are considered a market leader for RMB CIPS Payment System CIPS to connect with offshore renminbi clearing, and are one of the top banks in terms of CIPS RMB centres.
Since then, Standard Chartered has been a transaction volume.
leading force in RMB international settlements, reinforcing our commitment to capture opportunities from RMB We are now able to offer clearing positions across internationalisation and the opening up of China.
46currencies, with more than 100 payment clearing connections.
We also have a presence in 47 out of 65 of the We successfully completed over 200 cross-border RMB countries included in Chinas One Belt, One Road strategic directclearings on the first day of the CIPS launch, as well initiative, which effectively links trade and investment along asa landmark clearing for IKEA atransaction from China anew maritime and land-based Silk Road, connecting toLuxembourg.
16 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Strategic objectives and and focused: and invest and innovate.
We are realistic about underpinningactions Underpinning this plan, we have a these challenges and believe that the right programme of actions designed to course of action for now is to continue to As mentioned in the introduction to this strengthen our capital base, improve execute our plan with discipline and drive section, in November 2015 we rolled out portfolio risk and, over time, increase our business more dynamically.
acomprehensive action plan designed to returns for our shareholders.
Details on our strategic objectives and the enable us to execute the Groups strategy progress we made in 2016 are also available and capture the underlying strategic We remain excited by the opportunities inthe Client segment and Regional review opportunity.
In devising this plan we made present in our markets and the untapped section on pages 30 to 53 certain conscious trade-offs.
First, we potential of our franchise.
We have a clear prioritised the actions needed to ensure plan to restore the Group to a sustainable wecan execute ourstrategy on strong profitable growth trajectory and create value foundations.
Second, we prioritised for all our stakeholders.
We are also fully improving returns toensure that the Group aware of our conduct and Financial Crime maintains avalue-accretive sustainable Compliance obligations and the overarching growth path.
Third, wedecided to channel need to ensure safe growth.
our resources to key opportunities in which Our focus is on disciplined execution of theGroup has distinctive advantages.
However, there are a number of As a result, our plan has three core external headwinds that could affect the objectives: secure the foundations: get lean Groups performance and, in turn, our ability STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AND UNDERPINNINGACTIONS 1 2 3 Secure the foundations Get lean and focused Invest and innovate Execute rights issue to materially Restructure Corporate & Institutional Invest and innovate in Private Banking strengthen the balance sheet Banking for higher returns andWealth Management to capture opportunities Align business strategy within the Accelerate Retail Banking transformation tightenedrisk appetite Build on a strong foundation and invest Fundamentally overhaul Commercial togrow safely in Africa Restructure businesses and assets Banking representing approximately one-third Leverage opening up of China: capture Define a clear and deliverable strategy ofGroup RWAs opportunities from renminbi RMB forour regions internationalisation Simplify organisational structure to focus Assertively manage costs to create more on geographic execution Roll out enhanced Retail Banking digital investment capacity capabilities across our footprint Deliver our conduct and financial crime riskprogrammes This is the first and foremost objective of the Our second objective is to shiftthe business The purpose of our third strategic Group.
We have made considerable progress mix to deliver higher returns and create objectiveistobe more selective about since 2015, when we executed a rights issue additional investment capacity through theopportunities we pursue and channel that materially strengthened our balance assertive cost management actions.
We have also taken decisive action iscritical for the long-term competitiveness toimprove portfolio quality.
and sustainability of our business.
We have prioritised four long-term opportunities that we believe are most To safeguard against any future recurrence, Our Corporate & Institutional Banking compelling for the Group: Private Banking our client segments have put in place more segmentis shifting away from capital-intensive and Wealth Management growth: RMB granular risk appetite levels.
For example, businesses and has rolled out a new client internationalisation and the broader opening reducing the appetite for risk concentrations coverage model to ensure we stay close to up of China: Africas growth potential: and such as commodities.
ourclients and simplify the way we meet digital revolution in Retail.
In 2016, we invested heavily inour conduct As a result, we have launched a multi-year and financial crime riskprogrammes and Corporate & Institutional Banking has also investment programme to upgrade our remain committed to making further diversified its portfolio of clients by selectively Private Banking and Wealth Management investments as necessary.
Our investment in on-boarding new clients that will be critical technology platforms and client capabilities.
control systems and data analytics is already toour future growth.
improving our ability to fight financial crime.
We remain committed to RMBs long-term Our Retail Banking segment remains focused growth potential in our footprint and continue Weare making good progress in embedding on providing services for emerging affluent to play akey role in shaping its future.
our regional execution model operating and affluent clients across 60 cities more InAfrica, we will calibrate the pace of our Retail Banking and Commercial Banking costefficiently.
Thesegment will achieve growth by taking into account the broader withgreater local decision-making and thisby improved digitisation, innovation, risk environment.
accountability, while managing Corporate & service quality and the development of Institutional Banking and Private Banking at multi-product relationships.
We are making significant investments in amore global level.
digital to deliver on our Retail transformation.
We are making progress on our cost Wehave also launched an investment efficiencyplans in 2016 we achieved programme for 2017 to improve our client $1.2 billion in gross cost efficiencies and offering in Foreign Exchange, Rates created capacity to increase investment andCredit.
