CLIENT SEGMENT REVIEWS Private Banking Segment overview OUR SEGMENT AT A GLANCE We help our clients manage, preserve and grow their wealth, recognising that in many cases their personal and business banking needs are closely linked.
Through our 2016 was a year of presence in Asia, Africa, the Middle East and transformation led by a new the UK, we offer clients access to a full suite of private banking services from investment executive management team, and credit solutions to wealth preservation with significant investment and succession planning.
We combine market insights from multiple sources with inour business to build our own research to deliver investment thefoundations for 2017 recommendations and our open architecture platform ensures clients can access a wide andbeyond range of investment solutions.
Strategic objectives Anna Marrs We want to be recognised as the private CEO, Commercial and Private Banking bank for entrepreneurs and are investing significantly to capture the opportunities present in our footprint.
Key numbers for 2016 Our priorities for the segment are: Profit loss before taxation Loans and advances to customers Enhance controls and processes toincrease productivity Private Banking $32 million 5% of Group Invest in our core banking platform underlying basis andupgrade technology to improve the quality andbreadth of our client service $ 41 million Broaden our product offering to give our statutory basis staff the tools they need to attract new clients with assets under management Risk-weighted assets ofat least $5 million Leverage the deep relationships across Income split by product $6 billion other client segments to expand our Wealth Private Banking client base Other Return on risk-weighted assets Management 5% 56% Enhance our ability to attract and service ultra high net worth clients by investing 0.5% inexisting staff and hiring senior underlying basis Retail privatebankers Products 39% 0.6 % Deliver our conduct and financial crime risk programmes statutory basis A reconciliation of underlying profit tostatutory profit is on page 30 Comparative key numbers for 2015 are onpage 30 40 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION ADVICE TO BENEFIT PRIVATE BANKING CLIENTS We have developed an innovative solution withThomson Hosting all this information on one platform drastically Reuters for our Private Banking clients.
Named ADVICE, reduces the amount of time our relationship managers and theapplication makes us the first in the industry to integrate investment advisors spend looking for information and product recommendations and advice into the Eikon preparing client proposals and updates, ensuring that the platform.
needs of our clients needs are being met in a more responsive, timely manner.
The ADVICE platform aggregates all of our conviction lists, latest views, trade ideas and reference portfolios into a ADVICE, which was rolled out in January 2017, will single, integrated application that allows relationship strengthen our advisory proposition, make us more efficient, managers and investment advisors to view all the and help us serve our Private Banking clients better.
information they need in one location.
com 41 CLIENT SEGMENT REVIEWS Financial performance summary HongKong andSingapore.
This momentum PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS continued in the second half of the year Statutory loss before taxation of $41 million with income growth of 12 per cent in Retail Income was impacted by in 2016 compared with a profit of $92 million Products compared with the first half.
in 2015. market volatility and actions taken to improve the risk profile Private Banking recorded underlying profit Expenses of the segment of $32 million in 2016 compared to a profit Expenses rose 36 per cent year-on-year to of $99 million in 2015, owing to lower $463 million, or an increase of 17 per cent Investment increased income and higher expenses, which excluding a one-off insurance credit in 2015. significantly to enhance our morethan offset the benefit of lower This increase was driven by a step-up loanimpairment.
control environment, improve ininvestment to enhance our control our technology infrastructure The difference between underlying and environment, the upfront cost to upgrade statutory profit before taxation is explained toour core banking platform and the hiring and hire senior private bankers by restructuring charges of $73 million in of new senior private bankers.
Assets under management 2016 and $7 million in 2015.
Commentary hereafter is on an underlying basis unless Impairment declined owing to actions we otherwise stated.
took toimprove our risk profile Loan impairment benefited from the as well as maturing deposits non-repeat of a provision relating to a single Income client in the first half of 2015.
In the ongoing Income declined 7 per cent year-on-year business, loan impairment was negligible Progress against strategic objectives to$496 million, or a decline of 12 per cent in2016.
excluding a one-off insurance recovery Put in place a new Executive booked in 2016.
The performance was Assets under management Management Team to drive the impacted by market volatility and actions segmentforward Assets under management declined taken to improve the risk profile of 4 per cent to $54 billion as growth in Intensified frontline hiring with a greater thesegment.
HongKong was offset by actions we took focus on more senior private bankers Wealth Management income fell 23 per cent toimprove our risk profile in other markets whoare better able to acquire and year-on-year as market volatility early in the as well as maturing deposits.
service ultra high net worth clients year impacted sales of funds and treasury In partnership with Thomson Reuters, products.
Income was also impacted by Balance sheet wewere the first in the industry to deliver actions we took which reduced secured Loans and advances to customers declined cross-asset product recommendations lending balances in ASEAN & South Asia and 22 per cent year-on-year and customer and investment advice live through our Africa & Middle East.
Wealth Management accounts declined 11 per cent year-on-year online client interface income declined in the second half of the impacted by the maturity of fixed-term year compared with thefirst half of 2016 Delivered a number of exclusive product leveraged deposit products during the owing to our actions torefocus the segment.
launches, strengthened our discretionary period.
Loans and advances were also proposition with our new US highyield Income from Retail Products grew impacted by actions to improve our risk fixed income portfolio and capitalised 17 per cent year-on-year, mainly in profile.
Risk-weighted assets fell by ondemand for yield to launch our Deposits, which benefited from interest 15per cent year-on-year impacted by non-resident external deposit product rate rises on foreign currency deposits in these samefactors.
Total 2016 2015 Better Underlying performance $million $million worse Transaction Banking 1 1 Corporate Finance 2 100 % Wealth Management 280 365 23 % Retail Products 193 165 17% Principal Finance 1 nm Other 22 nm Operating income 496 534 7 % Operating expenses 463 341 36 % Loan impairment 1 94 99% 1 Other impairment nm Underlying profit before taxation 32 99 68 % Statutory profit loss before taxation 41 92 145 % Loans and advances to customers 11,908 15,296 22 % Customer accounts 21,767 24,540 11 % Assets under management 54,218 56,664 4 % Risk-weighted assets 6,088 7,173 15 % Underlying return on risk-weighted assets 0.5% 1.4% 95 bps 1.
Not meaningful A reconciliation of underlying profit to statutory profit is on page 30 42 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
