OTHER DISCLOSURES Other disclosures Directors report from the date of this report and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2016 comprises pages 56 to 130 of this report together with the Viability sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
Both the Strategic report and the Directors report The directors are required to issue a viability statement regarding havebeen drawn up and presented in accordance with reliance the Group, explaining their assessment of the prospects of the upon English company law, and the liabilities of the directors in Group over an appropriate period of time and state whether they connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and have reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to restrictions provided by such law.
Other information to be disclosed continuein operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
in the Directors report is given in this section.
In addition to the Thedirectors are to also disclose the period of time for which requirements set out in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules theyhave made the assessment and the reason they consider that relating to the Annual Report and Accounts, information required period to be appropriate.
4 to be included in the Annual Report and In considering the viability of the Group, the directors have Accounts where applicable, isset out in the table below and assessed the key factors likely to affect the Groups business cross-referenced.
model and strategic plan, future performance, solvency and liquidity taking into account the principal risks and uncertainties.
Information to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts LR9.8.
4 The assessment has been made over a period of up to three years, which the directors consider adequate as it is within both the Relevant Listing Rule Page Groups strategic planning horizon and the basis upon which its LR 9.8.
4 1 2 5-14 A B N A regulatory capital stress tests are undertaken.
4 4 103 to 105 continue to monitor and consider the appropriateness of this period.
Principal activities The directors have reviewed the Corporate Plan, the output of the Groups formalised process of budgeting and strategic planning.
Standard Chartered is a leading international banking Group, with The Corporate Plan is evaluated and approved each year by the a150-year history in some of the worlds most dynamic markets.
Board and considers the Groups future projections of profitability, We bank the people and companies driving investment, trade cash flows, capital requirements and resources, liquidity ratios and andthe creation of wealth across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
other key financial and regulatory ratios over the period.
The The Groups roots in trade finance and commercial banking have Corporate Plan details the Groups key performance measures, been at the core of its success throughout its history, but the offorecast profit, CET 1 capital ratio forecast, return on equity Group is now more broadly based across Retail Banking in its forecasts, cost income ratio forecasts and cash investment footprint markets.
The Group comprises a network of more than projections.
The Board has reviewed the ongoing performance 1,109 branches and outlets in 68 markets.
management process of the Group by comparing the statutory Further details on our business can be found within the Strategic report results to the budgets and Corporate Plan.
on pages 2 to 53 The Group performs periodic enterprise wide stress tests throughacombination of bespoke scenarios directed at our market Fair, balanced and understandable and liquidity positions and market-wide, macro financialand On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed the idiosyncratic scenarios directed at Group capital andliquidity Annual Report and Accounts and the process by which the Group adequacy.
believes that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, The scenarios represent severe but plausible scenarios exploring isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the information known risks to which the Group is particularly exposed necessary for shareholders to assess the position and domestically and globally.
The scenarios may include traded risk performance, strategy and business model of the Group.
Following shocks, geo political events, interactions between inflation, its review, the Audit Committee has advised the Board that such monetary policy and interest rates and commodity price changes.
astatement can be made in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Under this range of severe, hypothetical scenarios, the results of these stress tests demonstrate that the Group has sufficient capital Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure and liquidity to continue as a going concern and meet regulatory minimum capital and liquidity requirements.
Further information The Groups 2016 financial statements have been prepared in onstress testing is provided on page 142. accordance with the principles of the BBA Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
The Board Risk Committee BRC exercises oversight on behalf ofthe Board for prudential risks, including amongst others credit, Disclosure of information to auditor market, capital, liquidity and funding and operational risks.
Itreviews the Groups overall Risk Appetite and makes As far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit recommendations thereon to the Board.
information of which the Group statutory auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG, is unaware.
The directors have taken all reasonable steps The BRC receives regular reports that inform them of the Groups to ascertain any relevant audit information and ensure that the key risks, as well as updates on the macroeconomic environment, Group statutory auditors are aware of such information.
geo-political outlook, market developments, and regulatory updates in relation to capital, liquidity and risk.
In 2016, the BRC Going concern also had deeper discussions on a number of key topics that included the Groups cyber security strategy, Survival horizon Having made appropriate enquiries, the Board is satisfied that the riskdrivers, Brexit and Recovery and Resolution Plans.
Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue operational businesses for a period of at least 12 months 124 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Based on the information received, the directors considered the allof the non-executive directors to be independent.
Details principal risks and uncertainties in their assessment of the Groups concerning the provisions for providing compensation to directors viability, how these impact the risk profile, performance and viability for loss of office or employment including in the context of a of the Group and any specific mitigating or remedial actions takeover bid can be found on page 103 of the Directors necessary.
For further details information relevant to the directors, remuneration report.
assessment can be found in the following sections of the annual At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest report and accounts: inany contracts of significance with the Company or any of its The Groups Business model pages 8 to 11 and Strategy pages subsidiary undertakings.
14 to 17 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we have established The Groups current position and prospects including factors a robust process requiring directors to disclose proposed outside likely to affect future results and development, together with a business interests before any are entered into.
This enables prior description of financial and funding positions are described in assessment of any conflict or potential conflict of interest and theOperating and financial review on pages 24 to 53 anyimpact on time commitment.
On behalf of the Board, the Governance and Nomination Committee reviews actual or potential An update on the key risk themes of the Group is discussed conflicts of interest annually to consider if they continue to be inthe Group Chief Risk Officers review, found in the Strategic appropriate, and also to revisit the terms upon which they were Report on pages 21 to 23 provided.
The Board is satisfied that our processes in this respect The BRC section of the Directors report, on pages 79 to 82 continue to operate effectively.
The Groups Principal uncertainties, sets out the key external Subject to company law, the Articles of Association and the factors that could impact the Group in the coming year, on page authority granted to directors in general meeting, the directors 23 and pages 136 to 138. mayexercise all the powers of the Company and may delegate authorities to committees.
The Articles of Association contain The Groups Risk management approach details how the Group provisions relating to the appointment, re-election and removal controls and governs risk, on pages 139 to 149. ofdirectors.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 The Groups Risk profile provides an analysis of our risk all directors will stand for annual re election at the 2017 Annual exposures across all major risk types, page 150 to 181.
The Capital position of the Group, regulatory development and The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors on the approach to management and allocation of capital are set terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying out on pages 182 to 189. third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes of section 234 ofthe Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in force during the Having considered all the factors outlined above, the directors course of the financial year ended 31 December 2016, and remain confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will in force at the date of this report.
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of the assessment up to 31 December 2019.
Significant agreements Sufficiency of public float The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control As at the date of this report, the Company has maintained the ofthe Company.
prescribed public float under the rules governing the listing of securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited the The Company does not have agreements with any director or HKListing Rules, based on the information publicly available employee that would provide compensation for loss of office totheCompany and within the knowledge of the directors.
oremployment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions oftheCompanys share schemes and plans may cause options Research and development and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
During the year, the Group invested $1 billion 2015: $594 million inresearch and development, primarily relating to the planning, Future developments in the business of the Group analysis, design, development, testing, integration, deployment andinitial support of technology systems.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Group is provided in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 53.
Political donations Results and dividends The Group has a policy in place which prohibits donations being made that would: i improperly influence legislation or regulation, 2016: nil interim dividend paid ii promote political views or ideologies, and iii fund political 1 2015: 13.71 cents per share causes.
In alignment to this, no political donations were made inthe year ended 31 December 2016.
2016: nil proposed final dividend 2015: nil final dividend paid Directors and their interests 2016 total dividend, nil The membership of the Board, together with their biographical 1 2015: 13.71 cents details, are given on pages 57 to 59.
Details of the directors beneficial and non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of 1.
Adjusted for the bonus element included within the 2015 rights issue theCompany are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 93 and 123.
The Group operates a number of share-based Share capital arrangements for its directors and employees.
The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was increased Details of these arrangements are included in the Directors remuneration by 6,275,370 during the year.
The ordinary shares were issued report and in note 30 to the financial statements on page 261 under the Companys employee share plans at prices between nil The Company has received from each of the independent and 937.53 pence.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, non-executive directors an annual confirmation of independence which carries no rights to fixed income.
On a show of hands, each pursuant to Rule 3.13 of the HK Listing Rules and still considers member present has the right to one vote at our general meetings.
com 125 OTHER DISCLOSURES On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote for every $2 nominal the time notice is given of the AGM.
The request may be in hard value of share capital held.
The issued nominal value of the ordinary copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice shares represents 87 per cent of the total issued nominal value of is to be given and must be authenticated by the shareholders all share capital.
The remaining 13 per cent comprises preference making it.
shares, which have preferential rights to income and capital but Shareholders are able to put forward proposals to shareholder which, in general, do not confer a right to attend and vote at our meetings and enquiries to the Board and or the Senior Independent Director by using the contact us information on the Companys general meetings.
com or by emailing the Group Corporate Secretariat at group-corporate.
com Further details of the Groups share capital can be found in note 27 to the financial statements on page 253 Major interests in shares and voting rights There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general As at 31 December 2016, Temasek Holdings Private Limited provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
Temasek is the only shareholder that has an interest of more than There are no specific restrictions on voting rights and the directors 10 per cent in the Companys issued ordinary share capital carrying are not aware of any agreements between holders of the a right to vote at any general meeting.
Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer As at 20 February 2017, the Company has been notified, pursuant ofsecurities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of tothe requirement of Rule 5 of the Financial Conduct Authority control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are Disclosure and Transparency Rules, by the following companies fully paid.
oftheir interest in the total voting rights of the Company: Number of Percentage Percentage Articles of Association ordinary of voting of voting Shareholder shares rights direct rights indirect The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders: no changes to the Companys Articles of Temasek Holdings 1 Association were made during the year.
Private Limited 517,051,383 15.74 Dodge & Cox 177,017,662 5.39 Authority to purchase own shares BlackRock, Inc. 164,438,152 5.00 At the AGM held on 4 May 2016, our shareholders renewed the Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 1.
Temasek Holdings Private Limiteds interests are held indirectly through Dover Investments Pte.
Ltd 327,968,254 ordinary shares, equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of issued ordinary shares as at 14 March 2016, and Related-party transactions upto all of the issued preference share capital.
These authorities were not used during the year and remained in force at Details of transactions with directors and officers and other related 31 December 2016. parties are set out in note 35 to the financial statements on page 271.
In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited HKSE on 16 April 2008, which Connected continuing connected transactions was consequentially modified by the Company and confirmed by the HKSE on 30 April 2009, 25 July 2011, 9 October 2013 and By virtue of its shareholding of more than 10 per cent in the 23 September 2015 respectively, the Company will comply with the Company, Temasek and its associates are related parties and applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to holding of any connected persons of the Company for the purposes of the UK shares in treasury and with the conditions of granting the waiver Listing Rules and the Listing Rules of The Stock Exchange of Hong bythe HKSE.
Kong Limited the HK Listing Rules respectively together known as the Rules.
No treasury shares were held during the year.
The Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable Further details can be found in note 27 to the financial statements onpage 253 treatment to Temasek or its associates as defined under the Rules as a result of such shareholding to the detriment of other Authority to issue shares shareholders in the Company.
Unless transactions that the Company and its subsidiaries undertake with Temasek or its The Company is granted authority to issue shares by the associates are specifically exempt under the Rules or are subject to shareholders at its AGM.
The size of the authorities granted a specific waiver, they may require a combination of depends on the purposes for which shares are to be issued announcements, reporting and independent shareholders andiswithin applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Shareholder rights On 19 October 2015, the HKSE extended a waiver the Waiver it previously granted to the Company for the revenue banking Under the Companies Act 2006, shareholders holding 5 per cent transactions with Temasek which do not otherwise falling under the or more of the paid-up share capital of the Company carrying the passive investor exemption the Passive Investor Exemption under right of voting at general meetings of the Company are able to Rules 14A.
Under the Waiver, the HKSE agreed to require the directors to hold a general meeting.
A request may be waive the announcement requirement, the requirement to enter into inhard copy or electronic form and must be authenticated by the a written agreement and set an annual cap and the reporting shareholders making it.
Where such a request has been duly including annual review requirement under the relevant rules in lodged with the Company, the directors are obliged to call a Chapter 14A as amended for the three-year period ending general meeting within 21 days of becoming subject to the request 31 December 2018 on the conditions that: and must set a date for the meeting not more than 28 days from the date of the issue of the notice convening the meeting.
Under a the Company will disclose details of the Waiver including nature the Companies Act 2006, shareholders holding 5 per cent or more of the revenue banking transactions with Temasek and reason for of the total voting rights at an AGM of the Company, or 100 the Waiver in subsequent annual reports shareholders entitled to vote at the AGM with an average of at least b the Company will continue to monitor the revenue banking 100 paid-up share capital per shareholder, are entitled to require transactions with Temasek during the three years ending the Company to circulate a resolution intended to be moved at the 31 December 2018 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold for the Companys next AGM.
Such a request must be made not later than revenue ratio will not be exceeded.
six weeks before the AGM to which the request relates or, if later, 126 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION The Company set out the following main reasons for seeking The Risk review and Capital review on pages 132 to 189 sets out the theWaiver: principal uncertainties, our approach to risk management, including ourrisk management principles, an overview of our risk management framework and the policies and practices for each risk type.
The The nature and terms of revenue banking transactions may Board-approved Risk Appetite Statement can be found on page 141 varyand evolve over time: having fixed-term written agreements would not be suitable to accommodate the various banking Internal control needs of the Companys customers including Temasek and would be impractical and unduly burdensome for the Company The effectiveness of our internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board, its committees, the Management Team It would be impracticable for the Company to estimate and andGroup Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the determine an annual cap on the revenue banking transactions effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the with Temasek as the volume and aggregate value of each year ended 31 December 2016 and reported on its review to the transaction are uncertain and unknown to the Company Board.
The Committees review was supported by an annual asabanking group due to multiple factors including market business self-certification process, which was managed by Group driven factors Internal Audit.
Group Internal Audit monitors compliance with The amount of revenues generated from revenue banking policies and standards and the effectiveness of internal control transactions was insignificant.
Without a waiver from the HKSE structures across the Group through its programme of audits.
The oran applicable exemption, these transactions would be subject work of Group Internal Audit is focused on the areas of greatest risk to various percentage ratio tests which cater for different types as determined by a risk-based assessment methodology.
ofconnected transactions and as such may produce Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee, the anomalousresults Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The findings of all For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group has provided adverse audits are reported to the Audit Committee, the Chairman Temasek with cash management, foreign exchange and money and the Group Chief Executive where immediate corrective action market placement products and services that are revenue is required.
The Board Risk Committee has responsibility for transactions in nature.
overseeing the management of the Companys fundamental risks as well as reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risk As a result of the Passive Investor Exemption and the Waiver, the management framework.
The Audit Committee monitors the vast majority of the Companys transactions with Temasek and its integrity of the Companys financial reporting, compliance and associates fall outside of the connected transactions regime.
However, non-revenue transactions with Temasek or any of its The Risk review and Capital review on pages 132 to 189 describes the associates continue to be subject to monitoring for connected Groups riskmanagement structure transaction issues on a  basis.
Our business is conducted within a developed control framework, The Company confirms that: underpinned by policy statements, written procedures and control The revenue transactions entered into with Temasek in 2016 manuals.
This ensures that there are written policies and were below the 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio test procedures to identify and manage risk, including operational risk, under the HK Listing Rules country risk, liquidity risk, regulatory risk, legal risk, reputational risk, market risk, credit risk and financial crime risk.
The Board The Group will continue to monitor non-exempt connected and hasestablished a management structure that clearly defines roles, continuing connected transactions and the revenue figures responsibilities and reporting lines.
Delegated authorities are generated from the ongoing banking transactions with Temasek documented and communicated.
Executive risk committees itself during the three years ending 31 December 2018 to ensure regularly review the Groups risk profile.
The performance of the that the 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio will not be Groups businesses is reported regularly to senior management exceeded and the Board.
Performance trends and forecasts, as well as actual The Company therefore satisfied the conditions attached performance against budgets and prior periods, are monitored totheWaiver.
Financial information is prepared using appropriate accounting policies, which are applied consistently.
Operational Fixed assets procedures and controls have been established to facilitate complete, accurate and timely processing of transactions and Details of additions to fixed assets are presented in note 18 thesafeguarding of assets.
These controls include appropriate tothefinancial statements on page 246. segregation of duties, the regular reconciliation of accounts and thevaluation of assets and positions.
In respect of handling inside Loan capital information, we have applied relevant controls on employees who Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to handling inside information, including controls over areset out in note 26 to the financial statements on page 252. the dissemination of such information and their dealings in the Companys shares.
Such systems are designed to manage rather Debenture issues and equity-linked agreements than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against During the financial year ending on 31 December 2016, the material misstatement or loss.
Company made six issues of debentures and entered into one equity-linked agreement, further details of which are set out in Employee policies and engagement note21 on page 248.
Standard Chartered takes communications very seriously and Risk management works hard to ensure that employees are kept informed about matters affecting or of interest to them, but more importantly to An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the provide opportunities for feedback and dialogue.
The Group has a significant risks that we face is in place.
The Board is satisfied that clear set of communications mechanisms that are used to inform this process constitutes a robust assessment of all of the principal employees of key business activity at a global, regional, business risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its and function level.
A recent review of internal communications was business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
undertaken to establish the effectiveness of the Groups communications mechanisms, staffs preferred channels for obtaining information and providing feedback and to ensure that www.
com 127 OTHER DISCLOSURES staff are getting the information they want and need.
The review identity, expression or reassignment: HIV or AIDS status: captured qualitative and quantitative feedback from staff and employment status: flexibility of working arrangements: disability: highlighted where communications are effective and where age: religion: or belief.
The Group appoints, trains, develops, improvements need to be made.
These insights have proved rewards and promotes employees on the basis of their merit and ability.
If employees become disabled, every endeavour is made to invaluable in how we evolve our communications approach.
ensure their employment continues, with appropriate training and The primary channel for communicating with our employees is the workplace adjustments where necessary.
In 2016, the Group also Bridge the Groups new social business collaboration platform.
launched a Global Guideline and Process for Workplace The Bridge not only provides global, local, business and function Adjustment that covers guidelines and processes for employees communications but it allows employees to collaborate, exchange with disabilities.
ideas, feedback, comment, innovate, communicate, and find Action may be taken to address disadvantage or under experts all through one space, wherever they are located.
representation among specific groups, with the aim of ensuring The Bridge is supported by Group, local and business newsletters, thatemployment decisions are free from bias.
targeted audio calls for business area or management level The Group does not tolerate any bullying or harassment of, videos, success story bulletins, town halls and engagement events discrimination against, or victimisation of staff, clients or visitors including brown bag lunches, leadership events, regional meetings, ofthe Group, whether verbal, written, physical or psychological.
Business or time-critical information is sent Allstaff has a duty to treat all those with whom they come into directly to employee inboxes through a measurable email marketing contact through work with dignity and respect at all times.
also enshrined in our Group Code of Conduct, which states that The Groups leadership team and line managers also have a critical colleagues must be treated fairly and with respect, and that all role to play in communicating to our employees ensuring that they employees are entitled to a safe working environment that is are kept up to date on key business information, the Groups inclusive and free from discrimination, bullying and harassment.
performance and strategy, their role in executing the strategy and Equally, in our recognition and interactions with various employee ensuring that they consult and listen to staff views, feedback and representative bodies unions, works councils globally, we are concerns.
Across the organisation team meetings with line heavily influenced by the 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration managers, one-to-one discussions, and management meetings of Human Rights UDHR, several ILO conventions including the enable employees to discuss and clarify anything they have heard Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 No.
or read and address any questions they may have.
The individual 98 and the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to performance reviews also provide the opportunity to discuss how Organise Convention, 1948 No.
87 as well as local country labour the employee, the team and the business area contributed to the laws and acts that protect employees rights to organise.
overall performance of the Group and how any compensation awards relate to this.
Major customers This mix of channels ensures that all staff receive relevant Our five-largest customers together accounted for 3.4 per cent information promptly regardless of how they prefer to be ofour total interest income and other operating income in the communicated with and regardless of where they sit in the year ended 31 December 2016. organisation.
We continue to communicate with employees who have left the Supply Chain Management Group via our Alumni network and all employees, past, present For information about how the Group engages with suppliers on andfuture are able to follow the Groups progress through social environmental and social matters, please see our Supplier Charter.
networks including the Groups LinkedIn network, Facebook page As required under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Group is and Twitter stream.
required to publish a Modern Slavery Statement, which will be As well as capturing staff feedback and views through team issued by June 2017.
This document will give further detail on how meetings, two-way communications and day-to-day dialogue, our the Group has managed social risks in its supply chain during 2016. employee engagement survey has been an important way for us to Our Supplier Charter can be viewed at sc.
com suppliercharter gather feedback on how employees feel about the organisation, how it is working, where our areas of strength are, and how we can further improve.
The My Voice survey was launched in 2014 and Product Responsibility was last carried out in May 2016.
My Voice measures engagement across the Group on a variety of business factors such as The Group has in place product governance policies and leadership, strategy and conduct.
In 2016 approximately 70,000 procedures to ensure products are designed to meet client needs, staff completed the survey and gave their views.
The insight gained are sold to suitable client segments and comply with relevant laws has been used to inform action plans intended to resolve and regulations.
Group Code of Conduct In addition, targeted local surveys and focus groups seek views on particular topics or from particular groups of employees.
Less The Board has adopted a refreshed Group Code of Conduct formal measures of sentiment and engagement include quick polls theCode relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of business and conversation on the Bridge.
and this is supported by the Groups core values.
Combined with over 40 employee networks across 18 countries It has been communicated to all directors and employees, all of and numerous champion groups, these insights are invaluable in whom are expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair shaping our thinking and future planning.
dealing in relation to customers, staff and regulators in the communities in which the Group operates.
The Group Equal Opportunities, Diversity, Inclusion and Dignity at Work Policy, reinforcing the Groups commitment to providing Directors and employees are asked to recommit to the Code equality of opportunity and fair treatment in employment, is annually, and this was done during September 2016. regularly reviewed last revised in 2015.
It does not accept unlawful discrimination in its recruitment and employment policies, terms, Environmental impact of our operations procedures, processes and decisions on the grounds of: race: We aim to minimise the environmental impact of our operations as colour: nationality: national or ethnic origins: gender: parental part of our commitment to being a responsible company.
status: marital or civil partner status: sexual orientation: gender 128 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION We report on energy, water, paper and waste data that are the basis of our Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions management as well as the targets we have set to reduce energy, water and paper use.
Total scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas emissions for 2015 and 2016 Indicator 2015 2016 Units Full-time employees FTE covered by reporting 84,076 86,693 FTE 2 Net internal area of occupied property covered by reporting 1,261,320 1,237,043 m Annual operating income 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016 17,566 12,515 $million Greenhouse Gas emissions Scope 1 emissions combustion of fuels 16,904 13,562 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 2 emissions purchased electricity location-based method 184,912 186,553 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 2 emissions purchased electricity market-based method 184,912 186,553 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions 201,816 200,115 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions without distance uplift air travel 54,519 52,056 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions with distance uplift air travel 59,426 56,741 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions outsourced data centre 19,339 22,653 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 256,335 252,171 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions FTE 3.05 2.91 tonnes CO eq FTE year 2 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions m2 203 204 kg CO eq m year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions operating income 14.59 20.15 tonnes CO eq $m year 2 Our reporting criteria document sets out the principles and The Group reports on Scope 3 emissions arising from air travel and methodology used to calculate the GHG emissions of the Group.
our outsourced data centres in Hong Kong and the UK.
Our reporting methodology is based upon the World Resources Reporting period Institute World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting The reporting period of our environmental data is from 1 October Standard Revised Edition.
This allows sufficient time for independent assurance to be gained prior to the publication of We report on all emission sources required under the Companies results.
Accordingly, the operating income used in this inventory Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations.
corresponds to the same time period rather than the calendar year Using conversion factors from the UK Governments 2015 GHG used in financial reporting.
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, emissions are reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e, 2 Assurance encompassing the six Kyoto gases.
Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are assured by an independent Our definition of different emission sources is provided on this page.
body, The Carbon Trust, against the requirements of ISA 3410.
Scope 1 Community engagement Scope 1 emissions are defined as arising from the consumption of We collaborate with local partners to support social and energy from direct sources, such as by burning diesel within economic development in communities across our markets.
For generators, during the use of property occupied by the Group.
more information on how we engage with communities go to the How we do business section on page 11.
Scope 2 Scope 2 emissions are defined as arising from the consumption of Electronic communication indirect sources of energy, such as the consumption of purchased The Board recognises the importance of good communications electricity and heat, during the use of property occupied by the with all shareholders.
Directors are in regular contact with our Group.
institutional shareholders and general presentations are made In accordance with the amendment issued to the GHG Protocol in when we announce our financial results.
The AGM presents an 2015, we report Scope 2 emissions under both location-based and opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
However, we have not used locationshareholders are encouraged to receive our corporate documents based emissions factors and as a consequence, both results are electronically.
The annual and interim financial statements, Notice the same.
This is based on our reservations concerning the of AGM and dividend circulars are all available electronically.
If you attribution of reduced electricity emissions and the potential for do not already receive your corporate documents electronically and double counting.
We will continue to monitor the development of would like to do so in future, please contact our registrars at the Scope 2 Quality Criteria, as well as the development of residual address on page 318. mixed by national agencies.
Shareholders are also able to vote electronically on the resolutions being put to the AGM through our registrars website at investorcentre.
com The Group does not use any form of offset such as green electricity to offset Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions.
Annual General Meeting Scope 3 Our AGM will be held at 11:00am UK time 6:00pm Hong Kong time on 3 May 2017 at etc.
venues, Scope 3 emissions are defined as occurring as a consequence of the Groups activities, but arising from sources not controlled by us.
com 129 OTHER DISCLOSURES 200Aldersgate, St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD.
Details of the Committee believes that such a case-by-case approach best business to be conducted are contained in the Notice of AGM.
accommodates i the need for the appropriate rigour and challenge to be applied to each request for KPMG to provide non-audit Our 2016 AGM was held on 4 May 2016 at 11:00am London time services while ii preserving sufficient flexibility for the Group to 6:00pm Hong Kong time at etc.
venues, 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, engage KPMG to provide non-audit services where they are able London EC1A 4HD.
Special business at the meeting included the todeliver particular value to the Group and where the proposed approval of the power to allot ECAT1 Securities for cash without services can be provided without compromising KPMGs objectivity certain formalities.
All resolutions were passed at the meeting.
Non-audit services It should be noted that a global cap is being introduced such that non-audit services provided by KPMG cannot exceed 70 per cent The Groups non-audit services policy the policy was reviewed of the average audit fee from the previous three consecutive and approved by the Audit Committee on 26 January 2017.
If applied on a retrospective basis the Group would policy is based on an overriding principle that, to avoid any actual have complied with this requirement with non-audit services in the or perceived conflicts of interest, the Groups auditor should only current year being less than 25 per cent of the average audit fee beused when either there is evidence that there is no alternative in from the previous three consecutive financial years.
terms of quality and there is no conflict with their duties as auditor.
KPMG can be used where the statutory auditor is required to be Details relating to KPMGs remuneration as the Group statutory used due to regulatory or legal requirements.
auditor and a description of the broad categories of the types ofnon-audit services provided by KPMG are given in note 37 The policy clearly sets out the criteria for when the Audit tothefinancial statements on page 272.
There were no Committees prior written approval is required.
The policy requires  of KPMG in 2016 for the provision a conservative approach to be taken to the assessment of requests ofnon-audit services.
for KPMG to provide non-audit services.
Subject to the overriding principle, the Audit Committees view is that KPMG can be of value Auditor in a range of non-audit service activities and should be allowed to tender subject to the terms of the policy.
The Group is required to The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Group take a conservative approach to interpreting the potential threats statutory auditor, its effectiveness and its relationship with the toauditor independence and requires commensurately robust Group, which includes monitoring our use of the auditors for safeguards against them.
non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees paid.
Following a review of the independence and effectiveness of EU legislation and guidance from the Financial Reporting Council our Group statutory auditor details of which can be found on page FRC sets out threats to audit independence including self-interest, 76, resolutions to appoint KPMG and to determine its remuneration self-review, familiarity, taking of a management role or conducting will be proposed at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
In particular, maintaining KPMGs independence from the Group requires KPMG to avoid taking decisions on the Groups Each director believes that there is no relevant information of behalf.
It is also recognised as essential that management retains which our Group statutory auditor is unaware.
Each has taken all the decision-making capability as to whether to act on advice given steps necessary as a director to be aware of any relevant audit by KPMG as part of a non-audit service.
This means not just the information and to establish that KPMG is made aware of any ability to action the advice given, but to have sufficient knowledge pertinent information.
of the subject matter to be able to make a reasoned and By order of the Board independent judgement as to its validity.
All of this is contained within the policy.
By way of non-exhaustive illustration of the application of the principles set out in the policy, the following types of non-audit services are: Liz Lloyd Group Company Secretary Likely to be permissible under the policy: 24 February 2017 Audit-related services the Group would also extend this to Standard Chartered PLC work on investor circulars in most foreseeable circumstances Registered No.
966425 An objective view as to whether the Group has applied external laws and regulations appropriately, such as checks over regulatory compliance Testing the robustness of controls infrastructure Due diligence over potential purchases or sales Not permissible under the policy: Any services that are prohibited or to the extent they are restricted by the published guidance from time to time Tax or regulatory structuring proposals Services where fees are paid on a contingent basis in whole orin part Consulting services that actively assist in running the business inplace of management as opposed to providing or validating information, which management then utilises in the operation ofthe business The policy is not a prescribed list of non-audit services that KPMG is permitted to provide.
Rather, each request for KPMG to provide non-audit services will be assessed on its own merits.
The Audit 130 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
