PRINCIPAL UNCERTAINTIES Principal uncertainties The Risk review is divided into the following sections: ensure that we are operating within our risk appetite and we take necessary risk-mitigating actions on our exposures when such Principal uncertainties on pages 136 to 138 sets out the key aneed arises.
external factors that could impact the Group in the coming year.
Stress testing is also an integral part of the Groups approach to Risk management approach on pages 139 to 149 details how risk management.
We conduct stress tests at a Group, country, we control and govern risk.
portfolio and business level to assess the effect of extreme but Risk profile on page 150 to 181 provides an analysis of our risk plausible developments in the global economy and financial exposures across all major risk types.
markets on our performance and ability to operate within our risk appetite.
This includes assessing the management actions we can The key uncertainties and material risks we face in the current year take to ensure our resilience to stress.
We have a comprehensive are set out below.
This should not be regarded as a complete and stress testing programme that is conducted throughout the year comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties and includes the annual Bank of England stress test.
The results that we may experience.
ofthe stress test are considered in our assessment of risk appetite and limit setting.
The Groups approach to stress testing is Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions discussed in greater detail in the Risk management approach onpage 142.
Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions such as the continuing slow growth in the eurozone, moderation of growth in China and We stress test our market risk exposures to highlight the potential asset price correction, influence personal expenditure and impact of extreme market events and to confirm that they are within consumption patterns: demand for business products and authorised stress loss triggers.
Our stress scenarios are regularly services: the debt service burden of consumers and businesses: updated to reflect changes in risk profile and economic events.
the general availability of credit for retail and corporate borrowers: Wealso perform scenario analysis on our portfolios to monitor the and the availability of capital and liquidity for our business.
Where necessary, overall reductions in market risk exposures are enforced.
Global economic growth remains subdued, although the outlook for economic growth differs across each of our markets.
Weak We continuously review the suitability of our risk policies and investment spending and low productivity growth remain key controls and maintain robust processes to assess the suitability concerns for the developed world.
The uncertainty related to recent and appropriateness of the products and services we provide to geo-political developments could exacerbate these weaknesses.
Asia remains the main driver of global growth supported by internal Geo-political uncertainties growth drivers, led by China.
A mini-credit boom in early 2016 helped steady Chinas growth outlook: however, this will continue Geo-political uncertainty and its impact on world trade affects trade tofuel concerns about the size of its debt and the pace of transition flows, our customers ability to pay, and our ability to manage to more consumption-led growth.
While commodity prices have capital or operations across borders as our performance is in part recovered from the lows of early 2016, further weakness in reliant on the openness of cross-border trade and capital flows.
commodity prices could have a continued negative effect on Political developments and policy decisions will continue to theeconomic performance of commodity dependent nations in influence global macroeconomic conditions.
Sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and North Africa, through In Europe, the outcome of the UK referendum to leave the reduced foreign exchange earnings and government revenues.
European Union Brexit as well as upcoming elections in key The global economy has entered a period of monetary policy European Unionmember states in 2017 could have implications divergence, with the US Federal Reserve raising policy rates while oneconomic conditions globally as a result of changes in policy other major central banks have adopted unorthodox monetary direction, which may in turn influence the economic outlook for the policy measures, including the setting of negative real benchmark eurozone and itskey trading partners.
The election cycle in Europe interest rates and quantitative easing.
This divergence is likely to could bring market volatility, while the uncertainties linked to the result in changing asset preferences of investors and volatility in Brexit negotiation process could delay some investment decisions markets.
Significant increases in interest rates from the historically untilthere is more clarity.
low levels currently prevailing in many markets, in particular the US, The result of the US Presidential elections in November 2016 led could have an impact on the wider economy through credit quality tosome initial market volatility with the longer-term impact unclear and asset values.
given uncertainty about the broader direction and impact of US Financial markets are highly linked to macroeconomic foreign and domestic policy.
In particular, policies questioning free developments.
A sudden financial markets dislocation could affect trade or the traditional system of security alliances could trigger our performance, directly through its impact on the valuation of market volatility and have a direct impact on some economic assets in our available-for-sale and trading portfolios or indirectly activities, including global trade.
The protectionist policies, if through the availability of capital or liquidity.
Financial markets followed by the US, could disrupt established supply chains and instability may also increase the likelihood of default by our invoke retaliatory actions from other countries.
A sudden change counterparties and may increase the likelihood of client disputes.
infiscal policy could lead to a large market repricing of financial assets, with repercussions on all dollar-linked transactions.
To mitigate the abovementioned risks, we have for a number of years had in place a Business Risk Horizon framework that Financial markets are also closely linked to geo-political events provides a forward-looking 12 to 18 month view of the economic, anda sudden dislocation of financial markets could affect our business and credit conditions across the Groups key markets, performance.
The impact from such an occurrence and the enabling us to take proactive action.
measures we take to manage the resulting market risks has beendiscussed in the previous section on deteriorating We monitor economic trends in our key markets very closely and macroeconomic conditions.
ensure that our portfolio remains well diversified across products, regions and client segments so as to provide resilience against economic shocks.
We monitor our portfolio indicators regularly to 136 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION We regularly assess the geo-political risks and forward-looking relating to fraud, vandalism and damage to critical infrastructure.
impact on economic, business and credit conditions across The Groups business depends on our ability to process a large theGroups key markets through the Business Risk Horizon number of transactions efficiently and accurately, and is highly framework, enabling us to take proactive actions where reliant on digital technologies, computer and email services, appropriate.
There is regular senior level oversight, through the software and networks.
This dependency on secure processing, Group Risk Committee, of work undertaken to assess and storage and transmission of confidential and other information in managegeo-political risk.
ourcomputer systems and networks increases our exposure risk tocybercrime.
We also conduct stress tests, where appropriate, with a focus on the potential impact of geo-political and physical events on relevant The Group seeks to be vigilant in managing risks relating to regions, client segments and risk types.
The Risk Committees may financial crime, fraud and cybercrime.
The Group has implemented commission portfolio reviews and deep dives to highlight the policies and procedures to minimise these risks.
Controls are impact of geo-political events and proactively manage the portfolio.
embedded in the Groups processes to prevent such risks or to detect them as quickly as possible.
The Group performs regular Impact from the UK referendum to leave the European reviews of our control environment, and performs benchmarking of Union Brexit its standards to continuously improve its controls against these On 23 June 2016, the UK held a referendum and voted to leave risks.
The Group considers these risks as scenarios in stress theEuropean Union.
The precise timing and terms of the exit are testing.
In June 2016, the Group was formally recognised by the US unclear, as is the nature of the relationship between the UK, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network FinCEN for two European Union and other nations post exit.
This has resulted in investigations conducted bythe Groups Financial Crime significant financial market and macroeconomic uncertainty.
Compliance team that led to successful law enforcement action.
The first order impact of Brexit is not material given the Groups The Group continues to pursue its Financial Crime Risk Mitigation exposure is predominantly to economies in Asia, Africa and the Programme to enhance its approach to money laundering Middle East.
prevention, combating terrorist financing, and compliance with sanctions as described below in the regulatory investigations and In addition to relevant mitigants mentioned elsewhere in this legal proceedings principal uncertainty.
To improve the oversight of section, we continue to ensure that there is regular senior oversight fraud management, a Global Fraud Risk Management Group has of work undertaken to assess and manage Brexit risk and the been formed and is overseeing the enhancement of standards to practical implications, including our contingency plans.
meet the Group Fraud Risk Management Policy and related Our continued approach is to maximise planning and preparedness procedure.
The Group has implemented a range of cybercrime while we observe further developments, including the triggering of defences to protect from hacking, misuse, malware, errors, social Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon to formally provide notice of the engineering and physical threats.
The Group also performs external UKs intention to leave the European Union, and we are in the benchmarking against government and international cyber security advanced stages of our planning for continued market access standards and frameworks, and conducts tests of our defences forour clients.
against cyber and other attacks in line with regulatory frameworks.
Any of the foregoing risks, or a failure by the Group to manage such The full impact of Brexit will only be known over the next couple risks, may have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial ofyears as the negotiations progress with the European Union and condition, results of operations and prospects.
We continue to proactively assess and, where appropriate, manage the impact to the Group and Operational performance eroding external confidence ourexposures to clients.
intheGroup Evolving financial crime, fraud and cybercrime Group operational under-performance can result from differences The banking industry continues to be a target for financial crime, in the Groups earnings as compared to market expectations or fraud and cybercrime.
Operational losses may result from, for competitor performance.
This could impact the Groups share price example: and, in extreme cases, a material under-performance may even erode confidence in the Group.
Failure to comply with legal or regulatory requirements, or tomeet regulatory expectations in relation to anti-money The Group has a clear strategy that is consistent with the risk laundering, countering terrorist financing and sanctions appetite and financial objectives for the Group.
The risk appetite compliance isset at granular levels and is approved by the Board, against which regular updates are provided.
The financial objectives are Internal and external fraud reviewed periodically and the strategy is regularly reviewed and Cybercrime, or criminal exploitation via information systems challenged by the Board for potential risks and its execution.
oronline channels The organisational structure of country, regional and segment The Group, through its size and strategic intent, continues to be CEOs allows us to respond quickly and effectively to any areas exposed to money laundering and sanctions risks.
The Group regularly monitors the executionof its strategic plan through the Groups performance areinherent in the Groups operations and may arise from, among management process.
other things, the Group offering different banking products to diverse customer types delivered through multiple channels in, We update our equity and debt providers and rating agencies orrelated to, many regions: the Groups defences being overcome regularly to ensure they understand our progress against by criminals: and or regulators assessing deficiencies in the thestrategy.
Groups design and or governance over controls operating across the Groups client or counterparty due diligence and surveillance.
Exchange rate movements Economic crime arising from internal or external fraud continues Changes in exchange rates affect, among other things, the value tobe a global problem for the financial services industry, and ofour assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, as managing fraud risk remains complex.
The Group is also exposed well as the earnings reported by our non-US dollar denominated to economic crime arising from fraud risk for similar reasons branches and subsidiaries.
Sharp currency movements can also asthose listed above for money laundering and sanctions.
affect trade flows, the ability of countries and clients to service debtand the wealth of clients, any of which could have an impact Cybercrime is rising and becoming more globally coordinated.
TheGroup may incur losses due to cybercrime including risks www.
com 137 PRINCIPAL UNCERTAINTIES regulations, and there can be no assurance that future penalties We monitor exchange rate movements closely and adjust our willnot be of a different type or increased severity.
The Group is exposures accordingly.
Under certain circumstances, we may take cooperating with a number of reviews, requests for information and the decision to hedge our foreign exchange exposures in order to investigations and actively managing its legal proceedings including protect our capital ratios from the effects of changes in exchange in respect of legacy issues, but both the nature and timing of the rates.
The effect of exchange rate movements on the capital outcome of these matters is uncertain and difficult to predict.
adequacy ratio is partially mitigated to the extent there are Assuch, it is not possible to predict the extent of any liabilities proportionate movements in risk-weighted assets.
orother adverse consequences that may arise for the Group.
Evolving impact of regulatory compliance The Group has made significant investments to enhance its systems and controls environment and has increased the capacity Our business as an international bank will continue to comply with and capability of its compliance resources.
A Financial Crime Risk an evolving and complex regulatory and legislative framework in Committee sits at Board level to oversee financial crime compliance each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
The precise nature and the Group has invested in various remediation programmes and impact of future changes in laws and regulations is not always and appointed independent reviewers to critically examine its predictable and may, at times, not be aligned with our strategic systems and controls.
The Group has an ongoing Financial Crime interests.
These changes sometimes have broader implications Risk Mitigation Programme FCRMP, which is a comprehensive, onthe volatility and liquidity in some of the markets in which we multi-year programme designed to review and enhance many operate, which may in turn have an impact on the way we conduct aspects of the Groups existing approach to money laundering business and manage our capital and liquidity.
As a bank with a prevention and combating terrorism finance and the approach to substantial footprint across emerging markets, but being sanctions compliance and the prevention of bribery and corruption.
headquartered in the UK, we continue to face an evolving and In addition, as a result of the Groups 2012 and 2014 settlements complex regulatory framework in each of the jurisdictions where we with certain US authorities the Settlements, a remediation operate.
Despite regulatory frameworks being enhanced for much programme referred to as the US Supervisory Remediation of the decade to increase confidence in the banking sector, we Program SRP was established comprising workstreams await final rules in many key areas of regulation that could further designedto ensure compliance with the Settlements.
Many of the impact on our business model and how we manage our capital and deliverables under the SRP are reliant on, or led by, individuals or liquidity.
We are closely monitoring the discussions of Basel functions outside the US, and in some cases represent the US Committee of Banking Services regarding the standards for the implementation of Group-wide remediation or upgrade activity calibration and implementation of capital floors.
At the time of managed under the FCRMP.
Consequently, there is a close writing we await final proposals from the Basel Committee on the working relationship between the SRP and FCRMP for the purpose revisions to credit risk and operational risk, as well as the European of project coordination and delivery.
As part of the FCRMP, the application of the revised approach to calculating market risk, Group or its advisors may identify new issues, potential breaches binding leverage ratio and net stable funding ratio.
or matters requiring further review or further process improvements In addition to having to comply with regulations in each of our that could impact the scope or duration of the FCRMP.
emerging markets we operate in, the fact that many regulations The remediation programmes and other compliance-related stemming from the US or EU regulators are extraterritorial in investments are a necessary cost of doing business for the Group theirapplication adds additional challenges, complexities and and affect numerous markets, businesses and functions.
The roll uncertainties for cross-border business in these markets.
out of these programmes and enhancements may be complex and TheMarkets in Financial Instruments Directive MIFID2 will be the timing and associated costs of these measures are uncertain.
implemented from the start of 2018, yet the precise geographical scope of its application to products and securities in markets The Group recognises that its compliance with historical, current outside the European Union remains uncertain.
A number of and future sanctions, as well as AML and BSA requirements, regulations require changing contractual terms for all clients to andcustomer due diligence practices, not just in the US but ensure compliance with over-the-counter OTC derivative reforms throughout the Groups footprint, are and will remain a focus of or bail-in requirements stemming from the European Unions therelevant authorities.
Banking Resolution and Recovery Directive BRRD.
In meeting regulatory expectations and demonstrating active risk The Group requires adherence to and implementation of management, the Group is also reviewing its portfolio and taking regulations while meeting and anticipating the expectations of steps to restrict or restructure or otherwise mitigate higher-risk regulators and regulatory reform.
The Group has implemented business activities, which could include divesting or closing Group-wide policies and procedures to manage the risks businesses that exist beyond risk appetite.
We continue to educate associated with managing regulatory change.
and train our people on conduct, conflicts of interest, information security and financial crime compliance in order to reduce our Regulatory investigations, reviews and legal proceedings exposure to legal and regulatory proceedings.
While the Group seeks to comply with the letter and spirit of all For further details on legal and regulatory matters, including details applicable laws and regulations at all times, it has been, and may on the Settlements, refer to note 25 to the financial statements on continue to be, subject to regulatory actions, reviews, requests pages 250 to 251. forinformation including subpoenas and requests for documents and investigations across our markets, the outcomes of which are As a result of our normal business operations, Standard Chartered generally difficult to predict and can be material to the Group.
The is exposed to a broader range of risks than those Principal Group is also party to legal proceedings from time to time, which uncertainties mentioned above and our approach tomanaging may give rise to financial losses or adversely impact our reputation risk is detailed on the following pages.
in the eyes of our customers, investors and other stakeholders.
Regulatory and enforcement authorities have broad discretion topursue actions and impose a wide range of penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations.
Penalties imposed by authorities have included substantial monetary penalties, additional compliance and remediation requirements and additional business restrictions.
In recent years, such authorities have exercised their discretion to impose increasingly severe penalties on financial institutions that have been determined to have violated laws and 138 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
