STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Africa & Middle East Region overview OUR REGION AT A GLANCE We have a deep-rooted heritage of over 150years in the region and are present in25 markets, of which the most sizeable are the UAE, Nigeria, Pakistan and Kenya.
We are executing our strategy We are the largest international bank by and investing through the number of markets with a presence in Sub-Saharan Africa and one of only few cycle in controls, people and banks with a strong network across Africa, infrastructure to grow safely Asia and the Middle East.
This, coupled withour presence in origination centres in and capture the medium-term Europe & Americas, enables us to connect opportunity within our region clients to opportunities in some of the worlds most exciting growth markets.
Sunil Kaushal Strategic objectives Regional CEO, Africa & Middle East We have made a conscious decision to invest through the cycle in Sub-Saharan Africa, while continuing to consolidate and build on our differentiated position across the rest of the region.
Recognising nearKey numbers for 2016 term challenges, the Group has taken early actions to secure and invest in a platform Profit before taxation Loans and advances to customers suitable for sustainable, profitable growth, which we will leverage to capture opportunities in the medium term.
$431 million Africa & underlying basis Our priorities for the region are: Middle East 11% of Group Protect and grow Retail Banking in core $349million markets, supported by the rollout of statutory basis digital capability for our clients Risk-weighted assets Become a market leader in providing best-in-class structuring and financing solutions to our Corporate & Institutional Income split by key country $53 billion Banking clients UAE Others 27% 73% Rebuild Commercial Banking, targeting alow-cost, low-risk, supply chain-driven model with tightened underwriting standards and a focus on specific tradecorridors Deliver our conduct and financial crime risk programmes A reconciliation of underlying profit to statutory profit is on page 44 Comparative key numbers for 2015 are on page 44 www.
com 49 REGIONAL REVIEWS Financial performance summary Banking income due to increased activity PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS inCorporate Finance.
Income from Africa Statutory profit before taxation of increased 2 per cent in the second half of Underlying profit improved $349 million in 2016 compared with the year compared to the first half, driven aprofitof $77 million in 2015. dueto lower impairments and byhigher Foreign Exchange and Rates expense efficiencies, offsetting Africa & Middle East recorded underlying income, and from improved yield on our lower income profit before taxation of $431 million in 2016 Asset and Liability Management portfolio.
compared to $188 million in 2015 due to Our diversification within the lower impairments and reduced expenses.
Expenses region limited the income The UAE reported an underlying loss before Expenses fell 3 per cent year-on-year to taxation of $31 million in 2016 compared decline despite significant $1,730 million, but rose 3 per cent on a with a loss of $91 million in 2015. strategic actions in the UAE constant currency basis with cost savings The difference between underlying and from headcount reductions and improved andlocal currency depreciation statutory profit before taxation is primarily efficiency more than offset by increased in Africa explained by restructuring charges of investment in areas such as the digitisation $82 million in 2016 and $112 million in 2015. of our Retail Banking business and conduct Good progress on improving Commentary hereafter is on an underlying and controls.
conduct and controls, as well as basis unless otherwise stated.
investment priorities including Impairment the digitisation of Retail Income Loan impairment was down 33 per cent Banking in Africa Income from the region fell 4 per cent year-on-year to $563 million.
2015 included year-on-year to $2,742 million reflecting $230 million of impairment relating to Progress against strategic objectives local currency depreciation in Africa, exposures transferred to the liquidation actions taken to improve our risk profile, portfolio that was incurred prior to transfer.
Invested in the digitisation of Retail lower commodity prices and a slowdown Excluding this, loan impairment fell Banking in Africa, including upgrading incorporate activity in the Middle East.
8 per cent reflecting actions taken as ourmobile and internet banking platform aresult of tightened risk appetite levels in On a constant currency basis, income rose in eight markets and launching Retail our Commercial Banking portfolio.
Workbench in Kenya and Nigeria ofloan impairment in both Commercial Income from the UAE declined 6 per cent Banking and Corporate & Institutional Improved conduct and controls year-on-year to $754 million impacted by Banking, however, remained elevated capabilities through increased system actions taken to improve our risk profile, duetochallenging market conditions.
automation, hubbing and increased including the exit of our SME business in investment in our staff Retail Banking and Commercial Banking, Balance sheet Improved our Corporate & Institutional and from weak market conditions.
Loans and advances to customers declined Banking management structure and client Income in the second half of the year was 9 per cent year-on-year driven by local coverage model to enhance our offering 12 per cent lower compared with the first currency depreciation, actions taken to toclients half due to lower client activity in Corporate improve our risk profile and selective Finance and Foreign Exchange.
Deepened our relationships with origination efforts in Corporate & Institutional Corporate & Institutional Banking clients Income from Africa was flat year-on-year at Banking.
Risk-weighted assets declined reflected by winning more employee $1,429 million impacted by local currency 8 per cent driven by the same factors.
banking and multi-country cash depreciation, particularly in Nigeria.
On Customer accounts fell 9 per cent management mandates, and by leading aconstant currency basis, income from year-on-year driven by a reduction in several landmark transactions Africa rose 12 per cent year-on-year.
corporate term deposits as we took Despite the adverse impact of local Rolled out new underwriting standards in stepstoimprove our liability funding mix.
currency depreciation, income from Kenya Commercial Banking, exited low-returning increased with growth across all Retail clients and developed our relationship Banking products, in particular Deposits, managers aswell as higher Corporate & Institutional Total 2016 2015 Better Underlying performance $million $million worse Operating income 2,742 2,858 4 % Operating expenses 1,730 1,790 3% Loan impairment 563 844 33% Other impairment 18 36 50% 1 Profit from associates and joint ventures nm Underlying profit before taxation 431 188 129% 1 Statutory profit before taxation 349 77 nm Net interest margin 3.2% 3.4% 23 bps Loans and advances to customers 28,140 31,070 9 % Customer accounts 29,931 33,013 9 % Risk-weighted assets 52,849 57,566 8 % 1.
Not meaningful A reconciliation of underlying profit to statutory profit is on page 44 50 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
