CLIENT SEGMENT REVIEWS Retail Banking Segment over view OUR SEGMENT AT A GLANCE We serve over 9 million affluent and emerging affluent clients and small businesses in many ofthe worlds fastest growing cities across Asia, Africa and We are two years into our the Middle East.
Our focus is on serving transformation and making the banking needs of these Priority, Business and Personal Clients with good progress.
2017 market-leading digital capabilities will be about further andbest-in-class products.
digitisation and returning Strategic objectives to sustainable growth We have made significant progress transforming Retail Banking in the last two Karen Fawcett years, sharpening our client proposition CEO, Retail Banking andbuilding new technology.
Our priorities for the segment are: Continue to shift the client mix towards affluent and emerging affluent clients by focusing on our corporate ecosystems Key numbers for 201 6 and alliances Improving quality of income through Profit before taxation Loans and advances to customers changes in client mix, risk profiles andproducts $766 million Invest to improve client experience underlying basis through an enhanced end-to-end digital offering, with straightforward platforms Retail Banking $719million 37% of Group and best-in-class products and services statutory basis Move towards a more automated Risk-weighted assets andstandardised business model to improve efficiency and reduce our cost-to-income ratio Income split by region $42 billion Focus on core cities to drive income ASEAN & Europe & Americas Return on risk-weighted assets South Asia growth supported by digitisation and 1% 30% branch optimisation 1.7% Reinvigorate our brand by clearly defining underlying basis our proposition and simplifying our product and service offering Greater China Africa & & North Asia Middle East 1.6% Deliver our conduct and financial crime 17% 52% statutory basis risk programmes A reconciliation of underlying profit to statutory profit is on page 30 Comparative key numbers for 2015 are on page 30 34 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION BANKING AT OUR FINGERTIPS Standard Chartered is rolling out enhanced digital In 2015, we announced a $1.5 billion investment drive in capabilities across its footprint, including a suite of technology over a three-year period, and this global rollout cutting-edge biometric and voice technology platforms.
ofnew technology represents one stage of that drive.
This is fundamentally improving the client experience and enhancing the security ofour clients banking and Inaddition, the Group has launched its Retail Workbench investment transactions.
sales-and-service tool in 10 major markets: rolled out anew mobile and internet banking platform across 12 markets, This technology will reach in excess of five million clients, including eight markets in Africa: as well as launching making it the most extensive rollout of fingerprint biometric market-leading video chat banking in Singapore, Malaysia technology by any international bank, and a first in most and Taiwan, with plans to expand this service into China, markets.
Thanks to touch login and voice recognition, Hong Kong and India during the first quarter of 2017. clients are able to swiftly and securely access banking services, adding ease of use and a new layer of security totheir interactions with the Group.
com 35 CLIENT SEGMENT REVIEWS Financial performance summary Wealth Management income also rose PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS inallother markets in the region during Statutory profit before taxation of thesecond halfof 2016 benefiting from Transformation is well underway $719 million in 2016 compared with a improved market conditions.
statutory profit of $524 million in 2015. with significant investment in ASEAN & South Asia income fell 10 per cent digitisation and improvement in Retail Banking recorded underlying profit year-on-year or 8 per cent on a constant leading performance indicators before taxation of $766 million in 2016 currency basis.
Income was impacted by compared to a profit of $919 million in 2015 central bank rate cuts in India which offset Continued improvement in owing to lower income, which more than asset growth, and by lower Credit Cards expenses and loan impairment offset continued improvement in expenses and Personal Loans income in Singapore and loan impairment.
Excluding the impact offset by lower income and Malaysia resulting from actions to of currency translation, the exit of our improve client quality.
Income declined year-on-year, consumer finance business and a property disposal gain recorded in 2015, underlying Africa & Middle East income fell 6 per cent but rose in the second half of profit declined 10 per cent due to lower year-on-year, impacted by local currency 2016, underpinned by improved income and increased investment.
On client quality, balance sheet aconstant currency basis, income fell The difference between underlying and growth and Wealth Management 3 per cent with growth in Africa from statutory profit before taxation is explained Deposits and Wealth Management offset by restructuring charges of $47 million in bycentral bank rate cuts in Pakistan and Progress against strategic objectives 2016 and $395 million in 2015.
Commentary lower Wealth Management income in UAE.
hereafter is on an underlying basis, unless Increased share of income from Priority otherwise stated.
clients to 39 per cent of Retail Banking Expenses income supported by more than 90,000 Income Retail Banking expenses fell 3 per cent new-to-bank Priority clients year-on-year to $3,413 million.
On a Income fell 9 per cent year-on-year to Announced the exit of Retail Banking constant currency basis, expenses were flat $4,669 million, or 4 per cent excluding the inthe Philippines and Thailand with cost efficiency initiatives and business impact of currency translation, business exits offset by increased investment in New risk decision framework in exits and a property disposal gain recorded digitisation and in our sales force.
This decline was driven by weaker growthandlower volatility in our Wealth Management income in the first Impairment unsecured assetportfolio half of the year and lower income from Loan impairment fell 28 per cent yearunsecured lending.
Income rose 2 per cent Step-up of investment in digitisation in the second half driven by Deposits and on-year to $489 million.
Reduced loan withRetail Workbench now operational in Wealth Management.
impairment in 2016 is an outcome of 10markets, upgraded mobile and internet improving portfolio performance and banking platform in 12 markets, the Greater China & North Asia income declined mixacross markets, notably Korea.
launch of video chat banking in three 9per cent year-on-year, or 2 per cent markets, and enhanced client payment excluding the impact of local currency Balance sheet capabilities in selected markets depreciation, business exits and a property disposal gain recorded in 2015.
Growth in Loans and advances to customers decreased Commenced a multi-year overhaul of Hong Kong from Deposits was offset by by1 per cent compared with theend of coreplatforms and digital sales capability declines in Korea and to a lesser extent 2015 as growth in Mortgages was offset by in Wealth Management China and Taiwan.
Korea income fell due a decline in Personal Loans.
Risk-weighted Launched focused client campaigns with tolower central bank rates and actions to assets fell due to model changes and a new alliance partners, including Uber in improve the risk profile of our unsecured reduction in higher risk weighted balances.
six markets, Asia Miles inHong Kong and lending portfolio.
Income rose in Korea in the Customer accounts increased by 2 per cent Samsung Card and Shinsegae E-mart second half compared to the firsthalf driven driven byGreater China & North Asia.
inKorea by Mortgages and Wealth Management.
Not meaningful A reconciliation of underlying profit to statutory profit is on page 30 36 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
