HOW WE DO BUSINESS How we do business How we serve clients How we serve investors We want all of our stakeholders to have a In 2016, we took a series of The Group receives capital positive experience.
One way to achieve this measures to put clients at the from equity and debt investors.
is by performing to the highest standards heart of our business.
We This supports the execution of ofconduct.
This is a priority for both our invested heavily in improving our business model.
How we create value stakeholders and the Group.
their experience in each of our four client for theseinvestors depends on whether segments.
For example, in Corporate & they are, for example, active traders Embedding good conduct Institutional Banking we prioritised banking orlong-term stakeholders, interested the end-to-end supply chain of our clients primarily in social responsibility or Our conduct management framework and improved our digital operations: concerned solely with investment returns.
touches all parts of our business and sets inRetail Banking we launched video Whatever the nature of theinvestor, we out the elements that we need to identify, banking, voice biometric technology and treat them equally and aim tobalance control and govern conduct-related risks.
offered clients innovative new payment their diverse interests and expectations.
The framework aims to ensure that the options: in Commercial Banking we Group is governed appropriately, with During 2016, we executed our strategy improved our client on-boarding process adequate infrastructure and a transparent tosecure the foundations and create and turnaround time, and focused on business model.
It empowers our leaders aplatform for sustainable growth.
banking our clients networks: and in tocreate an ethical environment where our Wereturned the Group toprofitability, Private Banking we enhanced our Wealth employees are incentivised to exercise good delivered income and balance sheet Management proposition and simplified judgement.
Managing the business in this stability, reduced exposures in the our account opening process.
way helpsus to achieve fair outcomes for liquidation portfolio, achieved gross cost stakeholders and support our markets.
We continue to build on these successes.
efficiencies, and significantly increased We are investing more than $3 billion the pace of investment in the franchise.
Employees receive mandatory conduct from 2015 to 2017 to make us a simpler, In2017, we will build on these foundations training, and their performance objectives faster and better organisation, focusing and continue the execution of our and reward mechanisms are explicitly on technology innovation, process strategic plan toreposition the Group linked to behaving appropriately.
In 2016, streamlining and faster turnaround times.
fora sustainable improvement in returns.
Bill Winters, our Group Chief Executive, launched a comprehensive global How we engage with clients How we engage with investors communications campaign on conduct, During 2016 we significantly strengthened Transparent engagement with our #knowtherules, which established a clear our approach to capturing and investors and the wider market tone from the top and highlighted the addressing client feedback.
community helps us to understand what importance of conduct to the Group.
investors need so that we can tailor our We did this in a number of ways, public information accordingly.
Feedback Financial crime and human rights includingthrough third-party studies, is taken seriously by the Board and it is which allowed us to benchmark our Financial crime, such as bribery, corruption aware of topics of particular interest, performance against competitors and and money laundering, hinders economic recommendations or requests.
gain expert insights: by broadening our progress and harms communities.
client surveys to give us more accurate We communicate with investors in several We are strengthening our Financial feedback across all client segments: and ways, including quarterly management CrimeCompliance standards by making through client experience forums that statements, halfand full-year results, enhancements to our financial crime allow us to hear directly from clients and regulatory news services and media controls, training our staff and sharing respond to their needs by taking the releases.
We also meet investors at the best practice with clients and partners.
Annual General Meeting and at investor As an employer, a provider of financial meetings and conferences.
Taken together, these activities have services and a procurer of goods and shown us that we need to simplify In 2016, acting on feedback that investors services, we have a responsibility to ourprocesses and become easier would like more direct access toour respect human rights across our business.
Management Team, our client segment We address human rights in our Code of and regional CEOs attended investor Conduct, Supplier Charter and Position We are committed to achieving this goal conferences to talk about their business Statements, the latter protecting the rights and a selection of our key performance areas.
In 2017, we will strengthen our of children, workers and communities in indicators can be found on pages 18 to communications further.
relation to specific industry-sector risks.
20 to show the progress we are making.
For more information on how we have More information for investors can be found For more information about how we manage served our clients go to the Client segment at investors.
com environmental and social risks, go to reviews onpages 30 to 43 sc.
com positionstatements 2 Annual energy use of our property kWh m year Our community expenditure 2016 1 1 Tropical climate Temperate climate 18.2% 1 398 Leverage 31% 355 35% 39.8% Cash contributions 276 275 268 8.9% Management costs $52.3 million 230 0% Gifts in kind non-cash item 33.1% Employee time non-cash item 2008 2016 2019 target 2008 2016 2019 target 1.
Tropical energy usage relates to cooling: temperate energy usage relates to both heating and cooling 1.
Leverage data relates to the proceeds from staff and other fundraising activity 10 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION How we serve society How we serve employees How we serve regulators andgovernments We collaborate with our clients We continue to deliver a and partners to promote social comprehensive employee We are committed to complying and economic development by learning programme, with a with all legislation, rules and financing key sectors of the economy that focus on risk and conduct.
other regulatory requirements applicable drive sustainable growth, minimising the toour businesses and operations in the We have invested significantly in ensuring impact of our lending and operations on jurisdictions within which we operate.
that our people connect with clients to the environment and investing in our Our compliance with legal and regulatory understand their needs, and how we can communities.
frameworks across our markets ensures serve them better.
that the Group meets its obligations.
In In 2016, we agreed 11 Sustainability We view diversity and inclusion as critical turn, this supports the resilience and Aspirations which demonstrate how the to our business success in the long term.
effective functioning of the Group and the financing that we provide contributes to Itenables teams to unlock innovation, broader financial system and economy.
We will embed make better decisions and manage risk.
The Board, supported by the Brand, We are committed to creating an inclusive Values and Conduct Committee, is The Aspirations are supported by our environment, free from bias, where responsible for overseeing the Groups targets to reduce the environmental everyone can realise their full potential.
approach to its main government and impact of our operations and to support We are committed to gender diversity, regulatory relationships, focusing on the local community programmes, including: witha key performance indicator tracking quality of these relationships and the our progress on page 19, and we are Seeing is Believing SiB, to eliminate engagement in place.
On a day-to-day focused on developing African, Chinese avoidable blindness basis, our Compliance and Public Affairs and Emirati talent to better align our Goal, to empower girls and young functions are responsible for identifying leadership composition to our footprint.
women through sports and life skills changes in the legal and regulatory training In 2017, we will implement a refreshed environment, ensuring that we comply Financial education, to build the flexible working policy and enhanced with all requirements, and help to capability of youth and entrepreneurs parental leave benefits.
How we engage with society How we engage with employees How we engage with regulators andgovernments From 2008 to 2016, we reduced our We have over 40 country-based energy consumption by 37 per cent, Employee Networks and three Global We actively engage with governments, water consumption by 35 per cent and Networks Women, Disability, and LGBT regulators and policymakers at a global, paper use by 71 per cent.
and Allies to support our diversity regional and national level to share ambitions.
One of the ways in which insights and technical expertise on key In 2016, we invested $52.3 million in wemeasure staff engagement is through policy issues.
This engagement supports community programmes, and employees MyVoice, a global survey completed by the development of best practice and the contributed to 67,611 volunteering days.
approximately 70,000 employees across adoption of consistent approaches across Through fundraising and matching from 68 countries in 2016. our markets.
the Group, we raised $6.5 million for SiB Responding to My Voice feedback, in We comply with all relevant transparency in 2016.
Our fundraising from 2003 to 2016 we sharpened our focus on quality requirements and disclose information 2016 is $92.8 million, impacting performance and career coaching.
We about our political activities.
launched a new approach for developing Our engagement with governments and We celebrated the 10th anniversary of managers together with new career regulators is through ongoing dialogue, Goal in 2016 and reached nearly 69,000 development guides and toolkits.
submission of responses to formal girls, bringing the total since 2006 to In 2016, we also re-launched our consultations and by joining and 285,000 girls in 2016.
Speaking Up Programme, linking this participating in industry working groups.
Through our Financial Education toour Group Code of Conduct, to which In 2016, for example, we submitted programmes, we trained more than our people recommit annually.
We see written and verbal responses to proposed 106,000 young people and 1,020 the programme as critical to ensuring changes to the regulatory framework entrepreneurs, including 57 per cent good conduct and creating the right forbanks being developed by global women, in 2016. environment for our people.
For more information on regulatory For more information on how we support For more information on how we engage compliance go to the Principal society, go to sc.
com sustainability with employees go to the Employee policies uncertainties section on pages 136 to 138 and engagement section on page 127 Female representation Board executive Board non-executive Senior management All employees 2016 2016 2016 2016 0% 30% 25% 46% 2015 0% 2015 31% 2015 25% 2015 47% Female Male Includes Executive Director, Band 1 to 4 www.
