STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Commercial Banking Segment overview OUR SEGMENT AT A GLANCE Our clients are small and mid-sized companies in 27 markets across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
We serve these clients through dedicated relationship We have worked hard in 2016 managers, providing financial solutions on several fronts to reposition andservices in areas such as trade finance, cash management, foreign exchange the business and get us ready andinterest rate hedging.
for safe, differentiated growth Strategic objectives Anna Marrs Our ambition is to be our clients partner CEO, Commercial and Private Banking ofchoice as they build their businesses internationally.
Our priorities for the segment are: Focus on digital channels and process efficiencies to improve client experience Materially improve the risk profile of the business by continuing to upgrade the standard of our client due diligence and Key numbers for 2016 credit risk management Loss before taxation Loans and advances to customers Leverage theCorporate & Institutional Banking product set and technology Commercial Banking 9% of Group capabilities to strengthen our $ 120 million clientoffering underlying basis Continue to control expenses in support $ 146 million of a lower cost-to-income ratio statutory basis Invest in frontline staff to upgrade relationship manager capabilities and Risk-weighted assets invest to create targeted value propositions to meet our clients needs Income split by region $32 billion Deliver our conduct and financial crime Africa & Greater China & risk programmes Return on risk-weighted assets Middle East North Asia 23% 40% 0.4 % underlying basis ASEAN & South Asia 0.4 % 37% statutory basis A reconciliation of underlying profit to statutory profit is on page 30 Comparative key numbers for 2015 are on page 30 www.
com 37 CLIENT SEGMENT REVIEWS HELPING CLIENTS TO EXPAND INTERNATIONAL TRADE NETWORKS We continue to build out our network of cross-border against the credit of a large Chinese electronics client, relationship managers to support clients as they expand improving the Korean exporters cash conversion cycle their international trade networks and invest overseas.
Outbound trade in our top corridors across Asia, Africa and the Middle East originates largely from China and Korea: Similarly, our dedicated Chinese relationship teams located we invested in dedicated network teams in 2016 to focus inKenya, Tanzania and Uganda support clients from China onkey trade and investment corridors.
asthey trade within and invest in East Africa and the rest ofthe region.
The focus of the Chinese segment has shifted In Korea, our geographic network gives us a competitive over time from pure trading to tangible, long-term capital edge relative to other banks.
Our Korean relationship investments into Africa.
Using Kenya as the East Africa managers in China, Hong Kong, Vietnam and India work gateway for business, investment and trade under Chinas closely with our mid-sized clients to navigate new countries One Belt, One Road policy, we expect to build on the more and provide advisory solutions as they grow their than 30 per cent growth achieved in 2016. businesses internationally.
The corridors within Greater China and those between China For example, we recently created a cross-border trade and Southeast Asia remain important to our clients and receivables discounting solution for a Korean exporter continue to be a focus for us.
38 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Financial performance summary and reduce risk, coupled with unfavourable PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS macroeconomic environment and local Statutory loss before taxation in 2016 currency depreciation.
Income from Trade We made good progress on of$146 million compared with a loss Finance and Financial Markets stabilised in of$704 million in 2015. ourmulti-year overhaul of the the second half compared tothe first half business and improving its Commercial Banking recorded an of2016.
riskprofile underlying loss before taxation of Income from Africa & Middle East fell $120million in 2016 compared to a 19percent year-on-year, largely owing Lower loss for the year with lossof$643 million in 2015 owing to toour tightened risk appetite and the exit reduced loan impairment and lower loan impairment and expenses.
ofour SME business in the UAE, which expenses more than offsetting The difference between underlying and impacted income from Trade Finance and adecline in income statutory loss before taxation is explained Financial Markets.
African markets, notably by restructuring charges of $26 million in Nigeria, were impacted primarily by local Customer deposits grew in 2016 and $61 million in 2015.
thesecondhalf but loans and hereafter is on an underlying basis unless advances were lower, impacted otherwise stated.
Expenses by management actions to Expenses declined 13 per cent year-on-year Income statement improve the business risk profile to $929 million, benefiting from cost Income fell 19 per cent year-on-year to efficiency actions and reduced headcount $1,295 million due to declines in Greater inKorea following the Special Retirement Progress against strategic objectives China & North Asia and to a lesser extent Plan announced at the end of 2015.
ASEAN & South Asia and Africa & Middle Completed a client due diligence East.
The decline was driven by a slowdown Impairment remediation programme and the exit of in economic activity, reduced demand for our small and mid-sized enterprise SME Loan impairment improved 58 per cent Foreign Exchange hedging products in business in the UAE as well as enhancing year-on-year to $491 million or a decline Hong Kong and by assertive steps taken financial crime controls of50 per cent in the ongoing business toimprove the risk profile of the business butremains elevated, particularly in Africa & Enhanced credit risk management by including the exit of our SME business in Middle East.
implementing refreshed portfolio standards theUAE.
Income in the second half declined for originating business and increased 6 per cent owing to lower Lending income, Balance sheet credit training for relationship managers which was impacted by management actions to optimise returns and reduce risk.
Loans and advances to customers Integrated Local Corporates clients, decreased 1 per cent compared to 2015 roughly doubling the size of Greater China & North Asia income fell asa result of management actions to CommercialBanking 26per cent year-on-year, impacted mainly improve the business risk profile.
by a slowdown in economic activity in Migrated from legacy platforms and made Risk-weighted assets decreased by China.
Income in Hong Kong was progress integrating our infrastructure 8 per cent over the period.
particularly impacted by reduced demand with Corporate & Institutional Banking for Foreign Exchange products used for Customer accounts increased 6 per cent Began setting up sector-specific offerings hedging, owing to renminbi depreciation.
year-on-year driven by Greater China & for clients and rolled out a dedicated Income from Korea declined owing to North Asia and Africa & Middle East.
Transaction Banking and Financial lowerbalances in Transaction Banking Commercial Banking remains a liquidity Markets sales coverage model to meet andLending, as well as margin reduction generator for the Group with a ratio of clients international banking needs inCash Management and Lending as customer advances to deposits of aresultof central bank ratecuts.
Reduced the cost base through targetedinitiatives Income from ASEAN & South Asia fell 10per cent year-on-year.
Not meaningful A reconciliation of underlying profit to statutory profit is on page 30 www.
