SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Our Strategy.
Superdry: a global lifestyle brand In 2015 we set out a clear vision to build a global lifestyle brand, encompassing all aspects of our product, brand and retail Embed.
Under this vision we are broadening and strengthening the appeal of the iconic Superdry brand across countries and age groups.
We are building Superdry into a brand with longevity that will appeal to customers through all life stages and Our brand values be a part of their lives beyond any individual product.
for long-term During the year we have further refined our brand strategy based on a clear definition of the brand purpose focused on sustainable growth helping our customers feel amazing.
This brand strategy has three key elements: Read more on page 16 Drive awareness of the breadth of the Superdry range As we deliver innovation through our products, there is a need to ensure our existing and potential customers are aware of and buy into the breadth of our product 1 range.
This opportunity is particularly relevant for women and more mature customers, and will allow us to Enable.
increase consideration and purchase across a broader customer spectrum.
Future growth through Build a broad cross-channel relationship with customers Our customers interact with us in a multi-channel 2 investment in people, environment i. e. both in-store and online.
A multi-channel customer is of significantly higher economic value to us and we therefore seek to provide a sector leading multi-channel experience around the world.
systems and infrastructure Read more on page 18 Deliver a consistent global brand proposition We will achieve consistency by applying best practice in each 3 market, using global brand icons to connect the customer with the brand, and leveraging our global capability in merchandising, range selection and a clear understanding of how we optimise retail space.
As an additional refinement to our brand strategy we categorise each territory by the stage it has reached in developing the Our key categories to brand: achieve our brand growth Market Strategy Evolve Grow Build Target potential Brand Status Established Engaged Emerging Expected Read more on page 20 Territories UK, Belgium Western Europe, Scandinavia, Middle Eastern Europe, Australia East, Asia, South Canada, South Africa, USA America Execute.
Brand Development Reaffirm and refresh Bring clarity to the Position and build the Understand how Growth opportunities in new our current brand brand to enhance brand in new territories the brand should and existing markets and position growth in the market be positioned and developed before entry online Read more on page 22 www www.
co. uk 06 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Strategic Report Report How We Will Deliver Our Strategy.
Our Our Gover Governance finance Our four pillar strategy is clear, grounded in a thorough The SuperGroup Financial Financial Statements Statements understanding of our brand, customer and product.
We have a well-defined brand strategy and our Embed extensive research shows awareness and perception our founding principles and brand values that bring our brand the strong link between our brand values and our four product of our brand is improving.
to life and is directly linked to the success of our business.
attributes, which are: design detail: quality obsession: end-toWe will embed these principles and values with every single end innovation: and affordability.
We appeal to a broad and broadening customer base colleague, every single store and online and in every country the knowledge, skills, drive, passion and enthusiasm and our product range attracts customers of all ages.
in which we operate so that there is a real understanding and of our colleagues, wherever they are in the world.
appreciation of what our brand stands for.
We have a clear strategy to continue the momentum an extensive understanding of our customer into everything we in our fast growing e-commerce business globally and do to ensure that they feel valued and are loyal to Superdry.
in growing our owned retail store business in Europe, USA and China.
Enable We are increasingly diversifying our business model, growth by continued investment in our colleagues, systems the optimisation of our design to customer process geographically, by channel and by category, reducing and infrastructure so that we drive more efficiency and greater including the ongoing investment in our IT systems, our reliance on any single market, route to the profit opportunity as we grow our business.
including our transactional and internal business systems, customer or product range.
the entrepreneurial and innovative culture we inherited from our founders to remain at the heart of our way of working, allowing We are a highly cash generative business with a colleagues to flourish and fulfil their potential through working in progressive dividend policy, having made our maiden a creative environment.
interim dividend payment in 2016 and are committed to returning excess capital to shareholders.
We continue to invest in our business, enabling Extend further growth and delivering strong returns on our product opportunities by constant innovation both within our category management and design to customer process invested capital.
our core mainline offer, particularly in womenswear, premium to offer newness more frequently as we go through the and denim, but also in adjacent categories including active seasons.
We are constantly innovating and extending our sportswear, ski and footwear.
product range using data and research to drive innovation and, in so doing, ensuring newness, positioning us to capture market share.
Execute We are becoming a more efficient business as we opportunities to expand Superdrys points of sale globally based using any payment method, and have their order delivered improve our design to customer processes and refine to wherever they choose.
the significant opportunity for new retail space in both our increasing e-commerce penetration across the world including existing key markets in mainland Europe and new markets.
developing our partner programme, where We have a strong, collaborative leadership team we offer our product for sale on third party retailer sites.
working alongside the founders, continuing the a multi-channel relationship with our customers that enables journey towards becoming a global lifestyle brand.
them to order anywhere, on any device, the growth and development of our Wholesale division.
