SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Customer.
Our Governance Our target customer is characterised by attitude not age.
Financial Statements We are progressively embedding this research in our design We are now in the second year of our customer insight program, Age profile trend in our market process and range planning, as well as our customer which was extended this year to Germany, the USA and further communication, and have identified a number of opportunities key product areas.
This ongoing qualitative and quantitative UK Ireland Germany France to improve and extend our product range.
This is evident in the customer research provides us with a deep understanding of, progression of our womenswear ranges where the changes and insight into, our customer demographics, their perception of in creating more feminine garments have been grounded in Superdry and their buying behaviour, enabling us to meet their customer-led feedback and supported by the changes we needs.
This investment is key to understanding our customers have made in our design team.
perception of the brand and awareness as we become a global lifestyle brand.
The research has also identified adjacent categories that Belgium Netherlands USA Canada From this research we know our customer is: our customers believe the brand should be represented in.
One such category is the sportswear range.
This is a natural from a broad spectrum extension for the Superdry brand building on the Ath-leisure products our customers, particularly females, wear to visit the aspirational gym.
Our research suggested an unmet customer need for appreciative of style, quality and attention to detail technical sportswear with a Superdry design element.
Following a positive response from customers we trialled a range of focused on value for money, not price 35 25-34 25 sportswear for women that was well received and led to a rollThe research also highlighted three key findings: Source: ABA Research online survey of Superdry e-commerce customers out to stores in time for our peak trading period at Christmas JanuaryMarch 2015 2015.
A mens sportswear range was launched in spring 2016.
Superdry has broad democratic appeal and consistent This customer-led approach and trialling of new innovation Socio-economic profile brand perception across the world results in fide-risking the introduction of new categories.
1 UK Ireland Germany France Superdry remains relevant in its core UK market 2 Socio-economic classification: Opportunities exist to communicate better the breadth AB Higher & intermediate managerial, administrative, of our product and extend certain categories, in professional occupations 3 particular, womenswear C1 Supervisory, clerical & junior managerial, administrative, professional occupations The qualitative insights we have gleaned show what customers Belgium Netherlands Canada USA think of Superdry.
This evidences that Superdry is a strong C2 Skilled manual occupations brand with considerable democratic appeal.
We are known for Semi-skilled & unskilled manual occupations, Unemployed fide high-quality products and iconic styles often associated with and lowest grade occupations big logos, but have also developed to produce clothing with more subtle branding.
However, these insights have highlighted that the brand is still perceived as being rather masculine and that womenswear has a narrower appeal to younger customers.
AB C1 C2 fide This is a significant opportunity for us and will be a key focus Source: ABA Research online survey of Superdry e-commerce customers over the coming year.
