SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors Report.
We present the Directors Report together with our audited Approach to tax Tax governance Financial Statements, and those of our subsidiaries, together Our approach to tax matters is to comply with all relevant tax Our documented tax strategy is determined by the Board as a the Group, for the financial year ended 30 April 2016.
The laws and regulations, whichever country we operate in, whilst sub-set of our overall business strategy and is overseen by the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 53 to 58 forms effectively managing the overall tax burden.
We will pay the Audit Committee.
Operational responsibility for the execution of part of this Directors Report.
We are UK domiciled but have a right and fair amount of tax in each territory we trade from in the Groups tax strategy rests with the Chief Financial Officer, number of overseas subsidiaries and branches in Austria, Italy, accordance with the letter and spirit of local laws and regimes.
who reports the Groups tax position to the Audit Committee on Portugal and Switzerland.
We understand that taxes we pay to governments are an a regular basis.
important source of revenue for them in providing a stable The Directors Report and Strategic Report comprise the The Audit Committee considers tax risks that may arise as infrastructure and environment in which we operate.
management report for the purposes of the Financial Conduct a result of business operations through the Groups risk Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
R. Our businesses operate in a growing number of countries, management framework.
The consideration of such tax which leads to increasing complexity in our tax affairs, and it risks includes actions to mitigate the risks or to prevent their Please refer to pages 51 to 52 for full detail of the Directors.
is well documented that tax authorities around the world are occurrence or recurrence.
subjecting the tax affairs of large companies to ever greater Results and dividends As a clothing brand with international Retail and Wholesale scrutiny.
We look to manage our tax affairs in a manner to Our Financial Statements for the year are set out on pages 97 to operations, we naturally have a presence in some countries with support business operations with the aim of ensuring that 144, which should be read in conjunction with Our Performance lower tax rates than the UK.
We also operate in a number of the tax consequences match the economic and commercial on pages 32 to 42. countries with much higher rates and all territories are chosen consequences of those operations.
Naturally, we seek to ensure for their strategic importance to the growth of the business An interim ordinary dividend of 6.2p per share was paid on that the same profits are not taxed twice by different jurisdictions rather than their tax regimes.
Importantly, we have full Retail and 5 February 2016. and transactions between subsidiary and associate companies Wholesale trading businesses and we aim to pay appropriate are conducted on an arms length basis and in line with our The Directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend of 17.0p taxes in all of the countries where we have a presence.
per ordinary share and declared a special dividend of 20.0p per ordinary share, both dividends being payable on 23 September Related party transactions Where a tax rule, regulation or incentive exists that may convey 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on Other than in respect of arrangements set out in note 20 to a tax advantage to us, for example, using losses incurred in 22 July 2016, giving a total ordinary dividend in respect of FY16 the Financial Statements and in relation to the employment prior years, we will use that rule, regulation or incentive to of 23.2p.
of Directors, details of which are provided in the Directors support the businesses as permitted by local law.
Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 83, there is no material Post balance sheet events We appointed an in-house tax manager in 2015 and use the indebtedness owed to or by us to any employee or any other There have been no post balance sheet events that either services of external, expert tax advisers to provide input into person or entity considered to be a related party.
require adjustment to the Financial Statements or are important our tax affairs, such as the management of compliance in the Details of related party transactions are set out in note 20 to the in the understanding of our current position.
UK and overseas jurisdictions and the impact of changes in tax Financial Statements.
Grant Thornton is our primary tax adviser.
co. uk 84 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Share capital, control and restriction on Share buy-backs UK Corporate Governance Code At the AGM in 2015, shareholders approved a resolution to Our statement on corporate governance and compliance with voting rights Financial grant the Directors authority to repurchase a maximum number the Code can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on Details of our issued share capital, together with details of Statements of 8,102,872 ordinary shares representing 10% of our issued pages 53 to 58 and is incorporated into the Directors Report by movements in our share capital during the year, are shown share capital as at 21 July 2015 as shares become available.
in note 32 to the Financial Statements on page 142 which is During the reporting year to 30 April 2016, we did not purchase deemed to be part of this Directors Report.
We have one class The Takeover Directive any of our own shares.
We intend to renew this authority at of ordinary shares, which carries no right to fixed income.
Each The rights and obligations attached to the issued share capital the AGM in September 2016 in respect of 8,123,729 ordinary share carries the right to one vote at our general meetings.
are set out in the Articles of Association available on our website shares again, representing 10% of our issued share capital as The ordinary shares are listed on the Official List and traded www.
At the AGM in 2015, shareholders at 13 July 2016.
Further details are set out in the notice of the on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 30 April 2016, we had approved resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal AGM.
81,235,727 ordinary shares of five pence each in nominal value value of 1,350,479 representing one-third of our issued share in issue.
Share schemes capital as at 21 July 2015.
It is intended to renew this authority There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the We have four types of share scheme: at the AGM in September 2016 in respect of shares with a Company other than: nominal value of 1,353,955 again, representing one-third of i a long-term incentive plan or performance share plan the issued share capital as at 13 July 2016. certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed LTIP or PSP : by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : The disapplication of pre-emption rights for cash issues ii a save as you earn scheme SAYE or Sharesave and of shares was approved at the AGM in 2015 in respect of scheme : ordinary shares with a nominal value of 202,572, representing pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct approximately 5% of our issued share capital at that date.
This iii a buy as you earn scheme BAYE or Share Buy Authority and SuperGroups share dealing code whereby disapplication will be renewed at the AGM in September 2016 scheme : and certain employees of the Group require the approval of the in respect of ordinary shares with a nominal value of 203,093 Company to deal in its ordinary shares.
iv company share option plan CSOP.
again representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital as at 13 July 2016.
An additional authority is also being sought We are not aware of any agreements between shareholders All shares allotted under the PSP, SAYE, BAYE and CSOP by the Directors following changes in The Pre-Emption Groups that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or schemes have the same rights as those already issued.
Statement of Principles which now provides that an allotment voting rights.
Directors interests of up to an additional 5% of our issued share capital as at 13 The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the July 2016 203,093 may be made on a non pre-emptive basis are contained in our Articles of Association.
Specific rules Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on if that allotment is used only for the purposes of financing a regarding the re-election of Directors are referred to in the page 80.
There were no changes to the beneficial interests of transaction which the Board determines to be an acquisition or Corporate Governance Report on pages 53 to 58.
Changes the Directors between 30 April 2016 and 13 July 2016. other capital investment within the meaning of The Pre-Emption to the Articles of Association must be approved by our Groups Statement of Principles.
No Director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock shareholders.
Other relevant disclosure requirements from the Takeover of any group company or was or is materially interested in any Powers relating to the issue and buy back of shares are Directive are included elsewhere in the Directors Report, the contract, other than his service contract, which was subsisting included in our Articles of Association and such authorities are Corporate Governance Report, the Directors Remuneration during or existing at the year end and which was significant in renewed by shareholders each year at the AGM.
Report and the Notes to the Group and Company Financial relation to the Groups business.
There are no agreements in place between us and our employees or Directors for compensation for loss of office or employment that trigger as a result of a takeover bid.
co. uk 85 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors Report.
audit programme is in place to ensure that health, safety, Financial risk management environmental and security risks are stringently assessed and Please refer to note 31 of the Financial Statements.
that robust control measures are in place to limit these risks.
Legal and regulatory compliance For further information, please refer to the Strategic Report on The legal function is responsible for identifying and carrying out page 31. assessments of those areas of the business where material legal and regulatory risks may be present.
In the last year, Greenhouse gas emissions we supported by our external advisers where appropriate We have measured our operational and wider carbon footprint extended our review of existing franchise agreements and for the past six years, providing insight into where the largest agreed revised standard agreements to achieve greater climate impacts are and to prioritise resources accordingly.
consistency across the organisation, and have carried out The Corporate Responsibility Report contains a table detailing training in respect of data protection, competition law and the our global greenhouse gas carbon emissions on page 29 and law relating to marketing communications and social media.
We is incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
have also reviewed our intellectual property portfolio in light of our strategy for growth, made further registrations to ensure that Disclosure of information to auditors our protection is robust, and further strengthened our intellectual Each Director who held office on the date of approval of this property team who work closely with our designers and now Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, manage trade mark registrations in-house.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Where issues are identified, mitigating actions are built into auditors are unaware.
Furthermore, each Director has taken an action plan involving the drafting and communication of all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director policies and the delivery of training where appropriate, or are to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information approached by way of a revision to key contractual terms.
The and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Board receives regular reports on material litigation and the legal information.
action taken to support our strategy, and the Audit Committee Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
monitors progress against set compliance targets.
Lindsay Beardsell Whistleblowing hotlines are in place internationally and are Company Secretary managed through a third party provider.
These cover all 13 July 2016 countries in which we operate.
All matters arising from the use of the whistleblowing hotline are referred to the company secretarial team and investigated.
The Audit Committee receives a summary of all matters arising through the whistleblowing hotline on a regular basis.
Health and safety We are committed to providing a safe place for our colleagues to work and customers to shop.
Our policies are reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure that the approach to training, risk assessments, safe systems of working and accident management are appropriate.
As part of this process, a rolling www.
