SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 The Journey So Far.
Our business has grown rapidly Superdry launched in 2003, by our founders Julian Dunkerton and over the past six years, since listing James Holder, is a lifestyle brand designed for attitude, not age.
on the London Stock Exchange.
Our brand has democratic appeal, offering affordable, premium-quality clothing, accessories and footwear complemented by other lifestyle categories such as eyewear, cosmetics and luggage.
As we develop the breadth and nature of our product range, we are widening our appeal to a broader, aspirational age group: 329% those who want to feel amazing in what they wear and appreciate style, quality and attention to detail.
We create high-quality, contemporary products that, in varying degrees, fuse vintage Americana and Japanese-inspired graphics with a British style, characterised by: sales quality fabrics with authentic vintage washes unique vintage detailing 173% world leading hand-drawn graphics tailored fits with diverse styling underlying profit Already well established in our home market of the UK we operate a significant and continually expanding international business with 55% of our sales now generated outside of the UK.
We sell through a number of complementary routes to customer, tailored before income tax specifically to each market.
This multi-channel approach includes stores, both our own and those operated by franchise partners, websites and third party partners.
These wholesale partners are selected in each country in which we operate, taking advantage of local knowledge and expertise.
We have expanded quickly over the 13 years of our life, fast becoming an international brand with a physical presence in 51 243% countries.
We have added almost 100 points of sale to our portfolio around the world during FY16, taking our total number of owned, franchised, licensed stores and retail concessions to 512, with 160 wholesale concessions shop-in-shops.
net cash We will continue to grow and diversify our business across channels, geographies and categories in order to deliver sustainable long-term growth and insulate the business against economic conditions in any single market.
