SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Board of Directors.
Our Governance Peter Bamford Euan Sutherland Financial Chairman Chief Executive Officer Statements Appointed: 29 January 2010 Appointed: 1 December 2012 Committee membership: Nomination Euan was appointed as Chief Executive Chairman Officer in October 2014, having previously been an independent Non-Executive Director.
Peter is Chairman of the Board and of the He is also a Non-Executive Director of Britvic Nomination Committee.
Euan previously served as Group Chief was Chairman of Six Degrees Holdings Limited Executive Officer of the Co-operative Group, from 2011 to 2015 and a Non-Executive Group Chief Operating Officer at Kingfisher Director of Rentokil Initial Plc from 2006 until Plc and as a Non-Executive Director with the 2016.
Peter was also a Director of Vodafone Co-operative Food Board.
Prior to this he Group Plc from 1998 to 2006 where he Peter Bamford Euan Sutherland was Chief Executive of AS Watson UK, the held senior executive roles, including Chief owner of Superdrug.
Euan has over 23 years Marketing Officer, Chief Executive of Northern experience within the retail sector having held Europe, Middle East and Africa and Chief roles with Boots, Dixons, Coca-Cola, Matalan Executive of Vodafone UK.
held senior positions with WH Smith Plc, Tesco Plc and Kingfisher Plc.
Peter has served Nick Wharton on the boards of public companies for the Chief Financial Officer last 19 years and has extensive experience Appointed: 24 June 2015 in developing and growing businesses and brands internationally.
Nick was appointed Chief Financial Officer in June 2015.
Previously he was Chief Executive Julian Dunkerton Officer of Dunelm Group plc between 2010 and Founder, Product & Brand Director 2014 and before that he was Chief Financial Appointed: 3 February 2010 Officer of Halfords Group Plc.
In his eight year career at Halfords, he held both finance and Julian Dunkerton Nick Wharton Julian has worked exclusively in the retail strategy roles.
Prior to this, Nick worked in sector for almost 30 years, co-founding senior finance positions at Boots Opticians, the Cult retail chain from a market stall in Boots Healthcare International, Do-it-All Limited Cheltenham and turning it into a successful and Cadbury Schweppes.
Nick is a chartered retail chain.
Together with James Holder, Julian accountant and has been a Non-Executive established the Superdry clothing brand in Director of Mothercare plc since 2003.
Julian has a deep understanding of the November 2013.
Superdry brand, strong commercial instincts and a feel for its target customers, developed through his hands on experience of building SuperGroup from the ground up.
co. uk 51 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Board of Directors.
Group plc, where she is Chairman of the Sustainable Keith Edelman Banking Committee.
Pennys previous Non-Executive Senior Independent Directorships include WM Morrison Supermarkets Plc, Non-Executive Director Home Retail Group Plc, The Gap Inc. Next Group Plc, Appointed: 4 February 2010 The Body Shop International Plc, Thomson Reuters Group Limited, Vodafone Group Plc and Trinity Mirror Committee membership: Nomination, Remuneration Plc.
During her executive career Penny spent ten years Chairman at The Coca-Cola Company, initially as Marketing and Keith is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Commercial Director, before being made President of a member of the Nomination Committee.
He is also Coca-Cola Great Britain and Ireland at the age of 33.
Non-Executive Chairman of Revolution Bars Group Plc, and a Non-Executive Director at Safestore Holdings Plc Ken McCall and the London Legacy Development Corporation.
Keith Independent Non-Executive Director was previously Non-Executive Chairman of Goal Soccer Appointed: 24 May 2010 Centres Plc, Chairman of Beale Plc, Managing Director of Keith Edelman Penny Hughes Arsenal Holdings Plc and Chief Executive of Storehouse Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration Plc encompassing BHS and Mothercare.
Keith has Ken is a member of the Audit Committee and extensive retail and international experience and has Remuneration Committee.
He is also the Deputy served on the boards of public companies for over 30 Chief Executive of Europcar Group SA and the Senior years across a wide range of businesses and markets.
Independent Director of The Post Office Limited.
Ken was previously Chief Executive Officer of DHL Express UK & Minnow Powell Ireland, Chief Executive Officer of TNT Middle East, Africa Independent Non-Executive Director and Asia and Chief Executive Officer of TNT China.
He Appointed: 1 December 2012 brings over 31 years experience in the logistics sector and of running international businesses in Europe and Asia.
Committee membership: Audit Chairman, Remuneration Minnow is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member Ken steps down from the Board on 13 July 2016. of the Remuneration Committee.
He is also a NonExecutive Steve Sunnucks Director of Computacenter plc where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Minnow was a Non-Executive Director of TUI Independent Non-Executive Director Travel Plc from 2011 prior to the merger with TUI AG, when Appointed: 1 March 2016 he became a member of the Supervisory Board and Audit Minnow Powell Ken McCall Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration with effect Committee of TUI AG until February 2016.
Prior to that Minnow from 13 July 2016 spent 35 years with Deloitte.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was a member of the UKs Audit Practices Board for six years.
Steve was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2016.
He is Minnow has extensive experience in external and internal audit, also Non-Executive Chairman of Helly Hansen.
He brings risk management, financial controls and corporate financial significant expertise in the apparel retail sector, having held reporting in a wide range of sectors.
senior executive and non-executive roles in the UK and USA.
Steves experience includes nine years in leadership Penny Hughes positions with NYSE-listed The Gap Inc. culminating in being appointed Global President Gap, and four years as Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer of New Look Plc.
Steves executive Appointed: 1 April 2015 career also included senior roles at Burton Group Plc, Committee membership: Audit, Nomination J. Sainsbury Plc and Marks and Spencer Plc.
Penny is a member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
She is also the independent Non-Executive Chairman of The Gym Group plc and a Non-Executive Director of The Royal Bank of Scotland Steve Sunnucks www.
