SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Routes to Our Customer.
Governance Financial We have a multi-channel business with three routes to customer: Statements Retail E-commerce Wholesale 1 2 3 Revenue Revenue 25 international websites delivering % % to over 173 countries UK & ROI 19% UK & ROI 66% Europe 62% Europe 30% Rest of Rest of World 19% World 4% Our Retail channel which includes e-commerce comprises E-commerce consists of 25 international websites across Our Wholesale channel introduces Superdry complementary the entire owned store portfolio in the UK, mainland Europe and 18 countries covering 12 different languages and delivering points of sale, tailored to each market, including: North America together with our websites.
E-commerce connects our Wholesale and independent retailers and international distribution partners Retail channels and includes our programme with partners There are 202 owned stores, with total space of 900,000 square supplying the independent retail markets in their respective including Zalando, La Redoute and The Iconic.
We use eBay feet, consisting of smaller boutique stores mostly situated in territories.
This is the largest of our wholesale routes to as another sales channel to sell our end of line or discounted mainland Europe, medium-sized stores of around 5,000 to market accounting for almost 40% of total wholesale revenue: products whilst maintaining our brand integrity and retaining 6,000 square feet principally in the UK and increasingly so in gross margin.
An innovative way in which we have brought international franchise partners operating 260 Superdry mainland Europe, and larger stores, such as our flagship stores e-commerce and Retail closer together is through our iKiosks branded franchised stores: and in Regent Street, London and Munich, Germany.
Superdry outlet which give customers access to our full collection through the stores enable us to optimise the value generated from excess key wholesale accounts.
Superdry website, with the opportunity for in-store ordering and stock and protect the brand integrity of our non-outlet stores.
We have granted a licence for Superdry to be sold in Australia and the licensee now trades from 13 Superdry branded stores.
Sales made by the licensee are included in the royalties earned from sales in other gains and losses in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
