SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Viability Statement.
Our Governance To assist the Directors assessment, the financial projections Assessment of the Groups Prospects in the longer term business model were subject to severe The Group is operationally and financially strong and has a track Financial but plausible stress tests in relation to the principal risks both Statements record of generating profits and cash.
This assessment of the individually and collectively with consideration taken of mitigating Groups prospects informs both the Viability Statement below actions that might be undertaken in particular situations.
These and the Going Concern Statement on page 58. tests include a protracted reduction in the Groups forecast This assessment is made by reference to the Groups activities like-for-like revenues due to the impact of brand damage in both and growth strategy, together with factors likely to affect its current and key development markets.
future development and position, as set out in the Strategic Whilst the principal risks all have the potential to affect future Report on pages 6 to 12.
It also reflects the Groups current performance, the stress testing confirmed that none of them, financial position and its recent and historical financial either individually or collectively, would threaten the viability of performance outlined in the Our Performance section on pages the business over the four-year assessment period.
This assessment is closely linked to the principal risks facing the Group, which are outlined on pages 44 to 48.
Viability Statement Based on their assessment, the Directors confirm that they have Assessment of viability a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will In accordance with the requirements of the 2014 UK Corporate be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability fall due over the four-year period ending 25 April 2020. of the Group over a four-year period.
The Directors believe this duration represents an appropriate balance between the different time horizons used to plan and monitor the business while representing a reasonable period for a shareholder to expect a retail business to be assessed.
The Directors rely on a number of existing processes in preparing the viability statement, including the annual budget and longer term financial plan which is used as a planning tool against which strategic decisions and allocations of resource are made.
The Board reviews periodically the financing position of the Group and its projected funding position and requirements.
co. uk 49 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Our Governance.
Good corporate governance is good business.
Our governance framework supports and enables effective execution of our strategy together with high quality and timely decision making.
Rigorous analysis, robust challenge, close monitoring of performance, and an appropriate system of checks and balances are combined with the entrepreneurial and creative culture of the Company.
As SuperGroup grows and develops we continually evolve and improve our governance framework in line with the maturity of the Company.
Over the last year we have put greater emphasis on our Corporate and Social Responsibility Programme, with a particular focus on ethical trading within our supply chain, and on reviewing major corporate risks such as cyber security.
Peter Bamford Chairman 13 July 2016 www.
