Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 35 Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 January 2016 The Directors submit their report and the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 January 2016.
Companys business The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as meeting the qualifying criteria for investment trust status and the Company conducts its affairs so as to enable it to continue to qualify for such approval.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
A review of the Companys business and its likely future development is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9, the ChiefExecutives report on pages 10 and 11 and the Strategic report on pages 1 to 27, which are incorporated by reference into this report.
In addition, the Corporate governance report and Corporate social responsibility review are to be treated as part of the Report ofthe Directors.
Revenue, earnings and dividend The Companys investment objective is one of capital growth and it is anticipated that returns for shareholders will derive primarily fromcapital.
No dividend will be paid for the year ended 31 January 2016 2015:nodividend.
TheCompanys revenue gain for the year was 7,980,000 2015: loss of 19,531,000.
TheCompanys capital gain for the year was 83,029,000 2015: gain of 129,185,000.
Purchase of shares At the Annual General Meeting AGM held on 1 May 2015, the Company was authorised to purchase up to 22,000,000 shares representing 11.68% of share capital in issue on 18 March 2015.
The Directors have relied on this authority and the pre-existing authority to make market purchases of shares during the year.
During the year ended 31 January 2016 relying on the 2014 2015 and 2015 2016 shareholder authorities, the Company bought 9,257,965 shares of 100p each representing 6% of the Companys issued shares as at 22 March 2016 at an average price of 489.9p per share and at a total cost of 46,309,261 plus commission and stamp duty.
These shares are currently held in treasury though may be cancelled.
Since the period end up until 22 March 2016, the Company has bought a further 2,395,000 shares at an average price of 486p per share which are also held in treasury though may be cancelled.
At the 2015 AGM, the Company was authorised to apply up to 120 million to make market purchases in connection with one or more tender offers.
Up to 24,000,000 shares could be repurchased under this authority.
During the year, the Company completed two tender offers, one of 70 million at a tender price of 535p and one of 50 million at a tender price of 565p.
The combined number of shares repurchased was 21,993,669, all of which were cancelled.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11.30 a. m. on 3 May 2016 at J. P. Morgan, 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4 0JP.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, together with explanations, appear in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 93.
Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Companys policy on tenure outlined on page 30, Andrew Sykes, LynnFordham, David Robins, Stephen Duckett and Helen Mahy CBE will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Simon Bax offers himself for election at the Annual General Meeting following his appointment on 30 June 2015.
Simon is currently Chairman of Archant Group and WiSpire, and a non-executive director of Inmarsat and the British Bobsleigh and Skeleton Association.
He has held senior executive roles in both public and private companies in Europe and the US, including Pixar and News Corporation, aswell as having entrepreneurial experience in his role as the founder, with private equity backing, of Encompass Digital Media.
The Board recommends that shareholders support the election of Simon Bax and the re-elections of the other Directors who continue todemonstrate commitment to their roles and provide valuable contributions to the deliberations of the Board and its Committees.
Information on the independence of Directors is continued on page 30.
Biographical details of all current Directors may be found on pages 28 and 29.
No Director has any material interest in any contract that is significant to the Companys business.
36 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Report of the Directors continued Auditor The Company is required to appoint auditors for each financial year of the Company, to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to remain in ofce and resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
TheCompany put out to tender the role of its auditors in 2012.
The auditor provides non-audit services to the Company, including tax and regulatory services.
The Audit and Risk Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services to the Company.
Certain non-audit services are not permitted.
Certain types of non-audit services, including any non-audit service with a fee of greater than the lower of 50,000 or 25% of the most recent annual audit fee for the Company, must be referred to the Audit and Risk Committee for pre-approval.
Certain types of non-audit services such as tax compliance services need not be referred to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers whether any engagement of the auditor for non-audit services will impair objectivity and independence and seeks written conrmation from the auditor on its policies and procedures for maintaining independence.
It is not considered that the independence of the auditor has been prejudiced by the provision of non-audit services during the period.
The total amount of fees paid to the auditor with respect to the provision of non-audit services was 29,580 in the period for tax compliance, tax advisory services around VAT and the review of the Companys half-year report.
Terms of Reference of the Audit and Risk Committee may be found on the Companys website, www.
Provision of information to auditors As far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware and they have taken all steps theyshould have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present a fair, balanced and understandable report and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Companys independent risk oversight provider reviews the financial statements and provides detailed feedback linked to the objective that the Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
Management prepares a detailed risk assessment on the objective which is audited by the risk oversight provider and a detailed quality assurance report is provided to senior management and the Board.
The Companys auditor is required to report if anything comes to its attention that would indicate the Annual Report and Accounts are not fair, balanced and understandable.
Each member of the Board reviews the Report and Accounts.
The Directors are comfortable that the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 January 2016, taken as awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
They have come to this view following a comprehensive review of the work undertaken bythe Audit and Risk Committee, SVGCManagers Limited and the auditors including questioning of methodology and controls around the reporting process.
Inpreparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: k select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and thenapply them consistently: k present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: k provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirement in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand theimpact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Companys financial position and financial performance: k make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: and k state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board confirms it is satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, business model and strategy of the Company.
Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 37 Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out in this report, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: k the Accounts, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and net return of the Company: and k the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Substantial share interests As at 22 March 2016, the Company had 231,789,499 shares of 1 in issue.
73,787,872 shares were held in treasury.
The total number of voting rights as at 22 March 2016 was 158,001,627 excluding shares held in treasury.
As at 22 March 2016, the Company has been notied of the following significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the Company: Voting rights attached to shares Number of % of ordinary total voting 1 shares rights Coller Investment Management Limited 41,485,452 26.01 Schroder Investment Management, Schroder Channel Islands Limited, Schroder & Co Limited 19,025,808 12.01 Old Mutual plc 12,596,795 7.38 AVIVA plc and its subsidiaries 11,733,687 5.22 Standard Life Investments 8,608,235 4.98 Legal and General Group Plc 8,941,703 3.87 Witan Investment Trust 5,600,629 3.28 1 % of total voting rights is % at time of notication.
If a shareholder participates in a tender offer, its number of ordinary shares will reduce, but its % of voting rights may not change Rights attaching to shares The Company has one class of shares, namely ordinary shares, with standard rights as to voting, dividends and payment on winding-up and no special rights and obligations attaching to them.
There are no material restrictions on transfers of shares.
Other than as disclosed above, the Company is not aware of any person who has a significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Company follows the established procedure in the Companies Act 2006 for changing Articles of Association and has no other rules about the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board considers that all the resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Those Directors who are shareholders will be voting in favour of them and the Board unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
The Strategic report, Report of the Directors and Remuneration report have been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with those reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
By order of the Board Stuart Ballard Company Secretary 22 March 2016 Registered Number: 3066856: Registered Ofce: 6 Kean Street, London WC2B 4AS
