28 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Board of Directors Andrew Sykes Lynn Fordham Simon Bax Chairman Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Andrew Sykes was appointed as a Director Lynn Fordham was appointed as a Director Simon Bax was appointed as a Director of on 8 February 2010 and became Chairman on 1 July 2008.
She is the Companys Chief the Company on 30 June 2015.
He is chairman of Executive officer.
She has over 20 years of currently chairman of Archant Group and Smith & Williamson Holdings Limited, and financial experience and has worked in a WiSpire, and a non-executive director of also a non-executive director of Record plc number of companies including Mobil Inmarsat and the British Bobsleigh and and Gulf International Bank UK Limited.
Oil, BAA plc, Boots Group plc and MAN Skeleton Association.
He has held senior Group plc.
She is a non-executive director executive roles in both public and private Andrew brings significant experience of of Fuller Smith & Turner P. L. C. companies in Europe and the US, including the investment management sector, Pixar and News Corporation, aswell as including expertise in alternative asset having entrepreneurial experience in his management, along with many years role as the founder, withprivate equity ofexperience as a non-executive backing, of Encompass Digital Media.
directoror chairman of both public andprivate companies.
Simon has recent experience of private equity with his work for private equitybacked companies.
His technology background complements the skills oftheother Directors.
Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed 2010 2008 2015 Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended 11 11 11 11 5 6 Committees: Committees: Remuneration Audit and Risk Corporate Governance Remuneration and Nominations Corporate Governance and Nominations Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 29 Stephen Duckett Helen Mahy CBE David Robins Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Stephen Duckett was appointed as a Helen Mahy was appointed as a Director David Robins was appointed as a Director Director of the Company on 12 March ofthe Company on 24 July 2014.
She is on 15 August 2013 and is the Senior 2012.
Stephen is an experienced private currently chairman of The Renewables Independent Director.
David has had a equity professional having worked in Infrastructure Group Limited.
She is also distinguished career in financial services theindustry for the past 17 years, most anon-executive director of Bonheur ASA spanning over 35 years.
He is currently recently as a managing director of Hellman Ganger Rolf ASA and SSE plc.
Previously, Chairman of Fidelity Japanese Values plc.
she was group company secretary and He is also a non-executive director of general counsel of National Grid Plc.
NHBSLtd, SerraLux Ltd and SerraLux Inc. Stephen has been involved with numerous Previously, David was chairman and private equity transactions of various types Helen has experience as a director of chiefexecutive of ING Barings following over the course of his career and this investment companies and her legal nearly18 years with UBS, where he experience is particularly relevant to the andcompany secretarial experience reached theposition of CEO, London Companys investment strategy.
complements the skills of the andhead ofEurope.
Davids experience in financial services is directly relevant and in addition he has significant exposure to the operation of boards in the financial services sector.
Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed 2012 2014 2013 Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended 11 11 11 11 11 11 Committees: Committees: Committees: Audit and Risk Chairman Audit and Risk Audit and Risk Remuneration Remuneration Chairman Remuneration Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance and Nominations and Nominations and Nominations Chairman
