Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 31 The Company has a policy of annual re-election for each Director.
The Companys articles provide that in addition to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act 2006, the Company may byspecial resolution remove any Director.
The Company may by ordinary resolution elect a Director.
Induction and training When a Director is appointed he or she receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
This includes a detailed brieng from the CompanySecretary on the running of the Board covering such matters as terms of reference, governance practices, risk management and oversight, and the calendar of events.
In addition, meetings are arranged with various members of the management team to facilitate a better understanding of the business.
New Board members are provided with one-on-one risk oversight and governance training and orientation.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time.
In addition, Directors may attend ad hoc seminars covering issues and developments relevant to the Company.
The suitability and adequacy of training that is made available to Directors isassessed as part of the performance evaluation process.
It was assessed as adequate in the most recent evaluation.
Performance evaluation The Board performance evaluation at the end of 2014 identied the need to: consider appointing one more non-executive directors to the Board: continue to develop the risk management programme: and focus on succession planning.
During the year Simon Bax was appointed to the Board, bringing with him experience of working in private equity-backed companies.
Further information on Simons experience can be found on page 28.
The implementation of the risk management programme has continued throughout the year.
Further information on this can be found in the Risk and audit oversight report on pages 22 to 26.
At the Companys two-day strategy offsite, aspecic sessionwas held on succession planning and a number of initiatives were identied that continue to be worked on.
The Board has considered carefully whether the evaluation of its performance should be externally facilitated at least once every three years.
It was decided that, with Simon Bax joining, the composition of the Board was now settled and it was an appropriate time to undertake an external evaluation.
The Company retained the services of Prism Boardroom to perform the evaluation which consisted of: one to one interviews with Directors and certain senior executives: thorough questionnaires on the operation of the Board and its committees: observation at one of the sessions at the Boards offsite strategy meeting: and a review of compliance with the Corporate Governance Code.
The evaluation concluded that the Board was well led and functioned effectively and efficiently.
Prism Boardroom presented its findings to the Board following completion of the evaluation.
While no material issues were identied, a number of housekeeping recommendations were suggested at that meeting.
Following the meeting, the various recommendations were considered by the Chairman with the Company Secretary and an action plan to address a number of matters was proposed and then approved by the Board.
These include: updating the terms of reference of the Nominations and Governance Committee to better reect its role and changing governance expectations of such committees: updating the Senior Independent Directors letter of appointment to reect the expectations of that role: facilitating continuing education through better information ows to Directors on industry relevant training material and courses.
The next performance evaluation will take place at the end of 2016 and is expected to be an internal process.
Information ows The Board receives written reports from management on at least a quarterly basis and as appropriate on specic matters.
The Chairman ensures that Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements, and the Companys risk management and control results.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from its advisers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
Insurance and indemnities During the year, the Company maintained cover for its Directors and Ofcers under a directors and ofcers liability insurance policy.
The Company provides a Deed of Indemnity to each Director to the extent permitted by UK law whereby the Company agrees to indemnify such Director against any liability incurred in proceedings in which the Director is successful, and for costs in defending a claim brought against the Director for breach of duty where the Director acted honestly and reasonably.
Conicts of interest The Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conicts of interest totheBoard as they arise for consideration and approval.
These are considered carefully, taking into account the circumstances around them, and if considered appropriate, are approved.
TheBoard may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise such conicts if deemed appropriate.
32 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance report continued Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities and functions to the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
Terms of Reference for each of these Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
Details of membership of the Committees at 31 January 2016 may be found on pages 28 and 29 and information regarding attendance at Committee meetings during the year under review may be found below.
Meetings The Board held 11 meetings in the 12 month period to 31 January 2016.
These included the five scheduled Board meetings and then anumber of ad hoc meetings to consider matters such as the tender offers.
Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings was as set out below: Corporate Governance and Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Director Board Committee Committee Committee Stephen Duckett 11 11 5 5 5 5 2 2 Lynn Fordham 11 11 Simon Bax 5 6 2 2 3 4 2 2 David Robins 11 11 5 5 5 5 2 2 Helen Mahy CBE 11 11 5 5 5 5 2 2 Andrew Sykes 11 11 5 5 2 2 Simon Bax joined the Board on 30 June 2015.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Chairman and the other non-executive Directors commit sufficient time to the affairs of the Company to full their duties as Directors.
Simon Bax was unable to attend one Board meeting and one Remuneration Committee meeting.
In the event that a Director does not attend, the Chairman and or the Chief Executive will contact him or her prior to and following the meeting to keep him or her apprised and seek views on the matters discussed or to be discussed.
Relations with shareholders The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with both institutional and retail shareholders is important for the prospects ofthe Company.
It has, since its launch, sought engagement with investors.
The Chief Executive and Chairman and other Directors, where appropriate, discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders views to the Board.
Annual and semi-annual results presentations take place each year along with an annual capital markets day.
The Board may also undertake shareholder perceptions research from time to time.
The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting provides an appropriate forum for investors to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
The Annual Report and Accounts is, when possible, sent to shareholders at least 20 business days before the Annual General Meeting, which is normally attended by the full Board of Directors.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairmen of the Board, Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Corporate Governance and Nominations Committees.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders at the meeting.
The Board believes that the Companys policy of reporting to shareholders as soon as possible after the Companys year-end is valuable.
The notice of Annual General Meeting at page 93 sets out the business of the meeting.
As more fully described in the Remuneration report on page 38, following a significant vote against a number of resolutions at the 2015 Annual General Meeting, the Chairman and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with major shareholders during the year to better understand their concerns.
Going concern The Companys activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9, the Chief Executives statement on pages 10 and 11 and the Strategic report on pages 1 to 27.
The financial position of the Company, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review onpage 13.
In addition, note 27 to the financial statements includes details of the Groups financial instruments and its risk prole.
Adescription of the Companys risks and risk management framework are also outlined on pages 22 to 26.
The Company nished the year with net cash of 291 million and has access to an additional 300 million through the revolving credit facility to December 2016.
This provides adequate coverage of the 332 million of uncalled commitments to the investment portfolio.
Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 33 In light of the Companys financial resources, the Directors believe that the Company is well positioned to manage its business risks within the Companys risk appetite and tolerance successfully, despite the continuing uncertain economic outlook, and, after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future being a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Liquidity and solvency risks are monitored on an ongoing basis via the Companys risk management framework.
This includes formally dening the Group personnel responsible for assessing and monitoring risks, dening an appropriate level of risk assessment rigour to be applied, formal reporting on the Companys residual retained risk status, a formal process to define the level of independent assurance onthe risk assessment process and representations and Board oversight of the risk management framework for solvency and liquidity risk.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a period of three years.
The period selected was considered appropriate as: k it covers a period over which a majority of current unfunded commitments to underlying funds are expected to be called: k it is a long enough period to ensure that stress tests are reasonably challenging: and k it covers a period over which the Board reviews cash ow simulations and performs stress tests.
The cash ow simulations stem from reasonable expectations around calls and distributions to and from its fund investments and the evolution of the Companys portfolio valuation, together with the pipeline of expected investment opportunities.
New fund commitments are made in compliance with the Companys commitment tests and the assumptions adopted take account of the Companys risk appetite, as detailed on page 23.
It should be noted that there are significant uncertainties inherent in this process, including but not limited to: k the uncertain timing and quantum of the Companys cash ows to and from its fund investments: k the ability to renance the Companys loan facility, which currently matures in December 2019: and k a recognition that uncertainty increases over time and therefore the model adopted can only provide a reasonable basis for assessing likely scenarios and will necessarily differ from actual outcomes.
The stress scenario is based on experience gained over the life of the Company, including the 2008 financial crisis and involves a significant delay in the timing of investment realisations, a notable reduction in the size of those projected cash inows, plus a significant diminution in the value of the Companys investment portfolio.
The analysis aims to ensure that the Company remains in compliance with its loan to value covenants and has sufficient nancing capacity to meet its obligations as they fall due.
The review takes into account the relevant principal risks faced by the Company, which are described in greater detail on pages 22 to 26 and in note 27 to the financial statements.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its obligations as they fall due over the three-year period of assessment.
Audit and Risk Committee report The Audit and Risk Committee, chaired by Stephen Duckett, consists of the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman and meets at least four times each year.
Details of attendance at the meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee can be found on page 32.
The members of the Audit and Risk Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and experience to full the responsibilities of the Committee.
In particular, Stephen Duckett has significant private equity experience which is relevant in assessing the valuations of underlying investments.
Simon Bax is a chartered accountant.
Further details on the experience and qualications of members of the Committee can be found on pages 28 and 29.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee has recent and relevant financial expertise.
The Committees responsibilities include reviewing the methodologies used in valuing the Companys investments by underlying fund managers, monitoring changes in accounting practices and policies and reviewing decisions with a significant element of judgement.
In addition, the Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for ensuring the Companys risk monitoring programme, internal audit processesand regulatory compliance arrangements are appropriate.
Further details of the work performed in this area can be found onpage 24.
The Audit and Risk Committee has responsibility for the oversight of the external audit function.
At the request of the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee provides conrmation to the Board as to how it has discharged its responsibilities so that the Board can be satisfied that information presented in the Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
34 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance report continued During its review of the Companys financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2016, the Audit and Risk Committee considered the following significant issues, including those communicated by the auditors during their reporting: significant issue How the issue was addressed Valuation of investments The investment portfolio is reviewed regularly by the Companys investment manager and the Board.
The portfolio is screened to identify underlying companies where a combination of operating performance, quality of earnings and leverage raises concerns about the valuation provided by underlying managers.
These valuations are reviewed in detail by the investment manager and the Board.
The valuation of investments is undertaken in accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in note 1 to the accounts on page 60.
Going concern and viability, in particular The Directors have considered the Companys investment objective, risk management ensuring the Company can meet calls due policies, capital management policies and procedures and the nature of the portfolio.
Cash ow projections are prepared using a number of scenarios on a regular basis by the Companys investment manager and reviewed by the Board.
As part of this process, the Board challenges the assumptions and methodologies used in preparing the projections.
As a result, the Directors have determined that the Company has adequate resources, anappropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation ofthe financial statements.
The Audit and Risk Committee has a primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and removal of external auditors.
Representatives of the Companys auditors attended the Audit and Risk Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report and Accounts were considered.
Prior to that, the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee met with the new audit partner to discuss the criteria that the FRC recommends be used in assessing auditor effectiveness.
Having reviewed the performance of the external auditors, including assessing the quality of work, timing of communications, work with management and the relevant FRC guidance, the Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their reappointment.
The Board supported this recommendation which will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The current audit rm has audited the Companys financial statements since 1996.
The Company put out the role of auditors to tender in 2012 and the incumbent auditors were reappointed.
The Companys year ended 31 January 2016 is the fourth of a five-year maximum term that the current audit partner hasbeen in the role for the Company.
That partner will retire in 2016 and be replaced by a new audit partner.
The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal control is set out on page 24.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order.
Simon Duckett Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 22 March 2016 Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee report The Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board on the Boards composition and balance of skill and experience, and on individual appointments, leads the process and makes recommendations to the Board.
It also monitors the Companys compliance with corporate governance guidelines.
The Committee considered an evaluation of the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company in the Board succession planning and the appointment of Simon Bax.
The services of JCA Group were retained during the year in connection with the appointment of Simon Bax.
In addition, services were received from Odgers Berndston.
The Committee also reviewed the corporate governance disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee has responsibility for monitoring boardroom diversity, of which gender diversity is an important element.
Two of the five Board Directors are women and the Company will seek to maintain at least a 25% proportion of female Board membership.
The Boards aim is to have a diverse Board in terms of gender, industry experience, skills and educational background.
As part of the Board evaluation process, it was agreed that the Committee should be chaired by one of the non-executive Directors rather than by the Chairman of the Company.
Accordingly, David Robins was appointed chair of the Committee with effect from 22 January 2016.
David Robins Chairman, Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee 22 March 2016
