100 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 The Companys remuneration policy This policy provides details of the remuneration policy for the Directors of the Company.
All Directors, other than Lynn Fordham, arenon-executive, appointed under the terms of Letters of Appointment, and none has a service contract.
Lynn Fordham is the only executive Director of the Company.
For the period from 1 February 2015 to 30 September 2015, Lynn Fordham was employed by Aberdeen Asset Management plc AAM and her salary, pension and other benets were paid pursuant to the AAM remuneration policy.
TheDirectors have no liability for these payments made to Lynn Fordham by AAM.
Since 1 October 2015, Lynn Fordham has been employed by SVGC Managers Limited SVGCM, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and her remuneration including thevariable elements covering her period of employment by AAM has been paid pursuant to the Companys remuneration policy.
A resolution to approve the Companys remuneration policy was passed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Remuneration structure Executive Directors The table below sets out SVG Capitals proposed policy in relation to each component of executive Director remuneration, with further explanation in the notes below: Salary xed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To support the recruitment and retention of executive Directors of the calibre required to manage and grow the Company successfully.
Opportunity and recovery or The Company seeks to pay a fair salary commensurate with the individuals role, withholding provisions responsibilities and experience, importance to the business and having regard to the market rates for similar roles in the sector and other comparable companies.
Salary increases are normally awarded by reference to the increase in the cost of living, but may take into account other factors such as market salary levels, Company performance, individual performance, changes in responsibility and levels of pay elsewhere in the Group.
The Committee will consider the impact of any base salary increase in the total remuneration package.
Other than in exceptional circumstances or where there is a change in role or responsibilities, year on year increases in basic salaries will be in line with general workforce increases and will not exceed ination by more than 5%.
No recovery or withholding provisions.
Performance measurement framework Not applicable.
Benets xed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To provide cost-effective benets, to support the health and well-being of employees and to attract and retain high performing executive Directors.
Operation The Company will provide a range of benets such as: medical insurance: disability insurance: life assurance: contributions to gym membership and paid holiday.
Specic benets provision may be subject to minor change from time to time.
Opportunity and recovery or withholding Fringe benets are not subject to a specic cap as the cost is set by external providers and provisions may change from time to time, but represent only a small percentage of total remuneration.
The costs associated with benets provision are monitored and controlled.
St Strra atte eg giic c rre ep po orrtt | Co | Corrp po orra atte e iin nffo orrm ma attiio on | F n | Fiin na an nc ciia al l iin nffo orrm ma attiio on | n | S Sh har areholder eholder in inf fo or rm ma at tion ion 1 10 01 1 Pension xed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To provide contributions to enable executive Directors and wider staff to make long-term savings to provide post-retirement income.
To provide market competitive dened contributions to assist with recruitment and retention of people of the necessary calibre.
Operation Executive Directors are offered a choice between dened contribution funding to a personal pension scheme or a cash salary supplement or a combination of both.
Opportunity and recovery or Contributions or cash allowances of up to a maximum of 30% of base salary may withholding provisions be provided.
Shareholding requirement Purpose and link to strategic objectives To create alignment with shareholders by encouraging longer-term focus.
Operation Executive Directors and senior staff are expected to build up over a reasonable period of time, and thereafter maintain, a shareholding in the Companys shares.
Opportunity and recovery or The Chief Executive has a share retention target of 3.0 times salary and other senior members withholding provisions of staff have a target of 1.0 times salary.
Vested shares net of income tax and national insurance contributions under the deferred bonus or long-term incentive plans should be retained until the shareholding requirement is met.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, it is anticipated that the time period taken to build up the required shareholding would not exceed five years.
The Remuneration Committee will retain the ability to introduce additional retention conditions.
102 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 The Companys remuneration policy continued Short-term incentives variable pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To reward performance on an annual basis against key financial, operational, risk and individual objectives.
Operation Discretionary annual bonus scheme and deferred bonus plan under which a proportion of bonus may be compulsorily deferred into shares.
Opportunity and recovery or The maximum potential bonus is 200% of salary, although bonuses of up to 300% of withholding provisions salary may be awarded in exceptional circumstances.
The target bonus pay out is 100% of salary.
At least 50% of any bonus will be compulsorily deferred into shares vesting in equal instalments over a period of five years.
All bonus payments are subject to the overriding discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which also retains discretion to amend the proportions of bonus subject to compulsory deferral.
The Remuneration Committee has the right to cancel or reduce any bonus compulsorily deferred into shares in the circumstances described under long-term incentives described below.
Performance measurement framework For executive Directors, a maximum of 50% of bonus is normally determined by reference to Company performance and 50% normally by reference to non-financial objectives which may include personal, risk and other key Group targets.
All Group performance targets are reviewed and set by the Committee early in the year to align with the Companys strategic objectives.
The choice and weighting of performance metrics may vary from year to year.
Awards are determined by the Committee after the year end based on the actual performance against these targets.
Details of the annual performance targets andperformance against those targets will be shown in the Remuneration report.
Long-term incentives variable pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To motivate Directors to deliver long-term shareholder value, thereby aligning the interests of management with those of shareholders.
To encourage long-term retention of key executives.
Operation SVG Capital operates a performance share plan under which participants are awarded nil-cost options over the Companys shares.
Opportunity and recovery or The maximum value of nil-cost options that may be granted in any year under the withholding provisions performance share plan rules is 200% of salary and bonus.
In practice, in all but exceptional circumstances, this will be limited to 200% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has the right, in respect of future awards to cancel or reduce long-term incentive awards, in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups financial results, miscalculation of a participants entitlement, individual misconduct or an event resulting in material loss or reputational damage to the Company or any member of the Group.
Further details are provided in note 3.
Performance measurement framework Nil-cost options awarded under the performance share plan are subject to targets related to the Companys undiluted net asset value NAV per share over a four-year period and the Companys average annual compound Total Shareholder Return TSR over a three-year period.
0% of existing performance share awards vest at a threshold performance level, increasing to full vesting at a stretch performance level.
The rules of the scheme provide discretion to the Remuneration Committee to amend the performance targets or impose different performance targets providing that these are no less challenging than the targets imposed when the plan was first introduced.
The Committee has set the targets for performance share awards to be made during the year at 7% 0% vesting to 15% 100% vesting growth in TSR and NAV over a three and four year period respectively.
The Committee would first consult with major shareholders before making any significant changes to these targets.
St Strra atte eg giic c rre ep po orrtt | Co | Corrp po orra atte e iin nffo orrm ma attiio on | F n | Fiin na an nc ciia al l iin nffo orrm ma attiio on | n | S Sh har areholder eholder in inf fo or rm ma at tion ion 1 10 03 3 Carried interest variable pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To align the interests of executives involved in direct investments and or direct co-investments with those of the shareholders of the Company.
Operation The proceeds of carried interest are only paid out after the performance of the pool of assets has exceeded a minimum level of return.
Carried interest points are allocated on establishment of the scheme and will vest over the investment period of the specified investment pool.
Carry does not apply to any commitments to fund or co-investments alongside these fund commitments.
To be eligible, participants must have satisfied the shareholding retention policy described above and will also be required to co-invest alongside the Company in the pool of assets.
Opportunity and recovery or The carried interest pool for direct investments and or direct co-investments is capped at withholding provisions 20% of net cash profits made on realisations from the underlying investment pool.
If awarded to an executive Director, carried interest is not expected to comprise a large proportion of the overall executive Directors package and other elements of the total remuneration will be reduced to take account of the carried interest award.
At the time that each carried interest scheme is established, carry is pre-allocated for the benefit of investment staff and cannot be returned to the Company, save in the event of the holder ceasing to be a Group employee.
Any carried interest awarded to an executive Director would come from this segregated pool and would not represent any additional exposure to the Company, simply a reduction in the carried interest available to be allocated to other staff.
Performance measurement framework SVG Capitals carried interest arrangements require a compound return of 8% p. a. beforeany proceeds are paid out.
104 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 The Companys remuneration policy continued Notes to the remuneration policy table 1.
Rationale for choice of performance measures for short-term and long-term incentive plans Bonus The performance targets chosen by the Board for the bonus are designed to ensure the successful implementation of the business plan and strategies agreed by the Board and may be adjusted to take account of risk.
The Remuneration Committee will select the performance conditions for determining the bonus awards as they align directly with the short-term and long-term strategy of the business.
These conditions are set annually by the Remuneration Committee at levels that take into account the Boards business plan.
Non-financial performance is assessed by reference to personal objectives set at the start of the year, including non-financial measures such as risk management, marketing of the Company, team leadership, management skills and promotion of SVG Capitals corporate culture both internally and externally.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to amend or adopt alternative annual bonus targets in order to achieve better alignment with the Companys strategic objectives.
Performance shares In order to ensure that long-term incentives provide alignment with shareholders, the Remuneration Committee sets performance conditions that reward executives for delivering absolute value in the Group.
The Remuneration Committee believes that TSR and growth in NAV are appropriate measures of long-term performance for a business which is focused on delivering superior returns in a long-term asset class.
The performance conditions for awards to be granted under the performance share plan consist of i the average growth in the Companys undiluted NAV per share over a four-year period of 7% p. a.
100%ofthe award vests and ii the Companys average annual compound Total Shareholder Return TSR over a three-year period of7% p. a.
100% of the award vests, with each determining 50% of the award.
These targets were introduced this year following consultation with major shareholders.
Carried interest plans The plans adopt market standard performance measures and targets.
These comprise payment of 20% of net cash profits made on the underlying investment pool once a compound 8% return p. a. on contributed amounts has been reached.
Consistency with policy for all employees SVG Capital executive Directors remuneration packages tend to be higher than those of other Group employees, but also contain a higher proportion of variable pay.
All employees will be eligible to receive salary, pension contributions and benets and to be considered for a discretionary annual bonus with the maximum opportunities reecting the role and seniority of each employee.
Higher-earning members of staff below the executive Directors will have a portion of their bonus deferred into shares vesting in equal instalments over a four-year period.
Within the Group, senior members of staff have part of their compensation linked to the long-term performance of the Groups investments through carried interest schemes.
No carried interest will be paid on investments in private equity funds or on co-investments made alongside these funds.
Carried interest will be payable on other equity investments, such as direct co-investments and direct investments.
Malus clawback policy The Committee has agreed a policy which applies to bonus, deferred share awards and performance share plan awards made during the year to executive Directors and certain other senior executives under which awards may be forfeited, or reduced prior to vesting, or recovered after vesting for a period of three years following vesting in exceptional circumstances on such basis as the Remuneration Committee considers fair, reasonable and proportionate.
This would include material misstatement of Group financial statements, material failure of risk management or cases where an individual is deemed to have caused a material loss for the Group as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the right of forfeiture, reduction or recovery described above will no longer be exercisable by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor changes to this policy, which do not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid in its operation of implementation without seeking shareholder approval for a revised version of the policy.
St Str ra at te eg gi ic r c re ep po or rt t | | Co Cor rp po or ra at te i e in nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n | | F Fi in na an nc ci ia al i l in nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n | | S Sh har areholder eholder in inf fo or rm ma at tion ion 1 10 05 5 4.
Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committee reviews the overall pay and bonus decisions for the Group as a whole to ensure pay and conditions in the wider Group are taken into account when determining Directors pay.
The Company does not consult with employees when preparing the remuneration policy.
A number of employees are shareholders and are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
Committee discretions The Committee operates the Groups variable incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee will apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: k selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis: k determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment: k determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : k determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: k making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. change of control, rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : k determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes and applying the appropriate treatment: and k undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance measures, and setting targets for the bonus and performance share plan PSP from year to year.
If an event occurs which results in the bonus or PSP performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment the Committee will have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures and or targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised conditions or targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested or unexercised at the date of this report, as detailed on page 44 of the Remuneration report, remain eligible for vesting or exercise based on their original award terms.
Scenarios Chief Executive 000s Maximum 14% 43% 43% 2,415 Actual 36% 64% 955 Minimum 345 100% Fixed remuneration excluding benets and pension Annual bonus including deferred element Long-term incentive 7.
External appointments The Company permits executive Directors of the Company to accept limited non-executive directorships and other similar appointments, it being recognised that such appointments increase their commercial knowledge and business experience to the general benefit of the Company.
Fees earned from such directorships may be retained by executive Directors.
Chairman and non-executive Directors remuneration policy The non-executive Directors of the Company are entitled to such rates of annual fees as the Board at its discretion shall from time to time determine subject to the aggregate annual fees not exceeding 600,000 and reimbursement of reasonable fees and expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
In line with the majority of investment trusts, no component of any Directors remuneration is subject to performance factors.
There are no provisions in Directors Letters of Appointment for recovery or withholding of fees or expenses.
Annual fees are pro-rated where a change takes place during a financial year.
106 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 The Companys remuneration policy continued Table of Directors remuneration components Non-executive Directors Element Purpose and link strategy Operation Maximum Board To attract and retain The Board Chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities.
The level There is no Chairman fee a high-calibre Board of the fee is reviewed, periodically by the Remuneration Committee, with maximum Chairman by offering reference to workload, time commitment and market levels in comparably feelevel.
amarket-competitive sized FTSE companies, and a recommendation is then made to the Board feelevel.
without the Chairman being present.
The Chairman does not receive benets other than limited travel and hospitality-related benets which may be provided in connection with the role.
Non-executive To attract and retain The non-executives are paid a basic fee and, under certain circumstances, There is no Director fees high-calibre nonan attendance allowance.
The Audit and Risk and Remuneration maximum executive Directors Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director are paid feelevel.
by offering a marketsupplements to reect the additional responsibilities, workload and time competitive fee level.
The fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee, with reference to workload, time commitment and market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies and a recommendation is then made to the Board.
Non-executive Directors do not receive benets other than limited travel and hospitality-related benets which may be provided in connection withthe role.
The Board only exercises its discretion in setting rates of fees after an analysis of fees paid to non-executive Directors of other companies having similar proles to that of the Company, and consultation with third-party advisers.
No non-executive Director is entitled to receive any remuneration from the Company which is performance-related.
As a result, there are no performance conditions in relation to any elements of the non-executive Directors remuneration in existence to set out in this remuneration policy.
Service Contracts none of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company.
Non-executive Directors are engaged under Letters of Appointment.
Appointments are generally for an initial three-year term, subject to annual re-election at each AGM and subsequent annual renewal.
The dates of the current Letters of Appointment are as follows: Stephen Duckett 12 March 2012 initial term expired 11 March 2015 Andrew Sykes 28 September 2012 replacing original letter of appointment dated 5 February 2010 term expired 27 September 2015 David Robins 6 August 2013 initial term due to expire 5 August 2016 Helen Mahy CBE 23 July 2014 initial term due to expire 22 July 2017 Simon Bax 22 June 2015 initial term due to expire 21 June 2018 Loss of Ofce Directors Letters of Appointment expressly prohibit any entitlement to payment on loss of ofce.
Scenarios as the Chairman and non-executive Directors remuneration is xed at annual rates, there are no other scenarios where remuneration will vary.
It is accordingly not considered appropriate to provide different remuneration scenarios for such Directors.
Other Items None of the non-executive Directors has any entitlement to pensions or pension-related benets, medical or life insurance schemes, share options, long-term incentive plans, or performance-related payments.
No non-executive Director is entitled to any other monetary payment or any assets of the Company except in their capacity where applicable as shareholders of the Company.
Recruitment policy In determining remuneration arrangements for new executive appointments to the Board including internal promotions, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors, including the calibre of the individual, the nature of the role, local market practice, the individuals current remuneration package, SVG Capitals remuneration policy, internal relativities and existing arrangements for current executive Directors.
For external appointments, some variation may be necessary in order to attract the successful candidate and to reect particular skills or experience specifically required.
Where relevant, local market practice, with respect to pension and benets provision may also be taken into account.
The maximum level of variable pay as expressed as a percentage of base salary which may be awarded to new executive Directors in respect of their appointment shall be no more generous than the combined maximum levels expressed in the remuneration policy table above in respect of the Chief Executive, with an appropriate mix between annual bonus, excluding any awards made to compensate the executive Director for awards forfeited by their previous employer.
St Strra atte eg giic c rre ep po orrtt | Co | Corrp po orra atte e iin nffo orrm ma attiio on | F n | Fiin na an nc ciia al l iin nffo orrm ma attiio on | n | S Sh har areholder eholder in inf fo or rm ma at tion ion 1 10 07 7 If a new appointment is the result of an internal promotion, the Remuneration Committee would expect to honour any pre-existing orcontractual arrangements or benets package agreed with the relevant individual.
In the event that a new Director resides overseas, the Remuneration Committee may agree a reasonable relocation package and tax equalisation arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee may make bonus commitments or share awards on the appointment of an external candidate to compensate for remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, taking into account factors such as any performance conditions attached to those awards, the form in which they were granted, for example cash or shares, and the time over which they would have vested.
The aim would be to ensure that replacement awards would be made on no greater than a comparable basis.
The Committees intention is that any such awards made are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
The Committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary, particularly when determining buyout arrangements.
The Company would make use of existing arrangements where possible and may also make awards under the exemptions from prior shareholder approval contained in the Listing Rules.
In the event of an appointment of a new non-executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed in the relevant table below.
Service contracts The main terms of the service contracts of the executive Directors will be as follows: Provision Policy Notice period Six months notice if given by the Company Six months notice if given by the executive Director Company policy is that future executive Directors notice periods should not normally exceed six months.
Save for these notice periods the contracts have no unexpired terms.
Dates of contracts At the date of this Report and Accounts, Lynn Fordham is the only executive Director.
Her employment contract is dated 21 May 2015 though her employment within a Group Company commenced on 1 October 2015, when SVGC Managers Limited received its FCA authorisation and the Company has entered into a Letter of Appointment on similar terms to non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment original letter of appointment dated 1 July 2008 which was replaced by the current letter of appointment dated 1 June 2013.
The original appointment term expires on 30 June 2011.
Termination payments All Directors contracts entitle the Company to give pay in lieu of notice.
This would be limited payment of salary and benets for the remainder of the notice period.
In future contracts such payments would normally be phased and subject to mitigation.
Remuneration and benets The operation of all incentive plans, including being eligible to be considered for an annual bonus and deferred share awards is non-contractual.
All incentive plans are subject to usual good leaver provisions.
In order to be entitled to an annual bonus, an executive Director must normally be in the Groups employment and not under notice of termination either given or received at the time the bonus is paid.
In good leaver circumstances, the Committee has discretion to pay a pro-rata bonus in respect of the proportion of the year worked.
Such awards would be subject to application of the performance conditions.
Shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally only vest if the Director remains an employee of the SVG Capital Group during the vesting period commencing when the award is made and will vest in equal annual instalments.
Awards would vest early on a change of control.
In the event of a change of control before the expiry of the performance measurement period of a longterm incentive award, the vesting level of the award will be determined by the Remuneration Committee based on the extent to which the performance targets have been achieved and vested shares will then be scaled down to reect the shortened measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee may modify such vesting levels if it considers that the performance target would be met to a lesser or greater degree at the testing date and or if the application of pro-rating would be inappropriate in the circumstances.
On termination of employment, outstanding awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors do not have service contracts or contracts for services.
Their appointment letters provide no entitlement to compensation or other benets on ceasing to become a Director.
Service contracts will be available for inspection at the Companys headquarters in business hours.
