22 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Risk and audit oversight With the growing sophistication of the Board UK Corporate Governance Code and Determines risk appetite and risk framework signicantly heightened investor and regulator risk governance expectations, the a Responsible for ensuring appropriate risk management framework is in place SVG Capital Board has adopted a revised a Considers principal risks and uncertainties in detail approach to risk governance with the following objectives: a Oversees operation of risk management framework and acceptability of residual risk linked to business objectives a Increase certainty reduce uncertainty that the Companys objectives will a Detailed review of risk matters at annual strategy Board meeting and be achieved while operating within periodic reviews at other meetings management and the Boards risk appetite and tolerance.
a Ensure risk assessments clearly link the Company key strategic objectives, risks, Independent risk Chief Executive risk treatments, and Key Performance oversight provider Overall responsibility for building and Indicators KPIs.
maintaining robust risk management processes a Ensure the Companys risk culture and delivering reliable and timely information continues to be appropriate.
on the current residual risk status linked to objectives to the Board.
This includes ensuring a Increase the direct, visible involvement of objectives are assigned owners and sponsors the Companys Board and management who have primary responsibility to report on in assessing and managing risks of all the risks.
types to the Companys top objectives.
a Meet and exceed the governance requirements in the UK Corporate Risk Management Committee Governance Code.
a Delegated responsibility for risk management a Seek to improve our external risk a Ensures appropriate risk management governance communications.
arrangements, processes and techniques in place a Monitors adherence to risk appetite and risk management framework a Liaises with independent risk oversight provider a Meets at least quarterly Managers and Other Employees Key managers and employees are assigned owner or sponsor responsibility for reporting on objectives not assigned to Chief Executive or Board.
Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 23 All significant risks to objectives are SVG Capitals risk governance Tone from the top: The board and considered in combination.
This approach approach and framework senior management are the starting ensures senior management and the Board point for setting the financial institutions The risk governance approach the have current information to continuously core values and expectations for the Company has implemented is based on assess whether the current risk treatments risk culture of the institution, and their a customised Five Lines of Assurance are resulting in a level of retained risk that is behaviour must reect the values being process.
The diagram on page 22 provides within the Companys and the Boards risk espoused.
A key value that should be an overview of the roles played by each of appetite and tolerance.
espoused is the expectation that staff the five lines.
The Company opted for the The Board agrees the level of risk that act with integrity and promptly escalate Five Lines of Assurance approach to elevate it is prepared to take in achieving the observed non-compliance within or the key roles played by SVG Capitals Companys strategic goals on an annual outside the organisation.
The leadership Board and senior management and better basis.
As a private equity investor, the of the institution promotes, monitors, achieve the risk governance objectives Company accepts some level of investment and assesses the risk culture of the listed above.
risk in order to achieve its targeted returns, financial institution: considers the impact In accordance with AIFMD requirements, but stipulates that a disciplined approach of culture on safety and soundness: and the Company has put in place a risk to asset allocation is taken.
There is very makes changes where necessary.
framework that is reviewed by the Board low tolerance for nancing risk with the Accountability: Relevant employees at all on a periodic basis.
This framework aim to ensure that even under the most levels understand the core values of the includes limits to mitigate various risks severe stress scenario, the Company is likely institution and its approach to risk, are including, for example, nancing risk which to meet its financial obligations as they fall capable of performing their prescribed is assessed through cash ow modelling due.
Similarly, there is low risk tolerance roles, and are aware that they are held and stress testing.
The Risk Management with respect to legal and regulatory risk, accountable for their actions in relation Committee reviews reports prepared to but the Company accepts a certain degree to the institutions risk-taking behaviour.
ensure compliance with the risk limits set of operational risk, for example in areas Staff acceptance of risk-related goals and out in the framework.
The Groups Chief suchas staff retention.
Risk officer has oversight responsibility for Board oversight of risk culture this process.
Effective communication and challenge: A sound risk culture promotes an A key objective of the new risk governance How the approach links strategy environment of open communication framework is to build and maintain a robust torisks and KPIs and effective challenge in which and supportive risk culture that fosters sound decision-making processes encourage Investors and regulators are increasingly decision making.
In 2015, SVG Capitals a range of views: allow for testing of interested in how companies assess Board commissioned an independent current practices: stimulate a positive, risks to their key strategic objectives assessment of SVG Capitals risk culture.
critical attitude among employees: and and core social responsibility objectives.
The assessment was completed using promote an environment of open and The approach used by SVG Capital starts criteria developed by the Financial Stability constructive engagement.
with the Companys strategic objectives.
Board in its April 2014 guidance to national Full risk assessments are completed on the regulators extracted below.
Incentives: Performance and talent objectives in the Companys Objective management encourage and reinforce The overall conclusion of the independent Register using a rigorous and consistent maintenance of the financial institutions audit presented to the Board in late approach that identies threats to the desired risk management behaviour.
2015 was that SVG Capitals risk culture objective and treatments of those risks.
Financial and non-financial incentives was appropriate for the Company.
A residual risk status is created for each support the core values and risk culture Following the assessment, it was objective and these residual risk status at all levels of the institution.
recommended that each Group employee reports are ultimately reviewed by the sign a Group code of conduct which has Board at least once a year.
The approach now been done.
The audit confirmed draws on the core elements of the Source: Financial Stability Board, Guidance on that the Board was receiving materially Supervisory Interaction with Financial Institutions on ISO2009 international risk management reliable consolidated reports on the Risk Culture: A Framework for Assessing Risk Culture, standard 31000, but goes beyond the 7 April 2014, page 3. true risk status linked to the Companys ISO standard to focus the attention of strategic objectives.
decision makers on current performance and the acceptability of the current residual risk status.
24 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Risk and audit oversight continued The Board considers that adequate risk Board oversight of risk Adequacy of risk and audit mitigation risk treatments controls exist management, internal audit oversight over the financial reporting process.
andexternal audit The Board, at least, annually, conducts a An experienced team is responsible for review of the adequacy of the Companys The September 2014 revisions to the UK preparing the financial reporting for the systems of risk management and internal Corporate Governance Code signicantly Company and ensuring that financial control processes and is responsible for elevated expectations related to Board information is accurate, complete, those systems and for reviewing their oversight of risk management processes and reconciled and reviewed by senior effectiveness.
Due to its size and nature, it internal and external audit.
The Board has members of staff, and that transactions and has not recently been considered necessary contracted the services of an independent balances are recognised and measured on for the Company to have an internal risk adviser to provide regular reports to the a consistent basis and in accordance with audit function.
Regular dialogue has been Board on the effectiveness and maturity accounting policies and financial reporting maintained with the external auditor and of the Companys risk management standards.
Management personnel the independent risk management services framework and its overall governance responsible for the integrity and reliability provider and the Board takes into account framework.
These reviews are done using of the Companys financial statements the assurance derived from their work.
guidance developed by the Global Institute have completed formal risk assessments The Board annually reviews the benets of of Internal Audit linked to International on the objective of publishing financial an internal audit function and how it might Professional Practices Framework IPPF disclosures that are fair, balanced and best be provided.
These risk assessments have been reviewed by the Companys risk The Board has conducted a review in The Board also has heightened adviser and the Board.
Although the Board accordance with the UK Corporate responsibility under the provisions of believes that it has a robust framework Governance Code and believes that theSeptember 2014 revision to the of risk management and internal control the combination of the Companys UKCorporate Governance Code to over financial reporting in place, this can risk management and governance overseethe effectiveness of the Companys only provide reasonable and not absolute framework described in the Companys external auditor Ernst & Young.
The assurance against material financial risk management policy and summarised SVGCapital Board was provided with misstatement or loss and is designed to above, risk assessment training provided training on board oversight of the external manage, not eliminate, risk.
to key management personnel, reviews audit processes in November 2015 at its and feedback provided by the Companys Further details of the Companys annual offsite board meeting.
Meetings independent adviser combined with approach to risk management is were held by the chair of the Companys the work done by Ernst & Young, available on the Companys website Audit Committee, Stephen Duckett, with the Companys external auditor, are atwww.
Ernst & Young to assess the likely appropriate to the Companys business as effectiveness of its annual SVG Capital audit Principal risks and uncertainties an investment company and adequate.
The SVG Capital This review was carried out as part of the Board is satisfied that the process used by The Companies Act and FRC require Board evaluation process, details of which Ernst & Young meets existing external companies to disclose the principal risks can be found on page 31. audit standards.
In conducting its review and uncertainties the Company faces.
the SVG Capital Board has referred to the The Board is satisfied that there is an Principal risks and uncertainties are oversight of the FRC of Ernst & Young and ongoing process for identifying, evaluating dened by the Board as risks with the representations made to them by the Ernst and managing the principal risks faced by highest overall potential to affect the & Young audit partner they met with.
the Company: the systems have been in achievement of the Companys business place for the year under review and up to objectives.
These objectives include: the date of approval of the Annual Report ensuring the ability to meet liabilities as and Accounts: the systems are regularly they fall due and meet liabilities in full: and reviewed by the Board: and the systems achieving target returns.
Principal risks accord with FRCguidance on this area.
relating to delivery of these objectives are described on page 25, along with other principal risks identied in relation to other key objectives.
Further information on risk factors is set out in note 27 to the Accounts.
Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 25 External Economic stability k cash ow models are maintained on an ongoing h significant geopolitical uncertainty for example basis and forecasts are produced for each Board resulting from mass involuntary migration, Brexit meeting that contain appropriate stress testing.
This risk was assessed as increasing and the US election along with low economic k senior member of staff is formally responsible for givenrecent geopolitical events and growth may lower risk appetite and impact monitoring economic and geopolitical developments volatilityin the markets.
investment and divestment rates and assessing their impact on the Company.
k regular monitoring of portfolio through periodic For further information on the contact with underlying managers.
Companys view on the current economic situation, please refer to the Chairmans statement and ChiefExecutives statement.
Sector risk k private equity has outperformed public markets over vk The private equity sector globally falls out of the long term and it has proved to be an attractive favour with investors leading to a reduction in asset class through various cycles.
This risk was assessed as stable.
demand for the Companys shares k raising awareness of private equity and attracting new investors mitigates this risk.
From time to time there is heightened k increased focus on fee sharing arrangement and regulatory focus and or media focus disclosure of such arrangements.
on the private equity sector though generally this has had limited impact on the attractiveness of the asset class.
For further information on the private equity sector, please see the Chief Executives statement.
Investment Investment selection k the Companys Investment Committee comprises a vk The Company invests in funds managed by balance of skills and perspectives.
private equity managers, who in turn select and k the Group seeks to ensure it recruits and retains This risk was assessed as stable.
The high calibre staff through its selection process expertise, due diligence, risk management skills and career progression programme.
Competitive For further information on our business and integrity of the staff that select private equity remuneration packages are offered and a supportive model, please see information on page 2. managers and the private equity managers culture maintained in order to mitigate this risk.
selected by the Company are key to the success Seeremuneration policy on page 100. of the Company k extensive due-diligence is carried out on the private equity managers that it invests with, which includes assessing the adequacy of the risk management frameworks they use, and post investment monitoring of their performance.
k the Companys investment approach is more diversied than in the past reducing the likelihood of a single investment decision impacting portfolio performance.
Financing risk k cash ow models are maintained on an ongoing vk Financing risk and the inability to match funding basis and forecasts are produced for each Board to the timing of commitments to private equity meeting that contain appropriate stress testing.
This risk was assessed as stable in the funds.
Investments by underlying fund managers k the Company can dispose of assets, raise debt year.
Liquidity is at similar levels to are not sold, or sold for less than expected, or or equity, or renegotiate the terms of borrowing lastyear.
suffer a reduction in value and those managers orinvestments.
continue to call for new investments leading k new investments are subject to commitment tests Details of the Companys available to higher drawdowns on the loan facility and prior to any commitment being made.
liquidity and the Companys liabilities an increased risk of being unable to meet k returns of cash to shareholders by way of buybacks or arein the Financial review on page 13. commitments as they fall due tenders can be stopped if coverage of future liabilities is not deemed to be sufficient.
k 26 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Risk and audit oversight continued Investment Concentration risk k the Board considers the performance of its largest Concentration risk may result in the performance portfolio companies in detail periodically and, of the Company being unduly affected by inextremis, can dispose of interests in funds or This risk was assessed as the performance of one or a small group of otherinvestments.
decreasinginthe period due to underlying investee companies.
At 31 January k the Company has changed its investment objective the increasing diversication of the 2016, the Companys largest individual to evolve from a concentrated, single manager investment portfolio.
underlying company holding represents investor to one that is more diversied.
19%ofthe gross investment portfolio and the k the Companys investment manager has a rigorous Further details of the Companys top Top 15 largest underlying holdings represent due diligence and allocation process that includes 15core holdings are on page 6 and on 65% of the gross investment portfolio.
steps to prevent inadvertent undue concentration in sector analysis on page 17.
Inaddition, the portfolio is concentrated by any single underlying asset.
sector with TMT accounting for 38% by value and Industrials 22% by value of the total investment portfolio.
Operational Cyber security threats k an IT consultant has been retained to assist with h The potential loss of operation of core systems or the monitoring of the Groups information security sensitive data leading to damage and disruption monitoring system ISMS which identies material This risk was assessed as increasing in the to our business risks and threats to them.
year due to the increased general threats k a Group employee has been assigned the of cyber security breaches.
responsibility of Information Security officer to ensure the ISMS is maintained and implemented.
k a non-executive Director, Simon Bax, has been appointed as the Boards representative to monitor the ISMS.
k ongoing staff training to identify potential threats and prevent unauthorised access is provided.
k a culture of awareness is promoted through ongoing communication of issues and methods of dealing with potential threats.
By order of the Board Stuart Ballard Company Secretary 22 March 2016
