Strategic report Risk and audit oversight With the growing sophistication of the Board UK Corporate Governance Code and Determines risk appetite and risk framework significantly heightened investor and regulator risk governance expectations, Responsible for ensuring appropriate risk management framework is in place the SVG Capital Board has continued its Considers principal risks and uncertainties in detail risk governance programme with the following objectives: Oversees operation of risk management framework and acceptability of residual risk linked to business objectives Increase certainty reduce uncertainty that the Companys objectives will Detailed review of risk matters at annual strategy Board meeting and periodic be achieved while operating within reviews at other meetings management and the Boards risk appetite and tolerance.
Ensure risk assessments clearly link the Companys key strategic objectives, risks, Independent risk oversight Chief Executive risk treatments, and Key Performance provider Overall responsibility for building and Indicators KPIs.
maintaining robust risk management processes Ensure the Companys risk culture and delivering reliable and timely information continues to be appropriate.
on the current residual risk status linked to objectives to the Board.
This includes ensuring Increase the direct, visible involvement of objectives are assigned owners and sponsors the Companys Board and management who have primary responsibility to report on in assessing and managing risks of all the risks.
types to the Companys top objectives.
Meet and exceed the governance requirements in the UK Corporate Risk Management Committee Governance Code.
Delegated responsibility for risk management Seek to improve our external risk Ensures appropriate risk management governance communications.
arrangements, processes and techniques in place Monitors adherence to risk appetite and risk management framework Liaises with independent risk oversight provider Managers and Other Employees Key managers and employees are assigned owner or sponsor responsibility for reporting on objectives not assigned to Chief Executive or Board.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 07 Strategic report Risk and audit oversight Continued The Board agrees the level of risk that SVG Capitals risk governance Adequacy of risk and audit it is prepared to take in achieving the approach and framework oversight Companys strategic goals on an annual The diagram on page 7 provides an The Board, at least, annually, conducts a basis.
As a private equity investor, the overview of the risk management process review of the adequacy of the Companys Company accepted some level of and the key roles played by SVG Capitals systems of risk management and internal investment risk in order to achieve its Board and senior management to better control processes and is responsible for targeted returns, but stipulated that a achieve the risk governance objectives those systems and for reviewing their disciplined approach to asset allocation listed above.
Due to its size and nature, it was taken.
There was a very low tolerance has not recently been considered necessary for financing risk with the aim to ensure In accordance with AIFMD requirements, for the Company to have an internal that even under the most severe stress the Company has put in place a risk audit function.
Regular dialogue has been scenario, the Company was likely to meet framework that is reviewed by the Board maintained with the external auditor and its financial obligations as they fell due.
This framework the independent risk management services Similarly, there is low risk tolerance with includes limits to mitigate various risks provider and the Board takes into account respect to legal and regulatory risk, but including, for example, counterparty risk the assurance derived from their work.
the Company accepts a certain degree of in respect of cash or cashlike holdings.
The Board annually reviews the benefits operational risk, for example in areas such The Risk Management Committee reviews ofan internal audit function and how it as staff retention.
reports prepared to ensure compliance might best be provided.
with the risk limits set out in the Following the takeover offer that was framework.
The Groups Chief Risk Officer The Board is satisfied that: there is an received in September, the Board focused has oversight responsibility for this process.
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating its attention on ensuring shareholder value and managing the principal risks faced was maximised while keeping risk such How the approach links strategy by the Company: the systems have been as execution risk and counterparty risk torisks and KPIs in place for the period under review and toa minimum.
up to the date of approval of the Annual Investors and regulators are increasingly Report and Accounts: the systems are interested in how companies assess Board oversight of risk culture, regularly reviewed by the Board: and the risks to their key strategic objectives riskmanagement, internal audit systems accord with FRC Guidance on and core social responsibility objectives.
and external audit Audit Committees April 2016 on this area.
The approach used by SVG Capital starts The September 2014 revisions to with the Companys strategic objectives.
The Board considers that adequate risk the UK Corporate Governance Code Full risk assessments are completed on the mitigation risk treatments controls exist significantly elevated expectations related objectives in the Companys Objective over the financial reporting process.
to Board oversight of risk culture and risk Register using a rigorous and consistent An experienced team is responsible for management processes and internal and approach that identifies threats to the preparing the financial reporting for the external audit.
The Board contracted the objective and treatments of those risks.
Company and ensuring that financial services of an independent risk adviser A residual risk status is created for each information is accurate, complete, to provide regular reports to the Board objective and these residual risk status reconciled and reviewed by senior on the effectiveness and maturity of the reports are ultimately reviewed by the members of staff, and that transactions and Companys risk management framework Board at least once a year.
The approach balances are recognised and measured on and its overall governance framework.
draws on the core elements of the ISO a consistent basis and in accordance with These reviews are done using guidance 2009 international risk management accounting policies and financial reporting developed by the Global Institute of standard 31000, but goes beyond the standards.
Management personnel Internal Audit linked to International ISO standard to focus the attention of responsible for the integrity and reliability Professional Practices Framework IPPF decision makers on current performance of the Companys financial statements standards 2110 and 2120. and the acceptability of the current residual have completed formal risk assessments risk status.
on the objective of publishing financial disclosures that are fair, balanced and All significant risks to objectives are understandable.
These risk assessments considered in combination.
This approach have been reviewed by the Companys risk ensures senior management and the Board adviser and the Board.
Although the Board have current information to continuously believes that it has a robust framework assess whether the current risk treatments of risk management and internal control are resulting in a level of retained risk that is over financial reporting in place, this can within the Companys and the Boards risk only provide reasonable and not absolute appetite and tolerance.
assurance against material financial misstatement or loss and is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
08 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016
