STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy in action How does Synthomer understand our customers needs, their IN ACTION: global ambitions and Pressure sensitive help them succeed?
adhesives PSA INNOVATION The global nature of the Synthomer organisation gives us an Our 2016 acquisition of PAC gaveus excellent platform to anticipate new market trends in every region access to acrylic platforms in PSA.
In the adhesives market we are constantly balancing These technologies are used in the the broad requirements ofthe global market, such as the move fastgrowing food packaging and bottle totransparent film glass bottle labels, with our ability to tailor to labelling segment to supplement and localcustomer needs, for example, coating technology.
We have protect manufacturers brand images adhesive applications experts at our technical centres in the US, and in packaging where water based Europe and Asia who closely connect with customers in the market PSA acrylics are increasingly replacing to get a full understanding of new requirements.
This insight allows waterborne and natural latex.
our co-located Technical Service and R&Dteams to quickly deliver the optimum solutionsfrom our broad technology portfolio.
EXCELLENCE PSA technology enables transparent labelling film to be placed on windows and bottles to enhance a brands image and protect the labels from damage.
This technology allows labels to be applied using pressure only and without the use of adhesives.
GROWTH We will utilise our global sales network, customer insight and key account management to drive sales synergies globally across more than 800 customers.
Global sales network to promote newly acquired technology.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION No 1 In liquid applied membranes IN ACTION: How does Synthomer Construction meeting future respond to new building standards regulations to help INNOVATION We have developed a full range of customers and maintain cementitious membrane productsfor usein the construction industry.
These products allowconstruction to progress our competitive more quickly due to their faster drying time, improve protection from groundwater, advantage?
reduce odours within buildings and improve construction efficiency in hostile building environments with extreme Synthomer works with its construction customers and industry temperature ranges.
regulators to provide a clear future view on regulations at a regional and global level.
This insight feeds into our product development EXCELLENCE programs to ensure our pipeline of innovations meets the future Synthomer has long experience in market requirements and keeps our product portfolios ahead.
working with customers to identify new Recent examples of this are Synthomers new range of SBR latices innovations that meet their current and for flexible cement which were launched in advance of upcoming future needs.
Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation & Restriction of Chemicals REACH Regulation deadlines, and our modern range of cement GROWTH membranes andconstruction adhesives that meet new stringent We have a strong number one market indoor air qualitystandards.
position in liquid applied membranes and expect to see strong growth opportunities in Asia and North America.
This technology can provide a strong platform for use in alternative segments of the market such asoilfield chemicals.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 15 STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy in action continued IN ACTION: How can Synthomer Textile and fibrebonding deliversolutions to INNOVATION ourcustomers in an As the demand for new non-woven products grows, Synthomer continues toinnovate and introduce new products increasingly globalmarket?
to meet the needs of its customers.
Withover 400 customers in its technical textile and non-woven business, Technical textiles are found in a diverse range of applications from Synthomer is a leader in this market, hygieneproducts to automotive components to glass fibre composites.
developing high performance products Ourtechnical centres sit close to our customers to get goodalignment with lower environmental impact.
onrequirements and state of the art applications.
Labsareable to mimic industry standard testing in these areas.
OurcoreNBR, SBR, acrylic and EXCELLENCE vinylic platforms give Synthomer thebroadest range of chemistries available Our newly developed latex grades for inthis applications spaceandthisallows our global R&D to quickly identify non-woven hygiene applications allow and  solutions.
customers to improve the efficiency of their product processes and reduce the environmental impact of volatile organic compounds VOC.
DELIVERING GROWTH Our global network allows new technology to be introduced to customers in every region of the world.
16 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION IN ACTION: How do global trends Health and protection influence the focus INNOVATION Synthomer is the worlds leading NBRproducer supporting production and prioritisation of andinnovation for medical andindustrial glove applications.
We have developed products that enable glove manufacturers R&D in Synthomer?
to produce stronger but lighter and more elastic gloves for medical professionals toprotect themselves andpatients when Market trends continue to influence the medical glove market performing their work.
We continue including the continued move away from natural rubber latex toinnovate and are working on new towards synthetic alternatives, increasing healthcare standards grades of nitrile latex to improve glove and the need for material and production efficiency.
By focusing manufacturing efficiency and further research initiatives we have developed a new product line enhance comfort for gloveusers.
suitable for thinner, stronger gloves that have an improved touch and feel whilst maintaining barrier properties.
These NBR latices EXCELLENCE can be used on the fastest glove lines in the industry which Synthomer 6338 latex launched in 2015 hasled to strong uptake at major glove producers.
The trend is formulated specifically to meet the toreduce environmental impact, for example through lower needs of customers wishing to produce energy usage, is an area of research with a view to bringing high strength and ultra-low weight further innovations to the market.
glovesand we hope to announce furtherinnovation in due course.
DELIVERING GROWTH The markets supplied by our health and protection business continue to grow strongly.
The new products recently developed and launched have, in additionto delivering improved customer benefits, allowed more efficient use of our production assets in Malaysia, resulting inan expansion of available capacity to meet the needs of our customers.
60.0% ofour NBR for medical gloves sales come from new products launched in the last five years.
NBR revenue from new products developed inlastfive years 60.0% Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 17
