STRATEGIC REPORT Business model and strategy Synthomer is a speciality chemical company CREATING AND which uses its Technical Services expertise and R&D capability to understand andanticipate customers needs to drive competitive advantage.
SUSTAINING VALUETHROUGH INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OUR SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN Our four research and development centres of excellence work to both develop products that meet our customers needs and to improve the efficiency of their manufacture.
CONSUMERS We monitor mega-trends and market developments to ensure our formulations are meeting the requirements not only of our customers but the end users oftheir products.
TECHNICAL SERVICES Our technical service teams work withour customers to ensure we provide the right formulation for their needs.
FORMULATIONS Our formulations are designed for use in customer specific products.
SOURCING RAW MATERIALS We work closely with our suppliers to obtain competitive prices, correct specification, and to improve supply chain resilience.
PRODUCTION Experienced operations teams optimise the production process to be most efficient by using complex production techniques and removing bottlenecks.
QUALITY CONTROL Our quality control procedures andlaboratories ensure that we manufacture and store finished products in a manner that maximises quality.
LOGISTICS Our specialist logistics teams workon ensuring safe and timely deliveries of excellent products inmore than 140 countries.
10 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION We produce chemical formulations for thousands of customers in Our production sites are local to ourcustomers to better understand arange of industries, from construction and coatings to healthcare their needs and reduce the costof logistics and our environmental and automotive.
Our strategic procurement specialists acquire the impact.
We have leading market positions in Europe and South East upstream raw materials used in our complex production processes.
Asia, which continue to be underpinned by our exposure to global mega trends and the drive for environmentally friendly technology.
The production process involves controlling the pressure, temperature and duration of mixing reactions of our raw Effective risk management is the key method we deploy to ensure materialsinorder to create specific formulations.
Our highly our strategy is delivered and sustainable value created.
 Operations teams, supported by ourR&D, deliver cost effective and flexible operational  output and quality.
OUR STRATEGY KEY BENEFICIARIES OF OUR VALUE CHAIN Our mission is to provide our customers with innovative and high EMPLOYEES performance solutions that enable them to efficiently produce Our employees are a critical part of our success.
Employees their own high quality products.
contribute to all aspects of our value chain and all employees benefit from the success of our business.
We are committed to providing a safe environment to work.
Our strategy is composed of five key elements: GOVERNMENTS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL EXPERTISE 1 We look to ensure that we follow the letter and spirit of the TOEXPLOIT NEW MARKETS taxregulations within each of the jurisdictions in which we We anticipate market trends and customer requirements operate and contribute fairly to public policy goals.
We see todeliver improved products with improved margin and local safety and environment legislative compliance as the product differentiation.
minimum level at which we should operate, and we strive forhigher standards.
DRIVING EFFICIENCY AND EXCELLENCE THROUGH OPERATIONS 2 We operate continuous improvement across our COMMUNITIES operations toimprove production efficiency, sales We look to be a valued part of the communities in effectiveness and functional excellence.
We whichweoperate, providing highly skilled employment seektoidentify good practice in all areas of our opportunities, being aware of how our plans may businessandensure thatrelevant learningsare impactonacommunity, and demonstrating that disseminated throughoutthe business.
werespectthe community and its environment.
CAPACITY UTILISATION 3 Our aim is to drive profitability throughmaximum utilisation CUSTOMERS of ourassets.
This involves identifying theroot causes of Our customers expect us to provide them with innovative, production bottlenecks and finding innovativesolutions.
We seek to work in partnerships with customers, using our skilled Innovation INVESTMENT IN CAPACITY andTechnical Services teams, to develop products that 4 We seek to add capacity, particularlyingrowth markets.
BUSINESS GROWTH THROUGH ACQUISITION SUPPLIERS 5 We actively seek opportunistic boltonacquisitions Our suppliers are an important part of our business and we insimilar chemistriesor transformational step change look to work closely with them using the skills of our strategic transactions not limited by geography or chemistry.
sourcing teams to ensure we get the right specification of products for our needs at competitive prices.
READ MORE P12 AND 13 SHAREHOLDERS Our shareholders, as the owners of our business, should seethe benefits of our focus on long term sustainable growth, regulatory compliance and strong governance.
