Strategic report Business model and strategy TalkTalk has consistently proved itself a challenger brand in the telecoms market.
Throughout the Companys history, it has successfully harnessed critical customer and regulatory opportunities capable ofgiving it a sustainable cost advantage.
TalkTalk has then used these effectively todemocratise the telecoms sector, driving growth and uptake across its chosen markets.
Thisstrategy of pro-competition, positive disruption has paid dividends for the Company, which has delivered shareholder value over a sustained period.
TalkTalk has grown rapidly in both scale and diversity of product and ongoing Making TalkTalk Simper programme, TalkTalk will continue service offerings.
It has driven both price and product innovation, todeliver meaningful improvements in customer satisfaction.
The whilst maintaining a strong position in its core consumer and business Company will look to simplify and clarify its product offerings, ensuring fixed telecoms markets through leveraging its sizeable customer they are as competitive and customer friendly as possible.
Customers base, network design and low cost operating structure.
Over the last have always saved money when they choose TalkTalk and the five years, TalkTalk has moved into the TV, mobile and fibre markets Company will continue to ensure that they always do.
aswell as expanding its range of high speed data products.
Ten years ago, TalkTalk took advantage of changes in telecoms Central to TalkTalks business model is the aim of being a great value regulation which allowed the Company to price very competitively for money provider.
The Company keeps a relentless focus on saving inthe fixed market and therefore compete effectively against the customers money, whilst delivering an ever better customer experience highpriced incumbents.
This drove sizeable growth and value for through affordable, reliable, simple and fair products.
The market for high speed fibre both superfast and ultrafast is now growing rapidly, at the same time as technology The October 2015 cyber attack was a major challenge for the business.
andconsumer behaviour between fixed and mobile networks begins However, it provided valuable insight and evidence that focusing on to converge.
As a result, the regulatory environment is evolving.
existing customers yields significant commercial and reputational benefits.
As a result of the honesty and openness with which TalkTalk Ofcom isalso looking to drive competition and investment into fibre approached the data breach including the offer of a free upgrade to to the premise FTTP and mobile through a combination of tougher allcustomers in recognition of their loyalty, trust in the brand has regulation of Openreach, dark fibre products and access to poles increased.
Customers are now, on average, more willing to trust, and andducts.
TalkTalk is already demonstrating both the considerable buy more products from TalkTalk, than they were before the attack.
potential of FTTP with its ultrafast joint venture in York, and the ability to bundle fixed and mobile products together as the market TalkTalk is more persuaded than ever that delivering on its moves toward fixed mobile convergence.
TalkTalk will capitalise on its commitment to being a great value for money challenger business experience with local loop unbundling, as well as its proven credentials willdeliver sustainable growth and value.
Through an ongoing focus on in price innovation, to ensure it is ideally placed to benefit as the improving customer experience, already well established through the market for next generation products continues to expand.
Our strategy the customer wheel Our ambition is to be a great value for money quad play provider that consistently delivers affordable, reliable, simple and fair telecoms services for everyone.
See the People section on page 24 for further details on Living our Brighter Basics.
12 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016 Leveraging our network advantage Value for money products At the heart of the TalkTalk network is the unbundling equipment digital Our network confers a structural cost advantage that has enabled subscriber line access multiplexers, multi-service access nodes and usto offer fixed line telephony, broadband and Ethernet connectivity Ethernet switches that we have installed in over 3,000 BT exchanges, at significantly lower retail prices than our competitors.
Following the covering c. 96% of all UK homes the largest such deployment in the launch of fixed line phone and broadband services in 2006, we have UK.
This structure allows us to take control of the copper line that leveraged our network and fixed line customer base by offering connects customer premises to the exchange at a regulated price additional value for money services to consumers such as Internet that has fallen over time.
This gives us a sustainable cost advantage that Protocol television IPTV, fibre to the cabinet and mobile.
In addition, we can translate into compelling value for money propositions.
as we have designed our network for peak consumer traffic during the evening, we are able to leverage this capacity during the daytime for The exchanges are connected via collector nodes that aggregate TalkTalk Business TTB which offers a wide range of connectivity allofthe 3,000 exchanges and connect these to the core network.
products from phone and broadband to high speed Ethernet and The equipment in these locations a mixture of BT Openreach exchanges generation voice to direct and wholesale B2B customers.
and our own data centres is owned by TalkTalk.
The nodes are connected by 10 Gigabits per second circuits to the core network for delivery of TalkTalk has consistently aimed to be a great value for money voice and data services.
These circuits are either leased bandwidth challenger brand, always striving to save its customers money and orleased dark fibre.
This is still at the core of the Companys purpose and strategy, and has been soundly reinforced by the events Our dark fibre core optical network is the fundamental underlay of the of the last year.
During the October 2015 cyber attack, TalkTalk was network a high speed, high capacity all-IP national backbone that determined to look after its customers, ensuring the Company was enables efficient and flexible routing of voice and data traffic.
The size open, honest and fair with them throughout.
The success of this approach and all-IP nature of this network allow it to be scaled very efficiently can be demonstrated in the strong response to TalkTalks offer of a for growing usage, enabling it to support growing customer demand nostrings attached free upgrade for all customers regardless of whether for high speeds and greater data consumption.
they had been affected by the cyber attack, as well as significantly Access to the copper infrastructure that connects UK premises reduced churn and improved trust in the brand since the attack.
toBTs nationwide exchange footprint is price regulated by Ofcom, Going forward, TalkTalk will build on these learnings to further strengthen while fibre backhaul the process of transporting data via exchanges the Companys reputation by championing customers interests to the Groups core network and dark fibre the Groups collector ring against the industry conventions.
This approach was exemplified and core network are leased on competitive terms from multiple recently when the Company became the first provider toannounce providers.
Access to BTs fibre to the cabinet FTTC GEA product, ashift to All-in Pricing.
This industry-leading move is supported by for on-sell to our customers, is provided by BT Openreach.
consumer groups, the regulator and the Government.
All-in Pricing We have a defined programme of investment in the network to improve offers a radically simpler and more transparent approach for customers capacity and efficiency in line with the expected growth indemand and typifies TalkTalks continued efforts to put customers first.
for high speeds and data consumption.
In FY16, we completed the first phase of our backhaul upgrade to deliver significant improvements innetwork performance for fibre customers.
Over the next two years we will invest further in enhancing the capability of our next generation access and edge networks, which will reduce our costs to serve for all our customers, and drive significant further improvements in customer satisfaction.
In addition, we have designed the investments in the network to future proof three priority areas: the growth in fibre from FTTC to FTTP: the best Ethernet business network of choice: and mobile expansion.
We expect these investments to fall within ourcapex envelope of 6%7% of revenues.
Overall, these investments will enable us to reduce the marginal cost of capacity of our network and further strengthen the economics of carrying traffic, especially data traffic.
13 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Business model and strategy continued Scale Simple systems and processes Network capability, cost advantage and the ability to offer multiple Since the Demerger in 2010, we have delivered over 150m ofcost value for money services has enabled us to build a large and savings through integration and simplification programmes.
However, sustainable share c. 16% of the UK fixed line broadband market.
as a relatively young business that has grown rapidly, TalkTalk has a significant opportunity to further simplify its technology platform We have leveraged this position to drive penetration of TV 38% of andcustomer processes to deliver a better and more secure phone and broadband base, mobile 19% of phone and broadband customer experience.
base and fibre 19% of phone and broadband base.
This quad play approach to driving revenue generating units aligns the Groups Making TalkTalk Simpler MTTS is the Groups wide ranging longterm growth strategy of driving stable customer base, with the transformation programme.
MTTS is delivering material customer growing trend amongst UK consumers to save money bytaking service improvements: driving operating cost savings: reducing bundled products on top of their fixed line subscriptions.
Intime, subscriber acquisition costs:and ultimately, creating a simpler, wewould expect the majority of our customers to be taking all moresecure business and transformed brand reputation.
Launched fourproducts, underpinning our scale growth opportunity.
inFY13, these programmes are now fully embedded across our business operations and have delivered over 50m of savings to TTB a scale business, with revenues of over 500m per annum that date.
We have made significant progress in FY16: a comprehensive have grown at over 6% compound over the last three years has rebuilding of our online channels with enhanced security features: multiple further opportunities to grow in the fragmented B2B market.
asignificant improvement in network performance: improvements We plan, in time, to double its size by growing market share across toorder provisioning through case management: improvements in allits product areas.
TTB has leveraged the scale and reach ofour customer service through implementation of live chat and voice network by offering a wide range of value for money, voice and data biometrics: and improved fault diagnosis and resolution, reducing connectivity products to customers ranging from small office home engineering cost and unnecessary customer contact.
With a further office businesses and small and medium sized enterprises to multi-site 35m40m of savings expected in FY17, savings beyond FY17 are national enterprises.
TTB is also one of onlytwo network providers in expected to annualise at a substantially higher level.
the UK to offer wholesale phone and broadband, fibre and high speed Ethernet services across 96% of the UK.
The acquisition of tIPcall in Going forward, as a simpler, nimbler and more focused business 2015 has added a significant new product capability to TTB in the thanour competitors, TalkTalk expects to widen the cost advantage form ofB2B VOIP SIP voice over internet, with powerful itholds, whilst continuing to improve customer experience.
We are building on our price advantage to become a great value for money provider Better customer Clearer, more Clear price experience from Great value for customer advantage Making TalkTalk money provider friendly bundles Simpler Customers have Quad play Long term We have always begun to see the attractive: simpler sustainable had this improvements, products to come position more to come 14 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016 Market opportunity With over eight in ten households having broadband access, but a far smaller proportion taking bundled TV and mobile products, the UK market continues to offer growth opportunities.
This is particularly the case at the value for money end of the market, both in underlying broadband connectivity and Disruptive innovation converged products.
Thereissignificant scope for growth TalkTalk has a strong heritage of launching innovative and disruptive amongst specific demographics: 20% of households remain products that leverage our network scale, engineering expertise and offline, risingto nearly 50% of those aged 65 to 74 and cost advantage, to give everyone access to new technology and, in two-thirds ofthose aged 75and over Ofcom.
TalkTalk is well doing so, saving customers money.
placed to compete and grow in this market environment as the leading value for money operator.
The Company is consistently We were the first fixed line operator in the UK to offer: able to offer low prices across allproducts and bundles as a free fixed line calls between customers: result of our scale, low operating cost model, fixed line network advantage and regulated access toBTs network.
free broadband: There are four key players in the UK fixed line broadband unlimited downloads to broadband customers: andTV market.
BT is the largest broadband service provider network level home internet security: 32% share, followed by Sky 22% share, Virgin Media, the cable provider, is the third largest player 20% share followed a free TVproduct on YouView, an integrated IPTV platform : by TalkTalk 16% share.
business broadband at under 5 per month: and BT and Virgin Media are positioned at the premium end ofthe free nuisance and suspicious call blocking.
connectivity market, with significantly higher price points than TalkTalk.
They focus on speed and reliability of broadband We see two major disruptive opportunities in the future.
Skys focus is on cross-selling broadband and asignificant potential tobuild an integrated fixedand mobile network voice products to protect and grow its premium pay TV base.
using our fixed line network and existing owned spectrum to drive BT alsocompetes with Sky on pay TV content rights, down the costs of mobile.
We are in the advanced stages of a femto specifically sports.
cell testing programme that will lead to the roll-out of active cells in customers homes from 2018.
These indoor cells will allow mobile There are also four Mobile Network Operators MNOs in the traffic to be offloaded onto the Groups fixed line network, thereby UK mobile market: EE 29% share, O2 29% share, Vodafone delivering a much improved indoor mobile experience and savings 23% share and Three 12% share.
In an increasingly convergent onthe costs payable undertheour mobile virtual network operator fixed-mobile market all four fixed line operators also offer or agreement with O2.
are about to launch, mobile services through MVNO agreements.
TalkTalk is one of the most advanced quad play providers Secondly, we are making significant progress towards achieving our inthemarket with a 38% penetration ofTV in its phone and critical success factors cost per home, customer experience and broadband base, and 19% penetration of mobile.
In addition penetration in Ultra Fibre Optic, our fibre to the premise FTTP trial toconvergence, the UK market is also consolidating.
in York, and are confident about the potential to roll out FTTP at scale.
Therefore, following its acquisition of EE, BT is now the At a build cost of under 500 per premise passed and 30%40% UKslargest mobile operator.
take-up, we believe it will be possible to build a c. 10 million household network across the UK.
In contrast to the consumer market, the fixed line business connectivity market is extremely fragmented with BT Group Both these innovations will allow us to deliver disruptive valuefor money commanding a market share of over 50%, followed at some propositions that leverage the economics of our fixed line network.
distance by Virgin Media and Vodafone.
TTBs market share of less than 5% offers significant opportunity for growth through its position as the only alternative national wholesaler of broadband and fibre and Ethernet products.
15 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016
