Governance Board of Directors N CR N Sir Peter Gershon CBE Javed Ahmed Nick Hampton Chairman and Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer of the Nominations Committee Joined the Board as Chief Executive Joined the Board on 1 September 2014 Joined the Board in February 2009. in October 2009.
Aged 56. as Chief Financial Officer.
Skills and experience Prior to joining Tate&Lyle, Nick held a Skills and experience Javed has extensive international number of senior roles over his 20-year Sir Peter has broad business experience experience from a wide variety of senior career at PepsiCo, most recently as Senior gained in large and complex international management roles.
He started his career Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, organisations and has held various with Procter & Gamble and then spent Europe in 2008, a position he held until leadership roles in the UK private and five years with Bain & Co. before joining 2013 when he was appointed PepsiCos public sector.
He was formerly Chairman Benckiser later Reckitt Benckiser plc President, West Europe Region and Senior of Premier Farnell plc: Chief Executive of in 1992 where he gained significant Vice President Commercial, Europe.
the Office of Government Commerce: experience ofinternational consumer Other directorships Managing Director of Marconi Electronic goods markets and held positions None Systems: and a member of the UK Defence including Senior Vice President, Northern Academy Advisory Board.
Europe: President, North America: Executive Vice President, North America, Other directorships Australia and New Zealand: and Executive Chairman of National Grid plc Vice President, Europe.
Chairman of the Aircraft Carrier Alliance Member of the advisory board and Other directorships Trustee of The Sutton Trust None R N CR A N CR A R N Lars Frederiksen Douglas Hurt Anne Minto OBE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director and Chairman Joined the Board on 1 April 2016.
Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Remuneration Committee Aged 57.
Joined the Board in March 2010.
Joined the Board in December 2012.
Skills and experience Lars was CEO of Chr.
Hansen Holding A S Skills and experience Skills and experience from 2005 until his retirement in March Douglas is a Chartered Accountant.
Anne was Group Director of Human 2013, leading a transformation of the He held anumber of financial and Resources at Centrica plc from 2002 business and a successful listing on the operational roles, including US and until her retirement in 2011.
She previously Copenhagen stock exchange during that European senior management positions, held senior management roles at Shell UK period.
Prior to his appointment as CEO, at GlaxoSmithKline and was Finance and Smiths Group plc and was Deputy Lars held various management positions Director of IMI plc between 2006 and 2015.
Director-General of the Engineering at Chr.
Other directorships Other directorships Senior Independent Director of Other directorships Chairman of Matas A S Vesuvius plc Non-executive director of Shire PLC Non-executive director of Falck A S Non-executive director of BSI Group Non-executive director of ExlService Non-executive director of Rockwool A S Holdings, Inc. Chairman of the Danish Committee for Vice Chairman of the University of Good Corporate Governance Aberdeen Development Trust Non-executive director of the Court of the University of Aberdeen 42 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Board of directors BOARD COMMITTEES Certain responsibilities are delegated A N Audit Committee Nominations Committee to four Board Committees, details of which are provided on pages 55 R CR Remuneration Committee Corporate Responsibility to 61 and on page 69 Committee A N R N CR A R N Liz Airey William Camp Paul Forman Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Non-Executive Director Joined the Board in January 2007. the Corporate Responsibility Committee Joined the Board in January 2015.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Liz was an investment banker and has Skills and experience Paul is Group Chief Executive of Coats extensive financial experience inthe UK Bill worked for 22 years for Archer Daniels Group plc, a leading global industrial andinternationally.
She was formerly Midland Company, before retiring in 2007, thread and consumer textiles crafts FinanceDirector of Monument Oil and and held a variety of management business.
Prior to joining Coats in 2009, he Gas plc.
positions including Executive Vice was Group Chief Executive of Low & Bonar President, Asia Strategy: Executive Vice PLC, a global performance materials Other directorships President, Processing: and Senior Vice group, and was previously Managing Chairman of Jupiter Fund Management President, GlobalOil Seeds, Cocoa Director at Unipart International, a leading PLC andWheat Milling.
Paul also served as a nonOther directorships executive director at Brammer PLC Director of First Illinois Corporation from 2006 to 2010.
Director of Culligan International Director of Heartland Food Products Other directorships Group Group Chief Executive of Coats Group plc Director of Ingleby Farms and Forest R N CR A N Dr Ajai Puri Sybella Stanley Lucie Gilbert Non-Executive Director and Chairman Non-Executive Director Company Secretary of the Research Advisory Group Joined the Board on 1 April 2016.
Appointed Company Secretary in August Joined the Board in April 2012.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Sybella is Director of Corporate Finance at Lucie was appointed Deputy Company Ajai has a PhD in Food Science from the RELX Group plc where she is responsible Secretary in 2008 and previously held University of Maryland, USA.
He was for global mergers and acquisitions.
senior company secretarial roles in President Research, Development and Sybella originally qualified as a barrister several listed companies, including Product Integrity and amember of the and before joining RELX Group in 1997, she Experian PLC and Brit Insurance Holdings Executive Board of Koninklijke Numico N. V. was a member of the M&A advisory teams PLC.
Lucie is a Fellow ofthe Institute of from 2003 to 2007.
Prior to this, Ajai held at Citigroup and later Barings.
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators various management positions with and an Associate of theChartered Other directorships The Coca-Cola Company, culminating Insurance Institute.
Non-executive director of The in Senior Vice President Technical, Merchants Trust PLC Directorships The Minute Maid Company.
Member of the Department of Business, None Other directorships Innovation and Skills Industrial Non-executive director of Britannia Development Advisory Board Industries Limited Member of the Somerville College Non-executive director of Firmenich SA Oxford Development Board 48 Read more about the Directors Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 43
