Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Speciality Food Ingredients We are well-placed to benefit from increasing global consumer trends for healthier food and drink Joan Braca, President CONTINUING OPERATIONS SALES 1 Restated Year ended Year ended 897m 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Adjusted Adjusted ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT operating operating Volume Sales profit Volume Sales profit change m m change m m 150m North America 2 % 327 2 % 313 Asia Pacific and Latin America 4 % 119 7% 109 Europe, Middle East and Africa 12% 109 6% 104 Total excluding SPLENDA Sucralose and Food Systems 0% 555 105 1% 526 93 Food Systems 12% 186 23 15% 190 27 SPLENDA Sucralose 7% 156 22 1% 149 16 Total Speciality Food Ingredients 1% 897 150 2% 865 136 1 For continuing operations only with prior year measures restated to exclude discontinued operations.
Adjusted metrics restated for the adoption of equity accounting see Note 1.
KEY PRIORITIES We look to Speciality Food Drive growth in Build on growth Restructure Ingredients to be the engine of North America in Asia Pacific Europe to growth for the Group.
Over time, we expect the market for and Latin America enhance margins Speciality Food Ingredients to grow at mid-single digits and our objective is to grow modestly Top line Continue to drive Selective bolt-on ahead of the market and to drive growth in growth in New acquisitions margin expansion.
Food Systems Products Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 17 Strategic Report Speciality Food Ingredients continued In Speciality Food Ingredients, volumes In Asia Pacific and Latin America, volume were up 1%, driven by growth in EMEA, was 4% lower reflecting a sharp decline Asia Pacific and in Food Systems.
Sales in Latin America partially offset by double increased by 4% to 897 million 2% in digit growth in Asia Pacific.
In Latin constant currency, benefiting from America weaker economic conditions improved mix of higher margin products.
and softer consumer demand for products utilising our speciality sweeteners led The division delivered 100 bps operating to the decline in volume.
In Asia Pacific, margin improvement and adjusted volume growth, which accelerated in the operating profit increased by 10% to second half, was driven by speciality fibres 150million 5% in constant currency and speciality starches, as we continued to reflecting a strong focus on the mix of sales build our business strongly in China.
Sales as we actively managed capacity through for the combined region increased by 9% most of the year, strengthened supply chain 10% in constant currency to 119 million performance and improved performance as a result of a stronger mix of higher from SPLENDA Sucralose.
The effect of value products and the benefit, in the first exchange translation was to increase sales half, of the termination of crystalline by 11 million and adjusted operating profit fructose distribution rights previously NORTH AMERICA by 7 million.
FOCUSING ON SUBSpeciality Food Ingredients excluding In EMEA, volume increased by 12% SPLENDA Sucralose and Food Systems CATEGORIES WHICH benefiting from good growth outside Volume was in line with the prior year Western Europe driven by speciality and benefited from the acquisition of ARE GROWING ABOVE starches and the benefit in the second the Slovakian corn wet mill as part of the half of the year of the full ownership of THE OVERALL FOOD re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint the facility in Slovakia.
Sales grew by 6% 3% in constant AND BEVERAGE by 5% on a reported basis 13% growth currency as we actively managed capacity in constant currency to 109 million.
for improved customer service and MARKET product mix.
Food Systems In our global blending business, volumes Adjusted operating profit increased by 12% were 12% ahead of the prior year to 105 million 7% in constant currency.
NUTRITION BARS benefitting from the full year impact of the Improved year-on-year profitability was PROMITOR Soluble Fibre is acquisition of Gemacom Tech in Brazil in driven by the focus on sales mix to higher increasingly being used in the nutritional December 2014.
While sales decreased margin products and stronger supply bars sub-category in North America as by 2% in reported currency to 186 million, chain performance.
The additional capacity it can provide customers with solutions they grew by 2% in constant currency brought on line towards the end of the to many different challenges.
It not only mainly driven by the Gemacom acquisition financial year creates additional growth removes sugar and calories, but also and the expansion into new territories and headroom for the core business, but also helps to maintain bar texture, and customers, primarily in Middle East, Africa increases the depreciation charge in the deliver a high in fibre claim.
Adjusted operating profit division by around 12million for the 2017 was 13% lower 11% lower in constant financial year.
currency at 23 million largely driven In North America, volume was 2% lower by the sharp increase in the cost of egg as we managed available capacity through powder, a key blending ingredient, most of the year ahead of the new capacity following an outbreak of avian flu.
coming online for the 2016 calendar year SPLENDA Sucralose contracting season and, in the third Volume increased by 7% and sales quarter of the year, also experienced softer increased by 4% flat in constant currency demand from some larger customers.
The rate of decline of our Volume increased in speciality fibres and 53% selling prices for SPLENDA Sucralose speciality sweeteners, with offsetting slowed during the year as we pursued reductions in some lower margin starch of global a rigorous value-based approach by products.
Sales increased by 4% consumers look focusing on those customers who fully 2%decrease in constant currency value the benefits of our product.
Volume momentum 1 improved in the fourth quarter and we are high in fibre continue to focus on the acceleration of volume growth in this region.
1 Tate&Lyle multi-country Consumer Research 2015.
18 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Speciality Food Ingredients New Products New Products, which represent products launched in the past seven years, continued to perform well.
Volume of New Products grew by 39% with volume growth across our three platforms of sweeteners, texturants and health and wellness.
90% Sales increased by 25% 34% in constant currency to $86 million or 57 million of US consumers 2015 $69 million or 43 million.
say taste is their In sweeteners, we continue to see strong top motivator when interest from customers for DOLCIA 2 buying food PRIMA Allulose, a rare sugar with 90% less calories than sucrose, which 49% has significant opportunities in a range of applications both to make low-calorie of Chinese consumers products taste better and to reduce say they buy dairy calories through sugar replacement.
DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose is now approved products based The consolidation of sucralose for use in the US, Colombia and Chile.
manufacturing into a single facility in on a digestive McIntosh, Alabama, US was completed as 1 Sales of fibres from the New Product health claim planned, with the Singapore facility closing portfolio continued their strong on 31 March 2016. momentum from the prior year with significant growth in sales of PROMITOR Adjusted operating profit increased to Soluble Fibre and PromOat Beta Glucan.
22million 2015 16 million, benefiting Through our fibre portfolio, we support from a reduction in the depreciation customers to achieve fibre enrichment charge of 12 million following the claims and also to reduce calories through impairment of the Singapore facility in DAIRY IN CHINA sugar substitution.
the prior year and the lapping of prior year Chinese consumers increasingly one-off costs resulting from an extended In texturants, sales of CLARIA Functional make purchase decisions based shutdown of the facility.
Clean-Label Starches have grown on health benefits.
By selectively consistently since their launch in 2014, and In the 2017 financial year we expect double targeting dairy customers we can they are now being used in applications digit volume decline in line with our lower apply our technical expertise and across a wide range of categories overall capacity, although we expect this know-how to help customers address including dairy, soups and sauces.
will be offset at the adjusted operating consumer concerns such as weight profit level by the benefit of lower management and digestive health.
manufacturing costs from consolidating Our products can lower fat content, production in McIntosh, Alabama.
Looking reduce calories and add fibre while further ahead, the market for sucralose is maintaining a luxurious texture in expected to continue to grow but industry a range of dairy products: from capacity remains well in excess of demand yoghurts to smoothies, and ice and we expect this will lead to continued creams to cream cheese.
pricing pressure in the market.
ASIA PACIFIC INVESTMENTS IN APPLICATIONS LABS AND TECHNICAL EXPERTISE TO BUILD CAPABILITIES IN KEY DAIRY AND BEVERAGE 1 Tate&Lyle multi-country Consumer Research 2015.
CATEGORIES 2 Nielsen and Mintel Consulting US for Corn Refiners.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 19
