Strategic Report Marketplace How we look at the markets we operate in Speciality Food Ingredients Ingredients which add specific functionality and value to customers products Global trends are leading to changing consumer demands Global consumer trends Global market for speciality food ingredients SIZE Health and wellness Free from 1 R educing calories, sugar, Allergen-free foods such as c. US$51bn fat and salt gluten-free and dairy-free A dding nutrition such I ntolerance to certain ANNUAL GROWTH as fibre or protein ingredients 2 c. 4-5% We focus on three areas of the market Clean-label On the go Sweeteners Understanding the C onvenience foods to suit Texturants ingredients on a label busy lives Health and wellness Less processed Healthy snacking or more natural 1 IHS 2014: Speciality Chemicals update Program: ingredients Food Additives: Leatherhead 2014: The Global Food Additives Market: and other sources.
2 Leatherhead: LMC International: Company analysis: data as at 2013, five year CAGR 2009-2013.
Bulk Ingredients High-volume ingredients which are largely undifferentiated and compete primarily on price and service Operating in a mature, consolidated industry Key market factors Serving primarily the North American market Industry capacity utilisation Carbonated soft drinks CSDs Our bulk ingredients are Demand in the US for CSDs, % OF BULK INGREDIENTS PROFIT produced mainly at four large the main market for our bulk FROM NORTH AMERICA corn wet mills in the US and sweeteners, declined by 0.5% two smaller mills in Europe.
90% Capacity utilisation is a key driver of profitability in the Paper, cardboard and Our main product groups US corn wet milling industry.
other packaging Bulk sweeteners Capacity was well balanced Demand for paper, cardboard Industrial starches during the year.
and other packaging, the Acidulants used mainly to enhance principal use for our industrial flavour and preserve food, beverages Corn market starches, was steady during and pharmaceuticals The US corn wet milling the year.
Commodities which include industry processes around US ethanol and co-products such 10% of the US crop.
Recent US ethanol as corn gluten meal and corn gluten harvests have been strong Demand and margins for US feed, which are sold mainly as animal with corn inventory high and fuel ethanol were volatile, and feed, and also corn oil prices low.
Corn is largely were impacted during the year a pass-through cost.
by high inventories and the low price for gasoline, for which it is a substitute.
10 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Marketplace Well-placed to benefit from the global move towards healthier food and drink Changing consumer Changing consumer Our portfolio of products helps our behaviour demands customers meet these demands 3 Sweeteners Consumers want foods and 65% We have a wide portfolio of speciality sweeteners providing a drinks which are: look for information on toolbox of solutions to meet a range of customer challenges.
Healthier calories on the package label With our depth and breadth of sweetener knowledge, we help Low-sugar customers reduce sugar and calories across a range of Low-fat 4 categories such as dairy and beverage.
Low-salt 53% Lower calorie look for foods high in fibre Texturants Natural We have built a deep understanding of texturants, primarily 5 corn-based starches but also tapioca starches.
These products And also want 90% help provide key functionality for foods such as thickening, Taste say taste is their top shelf-stability and fat reduction.
Quality purchase motivator Value Health and wellness 3 FoodMinds US, 2014.
Underpinned by our scientific and technical expertise, we have 4 Tate&Lyle multi-country Consumer established leading positions in sub-segments such as soluble Research 2015. fibres, where we offer both corn fibres and oat beta glucan.
5 Nielsen and Mintel Consulting US for Corn Refiners Association Sweetener360, 2013.
Steady earnings and cash generation Re-deploying grind to Speciality Food Ingredients The long-term gradual decline in demand for our bulk US REGULAR CARBONATED US ETHANOL ESTIMATED ingredients is managed mainly by steadily re-deploying primary SOFT DRINKS SALES VOLUME INDUSTRY NET MARGIN OVER capacity to grow our Speciality Food Ingredients business.
YEAR-ON-YEAR CHANGE % ALL COSTS IN THE YEAR 6 7 We also look to find alternative uses for grind, such as substrate YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ENDED 31 MARCH TM US$ GALLON for bio-ingredients like our Bio-PDO joint venture with DuPont.
2014 2015 2016 Efficient operations 0.39 Our objective is to manage the Bulk Ingredients business for 0.34 0.1 efficiency and steady earnings.
In the mature markets this business operates in, these are delivered by: 0.5 optimising product mix and margins maintaining capital expenditure discipline continuous operational improvements to drive productivity 0.01 and efficiency 2014 2015 2016 reducing exposure to commodity markets where we can, by 1.8 dampening volatility by using conservative hedging strategies: maintaining a mix of tolling and non-tolling contracts: actively managing co-product sales: and investing in the corn elevator storage network to secure raw material supply.
6 Source: IRI, Total US Multi-outlet 7 Source: Iowa State University.
and Convenience FDM, WMT, Dollar, Based on dry miller net margin Club, Convenience Stores.
Renewable Fuels Association states that c. 90% of US ethanol industry uses dry mill process.
2016 data part year to 31 December 2015.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 11
