Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Directors Report Change of control Finance PLC, in July 2015 which are and to the campaign committees of state The Company has a committed bank repayable in 2023, 2025 and 2027.
Under candidates affiliated to the major parties.
facility of US$800million, which matures the terms of these Notes, the Company is In all, seven separate donations were in July 2020.
Under the terms of this required to offer to prepay the outstanding made, the largest being of US$5,000 and facility, the banks can give notice to amounts following a change of control of the smallest US$300.
Tate&Lyle to prepay outstanding amounts the Company.
US$10,500: 7,000 2015 US$11,500: and cancel the commitments where there All of the Companys share plans contain 7,000 was also contributed by the is a change of control of the Company.
provisions relating to a change of control.
Tate&Lyle Political Action Committee The Company is the guarantor of a Further information is set out in the PAC.
Seven separate donations were 200million bond issued by its subsidiary, Directors remuneration policy.
made, the largest being of US$2,500 and Tate&Lyle International Finance PLC, the smallest US$1,000.
The PAC is funded dated 25 November 2009, which is Political donations entirely by US employees.
Under the terms of the Again this year, in line with the Groups contributions are entirely voluntary and bond issue, noteholders have the option policy, no political donations were made no pressure is placed on US employees to request an early repayment where there in the European Union EU.
No funds are provided to is a change of control of the Company.
EU, the Groups US business made the PAC by Tate&Lyle but under US law, The Company is the guarantor of US$400 contributions during the year totalling an employee-funded PAC must bear million US Private Placement Notes issued US$13,000: 9,000 2015 US$26,700: the name of the employing company.
by its subsidiary, Tate&Lyle International 17,000 to state political party committees Directors Statement of Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for The Directors are responsible for keeping The Strategic Report and the Directors preparing the Annual Report, the adequate accounting records that are Report include a fair review of the Directors Remuneration Report and sufficient to show and explain the development and performance of the Financial Statements in accordance Companys transactions and disclose the business and the position of the with applicable law and regulations.
with reasonable accuracy at any time the Group, together with a description of financial position of the Company and the principal risks and uncertainties Company law requires the Directors to the Group and enable them to ensure that that it faces.
prepare financial statements for each the financial statements and the Directors financial year.
Under that law the directors Disclosure of information to auditors Remuneration Report comply with the have prepared the Group Financial So far as each director is aware, there Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Statements in accordance with is no relevant audit information of which Group Financial Statements, Article 4 International Financial Reporting the Companys auditors are unaware: and of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, he or she has taken all the steps that he responsible for safeguarding the assets and the Parent Company Financial or she ought to have taken as a director of the Company and the Group and hence Statements in accordance with United in order to make himself or herself aware for taking reasonable steps for the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting of any relevant audit information and to prevention and detection of fraud and Practice including FRS101 Reduced establish that the Companys auditors other irregularities.
Disclosure Framework UK GAAP and are aware of that information.
Under company law the The Directors are responsible for the The Directors Report on pages 42 to 61, Directors must not approve the financial maintenance and integrity of the pages 80 and 81 and pages 159 to the statements unless they are satisfied that Companys website.
Legislation in the UK inside back cover and the Directors they give a true and fair view of the state governing the preparation and Remuneration Report from pages 62 to 79 of affairs of the Company and the Group dissemination of financial statements may of this Annual Report were approved by the and of the profit or loss of the Group for differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors on 25 May 2016. that period.
Each of the directors, whose names and By order of the Board In preparing these financial statements, functions are listed on pages 42 and 43, the Directors are required to: confirm that, to the best of his or her Lucie Gilbert knowledge: Company Secretary Select suitable accounting policies 25 May 2016 and then apply them consistently The Annual Report, taken as a whole, is Make judgements and accounting fair, balanced and understandable and estimates that are reasonable and provides the information necessary for prudent shareholders to assess the Companys State whether IFRSs as adopted by and the Groups performance, business the EU and, with regard to the Parent model and strategy Company Financial Statements, The Group Financial Statements, which applicable UK Accounting Standards have been prepared in accordance with have been followed, subject to any IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the material departures disclosed and Parent Company Financial Statements explained in the Group and Parent in accordance with UK Accounting Company Financial Statements Standards, give a true and fair view respectively the going concern basis of the assets, liabilities, financial unless it is inappropriate to presume that position of the Group and Parent the Company will continue in business.
Company and of the profit of the Group Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 81
