Strategic Report Bulk Ingredients We are well-placed to generate cash and dampen volatility Jim Stutelberg, President CONTINUING OPERATIONS SALES 1 Restated Year ended Year ended 1,458m 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Adjusted Adjusted ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT operating operating Volume Sales profit Volume Sales profit change m m change m m 84m North American sweeteners 1% 1% North American industrial starches 3 % 3 % Total core Bulk Ingredients 93 63 Commodities 9 20 Total Bulk Ingredients 3% 1 458 84 1 % 1 476 83 1 For continuing operations only with prior year measures restated to exclude discontinued operations.
Adjusted metrics restated for the adoption of equity accounting see Note 1.
KEY PRIORITIES We target stable earnings and Optimise product Focus on Continuous cash generation from core mix and margins customer service operational Bulk Ingredients, and to continue to manage Commodities to improvements to dampen volatility.
drive productivity and efficiency Dampen volatility Steadily re-deploy in Commodities primary capacity to Speciality Food Ingredients 20 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Bulk Ingredients Volume increased by 3% driven by In our US bulk sweetener business, toll strong North American bulk sweetener contracts which pass the majority of the performance and the acquisition of 100% underlying commodity price risk to the of the Slovakian facility, offset in part by customer represented approximately the lower volume in industrial starch which 75% of volume.
As most toll contract declined in line with the market.
Sales volume is multi year, this reduces the decreased by 1% to 1,458 million 6% volume of business that is re-contracted decrease in constant currency, reflecting in any single year.
Contracts renewed in the pass through of lower corn costs and the 2016 calendar year pricing round lower prices in the US for ethanol and were renewed at moderately higher unit co-products.
Adjusted operating profit margins, reflecting tighter demand across was 1% higher at 84 million 3% lower the industry.
The fourth quarter of the 2016 in constant currency.
The core business financial year benefited from these higher delivered strong performance with growth unit margins.
in North American sweetener volume, North American industrial starches and sharply improved operating margins North American Industrial Starches reflecting tighter demand across the volume was 3% lower, in line with the industry, improved manufacturing efficiency market.
Overall demand for paper and and lower energy prices.
This offset weak board remains steady with reduced performance from Commodities which INDUSTRIAL STARCHES demand for printing and writing paper reported a loss of 9million, a reduction being mostly offset by higher packaging PROVIDING INNOVATIVE of 29 million from the 2015 financial year.
Demand for building materials The lower profits from Commodities was strong during the period, benefiting AND CUSTOMISED were a result of very challenging market products using starches such as dryconditions, especially in US ethanol.
SOLUTIONS walling products, which offset weaker The effect of exchange translation was to demand from our mailing envelope increase sales by 71million and adjusted customers for adhesives.
CREATING SOLUTIONS Commodities The autumn 2015 corn harvest was strong, A customer asked our industrial During the year, low crude oil prices and albeit slightly behind the prior years starches team to create a new grade high US ethanol inventory levels continued record, with a resulting small increase of starch that could be easily to pressure ethanol prices resulting in in corn inventories in the market.
Three integrated into the customers existing losses in our ethanol business.
Despite consecutive strong harvests have led to paper production process.
Our lower corn prices, ethanol producers faced a period of relative stability in US corn technical teams adaptability and challenging economics with record ethanol prices with market prices varying largely efficiency ensured we were able to production and inventory levels that within the $3.50 to $4.00 per bushel range quickly provide a trial amount of reached a four-year high.
The lowest crude in the past six months.
The latest USDA papermaking starch, and the on-site oil prices in a decade helped overall fuel production estimate for the 2016 17 technical support ensured machine demand but also pushed gasoline prices 1 billion bushels, harvest is good at 14.4 trials went smoothly.
This resulted below that of ethanol for parts of the 2015 a 6% increase on the previous year.
in new business and sales.
Additionally, US co-product North American sweeteners market prices were lower in the year, North American bulk sweetener volumes mainly reflecting lower corn prices.
grew by 1% driven by a relatively normal Adjusted operating profit from summer seasons sweetener demand, Commodities was 29 million lower than improved demand in Mexico, and stronger the prior year at a loss of 9 million 2015 supply chain performance.
profit of 20 million, primarily driven by Consumption of regular carbonated soft US ethanol.
The fundamentals of the US drinks is the main driver of high fructose ethanol industry do not show any nearcorn syrup demand in the US.
In the year term signs of improving and therefore we ended 31 March 2016, US regular currently expect returns from US ethanol carbonated soft drinks consumption to remain weak in the 2017 financial year.
2 declined by 0.5% slightly better than the longer-term trend in that market.
1 USDA is the US Department of Agriculture.
2 Source: IRI Infoscan Reviews, Total US.
Multi-Outlet and Convenience FDM, WMT, Dollar, Club, Convenience Stores.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 21
