Strategic Report Business Model How our business creates value Our business model has evolved over the last six years as we have implemented our strategy to Innovation focus on growing Speciality Food Connecting consumer needs with science Ingredients supported by steady Our team of food scientists and nutritionists continuously innovate, research and test earnings from Bulk Ingredients.
ingredients to create solutions for our We have become an increasingly customers.
These solutions help them meet increasing consumer demand for foods which marketand innovation-led are lower in sugar, calories, fat and salt.
We protect our intellectual property by business supported by a strong patenting our innovation.
We have over manufacturing base.
240 patents in issue and more than 300 patents pending.
Consumer insight Customer collaboration Understanding what consumers want Building stronger relationships Our business model starts by understanding what Having a deep understanding of our customers consumers want and identifying future trends and and what they want is critical to our success.
We have built expertise in areas The opening of our Commercial and Food Innovation such as sensory, culinary and marketing to obtain Centre in Chicago, USA, in 2012 provided a step market insight, and we use this to drive our product change in how we interact with our customers development programme.
This is particularly important as we bring team operates a market research programme which new products to market.
Engaging with customers is designed to build deep consumer understanding earlier and throughout the innovation process in the markets and categories we focus on.
As helps drive quicker adoption cycles.
consumer preferences can vary significantly between developed and emerging markets, we look at both global and local trends.
27% of visitors to the Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago during the year were from outside the US CONSUMER RESEARCH % of consumers trying to eat more or much more 1 fibre 67 64 62 57 50 Technical expertise 45 Formulating solutions for local markets Consumer taste and texture preferences are different across the world.
That is why we have a global network of 16 application and technical service labs.
Customers come to our labs to work with our food scientists UK USA China to reformulate their products and to develop solutions using our ingredients.
These Male Female solutions deliver the right taste, texture and functionality for our customers 1 Online research conducted independently products in their local markets.
12 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Business Model Financial returns Delivery of ingredients Generating cash or solutions to customers Revenue from the sale of our ingredients and Go-to-market expertise solutions generates cash flow which, after meeting Our ingredients and solutions are used by our our costs, helps us fund business investments, customers to add taste, texture, nutrition and meet our debt obligations and provide returns to functionality to products consumed by millions shareholders through dividends.
Serving our customers and being their preferred partner is core to everything we do.
We have strengthened our customer-facing capabilities across the business, in areas such as applications, technical service, sales and marketing.
We have also implemented a programme to enhance the way we plan and manage customer accounts in both our business divisions.
Manufacturing Logistics and transportation Producing high quality ingredients Moving products from plants to customers Our ingredients and solutions are manufactured Global Operations ensures our ingredients are at more than 25 facilities worldwide.
These include delivered to our customers on time, in full and to the large volume plants, such as corn wet mills, and right specification.
For Speciality Food Ingredients, smaller blending facilities.
Food safety, quality and this is a complex process with multiple ingredients, traceability are high priorities, and our manufacturing formulations powders and liquids and different facilities are externally certified to the Global types of packaging travelling around the world.
We also work to address For Bulk Ingredients, volumes are larger but environmental considerations across the life-cycle there are fewer products travelling relatively of our products, continually seeking to use resources shorter distances to customers.
such as energy and water more efficiently, and reduce waste.
60 Warehouses and transfer 10.4% stations across the world reduction in CO2e emissions where we keep products per tonne of production close to the end-market since 2008 to serve our customers WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT Raw material sourcing Our core strengths Securing supply of raw materials Our business has a range of core strengths which Most of our ingredients are produced from differentiates us in the market.
Our approach is to focus agricultural crops, predominantly corn.
and build deep expertise in those areas where we We have a dedicated corn procurement team have an advantage.
Our deep functional and technical which works closely with farmers and other expertise in delivering sweetness, texture and fibre commercial partners to ensure we have a enrichment enables us to deliver tailored solutions for reliable and secure supply of corn.
We also our customers in key categories such as beverage operate a network of corn elevator facilities and dairy.
We have a leading portfolio of sweeteners, across the US Midwest where we can store a wide range of highly functional speciality starches, corn throughout the year.
and soluble fibres offering nutritional and health benefits.
Our scale manufacturing base and know-how also drive operational efficiency and a high level of product quality.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 13
