Strategic Report Innovation and Commercial Development Connecting deep consumer and category understanding with leading-edge science to create solutions for customers Innovation and Commercial Development Working with Speciality Food Ingredients, ICD supports both business divisions ICD is a key enabler of our growth strategy.
ICD has delivered a robust and but its resources are largely focused on It connects deep consumer and category commercially relevant new product three broad platforms within the global understanding with leading-edge science portfolio in support of our 2020 Ambition speciality food ingredients market to create solutions for our customers which to grow annual sales from new products sweeteners, texturants and health and address growing global consumer demand to US$200 million.
Our approach is to develop for healthier food and drink.
deep, market-leading expertise in each ICD is based at the global Commercial and of these platforms.
ICD was established in 2010 and since then Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA.
has made good progress building a strong This Centre, together with our global Integrated approach to innovation foundation on which to deliver innovation.
network of applications and technical ICD brings together scientific and ICD is built upon five key strengths, services laboratories, drives significant commercial functions into one global team underpinned by the strong talent and collaboration and interaction with our to provide an integrated approach towards expertise of its people: customers.
Deep customer engagement developing and commercialising new at all stages of the innovation process is products and technologies: Consumer insights critical as it drives new product validation Focused platform strategies Global Marketing: provides deep and the pace of adoption.
Since it was Leading-edge science consumer and category insights opened in 2012, a customer has visited the Deep customer engagement and understanding Commercial and Food Innovation Centre Pipeline discipline and quality.
in Chicago, USA, on average, every other working day.
FOCUSED PLATFORM STRATEGIES Each platform has a clear strategic focus aligned to large market opportunities Sweeteners Texturants Health and wellness The sweetener platform is focused on This platform is focused on delivering high In this platform, our priority is to deliver driving sugar substitution.
Reducing functional and clean-label starches.
In the wellness through fibre enrichment.
calories from sugar consumption is not food industry, texturants like starches play As well as helping gut health and healthy just an important priority for consumers a key functional role in providing texture and digestion, fibres provide other functional but also increasingly for governments.
shelf-stability, replacing fat and calories, benefits including fat, sugar and calorie ICD is focused on developing a range of as well as managing costs.
ICDs focus is on reduction, low glycaemic response and even low-calorie and no-calorie alternatives increasing our range of functional texturants cholesterol management.
ICDs focus is on to sucrose.
and on delivering new clean label starches, developing soluble fibres and expanding such as our CLARIA Functional Clean-Label our range of oat-based ingredients.
SWEETENERS TEXTURANTS HEALTH AND WELLNESS Drive sugar substitution Deliver high-performing and clean Deliver wellness through label texturants fibre enrichment Sugar has c. 80% share of the global 1 1 in 4 new products launched globally in Global consumer fibre intake is below sweetener market 2 3 2015 had a label-friendly claim recommended levels 1 Sugar 80% 40 65,232 2 Non-sugar 20% 35 58,733 Recommended range 2 30 48,993 25 21 37,382 20 16 15 13 12 10 1 5 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 UK US China Brazil 1 LMC, 2015.
2 Innova Market Insights calendar years : product launches claiming no additives preservatives, natural, organic, and or without genetically modified organisms non-GMO.
3 For data sources see page 164.
22 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 20% CAGR Fibre intakes g day Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Innovation and Commercial Development Platform Management: takes this organic and bio-chemistry expertise with consumer and category understanding our process knowledge around starch and translates it into strategies that conversion, we created a patented process address market opportunities for making PROMITOR Soluble Fibre.
Research and Development R&D : uses Open Innovation leading-edge science to deliver Ideas are generated both by in-house innovative new products which target scientists and from external sources.
those market opportunities Our dedicated Open Innovation team Open Innovation: complements in-house leverages a global network of universities science by developing relationships with and research institutions to identify and universities and research institutions provide a route to market for technologies specialising in food science and or products that are close to commercial technologies.
Tate&Lyle Ventures invests in Global Marketing earlier stage companies in the food Global Marketing operates an extensive ingredient and technology space by market research programme designed partnering with entrepreneurs, spin-offs to build deep consumer and category from universities, and other venture funds.
understanding in our three platforms.
Disciplined innovation process We undertake primary research such as SENSORY EVALUATION The innovation pipeline is managed online research across multiple countries through a disciplined process with clear AND ANALYSIS to understand consumers attitudes and milestones.
A rigorous five-step stage behaviours, and also generate insight from gate process is used to assess the size syndicated research services, such as and viability of a potential idea through to Euromonitor, which provide industry data At our Commercial and Food final launch into the market.
Significant on global category trends and dynamics.
Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA, resources are only invested when a our sensory team regularly tests R&D new product reaches stage three in the products or concepts which contain To execute our platform strategies we process, when a preliminary business our ingredients and solutions to better focus on five scientific capabilities.
understand how they work, and to are bio-chemistry, formulations science, Talent and capabilities develop a deeper understanding and separations science, particle design and Having the right skills and expertise in appreciation of consumer preferences.
The R&D team is areas such as consumer understanding Our customers highly value this organised around these five capabilities.
and strong scientific capabilities is critical approach and it enables us to work They are combined with applications to our success.
Our Global Marketing team with them in a more collaborative expertise and manufacturing know-how have consumer goods backgrounds and and insightful way.
to develop and launch new products into around half our scientists have PhDs.
For example, by combining our TRANSLATING INNOVATION INTO A COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO Low-calorie sugar that offers a Natural, no-calorie sweetener Great-tasting natural, zero A high-performing clean-label superior, new taste experience from pure monk fruit extract calorie stevia sweetener starch which allows food with no bitter aftertaste manufacturers to launch label-friendly products without compromising their quality Information about our new products can be found on: Soluble Fibre www.
com Fibre enrichment solution with Natural, heart healthy soluble Sodium reducing ingredient excellent digestive tolerance oat fibre that supports healthy that tastes, labels and blood cholesterol levels functions like salt Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 23
