Strategic report WORKING TOGETHER WORKING TOGETHER Our vision Working together to build your dreams.
Our mission To create great places to live and deliver excellent service which inspires and delights our customers, our people and our shareholders.
We believe that this new brand strategy will build on our record-breaking financial performance and will truly differentiate us as a company to buy a home from, partner with, engage with, work for and invest in.
Read more on pages 3 to 11 1 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Strategic report WORKING TOGETHER BUY A HOME FROM Regardless of the role that any Taylor Wimpey employee fulls in the business, we all contribute to the final result for our customers.
We have made great strides in our customer service approach.
However, there are things that we can and must do better.
Across our business operations, we want our employees to adopt our customer-centric culture and to understand the important role they play with our customers.
Our aim is to keep our customer at the centre of our decisions and coordinate our input to deliver a quality home first time, with great service throughout their Customer Journey.
This will help our customers to settle in quickly and make our houses their homes.
We have four Taylor Wimpey customer commitments: 1.
co. uk Strategic report WORKING TOGETHER PARTNER WITH We work in partnership with a wide range of companies, organisations and individuals and aim to be the partner of choice.
Our partners can be divided into three groups: Landowners who we buy land from or develop land with Delivery partners who we work with to manage our land and deliver our developments Our supply chain who provide the materials we use and the subcontractors who work on our building sites We strive to be an open, transparent and responsive company for all our stakeholders and to work with them to understand and address the wider social, economic and environmental impacts resulting from our operations.
co. uk Strategic report WORKING TOGETHER ENGAGE WITH We are committed to working with local people and stakeholders throughout the planning process and we engage with local communities on every development.
We aim to be the industry leader in all aspects of planning and to secure the right planning consents that enable us to respond to a changing market, reect the desires of our customer base and deliver the quality homes we want to build, whilst meeting our financial objectives.
We have made significant progress in this area over recent years and aim to continue to improve by using all the tools we have developed to help us with this process.
We are committed to supporting charities and local community groups where we operate whether nancially, with our time, energy or our leadership.
We want to improve the position of the causes that we support and also want to engage our employees in these activities.
co. uk Strategic report WORKING TOGETHER WORK FOR Our employees are one of our greatest competitive advantages, crucial to executing our strategy and driving our success.
We continuously strive to improve and make Taylor Wimpey a great place to work and an employer of choice.
We do that by focusing on how we attract people: what training and development opportunities we offer: and how we recognise people for their contribution and commitment.
We have identied the following priorities going forward: That we are able to attract and hire a diverse group of capable people at the right time, regardless of the market conditions That our employee proposition is attractive and therefore serves to retain our employees whilst at the same time encouraging them to go the extra mile for our customers, now and in the future That we offer development opportunities throughout our employees careers, so that they are motivated to maximise their potential, developing the skills they need to become our future business leaders This will continue to be a significant area of focus and investment for us in 2017 andbeyond.
co. uk Strategic report WORKING TOGETHER INVEST IN We are a value-driven business, with a long term, sustainable focus.
Our strategy is differentiated by a long term focus on value and on achieving both our financial and quality objectives sustainably in a cyclical environment.
We believe that our strategy sets us apart in the following key ways: Strategy set to manage through the cycle High earnings quality with high margin driven by strong landbank Quality business with further continuous operational improvement Dual stream dividend underpins value Total dividends paid in a year m 356 400 356m 300 308m 200 100 73m 0 2014 2015 2016 Read more on pages 25 to 41 11 taylorwimpey.
