Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL EXPLAINED DELIVERING CUSTOMER SERVICE We remain focused on customer service and are committed to delivering an excellent customer service to all of our customers at every stage of their journey.
WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT WHAT WE DO Our strong and sustainable customer base We want to ensure that we always deliver our homes to the quality Over 90% of our customers are owner-occupiers.
First time buyers standard to which we aspire and that our service is always accounted for 38% of total sales in 2016 2015: 36%.
Investor sales proactive, positive and professional.
Our customer vision is to continued to be at a very low level at 3% 2015: 7%.
help our customers make our houses their homes.
We continue to offer a wide range of products to assist first time buyers.
Our prices are set locally and we use targeted customer incentives, on a WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
site by site basis, knowing that our customers circumstances vary.
Whilst we operate in a cyclical market, we strongly believe Help to Buy continued to be a differentiator for new build housing, and that a customer-centric approach is needed throughout the cycle.
remained popular with our customers.
During 2016 approximately c. 39% We recognise that buying a home is a major financial and emotional oftotal sales used the Help to Buy scheme, and we worked with c. 5,393 investment and it is critical that we give our customers the households to take the first step to home ownership or to move up the right experience.
Approximately 77% of sales through Help to Buy in 2016 were to first time buyers 2015: 77%.
During HOW ARE WE DIFFERENT?
the year c. 14% of sales in the London market used Help to Buy London, which launched in February 2016.
We are in the process of embedding our new customer approach across the business with our focus on three main areas: our culture, We believe that quality of location is a key determinant of a home purchase structure and process.
and that this remains true through all market conditions.
During 2016 we opened 105 new high-quality outlets 2015: 123 in locations in villages, towns and cities where people want to live, supported by strong OUR APPROACH demographics and local economies.
As at 31 December 2016 we were We have continued to make good progress in embedding our new operating from 285 outlets 31 December 2015: 297. customer approach across the business.
During 2016 we introduced a number of customer service related changes throughout the business, Understanding our customers including the appointment of a newly created role of Head of Customer Over the years our customers communication preferences have changed.
Service in each of our 24 regional businesses and the introduction of our We continue to make improvements to our online capabilities, including our new Home Quality Inspection HQI on all of our sites.
Our new customer website and use of social media such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
service approach is an area that will take time to fully embed and will We have launched a series of Training Academies to help further develop continue to remain a priority as we focus on delivering a consistent the skills and capabilities of our customer-facing teams.
Building on the standard, engaging contractors and suppliers and managing customer success of our Sales Academy which we launched in 2012, we launched expectations.
To date we have received good feedback from customers the Marketing Academy in 2016, which identies the skills required by our and employees on our new approach and we have seen a positive trend marketing staff and provides a manual of best practice and guidelines.
in customer satisfaction scores during the year.
During 2016 we achieved a customer satisfaction score of 85% 2015: 86%, reecting the number of customers who were satisfied with the quality of their Taylor Wimpey home, based on the Home Builders Federation HBF survey.
The survey is conducted by the National House Building Council NHBC at eight weeks after completion to monitor our performance and identify areas for improvement.
28 Taylor Wimpey plc OUR KPIS Looking ahead to 2017 and beyond We have a number of further customer improvements planned for 2017 Customer satisfaction including a pilot of our new online Customer Portal, which will guide customers through their Taylor Wimpey Customer Journey.
It will provide Objective personalised information for each customer about their new home, inform them of build progress and enable them to select options for their home.
We strive to maintain and improve our customer satisfaction scores Our customers will also be able to use the portal to log any issues or at90% or above.
concerns, enabling us to deliver a more personalised service and be more responsive to our customers individual needs.
Definition Percentage of customers satisfied or very satisfied with the quality Reecting the success of our academy-based approach in other key of their new home as measured by the National New Homes Survey areas of the business, our new Academy of Customer Excellence ACE undertaken by the NHBC on behalf of the HBF eight weeks after will launch in 2017.
It aims to build the skills of our Customer Service, legal completion.
Production and Sales Teams and develop further their knowledge of our product range, ensuring consistent customer service delivery across our regional businesses.
Why is it key to our strategy?
Delivering high levels of customer satisfaction enhances the reputation of our business and reduces the costs associated with rectifying poor quality work.
