Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL EXPLAINED CONTINUED SELECTING LAND We believe that the quality of our landbank is one of the key strengths for Taylor Wimpey.
OUR APPROACH Our ability to buy good quality land, at the right time in the cycle, enhance WHAT WE DO it through planning, and realise value through building and selling homes, Good-quality land with planning is the critical raw material remains the biggest value driver for the business, despite the relatively for our business.
The land that we acquire, together with the positive land market of the last six years.
planning potential we work with local authorities and communities to create, is key to dening products, locations, target customer base We are highly selective with regard to the types of sites that we buy, and prices and underpins our confidence in our future focusing on the quality of the land rather than the number of plots financial performance.
We employ dedicated Land Teams in each of our 24 regional businesses, who use their expertise and local knowledge to identify potential high-quality, sustainable sites.
Our landbank is broadly spread WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
across the country in targeted quality locations, supported by strong The value we create for our shareholders, communities and demographics and economics, in the villages, towns and cities where customers all starts with land and it is the area in which we add people want to live as we believe that quality of location is a key most value, through planning, allowing us to generate the best determinant of value through all market conditions.
We therefore have quality returns.
Land is a scarce resource and we want to make the an extremely selective and targeted approach to further land investment, best use of what is available, select the right sites and transform which is broadly at replacement level in the short term land market.
This them into vibrant and thriving communities.
is focused on where we can add value and seek to maximise the returns from our investments, while continuing to ensure that the business is optimally positioned to deliver those returns on a sustainable basis.
We have a strong short term landbank at c. 76k plots.
Our WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT investment and scale is based on our view of land quality and Short term landbank capital risk in a cyclical market.
We are focused on selecting the right land and developing it in a sustainable manner.
We have one of Our short term landbank stands at c. 76k plots, equating to c. 5.5 years the largest strategic land pipelines in the sector with c. 108k potential of supply at current completion levels as at 31 December 2016.
With the benefit of this, and having reached our optimum the strength and quality of the landbank, we are focused on delivering range of short term landbank, we have an extremely selective and value and maximising returns from our investments.
We have been targeted approach to land investment.
This allows us to focus on operating on a broadly replacement basis in the short term landbank where we can add value and maximise our returns.
for approximately two years and are extremely selective with a targeted approach to further land investment, and a preference for land light structures and active management as we continue to drive a higher return on capital employed.
During 2016 we acquired 6,355 plots 2015: 6,971 plots at anticipated contribution margins of around 26% and return on capital employed of c. 31%.
In the year we achieved a 2.5 percentage points margin upside on completions from land acquired since 2009, compared with the expected margin at the point of acquisition.
30 Taylor Wimpey plc Q&A OUR KPIS Strategically sourced completions How long does it take Objective to develop a site?
We aim to source more than 40% of our completions from the strategic pipeline per annum in the medium term.
Firstly, every site is different.
The size, complexity and the initial planning status the site has are all major factors.
The largest site in Definition our portfolio is Didcot, which was first identied for development in Number of completions which originally did not have planning permission 1982 and has emerged through our strategic land pipeline.
Planning when we acquired a commercial interest in them, expressed as a was submitted in 2002 and we started on the infrastructure in 2010. percentage of total completions.
The site will take until 2021 to fully develop, even with a number of outlets on site.
Why is it key to our strategy?
Looking at our short term landbank land with some form of The strategic pipeline enhances our ability to increase the contribution per planning but not always implementable planning, the average life legal completion because of the inherent margin uplift from strategic plots.
cycle of a site is approximately five years, which makes it critically It also allows us to take a long term view of sites.
important that we continue to assess the capital lock-up on a regional and Group basis.
2014 39% JENNIE DALY 2015 47% UK Land Director 2016 51% 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 The average cost of land as a proportion of average selling price within the short term owned landbank remained low at 15.4% 2015: 16.3%.
The Owned and controlled plots with planning average selling price in the short term owned landbank in 2016 increased by 5.7% to 259k 2015: 245k.
Objective Strategic pipeline in place for long term success We aim to maintain sufficient land in our portfolio to enable us to remain A key strength for Taylor Wimpey is our strategic pipeline.
This land, selective in future purchases.
which has no residential planning at the time we take a commercial interest, Definition affords significant protection of future returns with a high embedded margin and, importantly, enhances our short term landbank when converted.
We The total number of plots that we either own or control, with some form have the largest strategic pipeline in the sector which stood at c. 108k of planning consent.
potential plots as at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: c. 107k potential plots.
During 2016 we converted a further 9,519 plots from the Why is it key to our strategy?
strategic pipeline to the short term landbank 2015: 8,660 plots.
With a We operate in a planning constrained environment.
Having a portfolio signicantly lower cost and greater control over the planning permissions of land in place is key to planning the required scale of our building we create, we continue to seek new opportunities and added a net 10.8k operations for future home completions.
It enables us to be selective new potential plots to the strategic pipeline in 2016 2015: 5.8k.
year, a record 51% of our completions were sourced from the strategic pipeline 2015: 47%.
