Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL EXPLAINED CONTINUED OUR PEOPLE We aim to be the employer of choice in the housebuilding industry.
WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT Our people matter WHAT WE DO We want to recognise our staff for their contribution and commitment.
We aim to be the employer of choice in the housebuilding industry, Flexible working can help us retain talented employees and can be attracting and retaining the best people to establish a culture that particularly beneficial for working parents.
We are piloting a exible working gives all individuals the opportunity and support to develop to their approach in our Southern Counties regional business, giving employees full potential, regardless of market conditions or their background.
more control over their working hours.
We launched a new Flexible Working Policy to encourage our regional businesses to consider informal, WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
exible working arrangements where appropriate.
Individually, and by working together, our employees are crucial We want to ensure that all staff are recognised and rewarded for their todriving our success.
We believe that having the right people with contribution and commitment.
Following feedback, in 2016 we introduced the right skills at all levels in our organisation is critical to building an improved exible benets package for all employees and a new a quality, sustainable business and delivering our strategy.
approach to exible working, with maternity, paternity and adoption policies signicantly enhanced.
Embedding our strategy within the business We have a strategic approach to our human resources and have In April 2016, our Senior Management Team presented an update on our further improved our approach to talent, succession, resourcing and business strategy via a series of roadshow sessions across the country, reward, as well as learning and development.
available to all of our employees.
Over 4,200 employees attended the sessions, which provided an update on our strategy, progress made and priorities for the future, particularly our commitment to discipline in all OUR APPROACH market conditions and driving continuous business improvement.
These We want to attract and retain the best people and treat them fairly and presentations also had an emphasis on how everyone can play a part in with respect.
We have made a significant investment in and commitment to the Investing in our people recruitment of our next generation of future leaders, including extending our trainee schemes and investing in the skills and development of our Through our learning and development initiatives, aimed at growing employees across the business, to ensure that Taylor Wimpey attracts talent from within, we give our employees the opportunities and skills and retains the best people in the industry through the cycle.
to become our future business leaders and develop their careers with Taylor Wimpey.
During 2016 we directly employed, on average, 4,697 people across the UK 2015: 4,299 and provided opportunities for a further 12,390 During 2016, we recruited 147 apprentices including 54 site management operatives on our sites.
Our voluntary employee turnover rate remained apprentices, 30 management trainees and 20 graduates, whilst improving low at 13.9% 2015: 13.3%.
our apprenticeship and trainee schemes across a number of areas 2015 total: 139.
38 Taylor Wimpey plc Q&A OUR KPIS Employee turnover Why is rewarding employees Objective important to Taylor Wimpey?
We aim to attract and retain the best people in the industry and give them opportunities to develop to their full potential.
We want to ensure that all staff are recognised and rewarded for Definition their contribution and commitment.
We offer attractive remuneration and a range of benets to help us recruit and retain talented Voluntary resignations divided by number of total employees.
All our employees, whether full or part time, paid weekly or monthly, have comparable core benets and choice, and we Why is it key to our strategy?
regularly benchmark our approach against others in our sector.
In Our employees are one of our greatest competitive advantages and they addition to our core benets which include healthcare provision are crucial to executing the strategy.
We aim to keep this within a range for all employees, we have generous house purchase discount of 5-15%.
schemes with employees able to buy a Taylor Wimpey home at a significant discount and to benefit from savings on options and white goods and to use our negotiated supplier rates.
Around 180 2014 13.6% employees have reserved homes through our house purchase discount schemes in the last two years.
2015 13.3% 2016 13.9% ANNE BILLSON-ROSS Group Human Resources Director 0 5 10 15 Following the continuing success of our Sales Academy model, we Striving to become a more diverse business designed a Production Academy that launched in 2016 to give our We aim to be an inclusive employer and to attract, retain and promote employees a clear career path to site management through a structured employees from all backgrounds.
Encouraging and embracing diversity is programme that aims to develop their technical expertise.
We plan to now one of our cultural principles.
We developed a diversity and inclusion expand this academy model to commercial and land and planning strategy during 2016 focusing on the impact of leadership for creating and disciplines in the future.
maintaining a diverse and inclusive culture: improving how diversity and inclusion are embedded into our policies and procedures: and reecting Following the Governments commitment to further reform corporate our commitment to this.
governance by ensuring the voice of employees is heard in the Boardroom, the Company is putting in place a National Employee Forum More information on diversity can be found on pages 71 and 73 which will build upon the existing regional Employee Consultative Committee structure so as to enhance the dialogue between the Board, Human rights Group Management Team and our employees.
We support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and have policies and processes in place to ensure that we act in accordance with our cultural values which encompass areas such as business conduct, equal opportunities, anti-corruption and whistleblowing.
We do not consider this a material issue in our business.
