Strategic report OUR STRATEGY Our medium term targets 2016-2018 An average annual return on DEFINING OUR STRATEGY net operating assets of: Our strategy, set out in 2011, has been focused confident that they will continue to create the best long 30% on driving sustainable value through the housing term value for all of our stakeholders.
Moreover, we An average operating profit cycle and delivering enhanced margins and returns, believe that we can deliver enhanced value through margin of: whilst continuing to invest in the future profitability the housing cycle and benefit shareholders by driving and quality of the business.
Having operated the the outputs of our strategy in three main areas: strategy successfully for five years, in 2016 we c. 22% Dividend Policy began a process of challenging ourselves and the Total dividends to be paid in cash Increased medium term financial targets strategy as part of a wider strategy review process.
to shareholders over the period: 2016-2018 Following a comprehensive review process, we have concluded that the principles of our current Further continuous operational improvement strategy remain right for the future, and we are 1.3bn How we deliver our strategy through our Business Model Progress in 2016 Customer service remained a key priority during 2016.
This is reected in our DELIVERING CUSTOMER SERVICE new Working Together approach, which sets out our mission to create great places Through our renewed customer service approach we aim to help to live and deliver excellent service.
We continued to embed our customer approach our customers make our houses their homes.
through training and guidance for employees such as our Customer Journey Manual, Home Quality Inspection Guide and Customer Service Manual.
All Read more on pages 28 and 29 employees working in our Customer Service Teams have been trained on our Customer Journey process.
We have launched a series of Training Academies to help further develop the skills and capabilities of our customer-facing teams.
Our future profitability is underpinned by our short term landbank of c. 76k plots SELECTING LAND with 65% sourced from the strategic land pipeline.
In 2016, 51% of completions Our aim is to complete our transition from homebuilder to a were built on land previously sourced from the strategic pipeline.
Read more on pages 30 and 31 In 2016, we contributed 363 million to the local communities in which MANAGING THE PLANNING AND COMMUNITY we build across the UK via planning obligations, providing, for example, local ENGAGEMENT PROCESS infrastructure, affordable homes, public transport and education facilities We aim to be the industry leader in all aspects of planning 2015: 335 million.
enabling us to respond to a dynamic market and customer base and to deliver quality homes while meeting financial objectives.
Read more on pages 32 and 33 We strengthened our quality assurance processes during 2016 to ensure we GETTING THE HOMEBUILDING BASICS RIGHT consistently achieve a high-quality build and get things right first time for customers.
We work with our suppliers and build using carefully sourced We continued to engage with our suppliers with regards to Project 2020 and to test materials to ensure that the homes we sell today and tomorrow new approaches to design, technology, materials and construction techniques.
are of high quality, and are built safely, efficiently, cost effectively We have reduced our carbon emissions intensity by 24% since 2013. and with minimal environmental impact.
Read more on pages 34 to 37 We introduced an improved exible benefit package for all employees and a OUR PEOPLE new approach to exible working, with maternity, paternity and adoption policies We aim to attract and retain the best people by engaging with our signicantly enhanced.
Our Senior Management Team presented an update on our employees and investing in training, development and rewards.
business strategy via a series of roadshow sessions across the country, available to all of our employees.
Read more on pages 38 and 39 In the year, we achieved a 2.5 percentage points margin upside on completions from OPTIMISING VALUE land acquired since 2009, compared with the expected margin at the point of We look to optimise the value of each site not only during the acquisition.
We further increased contribution per completion by over 10%.
In 2016 initial acquisition process, but throughout the lifetime of the we introduced a new Volunteering Framework which provides employees with two development.
This philosophy extends to our wider partnerships.
full days or four half-days paid time off to support our network of charities or local community projects as volunteers.
Read more on pages 40 and 41 Denitions can be found in the Group 26 financial review on page 50 Taylor Wimpey plc KPI link to remuneration Our long term strategic targets 2016 performance Return on net operating assets of: Deliver at least a 15% return on net 30.7% operating assets through the housing cycle Operating profit margin: Earn top quartile operating 20.8% profit margin Grow net assets by 10% per annum Total dividends returned: on average through the housing cycle including returns to shareholders 355.9m Key performance Risk link KPI link to indicators to KPI remuneration Priorities for 2017 Strive to improve our customer satisfaction scores.
Launch our See page 29 C D online Customer Portal to strengthen customer communication 85% and interaction.
Launch our Academy of Customer Excellence Customer satisfaction F ACE training programme.
See page 31 Continue to work with land vendors, communities and local A E 51% authorities to convert land from the strategic pipeline into the Strategically sourced completions short term landbank.
Focus on land light structures and active management as we continue to drive a higher return on capital employed.
Continue to focus on selecting the right land and 76,234 developing it in a sustainable manner.
Owned and controlled plots with planning or resolution to grant planning Continue to maintain best practice community engagement.
See page 33 A Continue to investigate ways to engage with a wider and more 9,519 diverse range of people within the local communities in which Plots converted from the strategic we operate.
land pipeline to the short term landbank Improve or, as a minimum, maintain the same Annual Injury See page 35 A C Incidence Rate AIIR achieved in 2016.
Introduce a range of 211 standard apartment types.
Integrate anti-slavery clauses into Annual Injury Incidence Rate D F our supplier framework agreements and contracts.
Launch our diversity and inclusivity e-learning module for all See page 39 D employees, and our Code of Conduct, which will be updated 13.9% with our new brand.
Update our appraisal framework to assess Voluntary employee turnover employees on how they live our values.
Continue to actively review every site and optimise new See page 41 A B C sales outlets prior to opening.
Roll out our Volunteering 65.5k Framework.
Continue to focus on building a strong order Contribution per legal completion D E F book for the future.
54.8% Forward order book as a percentage of completions For more details on our bonus schemes, please see the 27 Remuneration Committee Report on pages 79 and 88 taylorwimpey.
