Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL EXPLAINED CONTINUED MANAGING THE PLANNING AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT PROCESS We aim to be the industry leader in managing the planning and community engagement process.
We do this by creating a tailored planning and community engagement strategy for each site which reects the needs of the local area.
Our WHAT WE DO approach goes well beyond regulatory requirements, with engagement We aim to be the industry leader in all aspects of planning and to starting before we submit a planning application and continuing throughout obtain the right planning consents that enable us to respond to a the development process.
Wherever possible, we use the feedback changing market, reect the desires of our customer base and obtained as part of our community engagement to develop and improve deliver the quality homes we want to build, whilst meeting our our design proposals.
To fully understand local views, it is important that we reach a wide range of stakeholders from residents, property owners and local authorities, to WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
businesses, schools, residents associations and other groups.
We believe that local communities should have a say in We believe that a positive and structured approach to working with others development.
This enables us to achieve the right planning is at the heart of a successful scheme.
We work in partnership with the permissions and ensure our developments are valued by their communities in which we build to deliver homes that meet their local communities.
We are committed to publishing information on proposed developments HOW ARE WE DIFFERENT?
online so that members of local communities and other interested parties We actively seek the views of local communities and other can easily nd out what we are planning and where.
We develop a tailored planning and community website includes pages for all of our proposed developments throughout engagement strategy for each site and work closely with the UK.
We would like people to register their interest so we can update communities and other local stakeholders throughout all aspects them on progress.
Above all, we want wider and more diverse groups of the planning process.
We believe that we have a responsibility and individuals to get involved and tell us their views, whether positive to contribute to our local communities and that this or negative.
responsibility grows with our success.
WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT OUR APPROACH We build much more than homes Whilst we have a national presence, we are proud to operate as a local We work with communities and our partners to create well designed, homebuilder with 24 regional businesses across the country.
We sustainable neighbourhoods where our customers want to live, grow continually explore ways in which we can work more closely with local and thrive and which are valued by our local communities.
We are committed to working with local people and other In 2016, we contributed 363 million to the local communities in which we stakeholders throughout the planning process and seek to engage, build across the UK via planning obligations, providing, for example, local consult and work in partnership with communities and all interested infrastructure, affordable homes, public transport and education facilities stakeholders, both before we submit a planning application and 2015: 335 million.
throughout the life of our developments.
In this way we can listen to their concerns and, where possible, incorporate these within our plans.
32 Taylor Wimpey plc OUR KPIS Our operations add significant additional value to the communities in which we build.
We help to create sustainable and vibrant communities through Conversion of strategic pipeline job creation, improvements to local environments and infrastructure, as well as contributions to education and community facilities.
More information can be found within our Sustainability Report 2016.
Objective Our developments create economic benets for local communities.
As well We aim to convert on average c. 6k plots per annum in the medium term.
as new housing, these can include new jobs on site and in the supply chain, increased revenues for local businesses during construction and Definition from new residents, and benets arising from our investment in new Number of plots, which originally did not have planning permission when infrastructure and amenities.
We use our Economic Benets toolkit to we took a commercial interest in the land, and which we have promoted estimate and communicate these benets to stakeholders during the through the planning process and achieved some form of planning on.
Inthis way we convert potential plots from the strategic pipeline to plots in the short term landbank.
Stakeholder engagement We introduced a comprehensive community engagement framework Why is it key to our strategy?
in 2011 and have been regularly improving and updating it since.
We The strength of our strategic pipeline plots without residential planning are proud of our approach to community engagement and the way consent is a key differentiator and enables us to be extremely selective in that our employees deliver it.
The framework applies to every stage the short term land market and also reduces the pressure on the teams.
of the development timeline, from pre-planning consultation to ongoing We work with landowners, local authorities and communities to promote communication with existing and new residents during and after the strategic pipeline through the planning process and achieve construction.
We also have a Building Our Reputation toolkit that provides planning permission.
information and practical tools to help our employees communicate honestly and openly with communities and customers through the development process.
We are developing an online, interactive version 2014 10,779 ofthe toolkit that will be launched in 2017.
2015 8,660 Expertise in planning Planning is fundamental to the success of our business, and we aim to 2016 9,519 progress sites through the planning process to enable us to develop our sites as efficiently as possible.
During 2016 we worked with communities, 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 planners and landowners to convert a further 9,519 plots from the strategic pipeline.
We aim to create development proposals that are nancially viable, benefit the local community and provide the housing that is needed.
As outlined on page16, we believe that changes to planning policy over the last five years have resulted in an improved environment, however we recognise that we have not seen the full benets ow through into the planning system yet.
co. uk Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL EXPLAINED CONTINUED GETTING THE HOMEBUILDING BASICS RIGHT Getting the basics right means effective processes are consistently applied across our regional businesses.
WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT WHAT WE DO We do not compromise on health and safety We work with selected subcontractors and build using carefully We continue to engage extensively with contractors and operatives on sourced materials to ensure that the homes that we sell are of health and safety, working in partnership with them to nd safer ways of a high quality and are built safely, efficiently, cost-effectively and carrying out their tasks on site.
with minimal impact on the environment.
We continued to embed the Operatives Journey process to prevent an overload of safety messages, avoid safety sign blindness and engage site WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
There is nothing more important to us than providing a safe place Each site now has a Site Support Team, with representatives from both in which our employees and subcontractors can work.
We are also Taylor Wimpey and our contractor staff.
Members are nominated by the committed to high standards of environmental management.
The Site Manager and given a blue hat to make them visible on site.
Site building process is carefully managed by our site-based and Support Teams participate in improving site safety and operatives can regional Production Teams to ensure quality, minimise disruption talk to members of the team about HSE issues, concerns or suggestions.
to residents in the surrounding areas, and to protect and During 2016 we have been running training sessions and team building enhance the value of each site.
events for our Site Support Team members.
Quality product range HOW ARE WE DIFFERENT?
We build homes that people want to live in.
We are proud of the homes We believe that quality objectives matter as much as financial we build and the communities we create.
Our focus is on providing objectives.
Operating sustainably is both the right thing to do high-quality, well-designed, sustainable homes and communities that meet and makes good business sense.
the needs and aspirations of local residents.
Our mix of homes is informed by the local area.
OUR APPROACH We strengthened our quality assurance processes during 2016 to The health and safety of individuals on our sites will always be our number ensure we consistently achieve a high-quality build and get things right one priority and continues to be the first item discussed at every plc Board first time for our customers.
It is expected that this will increase customer and regional board meeting.
We are committed to providing a safe place satisfaction and save time and money for the business in getting the home in which our employees and subcontractors can work and our customers delivery right first time.
There are also sustainability benets associated can live, and we will not compromise in ensuring that everyone leaves with achieving high-quality standards, including greater durability, less our sites safe and well.
We have a comprehensive Health, Safety and waste and fewer resources used for repairs and maintenance.
Environmental HSE Strategy and a fully integrated HSE Management We continue to offer a wide range of homes from apartments to sixSystem in place which is regularly reviewed at all levels.
bedroom houses, with prices ranging from under 100k to over 3m.
Our Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR for reportable injuries per 100,000 In 2016 the proportion of apartments in our private completions was 14% employees and contractors was 211 in 2016, against a record low of 175 2015: 13%.
The square footage of our total completions also reduced in 2015, with the rate in the second half of the year at a similar level to slightly to 1,021 square feet 2015: 1,029 square feet.
Our AIIR for major injuries per 100,000 employees and contractors was 53 in 2016 2015: 18.
Whilst our AIIR has increased, it remains below both the HBF Home Builder Average and Health and Safety Executive Construction Industry Average, and we are committed to reducing it further.
34 Taylor Wimpey plc Q&A OUR KPIS Health and safety Why is sustainability important Objective to Taylor Wimpey?
We are committed to providing a safe place in which our employees and subcontractors can work and our customers can live.
Adopting sustainable practices is not just about doing the right thing, it contributes to our business success today and creates a Definition more resilient business for the longer term.
Reportable all reportable injury frequency rate per 100,000 employees Integrating sustainability into our design process enables us to and contractors Annual Injury Incidence Rate.
create highly desirable places where our customers want to live.
Through improving environmental performance and working with Why is it key to our strategy?
subcontractors and suppliers on sustainability, we can promote Health and safety is our non-negotiable top priority.
As well as having innovation, reduce costs and business risk.
Our investment in skills a moral duty to maintain safety on site, accidents and injuries can have training and diversity strategy fosters a productive and engaged a detrimental impact on the business through additional costs, delays workforce and, signicantly, by listening to and working with our and or reputational damage.
stakeholders, we can access high-quality land and achieve our desired planning consents.
It is these principles which safeguard our reputation and ensure we 2014 209 can build a future legacy.
2015 175 LEE BISHOP 2016 211 Major Developments Director and Chair of Sustainability Steering Group 0 55 110 165 220 We are pleased to report that Taylor Wimpey was once again recognised increases excluding house type mix impact of c. 4% year on year 2015: in the National House-Building Councils NHBC Pride in the Job Awards, c. 5%, with the majority of cost pressures coming from labour.
The achieving a total of 57 Quality Awards 2015: 63, 16 Seals of Excellence availability of materials has largely kept pace with the growth of the Awards 2015: 20 and two Regional Awards in 2016 2015: three.
Whilst we expect to see some impact on input prices from the West Scotland Site Manager Paul Cunningham was also named the weaker sterling exchange rate following the EU Referendum result, we do runner-up in the large builder category at the Supreme Awards, the final not expect this to be significant due to the low level of direct imports.
stage of the Pride in the Job Awards 2016.
During 2016 we launched an open design competition with the Royal Following a detailed review of our standard product specication, during Institute of British Architects RIBA, as part of our long term initiative 2016 we introduced a number of changes to our base specication in order Project 2020.
Project 2020 aims to explore and evaluate the potential to reect our customer lifestyles and expectations and the quality locations trends of future homes.
The competition attracted 120 entries from in which we are building.
Whilst this resulted in a small increase in build 14 countries.
The winning team, which has now been selected, will work cost, this was offset by a higher average selling price achieved on with us to enhance and improve the existing typology, helping to build completions.
We also extended our standard house type range in 2016 to a prototype.
include a number of options for larger houses.
Taylor Wimpey Logistics plays an important part in our supply chain Following the success of our standard house type range, which is in place management, particularly in the current environment, providing us with on over 70% of Taylor Wimpey sites, we will be introducing a range of an alternative route to delivery and aiding efficiency with the preparation standard apartment types to planning applications in 2017.
Our standard of just in time build packs for each stage of the building process.
More house type range offers many advantages, including efficient procurement information on this part of our business can be found on our website.
opportunities, quality of design, and build and cost control within the Responsible procurement regulatory framework.
A significant proportion of our procurement, particularly for materials Build costs sourcing, is through large contracts with national suppliers.
However, we Our scale affords us the benefit of strong purchasing power, and we also work with many smaller businesses providing labour and services, achieve significant cost savings across our regional businesses with including companies that are local to our development sites.
This can national agreements with a number of suppliers.
benefit the business by giving us access to a more diverse range of skills and experience and help support the local economies in which we work.
During 2016 underlying build cost per unit increased to 137.2k We provide advice and help to small and medium sized businesses with 2015: 121.9k, reecting the change in mix of product, higher proportion HSE risk assessments and other site-specic procedures that they need of homes delivered from strategically sourced sites with higher related to prepare in order to tender for work with us.
infrastructure costs, and changes we have made in specication during 2016.
In the period the improved market resulted in underlying build cost 35 taylorwimpey.
