Strategic report OUR INVESTMENT CASE WHY WE ARE DIFFERENT Our strategy is differentiated by a long term focus on value and on achieving both our financial and quality objectives sustainably in a cyclical environment.
This has enabled us to deliver a record operating profit margin in 2016 and return 737 million to shareholders since 2014.
We are a value-driven business, with a long term, sustainable focus.
Our focus remains on adding value and steady sustainable growth as we maximise efficiency through operational excellence and We have remained disciplined in the implementation of our strategy discipline on our sites and throughout our business.
which has enabled us to make significant progress towards our financial objectives and outperform the pace of performance We have a clear strategy and a strong focus on where we can add improvement we targeted.
More information on our strategy, further value to the business.
In this way, we are confident that we updated targets and performance can be found on pages 26 can adapt to all market conditions from a position of strength and and 27. perform well, underpinning our value proposition to shareholders and other stakeholders.
Today we have an optimal landbank of c. 76k plots underpinned by a strategic pipeline of c. 108k potential plots.
STRATEGY SET TO HIGH EARNINGS QUALITY BUSINESS DUAL STREAM DIVIDEND MANAGE THROUGH QUALITY WITH HIGH WITH FURTHER UNDERPINS VALUE THE CYCLE MARGIN DRIVEN BY CONTINUOUS We are confident that the STRONG LANDBANK OPERATIONAL The housing market is quality of our short term IMPROVEMENT cyclical and so factors such landbank, with the underpin Steady growth has created a as customer confidence and of our significant strategic sustainable business focused We have always been clear mortgage cost inevitably land pipeline, combined on good quality locations that our quality measures have a direct impact on the with a high-quality balance where people want to live.
are as important to us as short term outlook.
We sheet, will mean that we our financial objectives and We believe that quality of believe that a long term view can continue to be cash are key to the way we run location is a key determinant and a proactive and exible generative through the cycle, our business.
We believe of a home purchase and that approach is needed to enabling us to sustain a that these areas will become this remains true through all manage through the cycle.
significant ordinary dividend more important during this market conditions.
Our strategy is built on this to shareholders on an annual cycle, and will become an and so seeks to protect basis, including through We have taken a very area of clear differentiation for growth whilst mitigating a normal downturn.
We disciplined approach, since Taylor Wimpey and contribute future downside risk.
This will also supplement this we set out the strategy back to our long term success.
We applies to all areas of the with special dividends at in 2011, to returns we are will maintain a rm focus on business, from landbuying appropriate times in the cycle.
expecting to deliver from the health and safety, which will to our Dividend Policy.
sites and in the quality of always be our non-negotiable those locations which we top priority.
We will continue Read more on page 21 Read more on pages believe will differentiate us to improve the business 16 and 17 irrespective of the cycle.
through our investment in our people, product, processes and systems, Read more on pages through research and 30 and 31 development and embedding improvements to our customer service processes.
Read more on pages 26 and 27 24 Taylor Wimpey plc
