OUR VALUES AND SERVICES FIXED TELEPHONY Our fixed-line telephony service gives Members guaranteed savings on the cost of their line rental and call costs compared with all the major providers.
Unlike our competitors, most calls at evenings and weekends are free of charge for all Members.
BROADBAND CASHBACK CARD A choice of high-quality broadband services An exclusive pre-paid Mastercard giving our offering great value, fast speeds and outstanding Members between 3% and 7% CashBack at a technical support, for the vast majority of wide range of leading national retailers.
BILL ONE MONTHLY BILL ONLINE SHOPPING MOBILE We have over 2,000 online shopping partners With a wide choice of handsets and competitive offering attractive extra savings of up to 20%.
price plans, our mobile phone service provides Members choosing to take advantage of these outstanding value and great savings.
We also offers by purchasing through our online Clubhouse, offer a unique budget control option, a loyalty will receive the advertised extra discount as discount, free handset protection against loss or CashBack on their bill - irrespective of the means of damage, and a range of other benefits.
We also help them to find the cheapest online supplier for any item they might be looking to purchase, with an exclusive search tool FindMeTheCheapest.
GAS AND ELECTRICITY We provide consistently fair prices, with guaranteed savings for Members in residential properties compared with the average of the cheapest standard variable tariffs charged by the Big 6.
2 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements OUR APPROACH Our lowest prices and most attractive benefits are reserved for Members who switch all their services to us, with most new Members taking one of the following Gold bundles: Double Gold: Energy, Landline, Broadband and Mobile Gold Energy: Energy, Landline and Broadband Gold Talk: Landline, Broadband and Mobile Notes: i Where a customer uses both Gas and Electricity in their home approximately 80% of UK households, then they will almost invariably switch both of these to us ie: Dual Fuel : otherwise, Energy will generally consist of Electricity alone.
ii Mobile consists of at least one connected mobile handset.
Our mission is to be the Nations most trusted utility supplier... the one youd recommend to your mum.
Welcome to the club Youre a Although were a major British business, were not like other utility suppliers.
Member not Were a Discount Club, 100% focused on helping our Members save money a number on energy, telecoms and other household bills.
Switch more, save more Guaranteed By bundling different services together, and cutting out expensive value overheads, we can pass savings directly onto our Members.
The more services you take, the more you can save.
One bill, one contact Making life We make life easier for you with one clear, simple monthly bill for all the simple services you take.
It shows you where you make extra savings and get more value.
And with only one supplier, you have a single contact to deal with.
CashBack card It really does pay to be a Member of Utility Warehouse.
Not only can Exclusive you save on energy and phone bills, but there are lots of other exclusive club benefits Member benefits like our CashBack card that saves you money on your everyday shopping.
5 star customer service We really care about our Members.
In fact, great customer service is at the Taking care heart of everything we do.
When you switch your services to us, we handle of you it all for you.
And our award-winning UK call centre is always here when you need us.
93% customer satisfaction Friendly, fair, ethical no other utility supplier achieves the same level of trust Trusted and as we do.
In fact, surveys have shown us to be the Nations most trusted.
recommended People come to us because family and friends recommend us.
magazine recommends us too time and time again.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 3
