Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The delivery of these core values is critical to our route to market, giving our Partners the confidence to promote our services to their friends and family as well as generating recommendations from existing Members who in many cases also become advocates for our brand.
The Net Promoter Scores NPS of around 45-50 that we consistently achieve reflect our relentless focus on this goal, and are in stark contrast to the negative NPS scores prevalent within the utility and telecoms markets.
Against a backdrop where most of our competitors seem focussed almost solely on price, we believe that genuinely earning the Trust of our Members is the key point of differentiation that will enable us to achieve our medium term growth objectives and help us maximise long term shareholder value.
By treating our Members fairly, as we would like to be treated ourselves, we aim to earn both their loyalty which delivers long term, sustainable revenues and their enthusiasm for our business model which creates growth through referrals.
We have taken a number of steps in this direction over the past few years, culminating in our decision last year to stop offering introductory short-term discounts to new Members as an incentive to switch: this reflects our view that it is unfair for existing loyal Members not to be able to benefit from the same prices and tariffs as those offered to new ones.
Simultaneously we are progressively segmenting our customer base, based on their expected lifetime value as a Member, by increasing the value we provide to those who will deliver the highest returns.
This means for example, that owner-occupiers who have switched all their utilities to us can now choose from a range of extra benefits, in addition to taking advantage of our free LED replacement light bulb service.
We continue to invest in our bespoke IT systems: these enable us to integrate all the services we supply into a single monthly bill, supported by just one set of central overheads including all administrative and membership support functions.
This highly efficient cost base is a key factor in enabling us to offer attractive pricing and a wide range of valuable benefits to our Members, a secure residual income to our Partners, and a growing dividend stream to shareholders.
We are embarking on a programme to enhance and update these systems over the course of the next three to five years, and look forward to the greater business efficiency this will deliver in due course.
We are extremely pleased with the further progress we have made this year in taking advantage of our multiple key points of differentiation, and towards securing our position as the Nations most trusted utility provider.
STRATEGY Our strategy is to build on the consistent strong organic growth we have historically delivered in order to progressively increase our share of the markets in which we operate, and to build a robust, sustainable and profitable business.
We will achieve this by maintaining our focus on delivering best-in-class service and support to our Members, treating them fairly, investing in our systems and staff.
We will seek to simplify and, where possible, improve the competitiveness of our services even further, encouraging existing Members to talk about the unique benefits we offer to their friends and acquaintances, and making it easier for our Partners to promote our services more effectively.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 13
