Company Summary Investment Objective and Policy The Company seeks long-term capital appreciation through investment in companies listed in emerging markets or companies which have a significant amount of their revenues in emerging markets, but are listed on stock exchanges in developed countries.
It is intended that the Company will normally invest in equity investments.
However, the Investment Manager may invest in equity-related investments such as convertibles where there are believed to be advantages to so doing.
The portfolio may frequently be overweight or underweight against the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and may be concentrated in a more limited number of sectors, geographical areas or countries.
TheCompany may also invest a significant portion of its assets in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in a particular country, or securities within one industry.
No more than 10% of the Companys assets will be invested in the securities of any one issuer at the time of investment.
The Board has agreed that TEMIT may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
Company and Investment Management TEMIT has a Board of seven Directors who are committed to ensuring that shareholders best interests are at the forefront of all decisions.
Under the guidance of the Chairman, the Board of Directors is responsible for the overall strategy of TEMIT and monitoring its performance.
Franklin Templeton International Services S. a r. l. FTIS or the Manager acts as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager for the Company.
FTIS has delegated investment management of TEMIT to two specialist subsidiaries of Franklin Resources Inc. Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML and Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML.
Only one member of the Board has a connection with Franklin Resources, with all others being entirely independent.
Investment professionals from TAML and FTIML form part of the Templeton Emerging Markets Group TEMG or the Investment Manager, a large, experienced team of emerging market equity specialists.
TEMG is one of the pioneers of emerging market investment with more than 25 years experience and a significant presence in these areas.
This well-resourced Group has over 50 portfolio managers and analysts in offices in 20 countries and who speak more than 27 languages, contributing to a comprehensive understanding of the markets in which it operates.
TEMG analysts are responsible for researching emerging markets and deciding which companies, in their opinion offer the strongest risk and reward opportunities for TEMIT investors over the long term.
The Investment Manager is required to make regular reports to the Board.
Share Capital AIC The Company is a member of As at 31 March 2016, the Companys share capital The Association of Investment consisted of 298,019,690 shares of 25 pence.
During the year the Company bought back 20,925,302 shares.
2 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Strategic Report The Directors present the Strategic Report for the year ended 31 March 2016, which includes pages 3 to 17 and incorporates the Chairmans Statement, which has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with the ability to assess how the Directors have performed in their duty to promote the success of the Company for shareholders collective benefit, by bringing together into one place all the information about the Companys strategy, the risks it faces, how it is performing and the direction in which it is heading.
This report does not constitute or form part of any offer for shares or an invitation to apply for shares.
The price of shares and income from them can go down as well as up and you may not get back the full amount that you invested.
Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
Currency fluctuations will affect the value of overseas investments.
Emerging markets can be more risky than developed markets.
Please consult your professional adviser before deciding to invest.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 3
