Strategy and Business Model Company Objective Our objective is that TEMIT is the investment of choice for private and institutional investors seeking exposure to global emerging markets, supported by both strong customer service and corporate governance.
Company Strategy Our strategy is that TEMIT: Delivers superior long-term investment performance compared to our benchmark index and peers: Maintains liquidity in its shares to support buyers and sellers: Provides relative stability in the discount to net asset value: Through periodic continuation votes, affirms the shareholder mandate: and Through regular communication, keeps investors up-to-date with the progress of the Company, as well as seeking feedback and comment from investors.
10 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Delivering the Strategy Performance At the heart of this strategy is the appointment and retention of highly regarded investment management professionals, who will identify value and achieve superior growth for shareholders.
The Investment Manager, under the leadership of Carlos Hardenberg, continues to apply the same core investment principles of value investment and detailed company research to achieve long-term capital appreciation for shareholders.
Seepage21 for details of the Investment Managers process.
Liquidity The Company is listed on the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges.
The Company has engaged Winterflood as Financial Adviser and Stockbroker, who act as a market maker for investors wishing to buy and sell shares in the Company.
They also continually monitor the market in our shares.
Stability The Board has powers to buy back the Companys shares as a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
On a daily basis, the Board ensures that the share price discount to NAV is actively monitored and controlled.
Discount management is reviewed regularly by the Board to ensure that it remains effective in the light of prevailing market conditions.
This is discussed in more detail in the Directors Report on page 52.
Affirmation of Shareholder Mandate In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board must seek shareholders approval for TEMIT to continue as an investment trust every five years.
This allows shareholders the opportunity to decide on the long-term future of the Company.
The last continuation vote took place at the 2014 AGM, when 99.74% of shareholders voted in favour.
Communication We ensure that investors are informed regularly about the performance of TEMIT and emerging markets through clear communication and updates.
At TEMIT, we seek to keep you updated on our performance and investment strategy through our website www.
Here you will find all the latest information on the Company, including monthly factsheets, stock exchange notices and updates from the Investment Manager on the latest news on emerging markets.
We also hold investor briefings and discussions in order better to understand investor needs.
Business Model The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive.
The Company delegates its dayto-day activities to third parties.
The Company appointed Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l. FTIS as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM, Secretary and Administrator with the role of www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 11 Strategy and Business Model continued Investment Management co-delegated to Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML and Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML.
More information on the Investment Manager can be found on page 18 of the report.
The Board reviews, at least quarterly, with the Manager and the Investment Manager, a wide range of risk factors that may impact the Company.
Further analysis of these risks is described on pages 14 to 16.
The risks include the benchmark, contributors and detractors to performance, major overweights and underweights and portfolio information, including purchases and sales.
This culminates in a full risk and internal controls review held every September at the Audit Committee meeting.
Due to the nature of the Companys business, investment risk is a key focus and is reviewed on an ongoing basis as part of every investment decision of the Investment Manager.
Further information on this process is detailed on pages 14 and 15.
The Board conducts regular reviews of the Companys primary service providers as discussed on pages 57 to 59, to ensure that the services provided are of the quality expected by TEMIT.
The Directors also ensure that the Companys primary service providers have adopted an appropriate framework of controls, monitoring and reporting to enable the Directors to evaluate these risks.
The Board is responsible for all aspects of the Companys affairs, including the setting of parameters for the monitoring of the investment strategy and the review of investment performance and policy.
It also has responsibility for all strategic policy issues, namely dividend, gearing, share issuance and buy backs, share price and discount premium monitoring and corporate governance matters.
Key Performance Indicators The Board considers the following as the key performance indicators for the Company: Net Asset Value total return compared over various periods to its benchmark: Movement in the Share Price and Discount: Dividend and Earnings per share: and Ongoing Charges Ratio.
The 10 year records of the KPIs are shown on pages 8 and 9.
Performance In the year to 31 March 2016, the Companys net asset value per share fell by 17.1% dividend reinvested.
This underperformed the Companys benchmark, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which declined by 8.8%.
For the 6 month period to 31 March 2016, TEMITs NAV returned 15.2%, compared to 12.3% for our benchmark all figures on a total return basis.
The graphs on page 9 show the total return of TEMITs NAV and share price relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and the annual total return of TEMITs NAV and share price against the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, over the last 10 years.
12 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 6 and the Investment Managers Report on pages 18 to 48 include a review of the main developments during the year and the market outlook.
Share Capital and Discount The Board has powers to buy back the Companys shares as a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
The Board was authorised at the Companys AGM on 17 July 2015 to buy back up to 47,569,189 shares or 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital on that date, whichever was lower.
The present authority expires on the conclusion of the AGM on 15 July 2016.
The Directors are seeking to renew this authority at the 2016 AGM, as further detailed in the Directors Report on page 68.
The share price of TEMIT decreased by 17.0% to 453.9 pence over the year to 31 March 2016, while the Companys share price discount to NAV widened slightly to 13.4% from 13.3% as at 31 March 2015 and has been in the range of 9.6% to 15.4%.
On 2 June, the latest date for which information was available, the discount had widened to 13.7%.
Share Price Discount to NAV 0 0 -2 -2 -4 -4 -6 -6 -8 -8 -10 -10 -12 -12 -14 -14 -16 -16 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 Mar 15 Mar 16 TEMIT Share Price Discount, based on a 7 day moving average During the year 20,925,302 shares were repurchased, representing 6.6% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2015, at a cost to the Company of 93.6 million.
These shares were cancelled which resulted in an uplift of 0.8% to the net asset value per share.
They were bought back at discounts ranging from 9.6% to 15.4% and at prices ranging from 372.1 pence to 605.6 pence.
Further information on share buy backs can be found on page 52.
In the period from 1 April to 2 June 2016, 2,331,995 shares were bought back and cancelled by the Company.
Dividend and Earnings per share EPS Total income earned for the year was 45.0 million 2015: 59.2 million which translates into net earnings of 7.05 pence per share 2015: 9.28 pence per share, a decrease of 24.0% over the prior year.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 13 Strategy and Business Model continued The Board is proposing a dividend of 8.25 pence per share, which is the same as last year.
Ongoing Charges Ratio The Ongoing Charges Ratio OCR represents the annualised ongoing charges of the Company divided by the average daily net asset values of the Company for the year.
The OCR rose to 1.22% for the year ended 31 March 2016, compared to 1.20% in the prior year.
This was due to the reduction in the average net assets during the year.
Costs associated with the purchase and sale of investments are taken to capital and are not included in the OCR.
Transaction costs totalled 3,873,000 0.24% of average net assets for the year to 31 March 2016 2015: 1,968,000 0.10% of average net assets.
The increase from the previous year is due to a higher turnover of the portfolio.
Principal Risks The principal risks facing the Company, as determined by your Board, are summarised below.
Investment and concentration risk Where possible, investment will generally be made directly in the stock markets of emerging countries.
Where the Investment Manager considers it appropriate, for example to gain access to markets closed to foreign portfolio investors, investment may be made in emerging markets through Collective Investment Schemes, although such investment is not likely to be substantial.
As at 31 March 2016 the Company had no such investments.
In addition, investment in companies listed on more developed countries stock exchanges may also be made where those companies have a significant source of their revenue from emerging countries.
It is intended that the Company will normally invest in equity investments.
However, the Investment Manager may invest in equity-related investments such as convertibles if this is regarded as advantageous.
The portfolio will diverge significantly from the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and may be concentrated in a more limited number of sectors, geographical areas or countries.
This is consistent with the stated investment approach of long-term value investing.
The Investment Manager evaluates investment opportunities with updated financial ratios on a regular basis, and, where opportunities are identified, adjusts the portfolio to seek optimal exposures to stocks, which are assessed to be the best value in global emerging markets.
The Company may also invest a significant portion of its assets in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in a particular country, or securities within one industry.
In addition, emerging markets can be subject to greater price volatility and more rapid and more exaggerated re-rating than developed markets.
The general policy of the Board is to be fully invested.
However, in response to market conditions, the Investment Manager may hold funds temporarily in cash or other appropriate assets.
Market risk Many of the companies in which TEMIT invests or may invest are, by reason of the locations in which they operate, exposed to the risk of political or economic change.
In addition, exchange control, tax or other regulations 14 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk introduced in any country in which TEMIT invests may affect its income and the value and marketability of its investments.
Investors in emerging markets may face settlement and custodial problems.
Furthermore, companies in emerging markets are not always subject to accounting, auditing and financial standards that are equivalent to those applicable in the UK, and there may also be less government supervision and regulation.
The Investment Manager will invest directly only in countries where it is satisfied, in so far as is possible, that acceptable custodial and other arrangements are in place to safeguard TEMITs investments and in companies where there is evidence of satisfactory governance procedures.
These risks can increase the potential for losses in the Company and affect its share price.
For these reasons, a long-term approach to investing in emerging markets is taken.
Foreign currency risk Currency movements may affect TEMITs performance.
In general, if the value of sterling increases compared with a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign currency will decrease in value because it will be worth less in sterling.
This can have a negative effect on the Companys performance.
Conversely, when, in general, sterling weakens in relation to a foreign currency, investments traded in that foreign currency will increase in value, which can contribute to an improvement in the Companys performance.
TEMIT does not hedge this risk.
Credit risk Certain transactions in securities that the Company enters into expose it to the risk that the counterparty will not deliver the investment purchase or cash in relation to sale or declared dividend after the Company has fulfilled its responsibilities.
Operational and custody risk Like many other investment trust companies, TEMIT has no employees.
The Company therefore relies upon the services provided by third parties and is dependent upon the control systems of the Manager and the Companys other service providers.
The security, for example, of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements depends on the effective operation of these systems.
These are regularly tested and monitored and an internal control report, which includes an assessment of risks together with an overview of procedures to mitigate such risks, is prepared by the Manager and reviewed by the Audit Committee annually.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited is the Companys depositary.
Its responsibilities include cash monitoring, safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage requirements.
The depositary is liable for the loss of financial instruments held in custody and will ensure that the custodian and any subcustodian segregate the assets of the Company.
The depositary has delegated the custody function to JPMorgan Chase Bank.
The custodian provides a report on its key controls and safeguards SOC 1 SSAE 16 ISAE 3402 which is independently reviewed by its auditor PwC.
Key personnel The ability of the Company to achieve its investment objective is significantly dependent upon the expertise of the Investment Manager and its ability to attract and retain suitable staff.
The Investment Manager has www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 15 Strategy and Business Model continued endeavoured to ensure that the principal members of its management teams are suitably incentivised, but the retention of such staff cannot be guaranteed.
Diversity The Board supports the principle of boardroom diversity.
The selection policy of the Board is to appoint the best qualified person for the job, by considering factors such as diversity of thought, experience and qualification.
The Board comprises seven Directors, six male and one female.
Further details of the selection policy for the Board can be found on page 60.
Regulatory risk The Company operates in an increasingly complex regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
A breach of s1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or the accompanying Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011 may potentially result in the Company being subject to corporation tax on chargeable gains on realised portfolio gains.
The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF under the European Union Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Breaches of other regulations, such as the UK Listing Authority rules, could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
A more detailed explanation of the monitoring of risk and uncertainties is covered within the Report of the Audit Committee on page 75.
Further information on the risks that TEMIT is subject to, including additional financial and valuation risks, is also detailed in Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Environmental, social, and other matters As an Investment Trust, TEMIT has no direct social, community or employee responsibilities.
More information can be found in the Directors Report on pages 65 and 66.
TEMIT has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Company, as all of its activities are outsourced to third parties, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
On 26 March 2015, the Modern Slavery Act 2015 the Act came into force.
TEMIT is not an organisation which provides goods or services as defined in the Act and the Company considers that the Act does not apply.
Viability Statement The Directors consider viability as part of their continuing programme of monitoring risk.
In preparing the Viability Statement, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code provision C. 2.2, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the twelve months required by the Going Concern provision.
The Directors consider three years to be a reasonable time horizon to consider the continuing viability of the Company, although they do have due regard to viability over the longer term.
The Company is an investment trust whose portfolio is invested in listed securities 16 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk and with some short-term cash deposits.
The following supports the Directors view of the viability of the Company: The portfolio principally comprises investments traded on major international stock exchanges and there is a spread of investments by size of company.
In the opinion of the Manager, the portfolio is sufficiently liquid under current and potential stressed market conditions to meet all ongoing and future payment requirements arising from TEMITs regular business.
There is no expectation that the liquidity profile of the investments held within the portfolio will be materially different in future: In the year under review, expenses including finance costs and taxation were covered some two times by investment income.
The expenses of the Company are predictable and modest in comparison with the assets and there are no capital commitments foreseen which would alter that position: The Companys viability depends on the global economy and markets continuing to function.
The Directors do also consider the possibility of a wide ranging collapse in corporate earnings and or the market value of listed securities.
With regard to the latter point, it should be borne in mind that a significant proportion of the Companys expenses are in ad valorem investment management fees, which would naturally reduce if the market value of the Companys assets were to fall: and, The Company has a robust risk control framework which, following guidelines from the Financial Reporting Council, aims to reduce the likelihood and impact of: poor judgement in decision-making: risk-taking that exceeds the levels agreed by the Board: human error: or control processes being deliberately circumvented.
The Directors have conducted a thorough assessment of each of the principal risks and uncertainties detailed on pages 14 to 16.
Taking account of the anticipated investment holding periods, the liquidity and medium term prospects of the Companys investment portfolio, the Directors have formed a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue its operations and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
Future Strategy The Company was founded, and continues to be managed, on the basis of a long-term investment strategy which seeks to generate superior returns from investments, principally in the shares of carefully selected companies in emerging markets.
The Companys results will be affected by many factors including political decisions, economic factors, the performance of investee companies and the ability of the Investment Manager to choose investments successfully.
The Board and the Investment Manager continue to believe in investment with a long-term horizon in companies that are undervalued by stock markets but which are fundamentally strong and growing.
It is recognised that, at times, extraneous political, economic and company-specific factors will affect the performance of investments, but the Company will continue to take a long-term view in the belief that patience will be rewarded.
The Companys overall strategy remains unchanged and is expected to remain consistent with these aims for the foreseeable future.
By order of the Board Paul Manduca 8 June 2016 www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 17
