Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report, together with the Financial Statements of the Company, for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Principal Activity and Investment Status The Company is a public limited company in terms of the Companies Act 2006 and is an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has been accepted as an approved investment trust by HM Revenue & Customs for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 April 2012, subject to continuing to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements of The Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company intends to direct its affairs to ensure its continued approval as an investment trust.
The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF under the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Company Objective The objective of the Company is to provide long-term capital appreciation for its shareholders through investment in companies operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
No material change will be made to this policy without shareholder approval.
The full Company objective can be found on page 10 within the Strategic Report.
Results and Dividends The capital loss for the year was 384.9 million 2015: 149.7 million gain and the revenue profit was 21.8million 2015: 29.9 million.
The full results for the Company are disclosed in the Income Statement on page 82.
The Directors propose an ordinary dividend of 8.25 pence per share 2015: 8.25 pence and, if approved by shareholders at the AGM on 15 July 2016, the dividend will be payable on 22 July 2016 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 17 June 2016.
Gearing The Board has agreed that in exceptional circumstances, and for short periods, TEMIT may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
During the last five years the Company did not utilise any short-term borrowing facility.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 51 Directors Report continued Financial Share Capital and Discount Changes in the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 8 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Share Buy Backs The Board is once again seeking shareholder permission to continue its programme of share buy backs as outlined on page 68.
A key point in the Investment Managers mandate is to take a long-term view of investments and one of the advantages of a closed end fund is that the portfolio structure is not disrupted by large inflows or outflows of cash.
However, the Board and the Investment Manager recognise that the returns experienced by shareholders are in the form of movements in the share price, which are not directly linked to NAV movements, and the shares may trade at varying discounts or premiums to NAV.
Many shareholders, both professional and private investors, have expressed a view that a high level of volatility in the discount is undesirable.
A less volatile discount, and hence share price, is seen as important to investors.
For this reason, TEMIT uses share buy backs selectively with the intention of limiting volatility and where it is in the interests of shareholders.
2016 2015 Shares bought back and cancelled during the year 20,925,302 4,404,900 Proportion of share capital bought back 6.56% 1.36% Cost of share buy backs 93.6m 24.7m The benefit to NAV 0.84% 0.25% The benefit to NAV 13.1m 3.1m Auditor The Audit Committee has recommended that Deloitte LLP, who were appointed in 2009, be reappointed as the Companys auditor.
Deloitte LLP has expressed a willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be submitted at the AGM.
Further details on the assessment of the auditor can be found within the Report of the Audit Committee on page 76.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditor was unaware and that each Director had taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor was aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
52 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Substantial Shareholdings As at 31 May 2016 and 31 March 2016, the Company had been notified that the following were interested in3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
Name Number of shares 31 May 2016 % City of London Investment Management Company Limited 37,829,489 12.89 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 30,481,107 10.39 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 20,764,697 7.07 Old Mutual Plc 17,174,358 5.85 Rathbones Brothers Plc 10,242,030 3.49 Templeton Investment Plan 7,691,625 2.62 Name Number of shares 31 March 2016 % City of London Investment Management Company Limited 33,482,445 11.23 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 30,481,107 10.23 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 19,483,347 6.54 Old Mutual Plc 17,174,358 5.76 Rathbone Brothers Plc 12,893,069 4.33 Templeton Investment Plan 12,192,844 4.09 Directors The following were Directors during the year to 31 March 2016 and to the date of this report: Paul Manduca Chairman appointed as a Director on 1 August 2015 Peter O Harrison Christopher D Brady Beatrice Hollond Hamish N Buchan Gregory E Johnson Neil A Collins Peter A Smith served on the Board from 17 May 2004 and as Chairman from 12 December 2007 until his retirement on 20 November 2015: Paul Manduca was appointed as Chairman on this date.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in the Letters of Appointment, which are available for inspection on request at the registered office of the Company and at the AGM.
The Nomination Committee previously called the Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprises Paul Manduca Chairman Hamish Buchan, Neil Collins and Beatrice Hollond.
The role of the Committee is to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process by which suitable candidates are identified and short-listed, and to nominate candidates for consideration by the full Board, whose responsibility it is to formally make appointments.
The Committee also considers the effectiveness of individual Directors and www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 53 Directors Report continued makes recommendations to the Board in respect of re-elections.
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills, independence, and knowledge of the Company, experience and length of service of the Directors.
Details of the diversity policy can be found on page 60.
The Committee periodically reviews the level of Directors fees relative to other comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
In doing so, the Committee will access independent research and advice from external sources.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will attend the Companys AGM and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by shareholders on matters within the Nomination Committees responsibilities.
The Management Engagement Committee comprises Paul Manduca Chairman, Christopher Brady, Hamish Buchan, Neil Collins, Peter Harrison and Beatrice Hollond.
The role of the Committee is to review the performance of, and the contractual arrangements with the Manager.
The Management Engagement Committee has undertaken a formal investment review of TEMITs portfolio management during the year.
The review considered investment strategy, investment process, performance and risk, and was carried out through meetings between the Management Engagement Committee and members of the investment and risk management teams of the Manager.
The Audit Committee currently comprises Peter Harrison Chairman, Neil Collins, Hamish Buchan and Beatrice Hollond.
The formal Report of the Audit Committee is on pages 73 to 76.
A copy of the terms of reference for the Audit Committee, Management Engagement Committee and Nomination Committee are available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
co. uk or upon request via Client Dealer Services using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
The table below lists the number of scheduled Board and committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were 4 Board meetings, 3 Audit Committee meetings, 3 Nomination Committee meetings and 3 Management Engagement Committee meetings.
Meetings Attended Management Nomination Engagement Director Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Paul Manduca 2 2 N A 1 1 1 1 appointed 1 August 2015 Peter A Smith 3 3 N A 3 3 2 2 retired 20 November 2015 Christopher D Brady 4 4 N A N A 3 3 Hamish N Buchan 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 Neil A Collins 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 Peter O Harrison 4 4 3 3 N A 3 3 Beatrice Hollond 4 4 3 3 1 1 3 3 Gregory E Johnson 4 4 N A N A N A 54 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk The TEMIT Board is responsible for setting strategy and direction, oversight of service providers and protection of shareholders interests.
The primary focus of the Directors at regular Board meetings is the consideration of investment performance and outlook, market activity, share buy back activity, marketing, shareholder profile, investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Further details on the Directors responsibilities can be found in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 77.
The following matters set out in the table below were considered at Board meetings during the year to 31March 2016.
The table also summarises the business dealt with by the Audit, Nomination and Management Engagement Committees during the year to 31 March 2016.
Q1 to 30 June Q2 to 30 September Q3 to 31 December Q4 to 31 March Board business Report from Investment Manager Market Overview from TEMITs Stockbroker Report from AIFM Marketing Report Significant shareholder activity and share buy back policy Consideration of taking a Change to appoint FTIML Appointment of Chairman Board Committees and stake in the Frontier Markets as permitted delegate of Schedule of Reserved Report on Company Cash Fund FTIS Matters Flow Projections from Discount Control Appointment of FTIML as Portfolio Manager Corporate Governance Mechanisms Co-Manager along with update Review of Top Risks TAML Report on New Markets for Fair Valuation of Assets Review the Half-Yearly Investment New Management Contract Report Report Arrangements Report on Treasury Shares Income forecast and Update from the Audit Consideration of Hong dividend discussion Reports from the Committee Kong China Stock Connect Management Engagement Report on New Markets for Participation Update on Board Committee and the Investment Committees structure Nomination Committee Corporate Governance Report on Treasury Shares update Shareholder Correspondence Review of Top Risks Proposal to restructure Reviewed Annual Report and Templeton Investment Plan Shareholder Meetings and related documentation Correspondence Update from the Audit Update from the Audit Committee Committee Update on CSSF and FCA Update on Media Campaign regulatory approval Update on Portfolio Team www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 55 Directors Report continued Q1 to 30 June Q2 to 30 September Q3 to 31 December Q4 to 31 March Audit Committee business Reviewed income forecast report No meeting held in this quarter Reviewed fair valuation of assets report Update on tax matters Expense analysis report Evaluate third party service Approved auditors 2016 providers engagement letter Proposed Changes to Board Reporting FY16 Annual Report Audit Partner Rotation Planning Reviewed AGM Briefing on Audit Matters documentation Overview from Internal Expense analysis report Audit Reviewed Annual Report and Observations on the 2015 related documentation Proposed Changes to Board Annual Report Reporting Received auditors report Planning Report to the Reviewed Risk and Internal Update on FRC Guidance on Audit Committee from Control Report Risk Management Deloitte on the 2016 Annual Report Reviewed Anti-Bribery Policy Reviewed auditors 2015 desktop review Reviewed Half-Yearly report Review of Top Risks Update on Schedule of Reserved Matters Nomination Committee business Review of Directors No meetings held in this Succession planning and Appointment of Trust elections and re-elections quarter Non-Executive Director Associates search Committee Updates and Appointments Non-Executive Director Search Succession Planning Management Engagement Committee business AIFM, Administration and Investment Manager No meeting held in this Review of the performance Secretarial Fees discussion quarter of the Manager and Investment Manager Discount Control Mechanisms Investment Review Investment Performance Review of the performance of and the contractual arrangements of the Investment Manager Share Buy backs Shareholder Meetings and Correspondence Tender Possibilities 56 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Directors Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act sets out directors general duties.
Under the 2006 Act, a director must avoid a situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companys Articles give the Directors authority to approve such situations.
There are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to make the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Company maintains a register of Directors conflicts of interest which have been disclosed and approved by the other Directors.
This register is kept up-to-date and the Directors annually complete an updated conflicts of interest questionnaire disclosing any conflicts or potential conflicts.
Gregory Johnson is not present when the performance of the Manager and Investment Manager are considered.
Indemnification and Insurance The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of the Directors.
These are qualifying third party indemnity provisions and are in force as at the date of this report.
This information is disclosed in accordance with Sections 236 2 and 236 3 of the 2006 Act.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Directors.
Principal Service Providers Alternative Investment Fund Manager, Secretarial and Administration Services Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l. FTIS is the Alternative Investment Fund Manager, Secretary and Administrator with the role of investment management delegated to Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML and Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML.
The annual ad valorem fee rate for the services provided by FTIS, including investment management, risk management, secretarial and administration services, is 1.10% of shareholders funds.
The agreement between the Company and FTIS may be terminated by either party, but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to FTIS of an amount up to one years fee.
Compensation is not payable if at least one years notice of termination is given.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 57 Directors Report continued In order to comply with Articles 22 2 e and 22 f of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, details of the Remuneration Policy of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager and amounts attributable to the Company are available to existing shareholders upon request at the registered office of the Company.
The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management services to the Company on an ongoing basis, and a formal review is conducted annually by the Management Engagement Committee, which consists solely of Directors independent of Franklin Templeton.
Gregory Johnson is not present when the Managers and Investment Managers performance is reviewed.
When assessing the performance of the Manager and Investment Manager, the Board believes it is appropriate to make this assessment over a medium to long-term timeframe, which is in accordance with the long-term approach taken to investment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the continuing appointment of FTIS is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
Auditor Deloitte LLP audits the Companys annual Financial Statements.
Custodian JP Morgan Chase Bank acts as global custodian to the Company and receives a fee for the provision of custody and nominee services to the Company under a custody agreement which contains provision for the exclusion or limitation of liability as set out in the custody agreement.
The custody agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 90 days notice.
Depositary J. P. Morgan Europe Limited performs the role of depositary for the Company, by carrying out custody and other services, including monitoring cash flows, confirming ownership and ensuring income is properly applied.
The depositary agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 90 days notice.
Financial Adviser and Stockbroker The Companys corporate stockbroker during the year was Winterflood Securities Limited.
Insurance Brokers Howden Insurance Brokers provides Directors & Officers Liability Insurance.
Payroll Administrators Baker Tilly provides payroll services for the Directors remuneration.
Printer RR Donnelley provides typesetting, printing and mailing services for the Companys published literature.
58 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Registrars Equiniti Limited and Computershare Investor Services Limited manage the Companys registers of shareholders on the London Stock Exchange and New Zealand Stock Exchange respectively.
Orient Capital Limited provides share register analysis services.
Solicitor CMS Cameron McKenna LLP provides the Company with professional legal advice.
Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applies the principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.
It also makes reference to the Companys adherence to the Code of Corporate Governance of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 throughout the year ended 31 March 2016.
The UK Code can be viewed at www.
The UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014, and the Board is reporting against the Code and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, dated February 2015.
AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code The Company is a member of the AIC.
The Board considers that the Company adheres to the principles and follows the recommendations of the AIC Code and, where appropriate, it provides explanations why and or details the steps it intends to take to bring the Company into line in the future.
By reporting against the AIC Code and by following the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, the Company is meeting its obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules, and as such the Company is not required to report further on issues contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code which are not relevant to the Company as explained in the AIC Guide.
The AIC Corporate Governance Guide and AIC Code can be found at www.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2016, the Company complied with the provisions of the AIC Guide and AIC Code.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 59 Directors Report continued The AIC Code is made up of twenty-one principles split into three sections covering: The Board Board meetings and relations with the Manager Shareholder Communications The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should The Chairman is non-executive and independent of the Manager and Investment Manager.
The Chairman leads and ensures the effectiveness of the Board in all matters relating to the Company, including receiving accurate and timely information.
There is a clear separation of roles and responsibilities between the Chairman, the Audit Committee Chairman, the Directors, the Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
A majority of the As at the date of this Annual Report, the Board comprises seven Non-Executive Directors, six of Board should be whom are independent from Franklin Templeton, the group of companies associated with the independent of the Companys Manager and Investment Manager.
Gregory Johnson is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Franklin Resources, Inc. the parent company of the Manager.
He is therefore not an independent Director.
There are no Executive Directors on the Board.
Directors should be All Directors retire annually and may offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
submitted for re-election The Nomination Committee considers the effectiveness of individual Directors and makes at regular intervals.
recommendations to the Board in respect of re-elections.
The Committee keeps under review Nomination for the balance of skills, independence, gender, knowledge of the Company, experience and re-election should not be length of service of the Directors.
assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and continued satisfactory performance.
The Board should Each of the Directors has an appointment letter with the Company and such letters are have a policy on tenure, available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The terms of which is disclosed in the appointment provide that a Director will be subject to re-election at each AGM.
may be removed from office following three months notice.
The Board has adopted a formal policy requiring Directors to stand down after nine years from their election other than in exceptional circumstances.
The Board has a Nomination Committee which regularly reviews the Board structure, size, gender and composition and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustment that seems appropriate.
There should be full The Directors biographies are set out on pages 49 to 50 of this report and provide information disclosure of information on the wide range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
These biographies also about the Board.
detail when the Board member was appointed, the individual remuneration of that Director and any beneficial interest that they may have in the Company.
Details of the Board Committees and their composition are detailed on pages 53 and 54 of this Directors Report.
Please note that Gregory Johnson does not participate in the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee or the Management Engagement Committee.
The Board should The Nomination Committee performs an annual review of the Directors skills, experience, aim to have a balance of gender, length of service and knowledge of the Company.
skills, experience, length The skills, experience and length of service of each Director are detailed on pages 49 to 50 of service and knowledge of the report.
The selection policy of the Board is to appoint the best qualified person for the job, by considering factors such as diversity of thought, experience and qualification.
The Board is satisfied that the current blend of skills and experience prompts informed decision making and does not deem it necessary to alter this mix at present.
When the composition of the Board requires review, female candidates will be encouraged to apply and progress in relation to diversity will be actively monitored.
60 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 7.
The Board should The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its undertake a formal Committees and individual Directors including the Chairman.
The Board has also considered and rigorous annual the independence of each Director.
evaluation of its own In 2015, the Board evaluation was carried out by an external facilitator, Trust Associates performance and that Limited.
The evaluation process was conducted through one-to-one interviews and of its committees and discussions between Trust Associates Limited and each Director.
The experience, balance of individual directors.
skills, diversity and knowledge of the Board was considered as well as Board effectiveness, role, structure and Directors training requirements.
An evaluation of the Chairman by his fellow Directors was facilitated by Trust Associates Limited, who then met with the Chairman to discuss its content.
The Management Engagement Committee considered the report from Trust Associates on the performance of the Board.
Satisfactory action had been taken in respect of the majority of the matters arising from previous reviews.
It was agreed that enhancing the communication with the Investment Manager and Board succession were the priority areas for attention.
The Chairman confirms that, following performance evaluation, each Directors performance continues to be effective and they demonstrate commitment to their role.
The independent Directors agree that Gregory Johnson, the sole non-independent Director, continues to be a helpful Board member and his continuation on the Board is recommended.
The Management Engagement Committee considered the relationship between the Board, the Manager and the Investment Manager, along with the investment performance and risk limits.
The Committee noted its disappointment that the Companys NAV had underperformed compared to its benchmark over a number of recent periods.
In terms of risk management, the Management Engagement Committee was satisfied that the Company had been managed within agreed risk limits.
It was agreed that the annual review of the Companys suppliers would continue to be dealt with at the September Audit Committee meeting and the Manager would be asked to provide commentary on their respective charges and performance.
Formal Board performance evaluations will continue to take place at least annually with the appointment of an external facilitator every three years.
The next appointment of an external facilitator is due to be made in 2018.
Director remuneration The Nomination Committee periodically reviews the level of Directors fees relative to other should reflect their comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
In doing so, the duties, responsibilities Committee has access to independent research and advice from external sources.
and the value of their The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors should reflect time spent.
the responsibilities of the Board, the experience of the Board as a whole, and be fair and comparable to that of other investment trusts similar in size, capital structure and investment objective.
Details of the Directors remuneration can be found in the Directors Remuneration Policy on page 70, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 72 and in Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
Directors interests including family interests can be found within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 72.
The independent The Nomination Committee, which is entirely comprised of independent Directors, regularly Directors should take the reviews the Board structure, size and composition and makes recommendations to the Board lead in the appointment with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of of new directors and the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process the process should be by which suitable candidates are identified and short-listed, and to nominate candidates for disclosed in the annual consideration by the full Board, whose responsibility it is formally to make appointments.
Independence is maintained as six of the seven Non-Executive Directors on the Board, as at the date of this Annual Report, are independent of the Manager.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 61 Directors Report continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 10.
Directors should be New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular offered relevant training circumstances of the appointee.
Following appointment, the Chairman reviews and agrees and induction.
with Directors their training and development needs covering specific company matters as well as industry issues.
The Board is supplied, via the Manager, with information to enable the Directors to discharge their duties.
The Manager provides the Board with regular updates on regulatory issues and on the latest corporate governance rules and guidelines.
The Chairman and Principle 11 is not applicable to the Company as it applies to the launch of new investment the Board should be companies.
brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Board Meetings and the Relationship with the Manager 12.
Boards and The Board meets at least quarterly.
Each meeting is attended by representatives from managers should the Manager and Investment Manager.
Representatives from the Manager are also in operate in a supportive, attendance for relevant committee meetings.
Open, constructive debate and discussion co-operative and open are encouraged by the Chairman to ensure that the best interests of the Company are environment.
The primary focus at The Board has standing agenda items at quarterly scheduled Board meetings and periodic regular Board meetings Management Engagement Committee meetings to review the Manager and Investment should be a review of Managers performance, risk management and other matters relating to the operations and investment performance regulation of the Company.
This includes reviewing the investment objectives, strategy, and associated matters benchmark and performance attribution, risk limits and analysis, contributors and detractors such as gearing, asset to from performance, major overweights and underweights relative to benchmark and allocation, marketing portfolio information including purchases and sales.
investor relations, peer The Board also performs a review of share price performance, discount and buy back events group information and against policy, as well as actual and forecasted income and expenses.
The Company has, at industry issues.
In addition, the Directors, on an annual basis, receive a comprehensive risk and control analysis identifying the areas of risk and mitigating controls which are in place.
As part of this review, the Directors also ensure that the Companys primary service providers have adopted an appropriate framework of controls, monitoring and reporting to enable the Directors to evaluate these risks.
The risk and control analysis is reviewed on a quarterly basis.
Boards should give The Board sets the overall Company strategy and frequently reviews progress to ensure that sufficient attention to its goals and objectives are being met.
The Strategic Report on pages 3 to 17 details this overall strategy.
The Board should The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management services regularly review both to the Company on an ongoing basis, and a formal review is conducted annually by the the performance of, and Management Engagement Committee, which consists solely of Directors independent of the contractual arrangements Manager.
The review considers investment strategy, investment process, performance and with, the manager or risk and is carried out through meetings between the Management Engagement Committee executives of a selfand members of the investment and risk management teams of the Manager and Investment managed company.
When assessing the investment management performance, the Board believes it is appropriate to make this assessment over a medium to long-term timeframe which is in accordance with the long-term approach taken to investment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the continuing appointment of FTIS with delegation of investment management to TAML and FTIML is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
Gregory Johnson is not present when the Manager and Investment Managers performances are reviewed.
62 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 16.
The Board should Both the Board and the Manager have formalised agreements and have a clear agree policies with the understanding of the operational policies laid out between the two parties.
Investment Manager These rules are detailed in a number of ways: within the Management Agreement, within covering key operational the investment guideline documentation or through other policies such as discount issues.
The agreement which has been put in place between the Company and FTIS includes an Operating Memorandum which outlines the services to be provided, including details of reports and deliverables to be supplied.
The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that a sound system of internal controls of the Company is maintained to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, and the Directors believe that an appropriate framework is in place to meet the requirement of ensuring that a sound system of internal controls is in place by the Company.
Furthermore, the Board has an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks to which the Company is exposed including those contained within the performance of the investment management activities.
This process is conducted throughout the year and has been conducted up to the date of signing of this report.
The Board has identified risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as areas for the extended review and, if relevant, necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified.
It has to be understood that systems of internal control, however carefully designed, operated and supervised, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Company does not have its own internal audit function but places reliance on the internal audit, compliance and other control functions of its service providers, who report to the Board annually and as material matters arise.
Boards should The Board monitors the share price discount to net asset value daily and exercises its right monitor the level of the to buy back shares when the Board considers that it is in shareholders interests to do so.
share price discount or Further details of the Companys policy on buy back of shares can be found on page 52. premium if any and, if The matter is reviewed at each quarterly Board meeting with the Directors receiving updates desirable, take action to from the Manager and our Financial Adviser and Stockbroker.
The Board should The Audit Committee considers the performance of the Companys third party service monitor and evaluate providers at least annually as part of its review of risks and controls including an evaluation other service providers.
of the duration of service, as well as the level and structure of fees.
Fees are benchmarked against competitor companies to ensure that they are competitive in nature.
Service providers anti-bribery practices are certified every two years to ensure that they address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010.
The Audit Committee reviews additional detailed reports from the compliance officer of principal service providers concerning the internal processes and financial control systems in operation.
Separately, detailed operational risk reports are presented annually by the administrator and the Audit Committee has access to internal and external audit and control reports of the administrator and custodian.
Additionally, the Board engages in a periodic detailed review of selected principal service providers such as the custodian.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 63 Directors Report continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement Shareholder Communications 19.
The Board should The Board receives quarterly analysis of the substantial shareholders of the Company.
The regularly monitor the Chairman and representatives of the Investment Manager periodically meet with institutional shareholder profile shareholders and private client asset managers to share views.
Furthermore, the members of the Company of the Board are available during the year for any significant matters arising and are usually and put in place a present in person at the AGM.
At each AGM of the Company the Investment Manager briefs system for canvassing shareholders on the investment outlook of the Company.
shareholder views and In addition, on behalf of the Board, the Investment Manager has periodic meetings with the for communicating Companys major shareholders to discuss aspects of the Companys performance.
the Boards views to Shareholders may contact the members of the Board via Client Dealer Services at Franklin shareholders.
Templeton using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
The Board The Board actively leads or participates in discussions on, and approves the content of, all should normally take significant external communications.
During this process, relevant stakeholders such as the responsibility for, and Manager, the Investment Manager, auditor, legal advisers and stockbroker are engaged as have a direct involvement and when required.
in, the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should The Board aims to keep shareholders informed and up to date with information about the ensure that shareholders Company.
This includes information contained within the Annual and Half-Yearly Report, as are provided with well as notices of any significant Company events to registered shareholders.
sufficient information for The Company also releases information through the stock exchanges, such as the Daily them to understand the and Monthly NAV statements and the quarterly Portfolio Update.
The Company website risk reward balance to www.
co. uk displays the latest news, price and performance information, portfolio which they are exposed details, quarterly web updates from the Investment Manager and a blog dealing with by holding the shares.
topical issues in emerging markets.
Via the website, shareholders also have the opportunity to have the latest Company information e-mailed directly to them.
Additional Information for New Zealand Shareholders As a result of a requirement for Overseas Issuers listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, the following should be noted by New Zealand shareholders: a The corporate governance rules and principles in TEMITs home exchange jurisdiction in the United Kingdom may differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchange corporate governance rules and the principles of the Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
b Investors may find more information about the corporate governance and principles of TEMITs home exchange in the United Kingdom in the above Corporate Governance statement and online at www.
c The Company relies on the Financial Reporting Act Dual-listed Issuers Exemption Notice 2013, issued by the New Zealand Financial Markets Authority, which exempts it from obligations listed in section 18 1 of the New Zealand Financial Reporting Act 1993.
Further information is included below in the section Accountability and Audit.
64 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Schedule of Reserved Matters The Board has formally adopted a Schedule of Reserved Matters, which details the matters which the Board has agreed are specifically reserved for their collective decision.
These matters include, inter alia, approval of the Half-Yearly and Annual Financial Statements, recommendation of the dividend, approval of any preliminary announcements of the Company, approval of any changes to the Companys investment objective and or policy, appointment or removal of the Companys Manager or Investment Manager, Board membership and Board committee membership and any major changes to the investment objective, philosophy or policy of the Company, other than any such changes delegated to the Investment Manager under the Investment Management Agreement.
The day to day investment management of the portfolio of the Company is delegated to the Investment Manager, which manages the portfolio in accordance with the investment objectives of the Company as set by the Board.
Environmental, Social, Community, Ethical Issues and Human Rights As an investment trust, the Company has no significant direct social, community, environmental or employee responsibilities.
Its ethical policy is focused on ensuring that its funds are properly managed and invested within the guidelines approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on the policies and controls in place.
The Investment Manager invests in companies that it considers to be well managed and subject to appropriate corporate governance.
A well-managed company is considered to be one which complies with all the relevant legislation and which meets the environmental, social, community, ethical and human rights requirements of the country in which it operates.
It is important to recognise that local laws and requirements of emerging markets do not necessarily equate with those of developed countries.
Environmental, social, governance and human rights issues have become increasingly important to companies worldwide as they seek to balance organisational goals with the expectations of their stakeholders in an increasingly complex operating environment.
When companies manage these stakeholder relationships effectively, they are more successful at managing risks and capturing opportunities placing them in a better position for long-term success.
Recognising the importance of these considerations, the Investment Manager became a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI in 2013.
Becoming a signatory is a natural extension of the Investment Managers existing practices to integrate environmental, social and governance ESG considerations within the investment process.
In addition, the Investment Manager has established a dedicated environmental, social and governance team within the Investment Risk division to support and enhance ESG integration within the Investment Manager and provide firm wide support and participation in Responsible Investing Initiatives such as UNPRI.
As a demonstration of the Investment Managers on-going commitment to enhance effectiveness and understanding in implementing the Principles, the Investment Manager has also become a member of www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 65 Directors Report continued theInternational Corporate Governance Network ICGN and the United Kingdom Sustainable Investment and Finance Association UKSIF.
We report on our greenhouse gas emissions within the Strategic Report on page 16.
As a long-term investor, the Investment Manager performs extensive bottom-up investment analysis, employing rigorous and comprehensive processes to assess both the risk and return potential of the investments it considers for the Company.
The depth of its research provides comprehensive insights into the many factors that affect the value of an investment, which may include environmental, social, governance and human rights issues.
The Investment Manager determines the extent to which various research inputs are included and weighted in its investment decisions.
Institutional Shareholder Voting and Engagement As an institutional investor, the Company recognises its responsibility that the companies in which it invests should aspire to appropriate levels of corporate governance.
As a matter of policy, the Company aims to utilise its votes in shares held in the relevant underlying portfolio companies at the general meetings of these companies.
The Company has engaged with the Investment Manager in relation to its approach to the Stewardship Code the Code.
The Company and the Investment Manager generally support the Principles of the Code as outlined below.
On-going monitoring of investee companies and dialogue with management are fundamental to the Investment Managers investment approach.
The strategy on intervention with investee companies is dealt with on a case by case basis and is usually a judgement made by the Investment Manager based on the research done on each investee company for the investment decision making progress.
In all cases, the Investment Manager holds regular review meetings with the senior management of investee companies.
In exceptional circumstances, the Investment Manager may provide a director to the investee company.
The Investment Manager considers the key objectives are to seek to obtain value for the Company and to comply with its fiduciary duties.
The level of engagement with investee companies derives from the fiduciary duties of the Investment Manager to the Company.
Thus, for example, in voting shares, the Investment Manager considers what would be in the best interests of the Company.
Similarly, there will be many instances in which actions such as a dialogue between the Investment Manager and the management of investee companies, or with other shareholders, may help to maximise shareholder value.
At the same time, there may be instances in which activism is not consistent with the Investment Managers fiduciary duty.
For example, in the process of company research and monitoring, a significant problem or risk may be identified, and the Investment Manager may decide it is better simply to sell a position than seek to undertake a lengthy engagement with management.
Decisions involving when and how to engage with management or carry out collective engagement are matters of judgement.
Consequently, there are no set guidelines adopted on when this should occur.
66 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk The Investment Manager has adopted proxy voting policies and procedures which cover voting guidelines, processing and maintenance of proxy records and conflicts of interest.
Summary information on the exercise of proxies is reviewed quarterly by the Board.
Voting records for the Company detailing the proxies voted for investee companies are not currently published.
The Company considers that there is limited demand for such detailed disclosure and therefore the administrative burden and expense is not justified.
Risk Management Objectives and Policy The Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term to achieve its investment objectives, as stated on page 10.
This creates potential exposure to the risks as stated on pages 14 to 16.
The Companys policy and objectives in relation to such risks is disclosed in Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
The risk management process accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Further details on the AIFMD risk disclosures can be found on the Companys website.
Internal Control Details of the Companys system of internal controls can be found on page 75.
Annual General Meeting Ordinary Business It is proposed to receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2016.
It is proposed to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
It is proposed to declare an ordinary dividend of 8.25 pence per share, payable on 22 July 2016 to shareholders on the register as at close of business on 17 June 2016.
It is proposed to elect Simon Jeffreys as an independent non-executive director with effect from the conclusion of the AGM on 15 July 2016.
He brings experience of the auditing world and financial services, having been a senior audit partner with  LLP from 1986 to 2006, where he also led their Global Investment Management practice.
Between 2006 and 2014, Simon was Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer at Fidelity International and was then Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer at the Wellcome Trust.
He is currently a non-executive director of St James Place PLC, chairman of AON UK Limited, non-executive director and chair of the Audit Committees of Henderson International Income Trust plc and SimCorp, a listed Danish financial services software company.
He is also a director of Clerfeyts 241.
Simon has a B. Com Hons from the University of Cape Town and is a UK FCA, a SA CA and a US CPA.
It is proposed to elect Paul Manduca and re-elect each of the other current Directors with the exception of Neil Collins who will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
It is proposed to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 67 Directors Report continued Special Business The Special Business to be dealt with at the forthcoming AGM of the Company is: i Authority for the Allotment of New Shares The resolutions to allot shares are set out in resolutions 13 and 14 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
These resolutions, if passed, will give your Directors power to allot for cash equity securities of the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 3,667,923 being an amount equal to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 2 June 2016 as if Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act did not apply this section requires, when shares are to be allotted for cash, that such new shares first be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of shares, this entitlement being known as pre-emption rights.
The authorities contained in resolutions 13 and 14 will continue until the AGM of the Company in 2017 and your Directors envisage seeking the renewal of this authority in 2017 and in each succeeding year.
Your Directors will not make any allotment of new shares other than in accordance with pre-emption rights at a price less than the net asset value per share.
ii Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the AGM of the Company held on 17 July 2015, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its shares in the market, a maximum of 14.99% of the shares in issue on 17 July 2015 or 47,569,189 shares, whichever is lower, up to the conclusion of the AGM in 2016.
The present authority expires at the end of the AGM on 15 July 2016.
The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority to purchase the Companys shares in the market, being a maximum of 14.99% of the shares in issue on 15 July 2016 or 43,985,737 shares, whichever is the lower, at the 2016 AGM.
This is set out in resolution 15 of the notice of the AGM.
Purchases will only be made for cash at a cost which is below the prevailing net asset value per share.
Under the rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which may be paid is the higher of: a 5% above the average market value of the shares for the five business days before the purchase is made: and b the higher of the last independent trade price and the highest current independent bid price on the London Stock Exchange.
The minimum price payable for the shares will be 25 pence per share.
Purchases will be funded either by using available cash resources or by selling investments in the portfolio.
The authority to purchase shares will only be exercised if to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally and would result in an increase in net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
Other than in accordance with a dispensation from the UK Listing Authority, no shares will be purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from making such purchases by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Directors envisage seeking the renewal of the relevant authority in 2017 and in each succeeding year.
68 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk iii Notice period for general meetings At the AGM of the Company held on 17 July 2015, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days clear notice, up to the conclusion of the AGM in 2016.
The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days clear notice, up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2017.
This resolution is required to reflect the implementation of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive which requires that all general meetings must be held on 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
The Directors only intend to call a general meeting on less than 21 days notice where the proposals are time sensitive and the short notice would clearly be an advantage to the shareholders as a whole.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Recommendation The Directors believe that all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole, and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the resolutions.
The results of the votes on the resolutions at the AGM will be published on the Companys website www.
Going Concern The Companys assets consist of equity shares in companies listed on recognised stock exchanges and in most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
Having made suitable enquiries, including considerations of the Companys investment objective, the nature of the portfolio, expenditure forecasts and the principal risks and uncertainties described within the Annual Report, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue to operate as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements and for the foreseeable future and, as such, a going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the Financial Statements.
By order of the Board Paul Manduca 8 June 2016 www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 69
