Directors remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report Non-executive Director fee policy for 2015 16 There were no changes to Non-executive Directors fees during the year.
Non-executive Director fees Basic fees 70,000 p. a.
Additional fees Senior Independent Director 26,000 p. a.
Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 30,000 p. a.
Membership of Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nominations and Remuneration Committees 12,000 p. a. for each Committee Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed to Chairman fees Fees paid during 2015 16 the Board of Tesco Personal Finance Group John Allan was appointed as Non-executive The following table sets out the fees Limited Tesco Bank in July 2012.
She was Chairman with effect from 1 March 2015. paidto the Non-executive Directors paid a basic fee of 70,000 p. a. for this role He receives a fee of 650,000 p. a. inclusive fortheyear ended 27 February 2016.
As and an additional fee for Committee of allBoard fees, which is fixed for a period theNon-executive Directors are not paid membership of 12,000 p. a. in line with of three years.
He is also eligible to receive apension and do not participate in any of other members of the Board of Tesco benefits as set out in the policy for the Companys variable incentive schemes, Personal Finance Group Limited.
These Non-executive Directors on page 69. this information is not included in the table.
fees are provided below for information.
This table has been audited.
Single total figure of remuneration Non-executive Directors audited The table below sets out the single figure of remuneration for Tescos Non-executive Directors.
of appointment or until the date that each in respect of their membership of the Board The Non-executive Directors benefits Director ceased to be a Director of Tesco PLC.
and Committees of Tesco Personal Finance comprise taxable travel expenses related to Gareth Bullock, Patrick Cescau, Stuart Group Limited Tesco Bank.
their role and the benefit costs shown have Chambers and Ken Hanna left the Board been grossed up for tax, where applicable.
60 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Beneficial share ownership audited include shares held by connected persons.
There are no shareholding guidelines for the Non-executive Directors are subjectto the Non-executive Directors.
The table below same share dealing policy as Executive outlines the current share interests of the Directors and no shares were acquired Non-executive Directors.
Shareholdings between 27 February and 12 April 2016.
Director Ordinary Shares held at 27 February 2016 Ordinary Shares held at 28 February 2015 2 John Allan 194,349 n a Mark Armour 25,000 25,000 Gareth Bullock 25,000 Patrick Cescau 18,340 Stuart Chambers 25,000 Richard Cousins 17,357 Ken Hanna 25,000 Mikael Olsson 5,000 1 Deanna Oppenheimer 103,500 52,500 1 Byron Grote 143,700 n a 1 Deanna Oppenheimer and Byron Grote held their shares in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
Each ADR is equivalent to three ordinary shares.
2 John Allan also held 198,000 bonds in the Company.
The Committee ofthe remuneration arrangements The Group Remuneration Committee is Role of the Remuneration Committee throughout the Group: consulted on, and makes recommendations The Committees key responsibilities are: to ensure that the structure of in relation to, the remuneration arrangements to determine and recommend to the remuneration arrangements is aligned for Tesco Bank colleagues, with the aim Board the remuneration policy for with the creation of sustainable returns ofencouraging consistency with Group Executive Directors, senior management for shareholders andthat the level of remuneration policy, but it does not make and theChairman: reward received by Executives reflects decisions in relation to, ordirect, how to ensure the level and structure of the value delivered for shareholders: remuneration is managed within Tesco Bank.
remuneration is designed to attract, retain andto monitor the level and structure and motivate the Executive Directors and ofremuneration of senior management.
The Committees terms of reference can senior management needed to run the beviewed at www.
Company, and to ensure that the individuals As required by the Financial Conduct contribution to the long-term success Authority FCA, Tesco Bank has a ofthe Company is rewarded in a manner separate independent Remuneration that remains appropriate in the context Committee.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee and attendance at meetings Number of possible meetings Actual meetings attended Deanna Oppenheimer Committee Chair 6 6 Stuart Chambers 1 1 Ken Hanna 1 1 Mikael Olsson 6 6 Byron Grote 4 4 John Allan 6 6 Byron Grote joined the Committee with The Committee schedules meetings two effect from 24 July 2015.
Alison Platt was years in advance with six meetings typically appointed to the Tesco Board and joined in a year.
The Committee also convenes on the Committee on 1 April 2016.
Stuart an adhoc basis between formal meetings Chambers andKen Hanna stepped down when necessary.
The Directors biographies from the Board and the Committee at the can be found on pages 32 and 33 of this 2015 AGM.
Nomember of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the matters being decided, other than as a shareholder, nor any day-to-day involvement in running the business of Tesco.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 61 Directors remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report Remuneration Committee activities 2015 16 The following provides a summary ofthekey areas of focus at each of the Committees meetings during the year and shortly following the end of the financial year: April July Oct Dec Jan Feb April 2016 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 following the year-end Strategy Review of market trends andpolicy Consideration of remuneration strategy and policy Discussion about approach to DRR review of DRR Approval of DRR Review of shareholder feedback and votes from the AGM Salary review Review of salaries for Executive Directors and senior management Annual bonus Review of performance Determination of bonus outcome Consideration of measures and targets Setting of measures and targets PSP Review of performance Determination of vesting levels Consideration of measures and targets Setting of measures and targets Other Report from Tesco Bank Remuneration Committee Review of reward below Board Review of pension benefits Committee effectiveness review and review of terms of reference Professional development updates Remuneration advisor selection Regulatory developments Shareholder consultation Other issues as required Directors remuneration report.
Committee advisors Deloitte provided advice to management Paul Moore, the Company Secretary, is Remuneration advisors are appointed by the inrelation to below Board remuneration Secretary to the Committee.
The CEO Committee following a selection process and andimplementation of share plans.
Separate attends meetings at the invitation of the their roles are kept under review.
During the teams within Deloitte provided unrelated Committee.
Theyare not present when their year,  LLP PwC advisory services in respect ofcorporate own remuneration is being discussed.
The were appointed as independent Remuneration taxplanning, technology consulting, risk Committee is supported by Alison Horner Committee advisors by the Committee.
management, share schemes, international Chief People Officer as well as the Reward, The previous advisors, Deloitte LLP taxation, corporate finance, pension, treasury Corporate Secretariat and Finance functions.
Deloitte, were required to step down as and forensic services to the Group during a result of their appointment as auditor of the year.
Deloitte were also appointed Compliance the Group.
On Deloittes appointment as auditor atthe AGM in June 2015.
In carrying out its duties, the Remuneration auditor, atransition plan was put in place Committee gives full consideration to best while anewadvisor to the Committee was PwC is one of the founding members practice including investor guidelines.
This ensured that remuneration ofthe Remuneration Consultants Code Committee was constituted and operated advice provided by Deloitte was consistent ofConduct and adheres to this Code in its throughout the period in accordance with with ethical auditing guidelines and that dealings with the Committee.
The Committee the principles outlined in the Listing Rules of their independence as auditor was not is satisfied that the advice provided by PwC the Financial Conduct Authority.
Fees foradvice provided to is objective and independent.
The Committee report, set out on pages 77 to 84, covers the the Remuneration Committee for the year is comfortable that the PwC engagement disclosures referred to in this report that were 148,337 and 51,825 for PwC and partner and team that provide remuneration arespecified for audit by the Financial Conduct Deloitte respectively.
Fees are charged on advice to the Committee donot have Authority.
The report has been drawn a time and materials basis.
PwC provided connections with Tesco PLC that may impair upinaccordance with the UK Corporate advice to management in relation to the their independence.
The Committee reviewed Governance Code, Schedule 8 of the Large interpretation of the Remuneration the potential for conflicts of interest and judged and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Reporting Regulations, aswell as wider that there were appropriate safeguards against Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 market practice.
Separate teams within such conflicts.
Towers Watson also provided as updated in 2013 and the Financial PwC provided unrelated advisory services the Committee with benchmarking data and Conduct Authority Listing Rules.
in respect of corporate tax planning, transfer assessments during the year and fees for pricing, technology consulting and internal this were 9,000. audit services to the Group during the year.
62 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
