Turnaround priorities Regaining competitiveness Over the course of this year, we have food categories, reducing the total number The progress we have made is being worked hard to regain our competitiveness of product lines by 18%.
As well as making recognised.
We measure customer particularly in the UK.
To do this, we first the range easier for customers to shop, satisfaction through our Customer listened to our customers and understood this has helped us to increase on-shelf Viewpoint Survey a weekly measure what it was that they needed from their availability to record levels by providing thatcaptures direct customer feedback shopping trip.
more space for the products which are inevery store.
In total, we have seen an purchased most frequently.
improvement of 5% in the proportion They highlighted three main themes: ofcustomers rating overall service and These changes have been delivered by colleague helpfulness as excellent, and they wanted their shopping trip working closely with our supplier partners.
every individual measure below this has tobeeasier: Together, we have moved to a more efficient also improved.
and sustainable way of working, helping they wanted better availability usto further reduce prices for customers.
The clearest sign that we are more ontheproducts that matter most, In total, in the year we havebrought down competitive again is that more customers every day: and the cost of an average weekly shop by over are buying more things at Tesco.
In addition, by removing inefficiencies seen sales volumes and weekly transactions they wanted lower, more stable in the supply chain, we have been able to improve throughout the year, generating pricesthey can trust all of the time.
provide up totwo days more freshness in annual positive volume growth for the first our fruit and vegetables.
Volumes were up 3.3% Over the past year, we have responded.
and transactions were up 2.8% in the We simplified our store structures, investing As well as lower, more stable prices, fourth quarter.
in 9,000 more customer-facing roles in customers want complete peace of mind store.
We have reviewed the range of that they wont lose out at Tesco even We are encouraged by our progress but products we sell in every one of our 33 if the products they wish to buy are available weknow that there is a lot more we can do on promotion elsewhere.
They also prefer and that we can continue to become even simple, immediate value rather than more competitive by putting the customer vouchers.
In October, welaunched our at the heart of every decision we make.
unique Brand Guarantee, reassuring customers that if their branded shop could be found more cheaply elsewhere, we would take the money immediately off their bill.
Brand Guarantee If a customers branded grocery shop is cheaper at Asda, Morrisons or Sainsburys, when they buy 10 or more different products, we instantly take the money offthe bill at the till.
We even compare branded promotions, so customers can check out withconfidence there and then.
No vouchers, no waiting, no wondering if theres a better deal elsewhere.
Weve introduced this because its the right thing for customers and were very proud of it.
For more information visit www.
com brandguarantee 06 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Protecting the balance sheet We have made significant progress towards adopted a new approach to cash Property ownership our aim of protecting and strengthening payments to suppliers as part of our Our long-term aim is to increase the ownership of ourproperty the balance sheet this year, reducing our efforts to build trusted and transparent and reduce our exposure to total indebtedness by6.2bn.
A strong relationships: and index-linked and fixed-uplift balance sheet gives usmore flexibility inflation.
toinvest in improving theshopping trip increased our ownership of freehold forcustomers.
property, reducing exposure to In March 2015, we completed index-linked and fixed-uplift leases.
anasset swap with British Land, We have taken a number of actions regaining sole ownership of 21 superstores and in February to strengthen our position: We have begun to make a big cultural 2016, we regained sole ownership shiftin the way colleagues think about of 49 large stores and two repositioned the finances of the Group thefinances of the business, with a much distribution centres from Phoenix through the sale of our Homeplus improved understanding of the importance Life Assurance and the British business in Korea, which itself reduced of cash.
All colleagues are asked to think Airways Pension Fund.
total indebtedness by 4.1bn: about the impact they can have on improving These transactions increased the cash flow inthebusiness, whether that ourfreehold ownership ratio in provided sustainable benefits for be through reducing slow-moving stock in the UK & ROI by 6% to 47%and colleagues and a greater certainty on our warehouses ormaking our shop floor generated a saving infixed-uplift future cash requirements by replacing operations moreefficient.
and index-linked rent of 115m the UK defined benefit pension scheme per annum at current rental with a defined contribution scheme: Our firm focus on generating cash from levels.
our trading activities and maintaining We continue to evaluate improved the potential for medium-term discipline in our capital expenditure opportunities to further reduce our returns by consolidating the Central willbekey to making further progress exposure to indexed rent inflation.
European businesses: inprotecting and strengthening the balance sheet going forward.
taken a much more disciplined approach to capital investment anddelivered, asplanned, a significant reduction intotal expenditure: Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 07 Turnaround priorities continued Rebuilding trust and transparency Sadly, trust in our brand has been eroded Wealso became the first UK retailer to publish Dairy farmers in recent years.
Trust should never be payment terms with suppliers.
The groundbreaking Tesco Sustainable Dairy Group, set taken for granted and it will take time upin 2007, continues to give andperseverance to restore it fully.
The Supplier Network which we launched farmers fair prices and deals atthe start of 2015 has now grown to more fortheir milk.
We are working hard to rebuild that than 5,000 members, and we set up a special trustwith our colleagues, customers, helpline for suppliers to solve any issues that In our commitment todairy suppliers and other key stakeholders may arise within 48 hours.
farmers, all Tesco own-label standard-tier yoghurt is now andwant to build more open and made with milk sourced from transparent relationships.
Our latest Supplier Viewpoint measure of Britain with the exception of how suppliers view their relationships with those with protected origins We are giving customers lower, simpler Tesco recognises the positive impact of all including authentic Greek and more stable prices to ensure they can these changes.
The results show a significant yoghurt and French fromage trust Tesco to deliver the best shopping improvement year-on-year, increasing from frais.
This has seen us increase the amount of British milk in trip at the best price.
And having listened 51% to 68% in the UK and from 58% to ourstandard-range yoghurts to customer feedback, we are redirecting 70% for the Group as a whole.
from two-thirds to 100% and promotional spend into shelf-edge prices.
has increased the demand We have also made a number of changes formilk from farms across In addition, we have completely reorganised which aim to help shareholders and other thewholecountry.
InOctober stakeholders understand our performance.
2014, we drew a line under our past and These include much greater alignment We have also extended our financial support for First Milk started to reset the way we work.
We between the way we run the business farmers who supply milk for our refocused on new performance measures internally and the way we report our results own-label cheese to help cover and retrained our teams.
externally and a move to operating profit as production costs throughout our headline performance measure, adjusted thewinter and into the spring.
We have fundamentally changed the only for any large and distorting impacts.
way weoperate and have implemented significant initiatives that improve the Tescotodayis a very different business.
way we work with suppliers and our Weare proud of how our colleagues and Visit www.
com ar2016 to see more about our commercial culture, and simplify how suppliers have responded to the changes  we buy and sell.
Our customers arenoticing the differences too theyre enjoying We have completely changed our Product better service and buying moreof what team structure, focusing on getting the they need at Tesco.
And our journey will offer right for customers and prioritising continue, guided by our commitment to sales and total profit over margin rate.
serve shoppers a little better every day.
08 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 09
