Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Capital expenditure This year Last year UK & ROI 0.7bn 1.3bn This year, we closed more selling space International 0.3bn 0.4bn than we opened, leading to a net reduction Tesco Bank 0.1bn of 1.2 m sq.
ft. Group 1.0bn 1.8bn wasinthe UK & ROI.
Internationally, wereduced net space by 0.4 m sq.
ft. Capital expenditure was 1.0bn, a around 1.25bn including an increased asrepurposing of 0.4 m sq.
ft. of existing decrease of 0.8bn year-on-year, with spend to refresh UK stores andan space in Asia and 0.3 m sq.
ft. of closures lower spend ineach region.
Group accelerated store-opening programme in Europe more than offset our reduced capital expenditure in2016 17 will be in Thailand.
Property InterUK & ROI national Group 1 Property fully owned estimated surplus of 2.1bn over the Estimated market value 13.3bn 6.4bn 19.7bn netbook value, with our Group freehold 2 Net book value 12.6bn 5.0bn 17.6bn ownership percentage now 54%by value % net selling space owned 52% 71% 61% and 61% by selling space, an increase 3 % total property owned by value 47% 75% 54% of 5% by value and 3% by selling space 1 Stores, malls, investment properties, offices, distribution centres, fixtures and fittings and work-in-progress.
2 Property, plant and equipment excluding vehicles.
3 This estimated market value excludes our Excludes fixtures and fittings.
share of property joint ventures.
Including Our long-term aim is to increase the 6%to 47%.
These transactions resulted this, the valuation would increase by 0.2bn, ownership of our property and reduce our in a combined saving in fixed-uplift and net of the debt in the joint ventures.
exposure to index-linked and fixed-uplift index-linked rent of 115m perannum inflation.
The March 2015 asset swapwith at current rental levels.
The Group operating lease charge reduced British Land and February 2016 transactions by 10% in the year to 1.2bn and we with Phoenix Life Assurance and the The sale of our property assets within continue to evaluate opportunities tofurther British Airways Pension Fund, through the disposal of our business in Korea drove reduce our exposure to index-linked and which we regained sole ownership of 70 theyear-on-year reduction of 3.2bn in fixed-uplift rent inflation.
Based on current large stores and two distribution centres, the estimated market value of fully-owned rent, around three-quarters of our UK enabled us to increase the proportion property across the Group to 19.7bn lease charge relates to fixed-uplift or of freehold property inthe UK& ROI by at year-end.
Thisvaluation gives an index-linked rental agreements.
Outlook We have made good progress over the We are increasingly confident that last year.
We are continuing to invest in the actions we are taking are leading to our customer offer in order to improve sustainable improvements for customers our competitiveness in what remains a and will result in a continued improvement challenging, deflationary and uncertain in profitability and the creation of market.
This will be reflected in the pace long-term value for shareholders.
Alan Stewart Chief Financial Officer of improvement in profitability in the current year, particularly in the first half.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 19
