Directors remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report Further details of buyout awards Other policy information Schemes Trustees Limited or Tesco The Committees policy is that, where Risk management International Employee Benefit Trust in appropriate, awards forfeited on leaving a When developing the remuneration structures, which case the voting rights relating to previous employer should be bought out the Committee considered whether any theshares are exercisable by the Trustees taking intoaccount the expected level of aspect of these might encourage risk in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
Buyout awards should vest  behaviours that At 27 February 2016, the Trusts held over an equivalent period to awards forfeited.
areincompatible with Tescos values and 6,489,874 shares.
Alan Stewart Ifnecessary, the Committee would take Other disclosures In the 2014 15 Report, it was disclosed appropriate steps to address this.
Change in CEO remuneration that Alan Stewart would, during 2015 16, compared with changes in receive an award in respect of his 2014 15 Outside appointments employee remuneration Marks & Spencer Group PLC bonus Tesco recognises that its Executive Directors The following table illustrates the change forfeited.
This was to be based on the may be invited to become Non-executive in CEO salary, benefits and bonus between payment he would have received had Directors of other companies.
Such 2014 15 and 2015 16 compared with other heremained at M&S pro-rated for time Non-executive duties can broaden a UKcolleagues.
The Committee decided andwas to be paid 50% in cash and 50% Directors experience and knowledge, touse other UK colleagues for the purpose in Tesco shares deferred for three years.
of this disclosure as over half of Tescos The final award was made in June 2015 colleagues are based in theUK and the CEO under Listing Rule 9.4.
2. and is set out Subject to approval by the Board, is also predominantly based in the UK albeit in the table on the previous page.
The ExecutiveDirectors are allowed to accept with a global role and responsibilities.
The value of this award is236,232 pro-rated Non-executive appointments, provided Committee therefore considered that this for eight months, delivered half in cash that these appointments are not likely to is an appropriate comparator group given 118,116 and half through a grant of lead to conflicts of interest, and they may that pay changes across the Group depend nil cost options over 56,950 shares on retain the fees received.
Dave Lewis is a on local market conditions.
6 July 2015, calculated with reference to Non-executive Directorof Sky PLC and a market price of207.4 pence per share.
received fees of 92,500 during the year.
Tesco has a history of paying store colleagues This option will vest on6July 2018.
Awards Alan Stewart is a Non-executive Director well.
The Company has one of the highest accrue dividend equivalents and are subject ofDiageo PLC and received fees of 85,750 established hourly rates in the industry which to malus, in the circumstances set out on in the year.
is significantly above both the National page 66, until the shares are transferred.
Minimum and National Living Wage, and Funding of equity awards pays employees the same regardless of Payments to former Directors Executive Director incentive arrangements age.
Our total reward package for a typical audited are funded by a mix of newly issued shares customer assistant is ahead of the voluntary There were no payments made to former and shares purchased in the market.
Where Living Wage on a national basis.
The Company Directors that exceeded the fide minimis shares are newly issued, the Company is committed to rewarding colleagues with threshold of 10,000 set by the Company.
complies with Investment Association atotal reward package that they really There were no payments for loss of office dilution guidelines on their issue.
Tesco is working on ways to provide made to directors in the year.
current dilution usage of discretionary more choice between cash and benefits plans is 2.7% of shares in issue.
Where sothat employees can build a competitive shares are purchased in the market, these and valuable package that suits them.
may be held by Tesco Employee Share Salary Benefits Bonus CEO 0% -18% UK colleagues 0% 0% 58% For UK employees, including the CEO not include the Turnaround Bonus amounts.
bonus in 2014 15, no% increase is shown.
andCFO, there were no increases in salary For 2015 16, bonuses for UK eligible For the CEO, the bonus makesup a much or benefits in line with the salary budget colleagues have paid out at an average of greater proportion oftotal pay opportunity for the year.
With regards to bonus, a 84.65% of the maximum bonus opportunity, than for the general colleague population Turnaround Bonus, where colleagues may an increase of 58.41% compared to the such that more pay is atrisk and determined be rewarded up to5% of earnings should prior year.
The CEO bonus paid out at by overall Company performance.
In Tesco achieve its turnaround plan, was in 95.7% of maximum, reflecting excellent 2014 15, no bonus was awarded to the the year awarded to colleagues below performance which has laid the foundations CEO reflecting challenging trading senior management.
These were inthe form for sustainable recovery.
This also resulted conditions and an in-year appointment.
of shares being awarded up to the value of in asignificant year-on-year increase for 5% of their salary.
The above table does colleagues.
As the CEO did not receive a 58 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
