Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Directors report The Directors present their report, together agreements between holders ofsecurities with the audited accounts for the year ended that result in such restrictions.
Other information that is relevant to the Directors report, and which The Company was authorised by shareholders is incorporated by reference into this report, at the 2015 AGM topurchase its own can be located as follows: shares in the market up to a maximum of approximately 10% of its issued share Pages capital.
No shares were purchased under that authority during the financial year.
Future developments 01 to 27 The Company is seeking to renew the Greenhouse gas emissions 23 authority at the forthcoming AGM, Financial instruments and 119 to 127 within the limits set out in the notice financial risk management of that meeting.
Corporate governance report 30 to 47 Shares held by the Companys Employee Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule Share Incentive Plan Trust, International 9.8.
4R can be found on the following pages: Employee Benefit Trust, Tesco Ireland Share Bonus Scheme Trust and Tesco Pages Employee Share Scheme Trust, rank pari Statement of capitalised interest 103 and 110 passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Voting rights and rights Allotment for cash of equity 135 securities of acceptance of any offer relating to the Waiver of dividends 71 shares held in these trusts rests with the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation from the Company.
The Company has chosen, in accordance Voting rights are not exercisable by the with Section 414 C 11 of the Companies employees on whose behalf the shares Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors are held in trust.
report, to include certain matters in its Strategic report that would otherwise be The Company is not party to any significant required to be disclosed in this Directors agreements that would take effect, alter report.
The Strategic report can be found or terminate following a change of control on pages 01 to 27. of the Company.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or Group results officer that would provide compensation Group revenue exc.
VAT decreased by for loss ofoffice or employment resulting 2,492m to 54,433m, representing a from a takeover, except that provisions decrease of 4.4%.
Group profit before tax of the Companys share plans may cause was 162m from a loss before tax of 6,334m options andawards granted under such in 2014 15.
The profit forthe year including plans to vest on a takeover.
138m was attributable to equity holders of the Major shareholders parent company.
Information provided to the Company by major shareholders pursuant to the FCAs Dividends Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR The Board has decided not to recommend are published via a Regulatory Information the payment of a final dividend in respect Service and is available on the Companys of the year ended 27 February 2016. website.
The Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the DTR of the following Certain nominee companies representing interests in voting rights in its shares as our employee benefit trusts hold shares in at 27 February 2016 and as at the date the Company in connection with the operation of this report: of the Companys share plans and evergreen dividend waivers remain in place on shares % of issued % of issued held by them that have not been allocated share capital share capital to employees.
as at as at the 27 February date of this 2016 report Share capital and control of the Company Norges Bank 6.19 5.96 and significant agreements Deutsche Bank AG 5.28 5.28 Details of the Companys share capital, including changes during the year in the BlackRock, Inc. 5.01 5.01 issued share capital and details of the rights Schroders plc 5.003 4.991 attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in Note 27 on page 135.
No Articles of Association shareholder holds securities carrying special The Companys Articles of Association may rights with regards to control of the Company.
only be amended byspecial resolution at There are no restrictions on voting rights a general meeting of the shareholders.
or the transfer of securities in the Company and theCompany is not aware of any Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 71 Directors report continued Directors and their interests for all colleagues regardless of factors such The biographical details of the current as gender, marital status, race, age, sexual serving Directors are set outon pages 32 preference and orientation, colour, creed, and 33.
The Directors who served during ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability the year were: John Allan: Mark Armour: including colleagues who become disabled Sir Richard Broadbent: Gareth Bullock: during service or trade union affiliation.
Patrick Cescau: Stuart Chambers: Richard All decisions arebased on merit.
Cousins: Byron Grote: Ken Hanna: Dave Lewis: Mikael Olsson: Deanna Oppenheimer: We are working continually to improve the and Alan Stewart.
With effect from 1 April communication channels we use to engage, 2016, Simon Patterson, Alison Platt and consult, inform and connect with colleagues, Lindsey Pownall joined the Board of Directors.
both to enable awareness of the financial The interests of Directors and their immediate and economic factors affecting the Groups families in the shares of Tesco PLC, along performance and to ensure our colleagues with details of Directors share options, are voices are heard.
Our colleagues feedback contained in the Directors remuneration is important to us and we recognise that to report set out on pages 48 to 70. drive our business forward we must respond to their feedback to ensure they are engaged At no time during the year did any of the in the decisions we make for the business.
Directors have a material interest in any significant contract with the Company We actively encourage colleagues to become or any of its subsidiaries.
A qualifying involved in the financial performance of third-party indemnity provision as defined our business through a variety of voluntary in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 share schemes.
is in force for the benefit of each of the Directors and the Company Secretary Political donations who is also a Director of certain subsidiaries The Group did not make any political of the Company in respect of liabilities donations 2014 15: nil orincur any incurred as a result of their office, to the political expenditure during the year extent permitted by law.
liabilities for which Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Compliance with the Groceries Supply Directors and Officers liability insurance Chain Practices Market Investigation policy throughout the financial year.
Order 2009 and the Groceries Supply Code of Practice the Code Employment policies The Code places obligations on grocery This year we have made significant progress retailers with a turnover greater than in updating and revising our people policies 1 billion to maintain a Code compliance to provide our colleagues with direct access programme, which includes training staff and providing information to the Competition tothe information they need to help and and Markets Authority.
In addition, the Code support them at work.
Weare making it sets outa number of provisions which relate simpler for colleagues to put our customers to different aspects of therelationship first and serve Britains shoppers a little between a retailer and supplier.
better every day by giving them easily accessible policies and information on The Code establishes an overarching our intranet.
Werecognise the importance principle that retailers must deal with of a fair, honest and transparent culture, their suppliers fairly and lawfully.
Specific and we are working together with our obligations include giving reasonable recognised trade union in the UK, Usdaw, notice in circumstances such as changes to ensure our policies are right for our to supply chain procedures and when ceasing business and that they support our people.
or significantly reducing purchases from a Further details can be found onpage 21. supplier.
The Code also contains a number of provisions relating to payments by suppliers, We have fully revised our Equal Opportunities, including obligations for retailers to pay Diversity and Inclusion policies, to give both suppliers without delay and a prohibition our managers and colleagues up-to-date on certain types of payments, such as information about working in, and supporting, those for shrinkage.
a diverse environment recognising the talents that different colleagues bring to our business In our last Annual Report we acknowledged and supporting them as individuals.
We pride our conclusion that there had been a number ourselves on having an inclusive environment of instances of probable breaches of the Code where colleagues are treated with dignity which fell short of the high standards we and respect.
By encouraging diversity, and expect to uphold in our dealings with our employing people with different experiences, suppliers.
The Groceries Code Adjudicator backgrounds and talent, we aim to reflect GCA, Christine Tacon, made consistent the customers and communities we serve findings in her report into historic supplier and strengthen and grow as a business.
issues at Tesco, published in January 2016.
Our selection, training, development and promotion policies ensure equal opportunities 72 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information During the last year we have publicly The Groups investment in Lazada apologised to our suppliers and was recognised as an available-for-sale fundamentally changed the way we financial asset at 27 February 2016 with work with them, addressing the historic a total carrying value of 121m which practices referred to in the report.
The represented a 19.6% stake on a fully GCA acknowledged that the overwhelming diluted basis.
Following the transaction, majority of suppliers she spoke to as part which also involved the issue of new capital ofher investigation are now more positive by Lazada, the Group retains an 8.3% on towards Tesco compared to the period a fully diluted basis investment in Lazada.
We are currently This investment is subject to a put call working on theimplementation of the option giving the Group theright to sell GCAs recommendations.
and Alibaba the right to buy at fair market value inthe following 12 to 18 months.
Outside oftheinvestigation and report, we have continued our positive engagement Directors statement of disclosure of with the GCA and her office.
Both our information to auditor Group Chief Executive and Chief Product Having made the requisite enquiries, the Officer have met with the GCA to share Directors in office at the date of this Annual the changes we are making in our business, Report and Financial Statements have each and our legal team have briefed their confirmed that, so far as they are aware, counterparts in the GCAs office ahead there is no relevant audit information as of announcements such as publishing our defined by Section 418 of the Companies payment terms for all suppliers.
Act2006 of which the Groups auditor is unaware, and each ofthe Directors has Our Code Compliance Officer has also taken all the steps he she ought to have continued to take an activeand visible taken asa Director to make himself herself role during the year and regularly reports aware of any relevant audit information to ourCompliance Committees and and to establish that the Groups auditor is Audit Committee.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in This year, 16 Code-related complaints accordance with the provisions of Section were raised by suppliers.
As at 27 February 418 oftheCompanies Act 2006.
2016, all complaints had either been resolved through discussion with the Cautionary statement regarding suppliers concerned, or withdrawn, forward-looking information although one complaint has since been Where this document contains reopened after the supplier contacted us forward-looking statements, these are after the end of the reporting year.
In 13 made by the Directors in good faith based instances, the complaints were referred on the information available to them at the to our Code Compliance Officer, and 6 of time of their approval of thisreport.
These those 13 cases were raised simultaneously statements should be treated with caution with the suppliers buying contact.
A formal dueto the inherent risks and uncertainties dispute was only raised in one matter and underlying any such forward-looking was referred to the GCA for arbitration, information.
The Group cautions investors but resolved directly between us and the that anumber of factors, including matters supplier before arbitration commenced.
referred to in this document, could cause actual results todiffer materially from Going concern and viability those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not The Directors consider that the Group and limited to, those discussed under Principal the Company have adequate resources to risks and uncertainties on pages 24 to 27. remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to By order of the Board adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors to assess and report on the prospects of the Group over a longer period.
This Longer Term Viability Paul Moore Statement is set out on page 27.
Company Secretary 12 April 2016 Events after the balance sheet date On 12 April 2016, the Group announced the disposal of an 8.6% stake on a fully diluted basis in Lazada Group S. A. Lazada to Alibaba Group Holding Limited Alibaba for gross cash consideration of US$129m 90m.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 73 74 T Te es sc co P o PL LC A C An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 16 6
