THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 95 OTHER DISCLOSURES SHARE CAPITAL POWERS OF DIRECTORS The Company has the following three classes of shares in issue: The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles.
The Directors were authorised at the 2016 AGM to allot shares equal to Number of shares in issue at approximately one-third of the Companys issued share capital as at 30 September 4 January 2016 ortwo-thirds in respect of a rights issue.
The Directors Name 2016 were also given the power to allot Ordinary Shares for cash up to a limit representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued share Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each 1,535,851,316 capital at 4 January 2016 without first offering them to existing Deferred Shares of 0.09 each 934,981,938 Shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings however more Deferred Shares of 1 each 50,000 than 5% can only be used in connection of with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
Ordinary Shares The Ordinary Shares carry the right to the profits of the Company SHARE TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up The Articles are designed to ensure that the number of the Companys of the Company.
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to attend and shares held by non-EEA nationals does not reach a level which could speak at general meetings of the Company: each share holds the jeopardise the Companys entitlement to continue to hold or enjoy right to one vote.
The Ordinary Shares are admitted to the premium the benefit of any authority, permission, licence or privilege which segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock it, or any of its subsidiaries, holds or enjoys and which enables an Exchanges main market.
air service to be operated each an Operating Right.
In particular, Employees who hold shares under the Thomas Cook BAYE or vested EC Council Regulation 1008 2008 on the licensing of air carriers shares under any of the Companys executive share plans, are sent a requiresthat an air carrier must be majority-owned and effectively Form of Instruction by the relevant trustee in respect of any general controlled by EEA nationals.
meetings of the Company, so that they may instruct the trustee to The Articles allow the Directors, from time to time, to set a Permitted vote on their behalf.
Maximum on the number of the Companys shares which may Deferred Shares be owned by non-EEA nationals at such level as they believe is in compliance with the Operating Rights, provided that the Permitted Both classes of Deferred Shares carry no right to the profits of the Maximum shall not be less than 40% of the total number of Company.
On a winding up, the holders of the Sterling-denominated issued shares.
Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each Sterling-denominated Deferred Share and the The Company maintains a separate register the Separate Register holders of the Euro-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled of shares in which non-EEA nationals, whether individuals, bodies to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each Eurocorporate or other entities have an interest such shares are referred denominated Deferred Share only after the holders of the Ordinary to as Relevant Shares in the Articles.
An interest in this context Shares and Sterling-denominated Deferred Shares have received, in is widely defined see below.
The Directors may require relevant aggregate, the amounts paid up thereon.
The holders of both classes members or other persons to provide them with information to of Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak enable them to determine whether shares are, or are to be treated orvote whether on a show of hands or on a poll at general meetings as, Relevant Shares.
If such information is not provided, then the of the Company.
Directors will be able, at their discretion, to determine that shares to which their enquiries relate be treated as Relevant Shares.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Registered Shareholders will also be obliged to notify the Company The Companys Articles of Association the Articles may only if they are aware either a that any share they hold ought to be be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of treated as a Relevant Share for this purpose or b that any share Shareholders.
The Articles are available on the Companys website they hold which is treated as a Relevant Share should no longer be atwww.
In this case, the Directors shall request such information and evidence as they require to satisfy themselves that the share should not be treated as a Relevant Share and, on receipt of such evidence, shall remove particulars of the share from the Separate Register.
If the Directors determine that such action is necessary to protect any Operating Right due to the fact that an Intervening Act an Intervening Act being the refusal, withholding, suspension or revocation of any Operating Right or the imposition of materially FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 96 GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED inhibiting conditions or limitations on any Operating Right in either The Permitted Maximum is currently set at 45%.
This Permitted case, by any state or regulatory authority has taken place or is Maximum may be varied by the Directors.
If the Directors resolve contemplated, threatened or intended, or the aggregate number of to vary the Permitted Maximum to deal with shares as Affected Relevant Shares is such that an Intervening Act may occur or the Shares or relax the ownership limitations, they shall publish in at ownership or control of the Company is such that an Intervening Act least one national newspaper in the UK and in any other country in may occur, the Directors may, among other things: which the shares are listed notice of the determination and of any Permitted Maximum.
identify those shares that give rise to the need to take action and treat such shares as affected shares Affected Shares see below : The Directors shall publish, from time to time: or information as to the number of shares particulars of which have set a Permitted Maximum on the number of Relevant Shares that been entered on the Separate Register: and may subsist at any time which may not, save in the circumstances any Permitted Maximum that has been specified.
referred to below, be lower than 40% of the total number of issued shares and treat any Relevant Shares in excess of this Permitted The Directors may not register any person as a holder of shares Maximum as Affected Shares see below.
The Directors may serve unless such person has furnished to the Directors a declaration, a notice an Affected Share Notice in respect of any Affected together with such evidence as the Directors may require, stating Share.
An Affected Share Notice can, if it so specifies, have the a the name and nationality of any person who has an interest in any effect of depriving the registered holder of the right to attend, vote such share and, if the Directors require, the nature and extent of such and speak at general meetings which they would otherwise have interest or b such other information as the Directors may from time had as a consequence of holding such shares.
Such an Affected to time determine.
Share Notice can, if it so specifies, also require the recipient to The Directors may decline to register any person as a Shareholder dispose of the Affected Shares so that the Relevant Shares will if satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming.
then cease to be Affected Shares within 21 days or such longer Existing holders of shares will be recorded on the Special Register period as the Directors may determine.
The Directors are also unless and until they have certified, to the satisfaction of the given the power to sell such Affected Shares themselves where Company, that they are EEA nationals.
there is non-compliance with an Affected Share Notice at the best price reasonably obtainable at the relevant time on behalf A person shall be deemed to have an interest in relation to Thomas ofthe Shareholder.
Cook Group plc shares if: such person has an interest that would subject as provided below In deciding which shares are to be dealt with as Affected Shares, be taken into account, or which they would be taken as having, in the Directors, in their sole opinion, will determine which Relevant determining for the purposes of Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 Shares may give rise to the fact of risk of an Intervening Act occurring whether a person has a notifiable interest: or and, subject to any such determination, will have regard to the they have any such interest as is referred to in Part 22 of the chronological order in which particulars of Relevant Shares have Companies Act 2006, but shall not be deemed to have an interest been, or are to be, entered in the Separate Register unless to do so in any shares in which their spouse or any infant, child or stepchild would, in the sole opinion of the Directors, be inequitable.
If there or, in Scotland, pupil or minor of theirs is interested by virtue of is a change in any applicable law or the Company or any subsidiary that relationship or which they hold as a bare or custodian trustee receives any direction, notice or requirement from any state or under the laws of England, or as a simple trustee under the laws regulatory authority, which, in either case, necessitates such action ofScotland, and interest shall be construed accordingly.
to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act, then the Directors may either: As at 30 September 2016, 493,575,361 Ordinary Shares 32.14% were lower the Permitted Maximum to the minimum extent that they held on the Separate Register.
consider necessary to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act: or resolve that any Relevant Shares shall be treated as Affected Shares.
The rights of the Directors referred to above apply until such time as the Directors resolve that grounds for the making of a determination have ceased to exist, whereupon the Directors must withdraw such determination.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 97 PROVISIONS OF CHANGE OF CONTROL MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS The Company has in place i a facilities agreement the Agreement The table below shows notifications of major shareholdings received which consists of 500 million revolving credit facility and by the Company in accordance with rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance 300 million bilateral bonding and guarantee facilities and ii a and Transparency Rules: 150 million contingent bond facility the CBF.
Both the Agreement Percentage and the CBF provide that, on any change of control of the Company, Voting of issued Percentage rights capital % Voting of issued the lenders under the Agreement and the CBF, as applicable, are as at as at rights capital % 30 September 30 September as at 21 as at 21 obligated to negotiate for a period not exceeding 30 days, unless Name 2016 2016 November 2016 November 2016 extended by agreement for a further period not exceeding 30 days terms for continuing the facilities but, where agreement on new Invesco Ltd 307,216,030 20.00 307,216,030 20.00 terms cannot be reached, any such lender is entitled to: i receive Standard Life a repayment of amounts owing to such lender: ii cancel all of its Investments Ltd 199,190,734 12.97 200,265,693 13.039 commitments under the Agreement or the CBF, as applicable: and FPI UK Limited Fosun 125,250,106 8.16 138,387,576 9.01 or, in the case of the Agreement only iii under certain conditions Marathon Asset demand immediate credit support.
Management LLP 77,257,909 5.03 77,257,909 5.03 The Company also has 300 million 7.75% guaranteed notes due 2017, The Capital Group 77,168,099 5.02 77,168,099 5.02 of which approximately 200 million remain outstanding.
Upon the Orbis Holdings Limited 76,913,182 5.01 76,633,091 4.99 occurrence of certain change of control events relating to the Jupiter Asset Company and then only if certain rating conditions in respect ofthe Management Limited 77,119,203 5.02 Below 5% Below 5% relevant notes are met, each holder has the option to require the Company to redeem or at the option of the Company to purchase the DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER notes of such holder at par value plus accrued interest.
4 The Companys subsidiary, Thomas Cook Finance plc, has outstanding There is no information to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
525 million 7.75% senior notes due 2020 and 400 million 6.75% senior notes due 2021.
On the occurrence of certain change of control GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS events relating to the Company, each holder has the option to require Information in respect of greenhouse gas emissions have been Thomas Cook Finance plc the issuer of these notes to repurchase all included in the Sustainability section of the Strategic Report on pages or any part of the holders notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 26 to 28.
101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION POLITICAL DONATIONS Disclosures in respect of the employment of disabled people and The Company did not make any political donations during the financial employee involvement can be found on pages 23 and 24 of the year 2015: nil.
The Strategic Report and Directors Report comprising pages 4 to 97 have been approved and are signed by order of the Board by: ALICE MARSDEN GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY 22 November 2016 Registered office 3rd Floor, South Building 200 Aldersgate London EC1A 4HD Registered number 6091951 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
