4 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS TODAY These geopolitical events have not stopped ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT POLITICAL AND REGULATORY customers wanting to go on holiday.
ENVIRONMENT According to OECD estimates, world GDP Much ofwhat we see tells us that customers is forecast to grow by 3.2 per cent in 2017.
It is widely recognised that the tourism value the security and peace of mind that The travel and tourism sector continues to industry is a highly regulated environment comes with travelling with a trusted package grow ahead of the global economy and is within the European Union.
Despite repeated shocks in expected to grow four per cent on average The UKs decision in June 2016 to exit the 2016, countries within Europe saw a three annually over the next ten years, according EU brings regulatory changes which may per cent rise in international tourism arrivals to industry forecasts.
affect our business in different ways.
in the first six months of the year.
Customers appetite for overseas travel is The negotiation process for Britains exit Within our source markets, the OECD returning to pre-recession levels, underpinned is expected to start in spring 2017, and we estimates that the Eurozone is forecast to by improving household finances and helped are working with governments across our grow by 1.4 per cent, with our largest market by the lowest oil prices in more than a markets and the EU institutions to make sure within it, Germany, just ahead at 1.5 per cent.
Over 2015, the UN World Tourism travel remains as seamless as possible after UK GDP is expected to rise by one per cent Organisation reported that global international the exit is complete.
in 2017, revised down following Brexit, while tourist arrivals grew by 4.6 per cent to Where many of our competitors were more Sweden, Denmark and Norway are forecast reach 1.2 billion, with arrivals into European vocal in campaigning during the referendum, at 2.8, 1.8 and 1.3 per cent respectively.
China, countries recording growth at five per cent.
we see it as our role to manage the outcome the market for our joint venture with Fosun, International tourist arrivals are expected and make sure all of our customers have the is due to grow 6.2 per cent over 2017. to grow 3.8 per cent per year between 2010 best possible access to holidays at the best and 2020.
Within the expanding leisure travel possible price, wherever they choose to go.
sector, package travel is more popular now than a decade ago and continues to grow.
As the UK Government looks to make the UK more competitive, we are making the Leisure travel is an industry heavily exposed case for the part that travel can play.
Our business has been The Government has announced a welcome affected by shocks in destination countries, decision to expand at Heathrow Airport most notably in Turkey, where tourism and we will be looking to work with the visitor numbers declined by 31 per cent over Government to develop an aviation policy the summer months compared with 2015. framework to ensure airports across the UK Demand for holidays across North Africa can grow sustainably.
remains subdued: Tunisia remained closed to UK tourist arrivals, as did Sharm el Sheikh airport in Egypt, substantially affecting passenger volume to other resorts in the country.
Source: Office of National Statistics.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 5 A cut to Air Passenger Duty would deliver a The PTD represents a regulatory levelling of There has been no substantive progress on reform to regulation 261 concerning air more competitive UK.
To this end we continue the playing field for travel businesses, by to campaign for a significant cut to this introducing a widened scope of protection for passenger rights.
We continue to make the case for reform as the EU institutions work barrier to growth.
This means that operators who has recognised the competitiveness only provide dynamically packaged or clickto come to a resolution on key aspects of the proposals.
We have made significant argument and has announced that they through booking arrangements will face the will reduce APD by 50 per cent in 2018 same regulatory burden that Thomas Cook progress to reduce long delays in our airline to mitigate impacts.
Our priority is to ensure with a view to abolishing it altogether.
has faced as a package tour organiser.
We will continue to work with the Scottish clear and consistent consumer rights, while The new linked travel arrangement introduced avoiding a harmful burden to the industry Government as they implement this change.
in the Directive will offer further consumer which may result in cost to the customer.
Across our markets, the process of protections to holiday arrangements.
implementing the European Package Travel Regulators across Europe willbe looking at The EUs continued march to implement the Directive has begun, with proposals put how precisely to implementthis new approach.
digital single market will affect how digital forward in key markets.
The implementation business is carried out across borders The UK Government has confirmed it intends deadline is 1 January 2018, with full in Europe, by allowing customers to buy to implement the Directive in full, despite the compliance by 1 July.
online unaffected by national boundaries.
It has however allowed While still in early stages, we are working itself space for further reform once the UK with governments to prepare our business has left the EU.
to maximise the opportunities and mitigate the challenges.
We are working with regulators across markets to ensure the implementation of the Directive works for Thomas Cook and its customers.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
