12 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGY OWN-BRAND HOTELS AND RESORTS Our own-brand hotels and resorts and attract a new generation of customers OUR PROGRESS IN 2016 arekeyto our growth strategy.
Our aim is to open a further Our focus in the past year has been two Casa Cook hotels in the next two years on strengthening our own-brand hotel They give us a higher degree of control and a new Sunwing Ocean Beach Club offering: actively managing our portfolio for and management over customers holiday in Cyprus.
quality using the Net Promoter Score NPS experience, ensuring we provide a and feedback from our Quality Academy.
consistency of high quality and service which We increased sales of holidays to our We ended 2016 with 190 own-brand hotels, reflects the best of Thomas Cook, while own-brand hotels by 18 per cent year-ontaking out 16 underperforming hotels generating better returns for the business.
year excluding holidays to Turkey, Egypt which did not meet the standards we set.
and Tunisia, where volumes fell due to To achieve this we are transforming our Reflecting the importance of the division, we geopolitical disruption.
Hotels and Resorts division into a hotel appointed a dedicated leadership team for management company.
This sits at the heart Crucially, the progress that weve made in Hotels and Resorts to put in place a pipeline of our holiday offering.
2016 is reflected in our customer feedback.
Over the next two Across our own-brand hotels, NPS is years were opening at least 14 more ownOur target is to share more own-brand seven points higher than 2015.
Against last brand hotels to build our portfolio.
hotels across source markets and increase summers NPS measure, Sentido is up occupancy so more hotels become exclusive The launch of our newest hotel brand Casa eight points, Smartline is up seven points, to Thomas Cook.
As branded hotel revenue Cook this May in Rhodes was a significant SunConnect up two points and our Sunprime increases as a proportion of Group revenue development.
We also opened a new Ocean and Sunwing hotels up fourteen and four we will generate better margins and a better Beach Club part of our family concept, points respectively.
Sunwing in Gran Canaria see case study opposite.
These hotel brands, with a focus on design, food and lifestyle, are examples of the way we are adapting to extend our reach NET PROMOTER SCORES NPS 1 4pts 8pts 7pts NPS measure NPS measure NPS measure 2016: 68,8 2015: 55,1 2016: 50,5 2015: 42,8 2016: 19,4 2015: 12,9 4pts 2pts NEW!
NPS measure NPS measure NPS measure 2016: 53,5 2015: 49,9 2016: 31,4 2015: 29,8 2016: 69.1 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 13 CASE STUDY PETER GRANDELL DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS & PRODUCT, HOTELS & RESORTS Our Ocean Beach Club OBC hotel concept The hotel is full of clean design elements and The big surprise for us since opening is an extension of our family-focused its quiet with lots of space.
Its luxury, but OBCGran Canaria was that 55 per cent of own-brand hotel, Sunwing.
We discovered the sort of luxury that comes with comfort customers hadnt actually travelled with from customer feedback and research that at an affordable price.
Having thought wed there was an appetite for something more just see repeat bookings from Sunwing We also follow the latest trends in food and exclusive.
So we created OBC as a way to customers, this was really unexpected.
beverage, using locally-sourced ingredients bring luxury for the modern family.
Werevery proud that the hotel is extending and offering more specialist menus, on top our appeal, but not totally surprised.
I believe We opened our second OBC in Gran Canaria of the quality traditional options customers that OBC delivers a level of quality family in December 2015.
The hotel provides all expect.
Theres a focus on health and hotel that you just cant get anywhere else.
the quality basics our customers expect, wellbeing that sits at the very heart of as well as something special the sort of the concept.
small touches that arent necessarily found As an own-brand hotel, OBC is exclusive to in normal hotels.
This includes tasteful Thomas Cook.
Initially it was only available apartments, many with their own pool through our Nordic tour operator but from access, great workout facilities, a kids club, next year it will also be available to British plus plenty for older children to do.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 14 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGY OUR HOLIDAY OFFERING Our holiday offering, with our own-brand This unique care package also includes our PROGRESS IN 2016 hotels and resorts at the heart, is focused 24 Hour Satisfaction Promise see opposite In 2016 we reduced the number of partner on a defined portfolio of hotels chosen on for details.
hotels in our core portfolio by 285 to 3,518 at the basis of quality and high standards.
year end, reflecting good progress towards We continue to improve internal standards our target of 2,900 by 2019.
We know we are able to have a greater and rolled out a new training programme influence over the customer experience in to all 1,300 in-destination staff to increase Sales of holidays to own-brand and partner these hotels, differentiating the Thomas awareness of health and safety.
hotels increased by eight per cent excluding Cook holiday from competitors and growing holidays to Turkey, Egypt and Tunisia, where Airlines customer loyalty and recommendations.
volumes fell due to geopolitical disruption, In a difficult market, we achieved success At the same time, holidays to these properties compared to the previous year, reflecting with the expansion of our successful long deliver higher than average selling prices continuing strong demand for these higher haul offer.
We launched 10 new long haul and margin.
routes in the year, including Manchester We also recognise the role that our airline to Los Angeles and Frankfurt to Austin, In summer 2016, 37 per cent of our hotels plays in our customers holidays and were being sold across more than one of and announced new routes for 2016 2017 we continue to enhance the customer including London to Cape Town and Munich our business segments, compared with just flight experience on their journeys with 7per cent two years ago.
As we continue to to Barbados.
We arebuilding out the choice of improve group-wide destination planning, The work weve done to refresh the fleet destinations, particularly in long haul, as weexpect to make further progress in this and improve the customer experience weseek to profitably grow seat-only sales.
area in 2017. has delivered significant improvements in customer satisfaction with NPS across our As part of a unique care package that helps differentiate our holiday offering from the airlines up four points in the year.
We also made a number of operational improvements, competition, all own-brand and partner hotels operate enhanced checks on health including reducing the number of customers impacted by long delays by 34 per cent.
From next year, this core portfolio will be audited annually and we are working with Capita to bring them all in line with UK gas safety standards.
We also committed to increase our investment in health and safety with a doubling in spend, and expanded our internal resource by 50 per cent.
REVENUE FROM HOLIDAYS TO OWN-BRAND AND PARTNER HOTELS OWN-BRAND AND PARTNER m FY16 3,577 m 3,302 FY15 OWN-BRAND m 576FY16 m 489FY15 Excluding holidays to Turkey, Egypt and Tunisia, where volumes fell due to geopolitical disruption.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 15 CASE STUDY 24 Hour Satisfaction Promise SARAH WIEDEMANN PROJECT MANAGER FOR THE 24 HOUR SATISFACTION PROMISE The 24 Hour Satisfaction Promise has The most common issues involve mistakes We need to live and work with the promise.
made a big impact this season.
For our in the room allocation, such as the wrong Its already started to feel like business as customers its a commitment from us to room type.
Sometimes there are issues with usual.
Our reps are coming up with new solve any potential issues in a specific the descriptions in our brochures not fully solutions to problems and they have the timeframe, making sure they can get matching the hotel, but we put in lot of work tools to make things as straightforward as back to having the carefree holiday they before the 2016 season to make sure were possible.
Our new issues logging system deserve.
It also really motivates our getting much better at that.
means we can record our performance reps who know we need to be quick and as a team and measure how our reps The project team are constantly reviewing creative to resolve any issues within solve customer problems, and how happy our customer satisfaction surveys to 24 hours.
our customers are with the way were identify issues.
They work with our quality helping them.
The promise is helping us gain customer department so that were really collaborating trust and deliver on our customer promises.
across teams and with the hotels as we try Next year, were going to have more hotels Were also building strong relationships to make things even better.
and source markets with the 24 hour between reps and hoteliers who are promise and Im 100% sure this means our collaborating with us to solve problems guests satisfaction will increase.
Weve had great feedback this season on the progress were making with complaints handling and problem solving.
24 HOURS PROMISE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 16 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGY ADDED-VALUE SERVICES AND STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS As part of our strategy to offer PROGRESS IN 2016 Partnerships customersa more personalised holiday Services To enable us to continue to offer a wide experience, we are increasing our offer choice of holidays to customers while We have continued to roll out services ofrelevant added-value services.
keeping our focus on our core offering, in to customers across the Group which autumn we agreed a strategic partnership These include travel and booking insurance, allow them to personalise the holiday with global online hotel provider Webjet.
airline meals and seat selection, extra experience.
This builds upon the success The agreement means that the responsibility luggage, private transfers, room upgrades, that our Northern Europe business has for the majority of this wider group of hotels excursions and entertainment while had by providing a greater level of flexibility is outsourced, reducing our cost and helping in destination.
in the packages that it offers customers.
us to focus on growing volume into our Where weoffer this flexibility, such as a We also strike strategic partnerships where core hotels.
It also brings a higher degree of five-day meal package at an all-inclusive we can leverage the strength of our brand, consistency as Webjet will take responsibility resort or allowing opt-in for transfers where both to enable us to widen our offering to for managing an improved health and safety our guests prefer to take a taxi, the response customers in a more efficient way, and to tap audit process.
from our customers has been very positive.
This approach allows us to offer a lower In September, we launched Thomas Cook Our joint venture JV with Fosun to create starting price for our holidays and to better China to tap into the growing Chinese travel compete with the fide-packaged holiday Thomas Cook China gives us access to a market, as Chinese consumers start to move growing leisure market.
Aided by strong market, while achieving a greater take-up away from traditional group tours towards of the value added services which give our local knowledge, we believe we have the more premium, personalised experiences.
opportunity to develop the JV into a profitable customers a tailor-made holiday experience.
cn, source market for leisure customers.
Thomas Cook China has launched 90 holiday This ancillaries programme has delivered packages across more than 40 destinations 12 million of benefits for FY16 across the including South East Asia, Europe and the Group.
See case study opposite for more Americas.
The joint venture will collaborate ofthis work.
with the Thomas Cook Group in our markets across Europe to promote China as a destination for global leisure and corporate customers.
This includes tailor-made tours and new and innovative travel routes for leisure travellers, as well as catering for the growing meetings, incentives, conferences and events market.
CONTROLLED DISTRIBUTION BY SALES 67% 66% FY16 FY15 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 17 CASE STUDY Sales of value-add holiday extras CHRISTIAN FUNK GROUP ANCILLARY DIRECTOR Over 2016 we have widened the choice Particular progress has been made with This work has helped to achieve a nine of additional services available for tour allocated seats, extra luggage and in-flight per cent increase in ancillary sales to tour operator customers travelling on our own meals.
In January we introduced aircraft operator customers across the Group.
By offering a range of optional seat maps within the booking process for Most importantly, our customers are able extras, customers can tailor their journey our Northern European customers, allowing to have more control over their holiday to and take advantage of upgrades available them to purchase their preferred seats suit their own preferences, and enjoy a while opting out of services that do not online.
This successful launch was adapted personalised, tailor-made experience.
suit their preferences, making sure theyre in Germany so that all booking agents only paying for what is important to them third-party and Thomas Cook had seat and their family.
We will have an online seat map available in most markets by early 2017.
Following last years work in the Netherlands to give customers the choice to take cabin bags only, Belgium has now followed suit.
For meal plans, Condor now allows customers to choose whether to eat on board, only paying for meals if they want them.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 18 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGY EFFICIENCIES AND STREAMLINED STRUCTURE Underpinning everything we do is Group Airlines has also made progress OUR PROGRESS IN 2016 a rigorous focus on costs, as we harmonising suppliers in various categories We made significant progress in the past continue to build a more efficient including catering, ground handling and 12 months in breaking down the silos andeffective business.
It has also rolled out the between individual markets and establishing Group wide integrated commercial system strong horizontal functions.
Key to this By optimising our Group structure we can Altea which will show benefits in 2017. was the creation of a new combined Group bring the wealth of expertise and best Digital and Marketing function.
This reflects practice which exists in Thomas Cook to bear All this has helped deliver efficiencies changing consumer habits and allows us to across the Group while reducing duplication across the Group.
In the UK, particular further develop our use of digital and social and unnecessary cost.
progress has been made through changes media to better target potential and existing to IT infrastructure, finance transformation The Group is working to embed a matrix customers throughout the year.
Central Europe achieved structure where horizontal Group functions savings through marketing efficiency and We have also appointed a Chief of Source interact with vertical source market local IT initiatives, as well as cost reductions Markets, responsible for aligning the activity businesses, helping to reduce complexity in our retail brands.
The success of this and through the key source markets of the UK, and duplication, while improving the way we other work on efficiencies has seen 98 per Continental Europe, Northern Europe and the share best practice across the Group.
cent of FY18 targets for cost reductions Western Region and Russia, with the Digital achieved in 2016. and Marketing, Hotels and Resorts, and Commercial Products functions.
In addition, we have also appointed a dedicated Chief of Hotels and Resorts who is charged with developing the next phase of the Hotels and Resorts business, reflecting its importance to our strategy.
Through the matrix we have reduced costs in IT by harmonising platforms across the Group while implementing initiatives which have led to better service and better delivery of projects.
COST REDUCTION TARGETS FY18 98% FY18 targets for efficiencies achieved in 2016 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 19 CASE STUDY Achieving efficiencies in Continental Europe STEFANIE BERK MD CENTRAL EUROPE As part of our strategy to reduce We started off by analysing and reviewing This will be accompanied by a centralised organisational complexity and remove allongoing projects within the three set-up for brochure production and unified duplication, weve been working on how markets.
By March, wed created an back office functions like Finance and IT.
we combine our businesses in Germany, integrated view for Continental Europe.
Were delivering benefits as planned, and Belgium and the Netherlands.
This is Our aim was to create a single view of expect to see benefits come through in FY17 where we have the biggest potential ourtarget picture we needed to know and FY18 as projected as we take advantage for efficiencies.
of the changes to work as one across the Although teams within these source When complete, we will have a reorganised, whole of Continental Europe.
markets work on the same systems, the efficient structure which operates as one way they use them has been very different.
Key elements include establishing Our main objective is to standardise our product hubs for short and medium haul ways of working and make things simpler.
holidays to our own-brand and partner hotels in Germany and Belgium and one long haul hub.
This is supported by one hub for holidays outside our core portfolio of hotels, reflecting our new relationship with Webjet.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
