10 STRATEGIC REPORT CUSTOMER AT OUR HEART 18 months ago we launched a pledge to put NET PROMOTER SCORE our customer back at the heart of everything that we do.
We recognised that in the past we had drifted too far from this simple but critical principle.
Our aim is to ensure we do all that we can to give our customers great holidays which inspire them to come back to Thomas Cook and to recommend us to their friends.
The mantra of Customer at our Heart 6pts 7pts 4pts sits firmly at the centre of our strategy Overall Group NPS measure Own-Brand Hotels and Group Airlines NPS measure for sustainable growth and has been a summer 2016: 43 2015: 37 Resorts NPS measure 2016: 27.6 2015: 23.8 powerfulcatalyst for change across the 2016: 38.4 2015: 31.5 business over the past year.
CARE To demonstrate our commitment and The launch of our 24 Hour Satisfaction For more complex issues, weve put the make our strategy real for the business, Promise in 1,600 hotels this summer tools and training in place to empower this autumn we launched three customer represented a step-change in our approach our customer care teams back home to promises: Quality, Service and Reliability.
The promise is a commitment make decisions in the best interests of Developed with our customers based on to the quality and reliability of our hotels and our customers.
In the UK, for example, the what is important to them, these new service, and has helped to improve customer customer relations teams have cut the promises are integral to the way we satisfaction in the hotels where we operate average time to resolve a complaint by operate, both in our source markets and in it.
Our teams make contact with customers 72percent to 13 days, already under the destination.
Customers will find them in our when they arrive and commit to resolve target objective of 14 days.
brochures and on our websites.
But they any issues within 24 hours.
If they are not The disruption to the market over the past also shape everything we do as a business.
happy with the resolution, we offer to fly 12-18 months has made clear the value that From next year, all 22,000 of our people will them home with a full refund, or give holiday customers put on the peace of mind that have their performance measured against vouchers worth 25 per cent of the value comes with traveling with a packaged tour new company values that are linked to these of their holiday.
By doing this, were able to operator.
We continue to make improvements three promises, giving every one of them help more customers in resort and make to our health, safety and crisis response, a clear mandate to delight our customers sure more people go home happy.
Its been ensuring customer have easy access to up to wherever they work in the business.
a big success, and we have plans to roll out date information on wider issues impacting the 24Hour Satisfaction Promise so that it Recognising the importance of customer their travel.
We have also invested further covers 80 per cent of customers staying in satisfaction to the long-term success in our welfare team, led by a Group Head of our own-brand and partner hotels next year.
of Thomas Cook, we have adopted the Customer Welfare reporting directly to the NetPromoter Score NPS for the first This promise is supported by a commitment CEO to best put customer welfare at the time this year.
As one of the key metrics by 2018 to resolve 80 per cent of all heart of the business.
of business performance, NPS holds us complaints in resort, rather than after accountable and ensures that we are a customer has returned from holiday.
providing customers with the level of Having started 2016 at just 20 per cent quality they expect from us.
It is already of complaints handled in resort across transforming the way we operate.
the Group, wed improved this number to 40per cent by the end of the summer.
Progress in this first year has been strong: To help achieve our target, weve introduced our overall Group NPS measure was up six improved training for all reps, so that they points in summer 2016, while over the year, are better equipped to resolve issues on own-brand hotels and resorts were up the spot.
seven points and Group Airlines increased byfour points.
24 HOURS PROMISE THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 11 So far they have amassed 1.3 million A survey by eDigital research ranked CONTACT downloads between them, and are our UK site as number one among tour We know that making ourselves directly accounting for a growing revenue stream operators and among the top three best accessible to customers, however they ofbookings and ancillary income.
choose to interact with us, be that online, in store, by phone or in resort, is integral to our A key measure of direct customer access While a growing number of customers use success.
Our objective therefore is to develop is controlled distribution, which indicates our digital channels, our network of stores those customer relationships by making their how much of our sales are through our own across the UK remain important in attracting, contact with us as seamless as possible.
channels rather than through third-party inspiring and engaging our customers.
In 2016, we improved controlled we announced a refocus of our network By developing direct access to customers distribution by one percentage point, from of stores into two formats: larger format through the channel of their choice, we can 66per cent to 67 per cent.
Discovery stores in high footfall areas, and build strong relationships, drive loyalty and Neighbourhood stores which maintain our increase sales of tailor-made services which Our online performance in the UK and reach.
Both formats are based around the add value to our customers holiday experience.
CentralEurope continues to make strong core strength of local, knowledgeable teams progress, with web revenue up by nine One way in which we can stay closer to our offering high-levels of personalised service per cent and 13per cent respectively in customers during their holiday experience in a comfortable environment.
Our improved online performance is via our Companion Apps.
Launched so review our store network to ensure we in the UKwas driven by improvements in far in the UK, German and Nordic markets, have the right stores where our customers functionality, user interface, speed and these apps allow customers to manage need them.
search across desktop and mobile sites.
their bookings, view information about theirholiday, and add ancillaries and excursions, using their smartphones.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
