STRATEGIC REPORT Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over the coming 5 years.
This period is used by the Board during the strategic planning process and consider reasonable for a business of our nature and size.
This assessment takes account of the Companys current position and the policies and processes for managing the principal risks set out on pages 28 to 30 and the Companys ability to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of assessment.
In the assessment of the viability of the Company the Directors have noted that: The Company has a long-term investment strategy under which it invests mainly in readily realisable, publicly listed securities and which restricts the level of borrowings.
Of the current portfolio, 65% could be liquidated within seven trading days.
The Company invests in real estate related companies which hold real estate assets, and invests in commercial real estate directly.
These investments provide cash receipts in the form of dividends and rental income.
The Company is able to take advantage of its closed-ended Investment Trust structure and able to hold a proportion of its portfolio in less liquid direct property with a view to long-term outperformance.
The structure has also enabled the Company to secure finance in excess of 10 years.
The expenses of the Company are predictable and modest in comparison with the assets.
Regular and robust monitoring of revenue and expenditure forecasts are undertaken throughout the year.
The Company has no employees and consequently does not have redundancy or other employment related liabilities or responsibilities.
The Company retains title to its assets held by the Custodian which are subject to further safeguards imposed on the Depository.
The following assumptions have been made in assessing the longer-term viability: Real Estate will continue to be an investable sector of international stock markets and investors will continue to wish to have exposure to that sector.
Closed-ended Investment Trusts will continue to be wanted by investors and regulation or tax legislation will not change to an extent to make the structure uneconomical in comparison to other investment products.
The performance of the Company will continue to be satisfactory.
Should the performance be less than the Board deems to be satisfactory, it has the appropriate powers to replace the Investment Manager.
The Board has concluded that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the coming 5 years.
The Companys business model, capital structure and strategy have enabled the Company to operate over many decades, and the Board expects this to continue into the future.
