Key Performance Indicators The Board assesses the performance of the Manager in meeting the Trusts objective against the following Key Performance Indicators KPIs : KPI Board monitoring and outcome The Board reviews the performance in detail at each meeting and Net Asset Value Total Return discusses the results and outlook with the Manager.
The Directors regard the Companys net asset Outcome value total return performance in comparison 1 Year 5 Years with the benchmark as being an overall NAV Total Return 8.2% 88.8% measure of value delivered to the Benchmark Total Return 5.4% 60.3% shareholders over the longer-term.
The Board reviews statements on income received to date and Delivering a reliable dividend which income forecasts at each meeting.
is growing over the longer term The principal objective of the company is Outcome a total return objective, however, the fund 1 Year 5 Years manager aims to deliver a reliable dividend Compound Annual Dividend 8.4% 39.2% with growth over the longer-term.
Growth CPI 1.6% 12.3% The Board takes powers at each AGM to buy-back and issue The Discount or Premium at which shares.
When considering the merits of share buy-back or the Companys shares trade issuance, the Board looks at a number of factors in addition to compared with Net Asset Value the short and longer-term discount or premium to NAV to assess Whilst investment performance is expected to whether action would be beneficial to the shareholders overall.
be a key driver of the share price discount or Particular attention is paid to the potential impact of any share premium to the net asset value of an buy-back activity on the liquidity of the shares and on Ongoing investment trust over the longer-term, there Charges over the longer-term.
are periods of volatility when the discount can Outcome widen.
The Board is aware of the vulnerability of a sector-specialist trust to a change of 1 Year 5 Years investor sentiment towards that sector.
Average discount 3.3% 6.2% Number of shares repurchased Nil 375,000 26 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Key Performance Indicators continued KPI Board monitoring and outcome Expenses are budgeted for each financial year and the Board Level of Ongoing Charges reviews regular reports on actual and forecast expenses The Board is conscious of expenses and aims throughout the year.
to deliver a balance between strong service and costs.
Outcome 1 Year 3 Years The AIC definition of Ongoing Charges includes any direct property costs in addition excluding Performance Fees and 0.67% 0.71% to the management fees and all other Property Costs expenses incurred in running a publicly listed Ongoing charges calculation introduced in 2013 therefore this statistic has only been company.
As no other investment trusts hold produced for 3 years.
part of their portfolio in direct property they either hold 100% of their portfolio as property securities or as direct property, this statistic is shown without direct property costs to allow a clearer comparison of overall administration costs with other funds investing in securities.
The Board reviews financial information and forecasts at each Investment Trust Status meeting which set out the requirements outlined in Section 1158.
The Company must continue to operate in order to meet the requirements for Section The Directors believe that the conditions and ongoing 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. requirements have been met in respect of the year to 31 March 2016 and that the Company will continue to meet the requirements.
