GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors The Directors present the audited financial statements of the Group and the Company and their Strategic and Directors Reports for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The Group comprises TR Property Investment Trust plc and its fully owned subsidiaries.
The review of the business of the Company, recent events and outlook are contained within the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 32.
Status The Company is an investment company, as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and operates as an investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company has a single share class, Ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 25 pence each which are premium listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has received confirmation from HM Revenue & Customs that the Company has been accepted as an approved investment trust for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 April 2012 subject to the Company continuing to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements for approved companies in Chapter 3 of Part 2 Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011 Statutory Instrument 2011 2999.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted and will continue to conduct its affairs so as to maintain investment trust status.
The Company has also conducted its affairs, and will continue to conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the Individual Savings Accounts Regulations.
The Ordinary shares can be held in Individual Savings Accounts ISAs.
Results and Dividends At 31 March 2016 the net assets of the Company amounted to 1,065m 2015: 1,010m, on a per share basis 335.56p 2015: 318.12p per share.
Revenue earnings for the year amounted to 8.36p 2015: 8.89p and the Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 5.20p 2015: 4.75p per share bringing the total dividend for the year to 8.35p 2015: 7.70p, an increase of 8.4% for the full year.
In arriving at their dividend proposal, the Board also reviewed the income forecasts for the year to March 2017.
Performance details are set out in the Financial Highlights on page 1 and the outcome of what the directors to consider to be the Key Performance Indicators on pages 26 to 27.
The Chairmans Statement and the Managers Report give full details and analysis of the results for the year.
Share Capital and Buy-back Activity At 1 April 2016 the Company had 317,500,980 2015: 317,500,980 Ordinary shares in issue.
At the AGM in 2015 the Directors were given power to buy back 47,593,396 Ordinary shares.
Since this AGM the Directors have not bought back any Ordinary shares under this authority.
The outstanding authority is therefore 47,593,396 shares.
This authority will expire at the 2016 AGM.
The Company will seek to renew the power to make market purchases of Ordinary shares at this years AGM.
Since 1 April 2016 to the date of this report, the Company has made no market purchases for cancellation.
The Board has not set a specific discount at which shares will be repurchased.
However, around 171 million Ordinary shares have been repurchased since the Board first took the decision to buy back shares in 1999.
TR Property Investment Trust 35 Report of the Directors continued Management Arrangements and Fees Details of the management arrangements and fees are set out in the Report of the Management Engagement Committee beginning on page 43.
Total fees paid to the Manager in any one year Management and Performance Fees may not exceed 4.99% of Group Equity Shareholders Funds.
Total fees payable for the year to 31 March 2016 amount to 0.8% 2015: 1.3% of Group Equity Shareholders Funds.
Included in this were performance fees earned in the year ended 31 March 2016 of 3,354,000 2015: 7,745,000.
Basis of Accounting and IFRS The Group and Company financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union and as regards the Group and Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the Financial Statements on pages 64 to 67.
Going Concern The Directors assessment of the longer-term viability of the Company is set out on page 31.
As the Board is of the opinion that the Company can continue in operation for the foreseeable future, being for a period of at least 12 months from the date that these financial statements were approved, it has been concluded that the going concern basis should be adopted for the preparation of the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Internal Controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for the day to day investment management decisions on behalf of the Group.
Accounting and company secretarial services have both been outsourced.
The internal controls aim to ensure that the assets of the Group are safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and the financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is embedded in the controls of the Group by a series of regular investment performance and attribution statements, financial and risk analyses, AIFM and Portfolio Manager reports and quarterly control reports.
Key risks have been identified and controls put in place to mitigate them, including those not directly the responsibility of the AIFM or Portfolio Manager.
The key risks are explained in more detail in the Strategic Report on pages 28 to 29.
The effectiveness of each third party providers internal controls is assessed on a continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments of the AIFM and Portfolio Manager, the Administrator and the Company Secretary.
Each maintains its own system of internal controls, and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from them.
The control systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve objectives.
36 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
Instead, the Audit Committee relies on internal control reports received from its principal service providers to satisfy itself as to the controls in place.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Group.
The Board undertakes an annual review of the Groups system of internal controls in line with the Turnbull guidance.
Business risks have also been analysed by the Board and recorded in a risk map that is reviewed regularly.
Each quarter the Board receives a formal report from each of the AIFM, Portfolio Manager, the Administrator and the Company Secretary detailing the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly their responsibility, and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board also considers the flow of information and the interaction between the third party service providers and the controls in place to ensure accuracy and completeness of the recording of assets and income.
The Board receives a report from the Portfolio Manager setting out the key controls and the results of the audit testing of these.
The Board also has direct access to company secretarial advice and services provided by Capita Company Secretarial Services, which, through its nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
These controls have been in place throughout the period under review and up to the date of signing the accounts.
Key risks identified by the Auditors are considered by the Audit Committee to ensure robust internal controls and monitoring procedures are in place in respect of these risks on an ongoing basis.
Annual General Meeting the AGM The AGM will be held on 26 July 2016 at 2.00pm.
The Notice of AGM is set out on pages 88 to 89.
This notice contains resolutions to receive the Report of the Directors and audited financial statements, approve the directors remuneration report, appoint the auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
The Directors are also seeking powers to allot Ordinary shares, dis-apply statutory pre-emption rights, and buy back Ordinary shares for cancellation.
The full text of the resolutions and an explanation of each is contained in the Notice of AGM and explanatory notes on pages 92 to 93.
Material Interests There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
Further details regarding the appointment letters can be found on page 47.
Donations The Company made no political or charitable donations during the year 2015: nil.
TR Property Investment Trust 37 Report of the Directors continued Voting Interests Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company, when voting is by a show of hands, each share affords its owner one vote.
Restrictions on Voting No member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Deadlines for Voting Rights Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as the Board may determine before the meeting not excluding non-working days.
Transfer of Shares Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
Significant Voting Rights At 31 March 2016, no shareholders held over 3% of voting rights on a discretionary basis.
However, at 31 March 2016 the following shareholders held over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: % of Ordinary share Shareholder voting rights Quilter Cheviot Investment Management 7.40% Alliance Trust plc 6.99% Brewin Dolphin Limited 6.94% Rathbone Investment Management Ltd 6.45% Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 5.61% HSBC Holdings plc 4.22% Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 3.58% See above for further information on the voting rights of Ordinary shares.
Since 31 March 2016 to the date of this report, the Company has not been informed of any notifiable changes with respect to the Ordinary shares.
38 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance Report The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
This statement describes how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in 2014 have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
The Code can be viewed at www.
Application of the AIC Codes Principles In applying the principles of the Code, the Directors have also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the AIC the AIC Code, which established the framework of best practice specifically for the Boards of investment trust companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid down by the two Codes and there are some areas where the AIC Code is more flexible for investment trust companies.
The AIC Code can be viewed at www.
The Directors believe that during the period under review they have complied with the Main Principles and relevant provisions of the Code, insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions of the AIC Code.
Compliance Statement The Directors acknowledge that the Company did not comply with the following provisions of the Code in the year ended 31 March 2016.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company the Board of non-executive directors does not feel it is necessary to appoint a chief executive.
C. 3.5 & C. 3.6 As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
D. 2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration Committee.
The functions of a Remuneration Committee are carried out by the Management Engagement Committee.
Composition and Independence of the Board The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom are non-executive and are independent of the Manager.
None of the Directors have any other links to the Manager.
The Board believes that diversity of experience and approach, including gender diversity, amongst board members is of great importance and it is the Companys policy to give careful consideration to issues of board balance and diversity when making new appointments.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any third party.
There are no contracts or arrangements with third parties which effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
TR Property Investment Trust 39 Report of the Directors continued Directors The Chairman is Ms Burton and the Senior Independent Director is Mr Seaborn.
The Directors biographies, on page 33, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors of the Company.
Ms Burton, who has served on the Board since 2002, will not be seeking re-election and she will retire from the Board of Directors following the AGM on 26 July 2016.
Following Ms Burtons retirement from the Board, Mr Seaborn will become Chairman of the Trust and Mr Watson will become the Senior Independent Director.
The Board subscribes to the AIC Code view that length of tenure does not necessarily impinge independence and has taken this into account when considering the continued appointment of Mr Seaborn who has served on the Board for nine years.
The Board is conscious of the benefits of continuity on the Board and believes that retaining Directors with sufficient experience of both the Company and the market is of great benefit to shareholders.
Moreover, longserving Directors are less likely to take a short-term view.
The Board has concluded that Mr Seaborn continues to make valuable contributions and that he remains independent in character and judgement, and is therefore the most suitable candidate to lead the Trust after Ms Burtons retirement.
He will continue to serve as a member of the Audit Committee.
Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject to the Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Code, all directors will be subject to annual re-election.
Mr Glen, Mr Marrison, Mr Seaborn, Ms Procter and Mr Watson will retire at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with the Code and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
All Directors are regarded as being free of any conflicts of interest and no issues in respect of independence arise.
The Board has concluded that all Directors continue to make valuable contributions and believe that they remain independent in character and judgement.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Management Engagement Committee, which also carries out the functions of a Remuneration Committee.
The roles and responsibilities of each Committee are set out on the individual Committee reports which follow.
Board Meetings The number of meetings of the Board and Committees held during the year under review, and the attendance of individual Directors, are shown below: Board Audit MEC Nomination No.
of meetings in the year 6 2 1 1 Caroline Burton 6 2 1 1 John Glen 6 2 1 1 Simon Marrison 6 2 1 1 Suzie Procter 6 2 1 1 Hugh Seaborn 6 2 1 1 David Watson 6 2 1 1 In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, the Directors also attend a number of informal meetings to represent the interests of the Company.
40 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued The Board The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues are monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework which has been agreed with the Manager.
Additional meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, which are categorised under various headings, including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and Board membership and appointments.
In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset allocation and investment and gearing limits within which the Portfolio Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises the management of the investment portfolio, which is contractually delegated to the Portfolio Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of investments in unquoted investments and any investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the Portfolio Manager.
It has also adopted a procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Conflicts of Interest In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has the power to authorise any potential conflicts of interest that may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
A register of potential conflicts is maintained and is reviewed at every Board meeting to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
Appropriate authorisation will be sought prior to the appointment of any new Director or if any new conflicts arise.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board, the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation of the Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary shares which is published on the London Stock Exchange.
This information is also available on the Companys website, www.
com together with a monthly factsheet and Manager commentary.
At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit Committee at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered address given on page 94.
General presentations are given to both shareholders and analysts following the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
TR Property Investment Trust 41 Report of the Directors continued Directors Indemnity Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect of the Directors.
The Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by the court.
To the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Articles of Association, the Company has entered into deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each Director of the Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company.
These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were introduced in January 2007 and currently remain in force.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the Directors report are listed on page 33.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these Directors confirms that: to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is, information needed by the groups auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board Caroline Burton Chairman 13 June 2016 42 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE
