Chairmans Statement London high value residential was anticipated and, as highlighted in the Interim Report, the Manager had reduced exposure accordingly.
However investor sentiment towards companies exposed to London property, both commercial and residential, turned negative towards the end of the year and even businesses with very limited exposure to London residential development suffered severe corrections which meant that performance in the final quarter was disappointing.
The directly-held properties, largely because of asset management initiatives at the Bayswater property and a significant increase in passing rents at Wandsworth, added to overall performance.
Caroline Burton Chairman NAV and Share Price Performance Introduction The NAV rose 8.2% which was well ahead of the Pan-European property and property equities delivered a benchmark rise of 5.4%.
However the share price total more modest return to investors in the Trusts financial year return was -1.6%.
At the start of the period the share than they had experienced over the previous three years, price was trading close to the capital net asset value.
In but unlike broader European equity markets as measured common with many other sector-specialist investment by the FTSE All Share -3.9% and the Eurostoxx 600 trusts a discount has reappeared, starting in this case in measured in Euros -12.8% the return was positive.
late September, though it has been more stable since January.
This 10% discount is slightly higher than the The first half of the year saw the sector benefit from its average of 9% over the past ten years.
domestic focus as investors became nervous about the impact of weaker commodity prices and a Chinese More detail and commentary on performance is set out in economic slowdown on world activity.
In the second half the Managers Report.
of 2015 and into 2016 as central bank action drove bond yields ever lower, and in some cases into negative Revenue Results and Dividend territory, the search for income across other asset classes Earnings per share are 8.36p compared to 8.89p in the continued to support property values and has allowed previous year.
The prior year earnings were inflated by a property investors, including the Trust, access to debt at number of one-off events, and lower earnings for the year very low rates.
ended March 2016 were flagged in last years Annual Report and again at the interim stage.
Last year I commented on the impact on the Trust of the Nevertheless, we have still continued to see underlying weakness of the Euro against Sterling.
This year, in spite growth in our dividend income and the Directors have of offering higher interest rates, Sterling has fallen 11.5% announced a final dividend of 5.20p per share, a 9.5% against the Euro apparently because of investors increase over the prior year final dividend.
This brings the positioning themselves against the perceived risk of Brexit.
full year dividend to 8.35p, a 8.4% increase on the 2015 The Trusts European assets have therefore risen in value total of 7.70p.
The Managers strategy of concentrating investment in Revenue Outlook markets where rental growth is visible or can be expected Whilst much of the benefit of debt refinancing has now UK, Germany, Sweden worked well in the first nine been extracted by companies such that lowering costs of months of the financial year.
A change in appetite for debt further are not likely to add much to earnings for the 4 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT
