STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager names in GBP fell -7.1%.
Not only have the Continental Performance property companies benefited from this ECB driven The Net Asset Value total return of 8.2% was ahead of tailwind, the UK has suffered its own headwind in the the benchmark total return of 5.4%.
The share price form of the upcoming referendum.
total return assuming dividend reinvestment was a poorer -1.6% as a result of the share price moving to a The impact of the uncertainty surrounding the June vote 10% discount to the capital net asset value.
A year ago has fallen most heavily on the largest UK companies, in the share price stood close to par with the asset value.
part as a consequence of their greater liquidity and the most London-centric.
Whilst the fund does hold a large I commented in the Interim Report that the first half had position in Land Securities, this was offset by a large been a game of two halves with the market weakening underweight position in British Land.
Performance suffered in Q1 only to recover in Q2.
This pattern was broadly in the last quarter of the financial year from our large repeated in the second half with the low point of June positions in high-quality London-centric businesses such as almost matching the low of February.
At the time of writing Derwent London, Great Portland Estates and CLS Holdings.
mid May the market has experienced a sustained rally The collective overweight to the UK versus Continental from that February low.
The last 12 months have been Europe was reduced to a five year low in the second half dominated by concerns surrounding global growth and on anticipation of weakness in the high-end London the impact of multi-decade lows in the price of oil.
With residential market as supply increased and stamp duty renewed fears of deflationary pressures the focus has, changes significantly damaged transaction volumes.
once again, been on the behaviour of central banks.
The The largest contributors to the relative outperformance recovery in markets over the last couple of months has were the large positions in German residential businesses been strongly assisted by the dovish behaviour of the and our physical property portfolio which saw strong Federal Reserve and, more locally for our investments, returns from asset management initiatives in the London the promises made by the ECB.
The German residential markets continue to offer amongst other initiatives, a widening of the unorthodox strong fundamentals with continuing demand household monetary easing programmes to include the purchase of growth and immigration, affordability due to wage a broader range of financial assets.
The cost of debt fell inflation and lack of new supply inner city planning and further for the companies we were invested in.
With zoning constraints all contributing factors.
The listed bonds, both sovereign and corporate, offering anaemic German companies are now 18.5% of our benchmark, returns, well financed property companies, many yielding consolidation as well as the listing of new residential over 4% and offering the prospect of further cash flow entities there have been regular corporate actions over growth, are attractive.
This year saw the successful acquisition As a result Continental European companies outperformed of Gagfah by Vovonia funded by a 2.2bn rights issue.
the UK names in the second half of the year, a reverse However this was followed by a hiatus of corporate of the pattern seen in the first half.
This gulf in relative activity as the three largest companies then attempted performance has been particularly acute in the last few quite unnecessarily in our view to take each other over.
The Europe ex UK in EUR component of our The end result was that the status quo of three separate benchmark returned 3.6% in Q1 2016 whilst the UK businesses was maintained with shareholders correctly TR Property Investment Trust 7 Managers Report continued identifying that over payment for modest synergies and balance of 5.5% from income and 5.9% from capital is cost savings was bad business.
The only consequence set to swing further towards income as yield compression appears to have been large fees to advisers coupled with becomes harder to envisage in a maturing capital cycle.
silence from the respective supervisory boards over the Across Europe, the impact of the ECBs actions continue to behaviour of some management teams.
resonate with lower cost of borrowing for corporates.
Banks still see real estate as an attractive asset and exposure Property Investment Markets continues to grow.
Markets where there is tangible Real estate remained a popular asset class in 2015 evidence of a supply demand imbalance are experiencing with a record year of investment in the UK at 66.3bn.
rental growth and this is attracting investors and driving However the profile of investor type and sector focus down yields.
In Germany, prime office yields have reached has altered when compared to previous periods and we all time lows in Munich 3.5% and Berlin 4% having expect many of these themes to continue this year and tightened over 50bps in a year.
In last years Annual Report and in the Interim German offices had a like-for-like increase of 25% to I commented on the renewed focus on regional assets, 25bn versus an average over the last 5 years of just versus London and this has continued apace.
South East 11.3bn according to CBRE.
Similar yield compression has offices saw a record transaction volume of 3.4bn, been felt in their residential markets where the nationwide almost twice the ten year average, whilst Central London average rent increase has been 3%.
In cities of over rose just 4% to 26.9bn.
UK institutions were net sellers 500,000 people the growth rate has averaged 4.2%.
Both in the second half and we expect that to continue listed and private property companies have been active particularly as the large retail customer focused daily and the residential market reached a record transaction dealing vehicles continue to report modest net volume of 22bn as measured by Savills.
They were joined by private property companies who were also net sellers 6.5bn but Offices demand from overseas buyers rose accounting for 50% Sentiment towards the London office focused companies of total volume.
Central London continues to receive the has clearly weakened since the beginning of 2016 as lions share of transactions but the 50% share was down investors fretted about a slowdown in rental growth from 60% in the previous year.
Overseas buyers are also driven by an increase in supply and the potential risks to looking further afield and are now a major owner of demand.
The potential demand shock they argue is both commercial property across the UK.
According to the short-term around Brexit driven delays to decision making Investment Property Forum, overseas ownership is now and longer-term from the steep increase in the cost of over 25% of all UK commercial property, up from 14% space.
The risk of a future demand shock is an unknown, in 2002. whilst the supply of office space is much more We do not expect these volumes to be matched in 2016. measurable given lengthy construction periods.
The reality A pause in decision making ahead of the Referendum is of 2015 was a record breaking take up of 12.2m sq ft anecdotally evident and set to continue through Q2 2016.
11.3m sq ft in 2014 and the highest since the dot-com The importance of overseas buyers is also likely to frenzy of 2000.
This take up level was a staggering 23% continue as the UKs safe haven status for international ahead of the 10 year average and this market evidence capital remains undiminished.
The weakness of Sterling is sustained our overweight position to the London names.
a real support for all exports and property is no exception.
Supply remains limited in a historical context across all The ability to buy commercial property at yields well in submarkets.
Docklands, traditionally viewed as the market excess of the cost of the debt required to finance it with the greatest availability and a finance focused tenant remains a key attraction.
With the cost of debt falling base, had an overall vacancy level of 4.9%.
There are no further over the last 12 months and rental growth albeit new buildings scheduled for completion until 2018.
The mostly quite modest in evidence across most markets, vacancy situation in the City and further West into the strong 11.7% total return IPD Monthly March 2016 Midtown and the core West End is even tighter.
The West Index is not a surprise.
Looking forward the return End has vacancy of 2.6% but unusually it is this market 8 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued which currently has the greatest supply response with Paris focused property companies have seen the opposite 2.3m sq ft, a record, due to complete in 2016.
However response from investors when compared with their London cousins.
Here, where the recovery in rents is, at best the devil is always in the detail and 50% of this space is nascent and patchy, share prices have been driven upwards accounted for in 3 buildings in Victoria and 2 in as investors rotate from the 4 year old growth story in Hammersmith.
The latter is really only classed as West London to the potential up cycle in Paris.
Once again, the End in the eye of an optimistic estate agent.
We have been fans of the recovery in None of this supply data is worrying, if anything quite the central Paris for the last two years, through our investment contrary, but corrections in rental values are generally in Terreis, a small cap stock focused only on the CBD.
The net asset value of this business has grown 35% in the last driven by demand shock which may or may not then be two years as rents rose and yields have fallen.
This prime compounded by oversupply.
We note that active demand sub market has seen a surge in take up with CBRE fell in Q4 2015 and we expect that to continue into the reporting that 2015 was the best performance since 2016 data.
According to Jones Lang LaSalle, West End 2006.
This take up was driven primarily by a 15 year active demand at 5.3m sq ft is now in line with the longrecord in the number of transactions of less than 50,000 sq term average of 5.2m sq ft. TMT accounts for 33% of ft: whilst larger transactions those above 50,000 sq ft current requirements and this demand is much more were the second lowest in a decade.
Vacancy across the determined by global growth than local factors.
It is this broad Paris region continues to be as polarised.
Paris Centre industry sectors growth which drives our ongoing positive West has a vacancy rate of 4.7% and an enduring view on the newest sub-markets, north of Oxford St and shortage of modern space.
La Defense, the Western further east to the Tech Belt, north of the City.
Crescent and beyond to the Inner Rim vacancy still stands at 10% as demand continues to be matched by supply.
The concern, as voiced in the Interim, remains those The good news is that possible future supply available areas most dependent on financial services and larger schemes not commenced has slowed and more markets occupiers.
Again, the risk is not supply, which will only have reached rental stabilisation as opposed to decline reach the 10 year average in 2018, but demand.
In the over the last year with vacancy edging down towards the City, Docklands and the Southbank demand is driven by 10 year average.
financial services and primarily banking and a vote to leave the European Union would have a significant impact Germany continues to be a mixed bag of performance with Frankfurt again the laggard and the only office market for many years.
not to experience vacancy reduction.
The two largest Last year I commented that office markets around the markets Berlin and Munich saw vacancy levels fall to 6.4% M25 and the larger regional centres were all experiencing and 4.9% respectively with the commensurate upwards real rental growth, many for the first time since 2007.
The merger of Alstria and Deutsche broad improvement has not only continued but has Office last year resulted in business with a market cap of accelerated in new build and Grade A refurbished stock 1.9bn and offers us exposure to most of the major as tenants compete for better quality space.
Availability in markets but not quite enough of the preferred ones.
the entire M25 market as measured by Knight Frank is The performance of the Swedish economy and its central at a level last seen in 2001.
Although take up was only bank continue to confound the sceptics.
GDP growth in slightly ahead of the 10 year average at 2.7m sq ft the Q4 2015 reached an annualised rate of 4%.
Meanwhile cumulative effect of steady demand growth and lack of the central bank maintained negative interest rates.
One new supply has eroded vacancy rates to historic lows in consequence is an ongoing surge in both residential and the M3 and M4 markets.
Availability is 26% below the commercial property values with market evidence 10 year average.
There is some supply 3.5m sq ft to be continuing to point to yield compression in virtually all delivered in the next 2 years but not enough to return portfolios of the listed companies.
With rents so closely availability to long-term averages.
The fund continues to tied to GDP growth it is no surprise that rents are rising add to its position in Mckay Securities, the only REIT particularly in Stockholm 16% in 2015 and Gothenburg focused entirely on office and industrial in the South East.
TR Property Investment Trust 9 Managers Report continued differential remains tenant affordability and we have Retail maintained exposure not only to Unibail and Klpierre The retail sector continues to be the underperformer.
However the weakness in sub-regional exception remains Central London and more of that later high streets is ongoing as customers continue to make in the report.
The IPD Monthly Index retail rental growth fewer but longer trips and we have reduced exposure for the last twelve months was 0.9% versus the All to the Dutch businesses Vastned Retail and Wereldhave.
However there has been a marked improvement recently when you compare Shopping is a leisure activity and increasingly combined with this figure with the equivalent three year data where the dining.
The fastest growing sector of any mall is in F&B food average annualised growth rate was just 0.1%.
The funds and beverage and the traditional food court tacked on or underweight position to UK retail has been a consistent tucked away on the upper level is being reinvented.
A range theme for many years driven by the structural seismic of food offers extends dwell time but landlords are shifts in the retail landscape.
There are tentative signs of discovering that significant investment needs to be made headline rental growth in certain dominant centres as in re-engineering their malls to accommodate this very retailers compete for the right sized space in the omnidifferent retailer mix.
Prime city centres with a range of unit channel retailing environment.
However, the fundamental sizes and natural side streets linking prime retail pitches offer problem for landlords remains the capital expenditure the best chance of creating that mix of retail, restaurant, bar required to bring their centres up to a standard whereby and caf.
It is no surprise that Capital & Counties Covent customers will want to spend time and money rather Garden assets and Shaftesburys retail portfolio recorded than just spending their money online.
respective rental growth of 12% and 4% in 2015.
The retail environment is getting better and record levels Distribution and Industrial of employment result in more overall spend even if much of the growth in jobs has been in low skilled low paid The growth in online retailing continues to drive a roles.
In 2015, retail sales grew 1.1% ONS data but sales re-engineering of the distribution landscape.
Last year 35% through physical stores fell -0.3% year on year.
Effectively of all deals involved the retail and food sectors according to all the additional growth was captured by online sales data from Colliers International.
Particularly with business to which grew its overall share of sales from 12.4% to 13.5%.
consumer deliveries, the competition requires next day Acknowledging this overall sales volume improvement but delivery and, increasingly in numerous urban environments, unable to ignore the ongoing difficulties for physical stores, same day delivery.
There has been a land grab across key particularly centres with very high rents, has resulted in us distribution hubs all over Northern Europe resulting in rising focusing on market segments where we are more rents.
UK distribution property rental growth averaged 5% confident of retailer affordability even in the face of online in 2015.
The largest distribution units are getting larger competition.
The funds UK retail exposure is therefore with a huge amount of sophisticated goods handling through Capital & Regional and NewRiver Retail who automation.
This investment by the tenant, encourages returned 16.4% and 13.7% respectively over the financial them to take long leases to write down the costs and this year.
This compared to the larger retail REITs, Hammerson adds to the value of the investment.
Amazons 1m sq ft and Intu, who own more dominant centres but where hub in the West Midlands has been sold to a Korean tenant affordability is more stretched.
We have also investor for a reported initial yield of 4.5% and a capital become increasingly concerned about the yields applied value of 126m.
to these larger malls given anaemic growth and high levels The sector is in rude health with take-up reaching 96.4 of capital expenditure required.
These two companies million sq ft in 2015, up 7% on 2014.
Overall supply returned -9.6% and -6.1% respectively in the period.
shrank by 26% and by more than that in the South East.
Our approach to Continental retail is different and hasnt However, with the shortest build time, the sector is always dramatically altered over the last year.
We are overweight the fastest to respond and 2015 recorded the first annual the group as a whole favouring the largest companies increase in Grade A availability since 2009.
It is interesting who own dominant centres.
Online sales growth remains to note that the greatest imbalance between supply and slower than in the UK but is a growing trend.
The key demand is in the sub 50,000ft market as opposed to the 10 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued logistics driven 250,000 sq ft.
This broader spread of Earls Court development site, fell -25% in the last quarter of demand is comforting and we expect rental growth to the financial year.
St Modwen, a large holding, has just 13% continue into 2016.
We maintained our large holding in of its balance sheet exposed to the Nine Elms Vauxhall St Modwen which has the largest regional industrial regeneration area where it is rebuilding the New Covent exposure of any listed company.
London Metric and Garden Flower Market which will then release 10 acres for residential development.
The stock fell 27% in Q1 2016 Tritax Big Box offer purer logistics exposure but we are such was the investor reaction to the expected decline in concerned that yields are now implying rental growth residual land values.
We agree that apartment prices are which will be harder to achieve as the supply demand correcting, particularly in this one sub-market, but the share imbalance evaporates for the larger units.
price now barely reflects any positive value on a site which is adjacent to a Zone 1 underground station, train and bus Residential interchange.
Our London exposure was also reduced last I have already commented on the strength of the German October when Lonestar agreed a bid for Quintain, the residential market but it was by no means unique.
Both owner of much of the land bank surrounding Wembley Sweden and the UK continue to enjoy capital appreciation Stadium at a 20% premium to the undisturbed price.
given the combination of record low mortgage costs and Our overall view on London residential remains the same long running undersupply, particularly in the larger cities.
as six months ago, whilst an overdue pricing correction is The Swedish government is examining further macrounderway the longer term disequilibrium of undersupply prudential tools in an effort to control house price and population growth remains.
inflation whilst the Riksbanks negative base rate stance Meanwhile across the rest of the UK house price growth does increase mortgage affordability.
However the market has continued to be robust but the underlying bare land does not appear to have heeded the threat of these values have not grown as quickly.
We put this down to affordability controls and Swedish house prices rose an two factors, firstly national housebuilders have learnt their astonishing 32% in 2015.
Our largest residential lesson from the crisis, and have no desire to maintain overweight was to Balder which rose 41% in the year.
large land banks on their balance sheets.
They now prefer The only other residential business in the index, to buy land which is ready for construction rather than Wallenstam, we did not hold and it fell -1.4%.
taking it through the often convoluted planning process.
In the UK, the Conservative government has endeavoured The other impact has been the significant reduction to promote new build first time buyers with the Help to in the number of medium and smaller sized regional Buy scheme whilst trying to reduce the tax benefits for developers.
The lack of development finance and the buy-to-let investors.
The intention is to level the playing difficulties in rehiring labour lost in the downturn has field between owner-occupiers and investors, where the resulted in the land market being dominated by fewer latter was able to offset all mortgage costs, which has players.
During the year we sold out of our only pure land been particularly attractive to the higher rate tax payer.
play, Urban & Civic which has two excellent strategic sites Our view is that these tax changes will have an impact, in Rugby and Huntingdon.
We continue to have exposure particularly on the amateur landlord.
Within the listed through St Modwen, which as highlighted earlier, is trading sector, Grainger has announced a strategic drive into the at a significant discount to its asset value.
private rented sector as its regulated tenancy portfolios continue to run down.
Debt and Equity Capital Markets The one area of the UK residential market which has Four European central banks are now experimenting with weakened is Central London.
I wrote about our reservations negative rates.
The era of unorthodox stimulus continues.
in the Interim and the sale of our holding in Capital & Against this backdrop Pan European property companies Counties.
The impact of the changes to stamp duty, the continue to tap corporate bond markets, raising 13.7bn supply of new build apartments not houses and the in the year to March 2016.
This compares to 9.5bn economic slowdown in Asia have all had an effect.
Investors raised in the previous year and just 5.6bn in 2013. have taken fright, particularly since the beginning of 2016.
Much of this has been utilised in refinancing more Capital & Counties, where c. 50% of its balance sheet is the expensive debt and not merely to increase leverage TR Property Investment Trust 11 Managers Report continued further.
In fact the weighted average loan-to-value ratio at Property shares 37.9% compares favourably with 40.9% in March 2015.
A key feature of the period was the huge dispersion in returns between the UK and Continental Europe.
In the At the half year I commented on Unibails 500m 10 first half the UK outperformed Continental Europe with year bond issued in April 2015 at 1.0% and how this the UK in GBP returning 3.4% and CE in EUR compared with their 700m 10 year issued in June 2013 returning -7.0%.
As I mentioned in the Interim the at 2.5%.
Again, Europes largest property company has strategy of focusing on markets with the greatest been active in the bond markets with 500m 10 year likelihood of rental growth proved sound in the first half issued at 1.375% in March 2016.
Whilst not quite as low with the German companies falling just -1% and the as the April 2015 issue it proves ongoing appetite at very Swedish stocks rising 3.8% in SEK.
attractive financing rates for a business owning many of Europes best shopping centres yielding over 4%.
Post The second half of the year was the reverse but more the year-end Unibail announced a 500m 20 year bond extreme with the UK names falling -13.4% in GBP and with a coupon of 2%.
This is a very long dated bond and Continental Europe rising 9.3% in EUR.
As explained reflects the QE driven environment as much as investors earlier in the Performance summary the UK-centric satisfaction with this companys credit rating.
The margin headwinds, particularly investor concerns around the June over the relevant swap rate was just 98bps.
It is also referendum, manifested themselves in January and February worthy of note that Hammerson, whilst a UK listed with the UK names collectively falling -7.1% in Q1 2016. company, does have a 1.9bn French shopping centre portfolio and raised 500m at 1.75%.
Within the European names the German stocks dominated by residential business performed strongly Equity capital markets were again busy but in the same vein through both halves resulting in a total return of 10.3% as last year the focus was primary issuance from existing over the year.
The Riksbank also entered the era of companies rather than IPOs.
In fact there were only two negative interest rates and further dovish comments from IPOs in the entire year, ADO Properties a Berlin residential their central bank in October saw the Swedish names rise investor and Pandox, a hotel owner operator.
The Trust over 10% in that month alone.
This helped drive the participated in both but sold out of the Pandox position in Swedish companies to a total return for the year of 6.6% the Autumn.
We continue to hold the position in ADO.
and second place in the country rankings.
Merlin Properties, one of several of the new breed of These country performance figures are quoted in local aggressive acquiring externally managed Spanish currency but when viewed from a GBP denominated fund companies, raised 613m in April 2015 and then a the weakening of GBP had a dramatic effect.
In EUR, further 1.0bn in July to purchase the Testa portfolio.
Continental Europe returned just 1.4% over the year whilst in GBP the figure was 11.1%.
I would remind investors that In the UK, raisings have been modest by comparison.
the Companys position on currencies is to run the non GBP Investors were happy to back businesses with secure exposure in line with the benchmarks currency exposure.
income streams and we saw Assura, Target Healthcare, and, post the year end, Primary Health Properties raise Distribution of Assets 600m between them.
The serial raiser of capital Tritax Big Box came back to the market twice in the period UK equity exposure dropped over the period to 31.7% raising 325m, having raised 240m in March 2015.
42.8% in March 2015 but UK physical property Such is the demand for large distribution units let on long exposure increased to 8.2% from 6.6% as a leases.
The company has a covered dividend yield of consequence of capital value increases, the purchase of 5.5% and trades at a premium to asset value enabling the industrial property in Gloucester and the remaining the raisings to be non-dilutive.
Demand for income development expenditure at the Colonnades.
Continental proved to be the primary motivation for owning real European exposure rose from 50.6% to 60.1%.
This estate particularly in the second half and we saw raisings reflected the performance of the region, the strengthening from the high yielding stocks Picton, Regional Reit and of the Euro and the additional equity issuance by Schroders Property Income Trust.
companies in Germany and Spain in the first half.
12 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued and St Modwen and the investment rationale around Investment Activity St Modwen has been covered earlier.
Our surprise at the Turnover purchases and sales divided by two totalled market response to St Modwen also extended to CLS where 309.4m and equates to 29.8% of the average net the current book value of its Vauxhall development site is assets over the period.
This was slightly ahead of last just 9% of their balance sheet.
It is therefore disappointing years equivalent figure of 27.4% and reflects the volatility to report that in the last quarter of the financial year and of the market and the rotation of the portfolio particularly including the reporting of record breaking FY15 results the in the second half.
share price fell -16% with investors seeming to ignore all the good news and focus merely on their modest London A key theme of the asset rotation was the further reduction residential exposure.
We continue to hold these positions in our exposure to UK large cap retail, particularly our longconfident that the expected performance of the term holding in Hammerson which was reduced by 26m remainder of their portfolios will materialise.
to less than 10m and the sale of almost all of the briefly held Intu position, towards the end of the year.
The Intu The regional housing market ex London remains in holding was mostly acquired in January 2016 post the good health and our stalwarts in the self storage space aggressive early New Year sell off.
We continue to hold continued to perform well with Big Yellow 23.2% and NewRiver Retail and Capital & Regional which own smaller, Safestore 18.6% adding to relative performance.
less dominant shopping centres but where there is a Occupancy and rates continue to climb steadily.
greater capacity for a large number of asset management initiatives to make a material difference.
Long term holders The other alternative asset classes of hotels owners not will be aware of our views that in the longer-term it is our managers and student accommodation proved a mixed expectation that the outperforming centres will be either bag of performance.
I wrote about the IPO of Pandox, a the very dominant or the very local with mid sized centres business we invested in back in 2000 before it was taken squeezed the most.
The current underweight to the owners private in 2004.
We participated in the IPO but took of larger centres reflects our expectation that whilst they will profits too early as the stock rose 47% between June and outperform in the longer-term we are entering a period December.
However, our concerns around the volatility of where these assets are over valued relative to their growth the sector were well founded with the stock correcting expectations and that higher yielding smaller centres will 20% by mid February, only to partially recover since then.
produce greater total return dominated by their higher Our student accommodation exposure continues to be income return.
The overall underweight to UK retail was a through the dominant listed player, Unite Group and positive contributor to performance.
whilst the company returned 11.5% in the period, it has suffered greater volatility as investors fret about the sector The large overweight to Central London offices was also maturing and the risk of oversupply in some cities.
We reduced over the year through a combination of reducing remain vigilant but also comforted by managements exposure to the London specialists, Great Portland and response and positioning of the portfolio.
Derwent London but also, importantly, a sizeable reduction in British Land which has 43% of its exposure The German residential exposure increased significantly to both London offices and some high end residential.
over the year and as commented on earlier we The sales in the London specialists was mainly in late participated in the IPO of ADO Properties in July and have 2015 when they were trading at large premiums to asset followed on with a further participation in their most value.
However our ongoing, albeit reduced, overweight recent capital raise post the year-end.
The stock has was still a negative contributor to performance.
The price returned 44% since listing and reflects investor sentiment correction in early 2016 has brought them back onto our towards the hugely popular Berlin market.
Our largest radar on valuation grounds but we consider them high overweight relative to the benchmark was LEG, which had impact in relation to the Referendum and we are unlikely a total return of 12.2% in the year, also ahead of the to add before June.
I commented back in November that we did have some When viewed in local currency Sweden was the top modest ongoing exposure to the Vauxhall Nine Elms performing region.
Swedish property companies with just one exception continue to be amongst the most regeneration area through our ownership of CLS Holdings TR Property Investment Trust TR Property Investment Trust 13 13 Managers Report continued leveraged listed real estate businesses in Europe.
The excluding the performance fee and direct property costs Riksbanks dovish approach has, as discussed earlier, have reduced from 0.70% to 0.67% of NAV.
driven yields downwards and all asset pricing upwards The revenue tax rate was marginally above that in the and in particular residential.
Our key overweight, as previous year, driven by the income mix and the fact that mentioned in the Interim, remained Balder.
The strong fewer overseas dividends were paid from capital accounts rental growth seen in Stockholm and Gothenburg and so attracted withholding tax.
explained the good performance from Fabege, another overweight position.
However we were underweight the Revenue Outlook least leveraged company, Hufvudstaden which returned over 11% despite a loan-to-value of just 17% which is We anticipate modest growth in our underlying earnings considered ultra conservative when compared with the over the forthcoming year.
However, one of the biggest wider Swedish peer group who average over 50% each.
unknowns is the impact of exchange rates on our income account.
Recent months have seen weakness in Sterling The one consistently poor investment decision, which and uncertainty is set to continue until the outcome of the produced a negative contribution in both halves of the referendum in June is known.
The result and where Sterling year was the underweight to Swiss property companies.
settles could have a significant impact on our earnings.
From an occupational perspective, the commercial property market for both offices and retail in the two major Gearing, Debt and Debentures cities remain poor with little sign of rental growth except in super prime locations.
Shopping centres, particularly those Gearing started the year at 12.8%, increasing to 13.6% at close to the border, have suffered from customers crossing the half year stage with a reduction in the last quarter to into France to buy cheaper Euro priced goods.
the investment market and demand for income remains We reported a loan note placing in the Interim Report.
This also translates into the listed stocks where The 15m 15 year loan and the 50m 10 year loan were investors view the solid income from both PSP and Swiss drawn in mid-February and the Sterling amount was Prime Site and the offer of 4% dividend yields as very utilised to repay the existing debenture a few days later.
attractive when base rates are negative.
Our focus on The revolving multi-currency credit facility with RBS was market fundamentals meant we didnt see the wood for renewed in January on improved pricing and the facility the trees.
Switzerland continues to be perceived as a safe with ING has also just been agreed for a further year.
haven and the broad weakening of sentiment in the Although largely undrawn at the moment, the loans, beginning of 2016 resulted in these stocks being the top together with CFD financing give the capacity to increase performing names in Q1 2016. the gearing when this is deemed to be beneficial.
Revenue Direct Physical Property Earnings at 8.36p were lower than the prior year, as had The physical property portfolio was the strongest been anticipated.
Prior year earnings had been inflated by performing component of the portfolio, well ahead of a number of one-off items, without these the underlying equities with a total return of 19.7%.
This was primarily earnings for 2014 15 were around 7.64p.
Therefore, capital growth 16.5% and a modest income return of although the headline earnings figure shows a decline of 3.2% reflecting the leasing phase of our largest asset.
The 6.0%, the underlying recurring earnings have shown IPD Monthly Index total return for the 12 months was healthy growth.
During the year the Trust purchased one industrial The purchase of Gloucester and the completion of the property in Gloucester at a total acquisition cost of 6.6m Colonnades development during the year added to rental and the purchase details were reported at the Interim.
On income, with some tenants still to take occupation at the a like for like basis the property portfolios total return was Colonnades, further details of this project are set out below.
higher at 21.3% as it excludes the negative effect of the purchase costs 0.4m at Gloucester.
Operating expenses were slightly higher in absolute terms than in the prior year, however ongoing charges Over the year we continued the programme of intensive 14 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued asset management and this was the primary driver behind economies.
The woes of the other one are well the significant capital growth.
Global growth remains elusive and volatility has heightened.
Almost two-thirds of all government The extension and refurbishment works at the Colonnades bonds now yield less than 1%.
Negative base rates have were completed during the year.
The new 40,000 sq ft become a part of several central banks toolkits.
However, Waitrose supermarket opened early, in September 2015. there is scepticism over the success of this strategy given The remaining 5 retail units were completed in December the difficulties banks have in passing on negative deposit 2015 with the only outstanding item being the public rates to consumers.
realm works which requires Westminster City Council approval.
Prior to the year-end we had secured tenants on Against this backdrop, property continues to offer a stable 3 of the 5 units.
A ten year lease to Graham and Green, and predictable earnings stream which, as highlighted in the furniture and soft furnishing retailer, for a the Revenue Outlook, also has the capacity to grow.
new showroom was agreed prior to the year-end and Broadly, the supply of new commercial space remains a completed shortly after.
Two other units are under contract benign factor given the lack of development over the last to Babaji which is a new Turkish pida restaurant concept seven years.
In markets where there is the potential for run by Alan Yau, the renowned restauranteur behind both delivery to be higher than the 10 year average, only a the Wagamama and Hakkasan chains.
The letting to Babaji material drop in demand would lead to a serious rental is conditional on receipt of alcohol and outside seating correction.
The risk is therefore one of demand rather than licences from the local authority.
We have strong interest supply.
The deferral of business decision making and in the remaining two units.
investment within the UK economy, ahead of the Referendum, is clearly visible and a vote to leave the EU The programme of residential lease extensions also would, through the ensuing uncertainty, deliver exactly that continued with a further 9 leases being extended for a total type of demand shock, particularly to the London economy.
Just over 50% of leases on the A vote to remain in the EU would, we judge, see this global 242 flats at the Colonnades have now been extended.
citys fundamental attractions reassert themselves.
However, we would continue to be concerned about At the industrial property in Ferrier Street, Wandsworth Londons high end residential market where there is a our potential redevelopment plans continue to evolve visible supply surge exacerbated by increases in transaction in conjunction with Wandsworth Borough Council.
taxes and disclosure requirements making residential The Council are currently carrying out a borough-wide investment less attractive for overseas investors.
employment land use review which will take at least 12 months to complete.
Any planning application will need The three years of double digit growth in the Trusts asset to be made following the conclusion of this process.
All value FY2012 FY2015 were driven in large part by the leases on the estate expire in September 2016 and we asset inflationary consequences of unorthodox monetary are now in the midst of agreeing three year lease easing.
This was followed, in the year under review, by a extensions with tenants at rents which reflect the rapid more modest yet still positive return.
This decline in the rental growth experienced over the past three years.
rate of capital growth reflects an increasing uncertainty surrounding the future effectiveness of current ultra loose Outlook central bank monetary policies.
However, and echoing the Chairmans closing remarks, the predictability of earnings A year ago this outlook focused on our expectation that from real estate, given the ongoing expectation of central banks, and in particular the ECB, would maintain historically low cost of debt, will remain a key attraction of and indeed broaden the scope of monetary stimulus.
the sector relative to other asset classes particularly given Globally, base rates were destined to remain very low the risks of earnings downgrades from many corporates in although there was an increasing expectation of rate rises such a low growth environment.
in the US and possibly even in the UK.
Fast forward to today and both the landscape and investor expectations are quite different.
The Fed have lifted rates just once and Marcus Phayre-Mudge the US economy grew at its slowest pace in two years in Fund Manager the first three months of 2016, once again questioning the strength of one of the worlds two most critical 13 June 2016 TR Property Investment Trust 15
