SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION TR Property Investment Trust plc How to Invest One of the most convenient ways to invest in TR Property Investment Trust plc is through one of the savings plans run by F&C Investments.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income F&C lnvestment Trust ISA The Companys investment objective is to maximise shareholders total returns by investing from them may go down as well as up and you may not receive back the full You can use your ISA allowance to make an annual in the shares and securities of property companies and property related businesses amount originally invested.
Tax rates and reliefs depend on the circumstances tax-efficient investment of up to 15,240 for the of the individual.
The CTF and JISA accounts are opened in the childs name 2016 17 tax year with a lump sum from 500 or internationally and also in investment property located in the UK.
and they have access to the money at age 18.
Money cannot be withdrawn regular savings from 50 a month per Trust.
Its until the child turns 18. also easy to transfer any existing ISAs to us whilst Introduction maintaining all the tax benefits, and you can get Annual management charges and other charges apply according to the type of plan.
more information on how to do this under Savings Annual account charge The Company was formed in 1905 and has been a dedicated property investor since 1982.
The Company is an Plans at www.
co. uk ISA: 60 VAT Investment Trust and its shares are premium listed on the London Stock Exchange.
PIP: 40 VAT F&C Junior ISA JISA JISA CIP CTF: 25 VAT Benchmark You can invest up to 4080 for the tax year You can pay the annual charge from your account, or by direct debit in 2016 17 from 500 lump sum or 30 a month The benchmark is the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Capped Net Total Return Index in Sterling.
addition to any annual subscription limits per Trust, or a combination of both.
Please note, if your child already has a Child Trust Fund CTF, Investment Policy Dealing charges then you cannot open a separate JISA, however ISA: 0.2% you can transfer the existing CTF held either with The Company seeks to achieve its objective by investing in shares and securities of property companies and PIP CIP JISA: postal instructions 12, online instructions 8 per Trust.
F&C or another provider to an F&C JISA.
You can property related businesses on an international basis, although, with a Pan-European benchmark, the majority of Dealing charges apply when shares are bought or sold but not on the get more information on how to do this under reinvestment of dividends or the investment of monthly direct debits for the the investments will be located in that geographical area.
The Company also invests in investment property, Savings Plans at www.
F&C Child Trust Fund CTF There are no dealing charges on a CTF but a switching charge of 25 applies Further details of the Investment Policies, the Asset Allocation Guidelines and policies regarding the use of gearing are If you already have a CTF you can invest up to if more than 2 switches are carried out in one year.
4080 for the 2016 17 tax year, from 100 lump set out in the Strategic Report on pages 24 to 25 and the entire portfolio is shown on page 17.
Government stamp duty of 0.5% also applies on the purchase of shares sum or 25 a month per Trust, or a combination of where applicable.
There may be additional charges made if you transfer a both.
Its also easy to transfer a CTF from another Investment Manager plan to another provider or transfer the shares from your plan.
For full details provider to an F&C CTF - you can get more of charges, please read the Key Features and Terms and Conditions of the F&C Investment Business Limited acts as the Companys alternative investment fund manager AIFM with information on how to do this under Savings Plans plan before investing - you can get more details on any of our Savings Plans 1 at www.
co. uk portfolio management delegated to Thames River Capital LLP the Portfolio Manager.
Marcus Phayre-Mudge by going to www.
F&C cannot give advice on the suitability of investing in our investment trust or savings plans.
If you have any doubt as to has managed the portfolio since 1 April 2011 and been part of the Fund Management team since 1997.
F&C Private Investor Plan PIP the suitability of an investment, please contact a financial adviser.
This is a flexible way to invest in our range of Independent Board How to Invest Investment Trusts.
There are no maximum If youre opening a new plan its easy to apply online by going to contributions, and investments can be made from The directors are all independent of the Manager and meet regularly to consider investment strategy, to monitor 2 www.
com apply 500 lump sum or 50 a month per Trust.
You can adherence to the stated objective and investment policies and to review performance.
Details of how the Board also make additional lump sum top-ups at any time New Customers operates and fulfils its responsibilities are set out in the Directors Report on page 41. from 250 per Trust.
Contact our Team: Call: 0800 136 420 Performance F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan CIP Email: info@fandc.
com This is a flexible way to save for a child in our range The Financial Highlights for the current year are set out opposite and Historical Performance can be found on Existing Plan Holders of Investment Trusts.
There are no maximum page 2.
Key Performance Indicators are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 26 and 27.
Contact our Team: contributions, and the plan can easily be set up under bare trust where the child is noted as the Call: 0345 600 3030 Retail Investors advised by IFAs beneficial owner or kept in your name if you wish Email: investor.
com to retain control over the investment.
Investments By post: F&C Plan Administration Centre The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its shares can be recommended by Independent Financial can be made from a 250 lump sum or 25 a PO Box 11114 Advisers IFAs in the UK to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA month per Trust.
You can also make additional lump Chelmsford rules in relation to non-mainstream investment products and intends to continue to do so.
The shares are sum top-ups at any time from 100 per Trust.
CM99 2DG excluded from the FCAs restrictions, which apply to non-mainstream investment products, because they are 1 2 Please note that this account is only available for investors who already hold a CTF, and no new accounts can be opened.
Please note that applying online is not available if shares in an authorised investment trust.
you are transferring an existing plan with another provider to F&C, or if you are applying for a new plan in more than one name.
All calls may be recorded or monitored for training and quality purposes.
Further information General Shareholder information and details of how to invest in TR Property Investment Trust plc, including an F&C Management Limited investment through an ISA or saving scheme, can be found on pages 95 to 98.
This information can also be F&C Investments and the F&C Investments logo are trademarks of F&C Management Limited.
Issued and approved by F&C Management found on the Trusts website www.
com Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FRN: 119230 and is a member of the F&C Group of which the ultimate parent company is the Bank of Montreal.
Registered Office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY.
Registered in England & Wales No 517895.
