GOVERNANCE Directors Caroline Burton, joined the Board of Simon Marrison, joined the Board of the Company on 6 June 2002 and the Company on 28 September 2011. became Chairman in July 2013.
She will Mr Marrison is CEO of Europe at LaSalle retire from the Board at the 2016 AGM.
Investment Management and has She joined Guardian Royal Exchange responsibility for a portfolio of over plcs Investment Department in 1973 e20billion across Europe.
Mr Marrison and remained with the group until 1999. has been based in Paris since 1990 From 1987 she was Managing Director having started his career in London.
Caroline Burton Simon Marrison of Guardian Asset Management and, Until 1997 he was a partner at Healey from 1990 to 1999, Executive Director & Baker now Cushman & Wakefield Investments.
She is a non-executive and from 1997 to 2001 he was at director of Blackrock Smaller Companies Rodamco where he became Country Trust plc, Liverpool Victoria Friendly Manager for France.
He joined LaSalle Society Ltd and a member of the in 2001 as Managing Director for Appointments Committee of Hermes Continental Europe.
She advises a number of pension funds.
Hugh Seaborn, joined the Board of the Suzie Procter, joined the Board of Company on 24 July 2007.
He is currently the Company on 1 March 2013.
She the SID and will succeed Ms Burton as is presently Executive Head of Chairman with effect from the end of the Institutional Client Service and a partner 2016 AGM.
He is a Chartered Surveyor of Cantillon Capital Management LLP.
and has considerable experience in the She has been Director of Fixed Income property arena: he is the Chief Executive Business at Pictet International Officer of the Cadogan Estate.
He was Management, Head of Institutional Sales Hugh Seaborn Suzie Procter a member of the Council and Audit at Invesco and Managing Director, Head Committee of the Duchy of Lancaster until of Consultant Relations and Client December 2013.
From 2000 to 2009, he Director at Lazard Asset Management.
was Chief Executive Officer of the She brings asset management Portman Estate, he is Chairman of the experience and expertise in strategic Knightsbridge Business Group, is past business development and distribution.
Chairman of the Estates Business Group and past Chairman of the Westminster Property Owners Association.
John Glen, joined the Board of the David Watson, joined the Board of Company on 17 February 2014 and the Company on 1 April 2012.
He is presently the Chief Executive of became Chairman of the Companys Buccleuch.
Previously, John was based Audit Committee on 1 January 2013 in Paris as CFO of Air Liquide and also and will also become the SID with effect served as the Vice Chairman of the from the end of the 2016 AGM.
He is European Financial Reporting Group a Chartered Accountant and has had EFRAG.
John is also a non-executive a distinguished career in the Financial John Glen David Watson director for BIC, and a member of the Services Industry.
He spent 9 years Board for Project Scotland.
John is also as Finance Director of M&G Group plc, a member of the 2020 Climate Change where he was a director of four equity Group.
He is also a Board Member of investment trusts, and most recently at the Three Stills Company which is Aviva plc as Chief Finance Officer of building a new whisky distillery in the Aviva General Insurance.
He is currently Scottish Borders.
Deputy Chairman of Countrywide plc and a non-executive director of Charles Taylor plc, Kames Capital plc and Hermes Fund Managers Limited, where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
All directors are independent of the manager and are members of the Audit Committee.
