Investment Objective and Benchmark The Companys Objective is to maximise shareholders total return by investing in the shares and securities of property companies and property related businesses internationally and also in investment property located in the UK.
The benchmark is the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Capped Net Total Return Index in Sterling.
The index, calculated by FTSE, is free-float based and currently has 98 constituent companies.
The index limits exposure to any one company to 10% and reweights the other constituents pro-rata.
com contains further details about the index and performance.
Business Model The Companys business model follows that of an externally managed investment trust.
The Company has no employees.
Its wholly non-executive Board of six Directors retains responsibility for corporate strategy: corporate governance: risk and control assessment: the overall investment and dividend policies: setting limits on gearing and asset allocation and monitoring investment performance.
The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business Limited as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager with portfolio management delegated to Thames River Capital LLP.
Marcus Phayre-Mudge acts as Fund Manager to the Company on behalf of Thames River Capital LLP and Alban Lhonneur is Deputy Fund Manager.
George Gay is the Direct Property Manager and Joanne Elliott the Finance Manager.
They are supported by a team of equity and portfolio analysts.
Further information in relation to the Board and the arrangements under the Investment Management Agreement can be found in the Report of the Directors on pages 36 and 43 to 44.
In accordance with the AIFMD, BNP Paribas has been appointed as Depository to the Company.
BNP Paribas also provide custodial and administration services to the Company.
Company secretarial services are provided by Capita Company Secretarial Services.
The specific terms of the investment management agreement are set out on pages 43 to 44.
24 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT
