Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report HOW WE CREATE VALUE The UKs largest distributor of building materials with room to grow Whilst the Group is the largest distributor of building materials in the UK, its businesses are not always the first choice for many of its customers and many of the markets in which the Group operates remain fragmented.
Theseopportunities present compelling routes to improve and grow many of the Groups businesses.
The Group remains committed to building on its core expertise as a distributor of building materials.
Given the opportunities to grow, the UK will remain the key focus for the Groups merchant businesses for the foreseeable future.
The Group has begun to diversify beyond the UK and this will continue with the organic expansion of its integrated multichannel business Toolstation.
The Group will only enter markets beyond the UK where one of the Groups businesses has a disruptive and compelling customer proposition and where strong returns can be generated.
Be the first choice distributor of building materials in the UK First Choice Distributor The Group is the largest distributor of building materials, With the exception of some minority investments the but not the first choice for the majority of customers Group is a distribution business with complementary supply chains Building Materials UK The advantages the Group and its businesses enjoy The products the Group sells are used in the repair, are generally not scalable outside the UK maintenance or improvement of existing buildings and the construction of new  12 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Business model The core of all of the Groups businesses is distribution, meaning they are engaged in buying, moving and selling building materials.
buy move sell Source products from over Distribute 400,000 product Sell goods and services to over 2 50 countries and over lines from over 4 million ft 280,000 account customers 9,000 suppliers distribution space using and millions of cash customers 4,000 delivery vehicles from more than 2,000 branches The markets each of the Groups businesses operate within through the Contracts division.
Customers who range from local have distinct characteristics based on the type of customers tradesmen through to national developers are served through they serve, what products they sell, the basis of pricing and two merchant divisions: Travis Perkins and Benchmarx within the the fulfilment channel.
The Group organises its businesses General Merchanting division and specialist plumbing customers by customer group.
Retail customers are served through the through the Plumbing & Heating division.
Consumer division and large contract led customers are served Consumer Merchants Contracts Travis PTS, CPS Perkins Keyline, F & P, Wickes Toolstation BSS, CCF Benchmarx Connections, Primaflow Sales 1.5bn Sales 2.1bn Sales 1.4bn Sales 1.3bn Medium - large trade Customers Small tradesperson consumer Tendered Variable by customer to Fixed framework Pricing templates guided agreements Variable Mandated Ranging 35% 50% 85% Delivery 13 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report The Groups ambition Whilst demand in markets the Groups businesses operate significant structural advantages the Group enjoys, which include within remains a key driver of the volume of building materials the scale of its buying, its distribution infrastructure and the sold and in the Groups continued success, the Groups growth breadth of its property portfolio, enabling operating businesses is not constrained by market growth.
The Group has relatively to access good quality sites which other competitors may not low market shares in many sectors, which presents an excellent be able to access, quickly and cost effectively.
Inaddition, opportunity for the majority of the Groups businesses to gain eachoperating business is guided to develop superior market share.
These businesses are well positioned to take customer propositions though better ranging, value for money, advantage of this opportunity to gain share because of the convenienceand advantaged delivery and service expertise.
The majority of the markets in which the Group competes are highly fragmented Market Proliferation of small family-owned businesses 1 fragmentation The Groups businesses are no.
2 in each of their markets, but with relatively low market shares Sourcing & supply chain: sourcing terms, range, stocking and distribution efficiency Structural Branch network: 2,000 locations in the UK with strong financial position underpinning tight rent yields 2 advantages and site access IT: selective sharing of software platforms and volume hardware purchasing Range & value: improved promotions and KVI pricing, range extension, own label development, availability Superior Space: new branch and store opening programme with implants intensifying space 3 propositions Channel, format and customer service: investment in online channels, new formats and better service Fragmented markets structural advantage Based on the Groups experience in recent years and superior proposition sustainable market share gains evolving market dynamics the Group remains committed to delivering the following in its Consumer, Contracts As a result of its strategic and structural advantages the : Group expects to outperform the underlying level of market growth and furthermore to add additional capacity in selected Outperforming the market sales growth in these markets markets.
The Group identifies opportunities to continue to Growing operating margins in its Contracts and add capacity in Wickes, Toolstation, through online channels, Consumerdivisions in Benchmarx, Keyline and selectively in Travis Perkins and CCF.
However, its ability to outperform the market is against Maintaining its sector leading margins in the General abackdrop of uncertainty in its markets, with difficult to forecast Merchanting division price inflation and market volume.
Price inflation and volume Delivering low double digit growth in EBITA per annum areclearly linked and the Group will remain agile in its trading in each of these divisions and increases in LAROCE of approach inorder to maximise its cash earning potential.
200-300 basis points over the medium term, subject to modest marketgrowth Owing to the underperformance of the Plumbing & Heating division in recent years the Group is reviewing its operations in order to better address customer demand and optimise the value to be created for shareholders in this market.
The Group will be giving a fuller update on its plans at the 2017 .
14 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Levers of value creation In order to deliver its ambitions, the Group developed a strategy in 2013 which remains in place today with components of the strategy being accelerated or moderated depending on market conditions and performance in each of its businesses.
The chart below sets out the levers the Group is using to create value for its shareholders.
Portfolio Scale Management Optimising Advantage Streamlined central Customer Network Supply chain investment functions Innovation TP expansion Leverage property Devolved management and modernisation capability responsibility Improved value Wickes national footprint Group sourcing Disciplined planning Extended range benefits and capital allocation Plumbing & Heating Product development format clarity Shared technology Regular market Format renewal investment updates Implants intensify returns Technology enabled Trade parks Multi-channel Enabled through people and evolution of unique culture Comparing performance Risks The Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages with strategy 37 to 43 sets out the key risk factors that are considered by the The Groups ambition is to deliver long term, sustainable value Directors to be material to the business and may impact upon to shareholders.
There is a comrehensive series of financial thesuccessful delivery of this strategy.
and non-financial measures which the Group tracks to monitor operational performance.
All of these indicators are aligned to achieving the Groups strategic ambition.
The Groups actual performance for 2016 is shown in the performance review sections on pages 18 to 35.
Executive Director remuneration is linked to strategy and performance, which is explained further in the Directors Remuneration Report on page74.
