Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration THE BOARD, COMMITTEES AND ADVISORS The Board Robert Walker John Carter Tony Buffin Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer Nationality Nationality Nationality British British British Appointment date Appointment date Appointment date 30 September 2009, Chairman 1 July 2001, Chief Executive 8 April 2013, Chief Operating Officer from 17May 2010 from 1 January 2014 from 1 March 2017 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Nominations Committee Chairman, Executive Committee Chairman Executive Committee Stay Safe Committee and and Stay Safe Committee  Skills and experience Skills and experience Tony joined Travis Perkins plc in Skills and experience John joined Travis Perkins plc in 1978 April2013 as Chief Financial Officer.
Robert was appointed as a non-executive as a Management Trainee and was He was appointed Chief Operating Officer director in 2009 and became Chairman appointed Chief Executive Officer in effective from 1 March 2017 following a in 2010.
He is also chairman of Enterprise January 2014.
With over 38 years three month transition of the CFO role Inns plc and Eagle TopCo Limited.
experience in the business, John has to Alan Williams.
Prior to joining the He was previously chairman of held various senior strategic roles in Group, Tony was CFO of the Coles Group, W H Smith PLC, Williams Lea Group Ltd, Sales, Marketing and Operations and the leading Australian grocery retailer, Americana International Holdings Ltd and has managed sector-leading functions where he was accountable for finance, BCA Marketplace, senior independent such as Procurement, Supply Chain, property, IT and strategy.
Tony is a director of Tate & Lyle PLC and Group International Sourcing and Category qualified accountant and a non-executive Chief Executive of Severn Trent Plc.
During his career John has director of the Dyson family businesses.
Previously, he spent over 30 years with also been responsible for a number of Tony was previously CEO of the Loyalty Procter & Gamble, McKinsey and PepsiCo key strategic acquisitions for the Group, Management Group and prior to that held and has also served as a non-executive including Keyline in 1999, Wickes in 2005 senior finance positions at Alliance Boots.
director on a number of other FTSE 100 and BSSGroup in 2010. and 250 boards.
58 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Non-executive Directors Alan Williams Ruth Anderson Coline McConville Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Nationality Nationality Nationality British British Australian Appointment date Appointment date Appointment date 3 January 2017, Chief Financial Officer 24 October 2011 1 February 2015 from 3 January 2017 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Audit Committee Chairman, Nominations Remuneration Committee Chairman, Audit Executive Committee Committee and Stay Safe Committee Committee and Nominations Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Alan joined Travis Perkins plc as Ruth was appointed as a non-executive Coline was appointed as a non-executive ChiefFinancial Officer in January2017 director in 2011.
She is a non-executive director in February 2015.
Coline is and is a member of the Executive director of Ocado Group plc and Coats currently a non-executive director of Committee.
Prior to joining the business Group plc.
She is also a trustee of TUIAG, Inchcape PLC and Fevertree Alan served as CFO at Greencore The Royal Parks and of the charity, Drinks PLC and was formerly a Groupplc for 6 years.
Alanalso The Duke of Edinburghs Award.
Ruthis non-executive director of UTV Media previously worked at Cadbury plc in a chartered accountant, and held a plc, Wembley National Stadium Limited, a variety of financial roles in the UK, number of positions in KPMG UK from TUITravel Limited, Shed Media PLC France and the USA.
Alan is a qualified 1976to2009, being a member of its and HBOS PLC, and a global advisor and accountant and treasurer and has a board from 1998 to 2004 and Vice director of Grant Thornton International strong background in leading strategic Chairman from 2005to 2009.
Previous to that Coline was initiatives, mergers and acquisitions, ChiefOperating Officer and Chief integration and .
Executive Officer Europe of Clear Channel International Limited.
She holds an MBA from Harvard Business School, where she was a Baker Scholar.
59 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Non-Executive Directors continued Pete Redfern Christopher Rogers John Rogers Non-executive Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Nationality Nationality Nationality British British British Appointment date Appointment date Appointment date 1 November 2014 1 September 2013 1 November 2014 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Stay Safe Committee Chairman, Audit Committee and Audit Committee, Nominations Committee Nominations Committee and Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Christopher was appointed as a John was appointed as a non-executive Pete was appointed as a non-executive non-executive director in September director in November 2014 and is director in November 2014.
Christopher was Managing Director currently Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive of Taylor Wimpey plc of Costa Coffee from 2012 to 2016 of Sainsburys Argos and a member and is also a Chartered Accountant.
Pete and a director of Whitbread PLC from of the J Sainsburys plc Board and was previously Chief Executive of George 2005 to 2016 where he also served Sainsburys Bank plc Board.
Prior to Wimpey Plc and prior to that, he held as Group Finance Director.
He was his appointment as CEO of Sainsburys the roles of Chief Executive and Finance Group Finance Director of Woolworth Argos, John was Chief Financial Officer Director of its UKHousing division.
Group PLC from 2001 to 2005 and of J Sainsbury plc for six years and during He is also a Trustee of the homelessness previously held senior roles in both his career at Sainsburys he also held charity Crisis and a member of the Home finance and commercial functions in the posts of Property Director, Director Builders Federation.
Comet Group PLC and Kingfisher PLC.
of Group Finance and Director of He was also a non-executive director of Corporate Finance.
Before joining HMVGroupPLC from 2006 to 2012.
Sainsburys, John held a variety of financial, operational and strategy roles.
60 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Executive Committee Advisors John Carter Chief Executive Investment Bankers Advisors HSBC Bank plc: Morgan Stanley Tony Buffin Chief Operating Officer Corporate Brokers Citibank: JP Morgan Cazenove Alan Williams Chief Financial Officer Solicitors Linklaters LLP, London: Herbert Smith LLP, London Norman Bell Strategy Director Future Merchant Auditor KPMG LLP, Birmingham & Core Systems Registrar Capita Registrars, Beckenham Frank Elkins CEO, Contracts Division Deborah Grimason Company Secretary & General Counsel Andrew Harrison Group Commercial & Business Development Director Carol Kavanagh Group HR Director Simon King MD, Wickes Martin Meech Group Property Director Cheryl Millington Chief Digital Officer Neil Pearce Chief Information Officer Paul Tallentire CEO, General Merchanting Division 61
