Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the year ended 31December 2016.
The Corporate Governance statement on pages 62 to 66 forms part of the DirectorsReport.
102 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Business review Directors and their interests A review of the Groups position, developments, activities in the The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires that field of research and development and future prospects can be all directors of FTSE 350 companies are subject to re-election found in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 55.
Whilst the Group at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM each year and operates predominantly in the UK it does have a few branches in therefore all Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors will the Isle of Man and the Republic of Ireland.
seek re-election at the AGM with the exception of Alan Williams who will be standing for election.
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting The names of the Directors at 31 December 2016, together with Details of the Groups Greenhouse Gas Emissions can be found their biographical details are set out on pages 58 to 60.
All of in the Environmental Report on pages 53 to 55. these Directors held office throughout the year with the exception of Alan Williams who joined the Board on 3 January2017.
The Results and dividends Executive Directors have rolling 12 month notice periods in their contracts.
The Non-executive Directors do not have service The Group results for the year ended 31 December 2016 and contracts.
In light of the formal evaluation of their performances dividends for the year ending 31 December 2016 are set out in and the results of the process described on page 65, Robert the income statement and note 12 respectively on pages 114 and Walker, Chairman, confirms on behalf of the Board that all 141.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend directors continue to be effective in, and committed to, their roles.
will be paid on 26 May 2017 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 April 2017.
Directors and officers of the Company are entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company in respect of any Balance sheet and post balance sheet events liability incurred in relation to the affairs of the Company, or any associate company, to the extent the law allows.
In this regard, The balance sheet on pages 116 and 117 shows the Groups the Company is required to disclose that under article 140 of the financial position.
No important events have occurred since Companys Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit thebalance sheet date.
of an indemnity, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 against liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their Principal risks and uncertainties duties and exercise of their powers.
This indemnity is currently in A review of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties force.
In addition, if proceedings against Directors are instituted is on pages 37 to 43. subsequent to any person acquiring control of the Company, theCompany has agreed with each of the Directors that pursuant Financial risk management to article 140 D of the Companys Articles of Association, theCompany shall provide a Director with funds subject to Details of the Groups approach to capital management and the certain restrictions to meet expenditure incurred by that Director alleviation of risk through the use of financial instruments are in defending any criminal or civil proceedings.
given in the Financial Performance Section on pages 27 to 35.
Specific quantitative information on borrowings and financial A copy of the Companys Articles of Association which contains instruments is given in notes 22 and 23 on pages 152 to 160 of this indemnity is available for inspection at the Companys the annual financial statements.
registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at and during the period of 30 minutes prior to the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
None of the Directors had an interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
The Company has undertaken to comply with the best practice on approval of directors conflicts of interests in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
These provisions have operated effectively.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 December 2016, including holdings, if any, of spouses and of children aged under 18, were as detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 94.
103 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Substantial shareholdings Modern slavery As at 14 March 2017, the Company had been notified of the The issue of slavery and human trafficking is a global issue following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights and no business sector will be able to eliminate or be free of in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at this slavery within their supply chain without working collaboratively date no other such notification from any other shareholder had with industry and interested organisations.
The Group will not been received by the Company : accept slavery or human trafficking and works with suppliers and colleagues to ensure positive steps are taken to ensure that % slavery has no place in the business or supply chain.
The Groups approach is based on its five Cornerstones which, BlackRock Inc 5.03 in essence, come down to doing the right thing.
Suppliers are Harris Associates L. P. 5.08 required to take positive steps to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not present in their supply chains and all centrally OppenheimerFunds Inc 5.06 managed suppliers are required to sign up to the Groups policies for Supplier Commitments and undertake an online risk Sprucegrove Investment assessment to help identify potential risks in the supply chain.
Management Ltd 4.78 The Group has taken a risk based approach to consider its exposure to modern slavery and periodically audits the Close company status factories producing products under the Travis Perkins brands, The close company provisions of the Income and Corporation prioritising these based on previous results, risk, performance Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
An awareness programme has also been rolled out to commercial and product supply colleagues who are most Employees likely to be confronted with this issue.
Statements on employee matters are contained in the section If issues are identified, investigations and remedial actions will of the annual report entitled Capturing the way things are done be taken.
No instances of slavery or human trafficking have around here on pages 45 to 49. beenidentified.
Details of the number of employees and related costs can be Political donations found in note 7 to the financial statements.
The Company is committed to equality of opportunity and The Group did not give any money for political purposes nor did recognises the benefit of diversity within its workforce.
Its it make any donations to political organisations or independent approach to the matter of diversity on company boards is set candidate or incur any political expenditure during the year.
out in the Nominations Committee report on page 101 and in the section of the annual report entitled Capturing the way things Auditor are done around here on pages 45 to 49.
The Company has an KPMG LLP is the Companys auditor at the date of this report, equal opportunities policy aimed at ensuring that employment having been appointed following the outcome of the tender decisions are based on ability and potential regardless of gender, for the role of external auditor conducted during late 2014 race, colour, ethnic origin or sexual orientation, age or disability.
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual In particular, applications for employment by disabled persons General Meeting to re-appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys are always fully and fairly considered, bearing in mind the auditor, and to authorise the Audit Committee to fix the aptitudes of the person concerned.
In the event of a member auditorsremuneration.
of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate Statement on disclosure of information to the auditor training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
ofthis report confirms that: The Groups policies and practices have been designed So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit to keep employees informed on matters relevant to them information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and as employees through regular meetings and newsletters.
The director has taken all reasonable steps that they ought to  are consulted regularly on a wide have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware range of matters affecting their interests.
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s. 418 of the Companies Act2006.
104 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Share capital and change of control The rules governing the appointment and replacement of board members and changes to the Articles of Association accord As at 31 December 2016 the Company had an allotted and with usual English company law provisions.
The powers of the fullypaid share capital of 250,804,680 ordinary shares of Companys Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of 10pence each, with an aggregate nominal value of 25,080,468 Association.
In particular, the Board has the power to issue shares including shares owned by the Travis Perkins Employee Share and to purchase the Companys own shares and is seeking Ownership Trust.
Theordinary shares are listed on the London renewal of these powers at the forthcoming Annual General Stock Exchange.
Allthe shares rank pari passu.
The rights and Meeting in accordance with the restrictions and within the limits obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys set out in the notice of that meeting.
Fully paid shares in the Company are freely transferable.
Thereare no persons that hold securities There are a number of agreements to which the Company is a carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Detailsof the structure of the Companys share capital and control following a takeover bid.
None of these agreements is changes in the share capital during the year are also included considered significant in the context of the Company as a whole.
innote 19 to the annual financialstatements.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for As at 31 December 2016 the Travis Perkins Employee Share Directors or employees on change of control.
As set out in the Ownership Trust owned 729,680 shares in the Company 0.3% Directors Remuneration Report on page 95, service contracts of issued share capital for use in connection with the Companys for Executive Directors do not specify any particular level of share schemes aggregate nominal value 72,968.
Any voting or compensation in the event of termination following change of other similar decisions relating to those shares would be taken by control of the Company.
As noted above, the Company has the Trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of agreed with each of the Directors that it shall provide a director the Company.
with funds subject to certain restrictions to meet expenditure incurred in defending any criminal or civil proceedings if such There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the proceedings are instituted subsequent to any person acquiring Companys ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any control of the Company.
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
By order of the Board Deborah Grimason Company Secretary & General Counsel 14 March 2017 Stephen Maguire Travis Perkins, Tilbury Range Centre 105
