Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report CAPTURING THE WAY THINGS ARE DONE AROUND HERE The success of the Group is built upon the hard work and dedication of thousands of people that work in its branches, stores, warehouses and offices.
Therefore, it is critically important that the Group is able to attract, develop and retain the best people to work in its different businesses.
It will also make it easier for the Group to attract and retain people Attracting the right people because of leading edge systems and processes.
The Group takes great strides to ensure it attracts the The Group has launched a programme to support the future right people to work for it.
Its efforts have been recognised growth of the business and its people through implementing by a number of external parties.
In particular the Group next generation Payroll and HR services and software.
The wasrecognised: programme is focusing on doing things more simply, quickly and As a Top Employer for the 8th year running and this year effectively whilst ensuring the Group is meeting the aspirations was noted as one of the top 5 of all entrants of its Cornerstones.
By providing an efficient one stop shop for HRrelated tasks, colleagues and managers will have more time to In the top 25 UK companies in LinkedIns first-ever focus on the Groups customers and core business activities.
Top Attractors list Being at the forefront of finding innovative solutions to the During 2016 innovation, technology advances and new people problems its customers face gives the Group a competitive initiatives commenced that will enable the Group to remain agile, advantage and helps drive growth.
Therefore, the Group is increase productivity and enable colleagues to keep providing passionate about promoting innovation from colleagues, suppliers, excellent customer service.
customers and others, including students, university research The Group continued the programme to modernise its core groups and entrepreneur inventors.
By this means it can partner business systems.
This project will deliver a digital transformation with innovators, manufacturers and customers to bring new programme aimed at helping colleagues serve customers better.
45 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report Retaining and developing talent In 2016 the Group created over 1,000 new roles across all businesses and central functions.
In addition more than 2,300 colleagues were promoted to a new role and over 460 were successful in taking up roles in another brand.
Investing in early career and talent pipelines and ensuring the highest quality of experience for those going through these is extremely important to the Group.
All 12 programme participants in the Groups Fast Track Programme graduated successfully during the year.
Theprogramme provided a personalised and flexible management and development programme designed to nurture the individual talents of the participants.
In addition 585 new management apprentices joined the Group during the year and a further 101 existing apprentices graduated from the programme.
Travis Perkins Group were Highly Commended for the Midlands Region Macro Apprentice Employer of the year for 2016, and were also accredited as a Top 100 Apprenticeship Employer 2016, both for the second year running.
The Group also actively built its relationship with the Career Transition Partnership, the official providers of resettlement for all Armed Forces personnel.
In partnership with Barclays Bank the Group undertook The programme will engage with colleagues to provide assistance, research to understand the financial health and awareness of support and guidance through some of the financial challenges its colleagues.
As a consequence a new Financial Wellbeing that life and individual circumstances can sometimecreate: programme for colleagues was launched.
46 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report The Group continued to build upon its commitment to provide through discounts arranged via affinity schemes and corporate even more benefit options and choices for colleagues through its partnerships or via its suite of voluntary benefits.
online benefits hub My Perks Plus.
During the autumn the Group announced a small number March 2016 saw the introduction of a green car salary sacrifice of branch closures in the trade businesses and the closure scheme, provided by Car Salary Exchange.
The scheme allows of 10 smaller distribution and fabrication centres.
Around colleagues to lease a brand new environmentally friendly green 600colleagues were impacted by this change, but all those who car through a salary exchange scheme.
wished to remain in the Group have been redeployed.
The Group seeks to ensure its benefits programmes Workforce with a Difference are advantageous to as many employees as possible.
Theintroduction of the national living wage impacted the The Group is committed to ensuring diversity amongst its number of colleagues who were previously eligible to take up workforce and believes diversity is a strategic enabler that will salary sacrifice arrangements.
To counter this the Group sought advance its competitive position and support its identity as an to provide them with alternative arrangements where possible employer of choice.
The Groups on line learning and development platform iLearn has many modules to support our building of a workforce with adifference.
During the year Wickes demonstrated particular leadership in this area by launching the Making Wickes Inclusive programme.
Theaim is to make people feel that working at Wickes supports their lifestyle and respects their home life.
To achieve this a range of initiatives have been introduced including: Supporting women before, during and after their maternity leave, and ensuring that guidance is given for working more flexibly at Wickes Recognising everyones culture and celebrating with them on the days that really matter Delivering a programme of unconscious bias training to thebusiness Teaming up with Europes largest LGBT rights charity to become champions of all forms of diversity across ourbusiness 47 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report Statutory reporting of gender diversity Whilst there remains much to do, the Group is proud of the senior managers being women.
In 2016 55% of the intake to the progress it has made with almost one-third of the Board and Groups graduate schemes were women.
Although the Group is incredibly proud to be the UKs charities and communities around it.
largest supplier of building materials it is also proud of how it Our Shared Successes Charity Partnerships 1.2 MILLION Giving something back and making decent returns Why this matters The Group continues to empower each of its businesses to Group colleagues also support additional charitable activity support different charities which mean something special to through Payroll giving and via a Colleague Lottery.
The popularity them and enter into a partnership, usually for 3 years or more.
of these schemes remains undiminished.
The selection criteria are those charities that support children and or adults, affected by poverty, disability or disease in the UK.
