STRATEGIC REPORT CREATING VALUE CREATING VALUE ACROSS THE OIL & GAS LIFE CYCLE We aim to create sustainable value across the oil and gas life cycle.
We do this by paying fair and appropriate amounts of tax, being transparent in the payments we make to governments, creating local employment and identifying opportunities for local businesses within our supply chain.
Exploration & Appraisal Development of discovery Production 2016 Capital is invested by International Oil In addition to drilling wells required for oil Once a field is producing, investment will focus on sustaining and extending plateau FOREIGN DIRECT Companies IOCs acquiring licences and production, this phase involves building the production.
This involves general maintenance, steps to protect the integrity of the INVESTMENT $857M seismic data and the drilling of E&A wells.
infrastructure required to extract and develop fieldand additional infill or near-field exploration drilling.
invested Anoil company will often carry the host resources.
Foronshore projects, this includes governments share of costs through transport infrastructure, amenities, processing facilities and pipelines.
Floating Production Storage and Offloading FPSO vessels and sub-sea equipment are fabricated.
Tullow pays the host government land rentals and numerous taxes, including withholding tax on The main economic value to host governments is from production revenues and PAYMENTS TO goods and services imported into the country, PAYE and National Insurance on personnel employed, incometaxes on Tullows profits.
GOVERNMENT $438M licence fees, further infrastructure improvement payments, customs duties and training allowances.
paid to governments In the early stages of a project Tullow This phase represents the greatest opportunities for Goods and services from local businesses and expertise from the local workforce IN-COUNTRY creates benefits for local communities by local businesses and individuals.
Opportunities in arerequired to run operations, maintain production and develop fields further.
VALUE $337M investing insocial projects and employing thesupply chain range from providing engineering Tullowcontinues to invest in capacity building and training to grow levels of local spent with local suppliers local sub-contractors in E&A programmes, expertise and manpower to logistics and catering.
employmentand business participation in the supply chain.
Other benefits can include Tullow undertakes capacity building programmes improved infrastructure and access to including skills, knowledge and technology transfer amenities and social investment in to maximise local business and workforce localcommunities.
Capital invested in exploration is The IOC will look for the most commercially effective An agreement between Tullow and the government determines how and when Tullow TULLOW & OUR deriskedthrough extensive research and way to develop the discoveries.
Often additional and its Joint Venture JV partners can recover the significant investment that has SHAREHOLDERS 67,100 BOPD analysis of the geology ahead of any investment partners will be brought in at this beenmade during the exploration, appraisal and development phases.
oilcompanys share of production or revenue is higher in the earlier years of production as costs are recovered in the form of allowable deductions against income tax or as an allocation of production, commonly known as cost oil.
2-10 YEAR PERIOD 3-10 YEAR PERIOD 22 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts PAYMENTS THROUGH THE OIL LIFE CYCLE 1 Appraisal proves commerciality of field Exploration success $MM Seismic survey Oil company cost Government take 1st Exploration well - Oil company opex Oil company take Go vernment Government investment Net Cash Flow First oil Exploration Appraisal Development Production Decommissioning Exploration & Appraisal Development of discovery Production 2016 Capital is invested by International Oil In addition to drilling wells required for oil Once a field is producing, investment will focus on sustaining and extending plateau FOREIGN DIRECT Companies IOCs acquiring licences and production, this phase involves building the production.
