8 Strategic report Our strategy The Groups strategy is to continue to develop its business in the wholesale financial, energy and commodities markets to deliver superior performance, underpinned by strong financial discipline.
In 2015 Tullett Prebon presented its strategy Our strategy for the Group entitled 'the ten arrows'.
The Group will build revenue in The Group will improve the functions This strategy, which is summarised below, identified those actions and products, the most attractive areas of the that support the revenue generating regions, clients and technologies that markets through: divisions through: in managements view offered the most attractive prospect for the Company going Seeking to add brokers to maintain Investing in technology and realigning forward.
The initiative targets maximising and grow presence in those products the mix between owned and these opportunities and remains as valid with high market attractiveness where outsourced platforms to maximise today as when we established it, so we have the business has a high ability to the businesss intellectual property adopted the ten arrows strategy for the compete, and where its presence to ensure that the business has the combined TP ICAP group.
This page can be developed: technology capabilities that summarises the ten high level initiatives.
customers seek: Seeking to continue to build the businesss activities in energy and Investing in client relationship commodities products: management to bring focus and Key to our strategy discipline to how the business targets To help you see where our activities Extending the businesss broking and covers clients, to seek to broaden are in line with our strategy, look offering to service clients where the and institutionalise relationships: for these icons.
market is receptive to a broadening of the client base: and D eveloping the businesss capability Hire brokers tosource, execute and integrate Continuing to develop Data & Analytics acquisitions: Energy & Commodities where the product suiteand delivery Broader client base channels can be expanded.
W orking within a robust investment framework so that the business Data & Analytics allocates capital and resources to areas where the most value can Investing in technology becreated: Client relationship management D eveloping the HR function and Acquisitions processes to hire and train employees and to manage compensation Investment framework appropriately to encourage good long term behaviours: and HR S eeking to improve the businesss Brand brand awareness and coverage.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 9 What we did What we are going to do During 2016 we took actions to develop our business as a leader in In the coming year, we will continue wholesaleOTC markets in broking and information services through: to add to our brokerage footprint, expand and improve the tools that completing the acquisition of ICAP on setting up a joint venture to develop a we provide our brokers, and enhance 30December 2016.
This was achieved new institutional all-to-all real estate our Corporate Services through: byissuing 310m shares valued at trading portal for the issuance and 1,283m to the ultimate shareholders secondary trading of indirect real integrating the Corporate Functions of NEX Group plc.
Prior to completion, estate instruments.
to build a lean, scalable and efficient clearances were obtained from acquiring a long term licence for a operating model.
competition authorities and regulators tradingtechnology which we are reviewing our broking capability responsible for supervising the markets developing in-house to provide footprintin TP ICAP and hiring in which we operate.
proprietary, bespoke capabilities, selectively to add to our roster in key customer facing technologies.
In addition we created further shareholder increasing our capabilities and proactively engaging with our clients value by: expanding our team in client relationship to understand clearly where there is management, and launching a more potential for us to serve them more adding senior expertise in broking structured and systematic approach comprehensively, gathering their alternative assets.
to building contacts at many levels feedback more systematically extending our PVM brand into a of our clients.
multi-commodity options offering with launching our new careers page on enhancing some of our electronic the creation of a new desk in London our Company website and on LinkedIn.
platforms to provide better straight covering gas, coal, emissions and.
through processing, and a more intuitive power options.
entering into a partnership with a expanding our suite of proprietary specialist listed futures and options analytics to give our brokers and broker, Coex, adding more than 20 clientsafaster, more accurate and brokers in London, Paris and New York, sophisticatedservice.
who serves a diverse client base.
providing data and analytics services pioneering the execution and processing andproducts that meet client needs as of swap execution facility SEF trades the regulatory and business environment for clearing at the Japan Securities changes with the introduction of new Clearing Corporation, demonstrating rules governing bank capital, valuation our ability to adapt to a changing and risk mitigation.
regulatory landscape and offer clients using our technology to provide clients solutions globally.
with easier ways to manage large flows entering into an agreement with a of market information to enable them to provider of smart commodity data increase their efficiency in selecting and management software licences to executing trades.
redistribute our real-time energy market data including European power, European gas, fuel oil, middle distillates, biofuels, international coal and global oil.
