2 Strategic report Who we are We are a global brokerage and information firm that plays a central role at the heart of the worlds wholesale financial, energy and commodities markets.
Our business TP ICAP provides broking professional We operate a hybrid model, where brokers financial, energy and commodities products.
intermediary services to match buyers and provide business-critical intelligence to Our market data is independent, unbiased sellers of different financial, energy and clients, supplemented by proprietary screens and non-position influenced.
Our role is to create that provide historical data, analytics and Our clients include banks, insurance liquidity and price discovery in these execution functionality.
companies, pension funds, asset managers, markets and provide insight and context We are the leading provider of proprietary hedge funds, central banks, energy to our clients.
over the counter OTC pricing information producers and refiners, risk and compliance in the world with a unique source of data on managers and charities.
Our divisions Global Broking Energy & Commodities Data & Analytics Our Global Broking division covers Rates, Our Energy & Commodities division operates Our Data & Analytics division provides FX and Money Markets, Emerging Markets, markets in oil, gas, power, renewables, unique data sets of OTC pricing products Equities and Credit products and brings ferrous metals, base metals, precious metals, to enable clients to analyse, trade and together buyers and sellers, providing them soft commodities and coal.
with a range of services and venues that Institutional Services Corporate Services enables them to execute trades efficiently Our Institutional Services division provides Our Corporate Services division provides and successfully.
broking and execution services to a range technology, compliance, risk, finance, of institutions such as asset managers, HR and other essential services to our hedge funds and insurance companies.
Following the acquisition of the ICAP Global Broking and Information Business, from January 2017, TP ICAP will report the performance of the divisions above.
We have reported the performance for the year end 31 December 2016 on a regional basis in line with the management structure of the Group during 2016.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 3 Where we operate Americas EMEA Asia Pacific USA UK Singapore Brazil Austria Australia Canada Bahrain China 73 locations Colombia Denmark Hong Kong Ecuador Dubai India Mexico France Indonesia Germany Japan Luxembourg New Zealand Netherlands Philippines 31 countries Norway South Korea Poland Thailand South Africa Spain Switzerland www.
