CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT APPLYING THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The UK Corporate Governance Code are available to achieve the agreed strategic goals.
The Board also As a UK premium listed Company, Tullow Oil plcs governance sets the Companys key policies and reviews management and policies and procedures are based on the principles of the UK financial performance.
The Board operates within a framework Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code.
A copy of the ofcontrols and these clear procedures, lines of responsibility and Code is available at www.
Notwithstanding the fact delegated authorities allow risk to be assessed and managed that the reporting period to which this document relates began effectively.
These are underpinned by the Boards work to set before 17 June 2016, the Company considered it beneficial to theGroups core values and standards of business conduct and adopt the provisions of the April 2016 edition of the Code for the ensure that these, together with the Groups obligations to its year ended 31 December 2016 earlier than required by the UK stakeholders, are widely understood across all its activities.
Board meetings and visits This corporate governance report describes how the Company The Board and its Committees deal with its core activities in has applied the principles and standards set out in the Code planned meetings throughout the year.
Matters which require during the year and sets out our activities relating to the main decisions outside the scheduled meetings are dealt with sections of the Code: leadership, effectiveness, accountability, through additional ad hoc meetings and conference calls.
remuneration and relations with shareholders.
During 2016, the Board met seven times.
A programme of strategy presentations covering a wide number of operational The Company is also required to disclose whether it has and other issues is made to the Board in June each year.
complied with the more detailed provisions of the Code during During the year, each of the Business Delivery Team heads and the year and, to the extent it has not done so, to explain any other heads of functions presented a strategic overview of their deviations from them.
It is the Boards view that the Company respective area to the Board for endorsement.
In addition, the has fully complied with all of the provisions of the Code during Board reviewed and approved the implementation of Tullows the year ended 31 December 2016.
While the Board believes Integrated Management System designed to centralise and that the Company has been fully compliant with the Code simplify Tullows policies and processes and more clearly map during the year ended 31 December 2016, Tullows recent accountabilities within the business.
The Board also regularly announcement of proposed Board changes, specifically the reviews the Enterprise Risk Management System and the risks appointment of Aidan Heavey as non-executive Chairman from facing the Company in conjunction with the Audit Committee.
the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting subject to shareholder approval, contravenes section A.
The Board normally holds one Board meeting at a principal The Board believes that this is a necessary and temporary overseas office of the Group.
These meetings ensure that the Board deviation from the principles of the Code in order to ensure an has a clear knowledge of the Companys overseas operations.
orderly transition of key stakeholder relationships held by Aidan During the trip, Senior Management from across the Group present as the Companys founder and long-serving Chief Executive to the Board and have an opportunity to meet its members Officer as he moves into retirement.
A full explanation of the informally.
In addition, the Board meets a broad cross-section of Boards decision is set out on page 75 of the Nominations staff, assesses Senior Managers and reviews in-depth operational Committee report.
matters and, in particular, matters relating to non-technical risks.
In October 2016, the Board travelled to Cape Town.
Leadership The long-term success of the Company is the collective The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer maintain frequent responsibility of the Board.
contact with the other Directors in addition to the regular Board meetings.
This ensures that all members of the Board have The role of the Board anopportunity to discuss any issues of concern and to be fully The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation briefed on the Groups operations.
anddelivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
It meets these aims through setting the Groups strategy and ensuring that the necessary resources 60 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Matters reserved Attendance at meetings The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved that can The attendance of Directors at the seven scheduled meetings only be decided by the Board.
This schedule is reviewed by the of the Board held during 2016 was as follows: Board each year.
The key matters reserved are the No.
of meetings attended consideration and approval of: Director out of a total possible the Groups overall strategy: Tutu Agyare 7 7 Mike Daly 7 7 Financial Statements and dividend policy: Anne Drinkwater 7 7 borrowings and treasury policy: Ann Grant 7 7 material acquisitions and disposals, changes to the Groups Aidan Heavey 7 7 capital structure, material contracts, major capital Steve Lucas 7 7 expenditure projects and budgets: Graham Martin 2 2 entry into new countries: Angus McCoss 7 7 Paul McDade 7 7 risk management and internal controls supported by the Ian Springett 6 7 Audit Committee : Simon Thompson 7 7 succession planning and appointments supported by the Jeremy Wilson 7 7 Nominations Committee : the Groups corporate governance and compliance In addition to the Board members, a number of Senior Managers arrangements: and attend relevant sections of Board meetings by invitation.
Division of responsibilities The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective working Summary of the Boards work intheyear of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive Officer is responsible During 2016, the Board considered all relevant matters within for the operational management of the business, for developing its remit, with a particular focus on the following issues: strategy in consultation with the Board and for implementation strategy and resource allocation: of the strategy.
This separation of responsibilities is clearly defined and agreed by the Board.
non-technical risks in major areas of operation: The Chairman portfolio management: The Chairman leads the Board, setting the agenda and finance and treasury: ensuring that the meetings provide adequate time for discussion.
From the time of his appointment as Chairman on governance and compliance: 1January 2012, and throughout his tenure of office, including assurance, risk and internal audit: and for the year ended 31 December 2016, Simon Thompson met the independence criteria set out in the Code.
organisational design and diversity, capacity and successionplanning.
com 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The UK Corporate Governance Code continued sufficient resources to carry out their duties effectively.
Their Non-executive Directors terms of reference are reviewed and approved annually by the The non-executive Directors have a broad range of business Board and the respective Committee Chairs report on their and commercial experience.
They provide independent and activities at the next Board meeting.
Details of Committee constructive challenge to the Executive Management and membership, roles and work are set out later in this report: monitor the performance of the management team in the Audit Committee on page 69, the EHS Committee on delivering the agreed objectives and targets.
At the end of page 76, the Ethics & Compliance Committee on page 78, every scheduled Board meeting, the Chairman holds a the Nominations Committee on page 74, and the discussion with the non-executive Directors without the Remuneration Committee on page 80.
These are supplemented by informal Individual delegations meetings between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer In addition to delegating certain matters to Board Committees, and the non-executive Directors.
the Board has also delegated certain operational and The non-executive Directors receive regular briefings on management matters to the Executive Directors.
In line themore technical and operational aspects of the Groups withICSA guidance, the Board approved formal terms activities.
These include major offshore projects e. g. TEN, ofreference for the Executive Directors Committee in theJubilee Turret Remediation Project and the Kenya Early Oil December2014 and reviewed and reaffirmed these Pilot Scheme.
Non-executive Directors with particular expertise termsofreference in December 2016. in these areas also meet the Chief Operating Officer and the Exploration Director to discuss operations in more detail.
Effectiveness Composition of the Board Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a term of three During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Board comprised years, subject to annual re-election.
This may, subject to the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, three other Executive satisfactory performance and re-election by shareholders, Directors and six independent non-executive Directors.
Their be extended by mutual agreement.
biographical details are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Senior Independent Director The Directors believe that the Board and its Committees consist The Senior Independent Director is available to meet of Directors with an appropriate balance of skills, experience, shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved independence and diversity of background to enable them to through discussion with the Chairman, the Chief Executive discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Officer or the Chief Financial Officer or for matters where such composition of the Board reduced by one with the retirement contact would be inappropriate.
During the year, she met with ofExecutive Director Graham Martin at the2016 AGM.
the other non-executive Directors without the Chairman to discuss the Chairmans performance.
Independence The Board considers each of the non-executive Directors to be Delegated authorities independent in character and judgement.
The Board is fully Board Committees The Board has delegated matters to five Committees: the Audit satisfied that Ann Grant demonstrates complete independence Committee, the EHS Committee, the Ethics & Compliance and robustness of character and judgement in her capacity as Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Senior Independent Director.
The Board is of the view that no Committee and the Board is satisfied that the Committees have individual or group of individuals dominates decision making.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE BOARD TIME 1-3 yrs 1 Strategy & stakeholder management 30% 3-6 yrs 5 Financial management 29% 6 yrs 1 Safety, sustainability & externalaffairs SSEA 7% Development & Operations D&O 11% Exploration & Appraisal E&A 7% Governance & risk management 16% 62 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Appointments to the Board issues raised in the questionnaires.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and promote the open and frank exchange of views.
Lintstock composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the subsequently produced a report which addressed the Board about any changes required.
As part of the appointments following areas: process, candidates disclose any other significant time commitments they may have and are required to inform the The composition and diversity of the Board was reviewed, Board of any subsequent changes to such commitments.
and the dynamics between the Board members and between the Board and Senior Management were Commitment evaluated, as was the atmosphere in the Boardroom: All Directors have disclosed their other significant commitments and confirmed that they have sufficient The management of time at the Board and the Boards time to discharge their duties effectively.
annual cycle of work were considered, and the support afforded to the Board was assessed: Training and development needs Induction The Boards oversight of strategy was reviewed, and the All new Directors receive an induction programme when they Board members views of the top strategic issues facing join the Board.
This reflects their background, experience and the Company were identified: knowledge and their understanding of the upstream oil industry The Boards management of risk was reviewed, and and Tullow in particular.
The programme includes one-to-one Board members views as to the key risks facing the meetings with Senior Management, functional and Business Company were identified: Unit heads and, where appropriate, visits to the Groups principal offices and operations.
New Directors also receive The structure of the Company at senior levels, and the anoverview of their duties, corporate governance policies succession planning for the Executive Directors and for andBoard processes.
management beneath the Board, were assessed: and Familiarisation and development The composition and performance of the Committees All members of the Board have access to appropriate ofthe Board were considered in the review, as was the professional development courses to support them in meeting performance of the Chairman and individual Directors.
During the year, Directors attended The Board objectives for 2017, set out on page 65, reflect external seminars on relevant topics relating to the business.
theaction plan and priorities agreed by all the Directors They also receive ongoing briefings on current developments, aspart of the evaluation.
including updates on governance and regulatory issues.
Board objectives Information and support We remain confident that the Board and the wider leadership Independent advice team have the experience and track record to meet the Directors have access to independent professional advice, Companys aims of delivering long-term growth and atthe Companys expense, on any matter relating to successfully managing the challenges of an expanding .
The Board sets its specific future The Company Secretary objectives at the end of each year and they reflect the particular focus of the Company in the year ahead.
The Company Secretary is Kevin Massie, who is also the Progressagainst each objective is tracked by the Companys Corporate Counsel.
He is responsible for ensuring CompanySecretary and reviewed with the Chairman compliance with all Board procedures and for providing advice atthemid-year point.
The Company Secretary provides company secretarial services to the Board and the Group.
The following table shows how the Board performed against He acts as secretary to the Audit, Ethics & Compliance, the 2016 objectives and also details the priorities and rolling Nominations and Remuneration Committees and has direct agenda items the Board will focus on in 2017. access to the Chairs of these Committees.
Re-election Board evaluation All Directors seek re-election every year and accordingly In accordance with the requirements of the UK Governance allDirectors will stand for re-election in 2017 with the Code, listed companies are required to undertake an external exception of Simon Thompson and Ann Grant who have evaluation of the performance of the Board every three years, already announced their resignations from the Board and accordingly, the Board engaged Lintstock Ltd. Lintstock attheconclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
has no other connection to the Company.
TheBoard will set out in the Notice of AGM its reasons forsupporting the re-election of each of the Directors The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with atthe forthcoming AGM.
The Notice of AGM will be the Chairman and the Company Secretary to set the context mailedto shareholders separately.
for the evaluation and to tailor questionnaires to the specific circumstances of the Company.
All respondents were then requested to complete an online questionnaire addressing Board, Board Committees, Chairman and individual performance.
Interviews were then conducted with members of the Board by two partners from Lintstock to expand upon the www.
com 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 2016 Board Objectives 2016 Board Performance 2017 Board Objectives Test Tullows strategy against evolving market and socio-political conditions to ensure that we: The strategy was debated at the Boards annual strategy offsite in June Review Tullows strategy in light of the changed Strategy and and regularly reviewed throughout the year, as market conditions evolved.
execution reduce costs, maximise cash flow from operations and manage the business to deleverage the balance sheet: The Board received regular updates on the TEN Project, which achieved Ensure West Africa is managed to maximise cashflow, pursue portfolio management options: first oil in August 2016, on time and on budget.
through safe and efficient operations and the efficient deliver the TEN Project on time and on budget: useofcapital, whilst extending the period of Cost reduction campaigns throughout the business resulted in a create options for future growth, and continue to high-grade prospects, while minimising exploration productionplateau.
reduction of $82 million in net G&A.
expenditure: and Clarify the plan for commercialisation of East Africa The exploration budget was reduced to $116.4 million resulting in a reduction eliminate non-core activities and focus on core value creation opportunities.
resources and support its execution.
in Group capex while still creating significant opportunities for future growth.
Articulate Tullows risk appetite and encourage active Significant progress was made towards the EOPS project in Kenya and the portfolio management to balance risk and reward.
Board welcomed the return to exploration drilling in Turkana commencing in December 2016.
In Uganda, significant progress was achieved around Deleverage balance sheet, manage financial structure the proposed pipeline route and settlement of legacy issues.
and employ capital to maximise returns.
A number of non-core assets were successfully sold including the Refocus the Company on value growth through a combination majority of Norwegian licence areas.
ofexploration and new investment opportunities.
Ensure the effective implementation of the revised enterprise risk management process.
Maintain focus on: A revised enterprise risk management process was implemented, Continue to assess our risk appetite and identify and Risk which maps Tullows key risks, potential impacts, mitigation strategies mitigate key risks in our business.
management liquidity management: and assurance processes.
Ensure, through the Board Committee structure, operational and project risk: A new integrated risk management system has been launched across anactive overview of and interaction with the Companys safety, health and environment: the Tullow Group to centralise and simplify corporate policies and Enterprise Wide Risk process.
community relations and social performance: standards.
The Board receives regular reporting of project-specific Ensure there is an ongoing consideration of the technical and non-technical risks.
reserves and resources management: and Companys top risks, that these are identified intheEWR process and are being actively managedby the Executive.
The Board receives quarterly political risk reports highlighting government relations.
emerging issues in the countries and regions where Tullow is active.
Performance management has been added as a key component of the strategic people plan and is subject to regular Board review.
Governance Maintain and enhance Tullows culture and values under challenging market conditions.
The new Code of Ethical Conduct was successfully launched across Maintain and enhance Tullows culture and values as Tullow with E-learning modules and self-certification against the Code market conditions continue to improve.
andvalues Ensure the new Code of Ethical Conduct is embedded and encourage all levels of management to champion approaching a 97 per cent response rate.
Ensure that the Code of Ethical Conduct is actively followed The new Ethics & Compliance Committee of the Board met throughout all levels of the Company and maintain a Ensure that the Integrated Management System IMS is embedded and that Tullows policies, standards and periodically to review the Companys performance, including culture of accountability for ethics and compliance in both procedures are consistently followed and result in efficient, safe and responsible operations.
performance against a specific Ethics & Compliance KPI in the the Business Units and the corporate centre.
Monitor compliance against the new IMS and ensure that The IMS was launched and is targeting full compliance by the end the IMS iscontinuously improved as the business evolves.
Ensure that Tullows policies, standards and procedures, as set out in the IMS, are consistently followed ensuring efficient, safe and responsible operations.
Monitor and assess the new organisational design.
Continue to look for ways to improve efficiency, Following the completion of the Major Simplification Project, Work with the new CEO and Executive team to ensure Organisational effectiveness and accountability.
considerable focus was placed on retaining cost consciousness, asmooth executive transition.
capacity performance management and accountability in the business.
Continue to develop effective succession planning for the Executive Directors and Senior Management.
Review Board structure for current environment and The Nominations Committee met frequently throughout the year to changed management.
Develop detailed plans to enhance the diversity of the leadership pipeline.
advance succession planning at executive director level and below.
Review effectiveness of each Committee.
A new Senior Leadership programme was launched to identify and Continue to assess the post MSP organisational design develop future leaders with an emphasis on ensuring a diverse and and ensure that the Executive and OSE are actively deep pipeline of talent.
improving the organisational efficiency, effectiveness Succession planning, diversity and talent management were discussed andaccountability.
periodically at the Board meetings and were reviewed in depth at the Continue to develop effective succession planning Boards strategy offsite meeting.
fortheExecutive and Non-Executive Directors and seniormanagement.
Ensure that the diversity programme, initiated in 2016, toimprove diversity across the whole organisation remains an area of focus for the Executive team.
Ensure that shareholders, staff and other major stakeholders understand and are aligned with the Tullow strategy.
Both Executive and non-executive Directors engaged with Work with the new CEO to ensure a smooth transition Stakeholder shareholders, staff, CSOs and other major stakeholders ofhigh-level stakeholder relationships.
engagement Engage with shareholders and other key stakeholders to develop an appropriate remuneration policy for approval throughoutthe year.
Ensure that shareholders, staff and other major Internal communications continued to be improved with the stakeholders understand and are aligned with the Further enhance engagement with governments and Civil Society Organisations CSOs in our principal countries roll-outofnew E-learning modules and more targeted Tullowstrategy.
Ensure that the organisation fully understands the importance of stakeholder relationships in Tullows strategy of shared prosperity.
64 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 2016 Board Objectives 2016 Board Performance 2017 Board Objectives Test Tullows strategy against evolving market and socio-political conditions to ensure that we: The strategy was debated at the Boards annual strategy offsite in June Review Tullows strategy in light of the changed Strategy and and regularly reviewed throughout the year, as market conditions evolved.
com 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 30roadshows and investor conferences around the world.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Executive Directors and Senior Management met institutional Communication and dialogue investors in the UK, Europe, Ghana, South Africa and Exploration and production companies have faced yet another NorthAmerica.
challenging year in 2016 with oil prices falling to record lows inthe first half of the year, impacting both companies and Tullow also proactively organised two roadshows for investors.
The sector did, however, see some recovery in the governance analysts led by the Chairman, who was joined by second half of the year, with oil prices reaching over $50 bbl, the Senior Independent Director, the Chair of the Remuneration positively impacting stocks across the sector.
Tullows share Committee and the Company Secretary.
One of these roadshows price increased just short of 100 per cent during the year, was specifically to gain feedback on Tullows revised remuneration exceeding the performance of our peer companies.
Institutional shareholders are offered the opportunity tomeet the Chairman to discuss any issues and concerns in Tullows outperformance is not purely down to the oil price, relation to the Groups governance and strategy.
Non-executive asthis year we saw the Company deliver against market Directors are also available to attend meetings with major expectations and deal with the various challenges the Group shareholders if requested to do so.
faced, such as TEN first oil: work to resolve the Jubilee turret issue and affirmation of insurance cover: significant progress Tullow also proactively offered conference calls with Socially inEast Africa: and prudent management of our balance sheet.
Responsible Investors to discuss topics including health and Regular communication of these achievements and challenges safety, the environment, corporate governance, bribery and is a key part of our dialogue with shareholders and the Investor corruption, country and political risk and other operational Relations IR team and Executives have maintained open and matters.
These meetings were hosted by our Vice President transparent channels throughout the year.
This has been achieved through regulatory announcements, Tullows fifth Ghana Investor Forum took place in May 2016 in regular meetings, presentations, investor conferences and ad Accra.
The event gave key institutional shareholders the chance hoc events with institutional investors and sell-side analysts.
to hear presentations and question the Executive Directors and Over the year, the IR team and Senior Management met Senior Managers from the Ghana Business Unit.
some330 institutions and the Group participated in over SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS BY INVESTMENT STYLE BY GEOGRAPHY BY CATEGORY 38 20 12 11 8 11 G54 21 18 7 G40 15 11 10 7 17 G Mutual Fund Manager 38 UK 54 Value & Growth 40 Pension Fund Manager 20 North America 21 Retail 15 Insurance Fund Manager 12 Europe 18 Value 11 Asset Manager 11 ROW 7 Growth 10 Private Banking 8 Hybrid 7 Other 11 Other 17 66 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Keeping shareholders informed 2017 KEY SHAREHOLDER We ensure shareholders can access details of the Groups ENGAGEMENTS results and other news releases through the London Stock January Exchanges Regulatory News Service.
In addition, these news Trading Statement and Operational Update releases are published on the Media section of the Groups website: www.
Shareholders and other interested February parties can subscribe to email news updates by registering Full-year Results online on the website.
The Group continually looks for ways to improve how we use online channels to communicate with our April stakeholders through our corporate website, webcasting and Annual General Meeting social media channels.
Annual General Meeting Trading Update Another important way we keep shareholders informed is through regular formal reporting and Tullows reports are July available on the corporate website.
Trading Statement and Operational Update Half-year Results Communicating with bond holders The IR and Group Finance teams have continued their November engagement with our bond investors through a number November Trading Update ofhigh-yield conferences and one-on-one meetings throughout the year.
COM Financial results, events, corporate reports, webcasts and fact books are all stored in the Investor Relations section of our website www.
2016 Annual Report and Accounts www.
com 67 C CORPORA ORPORATE TE G GO OVERNANCE VERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Accountability Remuneration This report provides shareholders with a clear assessment The Board has delegated responsibility for agreeing the ofthe Groups position and prospects supplemented, as remuneration policy for the Chairman, the Chief Executive required, by other periodic financial and trading statements.
Officer, the Executive Directors and the Senior Executives with the Remuneration Committee.
Its role and activities are set The Boards arrangements for the application of risk out inthe Directors Remuneration Report on page 80. management and internal control principles are detailed below.
The Board has delegated oversight of the relationship with the Constructive use of the AGM Groups external auditor to the Audit Committee.
Its work At the AGM held on 28 April 2016, shareholders received isoutlined in the Audit Committee report on page 69. presentations setting out the key developments in the business and put questions to the Chairman, the Chairmen of Internal controls the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees and The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups other members of the Board.
systems of internal control, which are designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the reliability of A poll was used to vote for all resolutions at the 2016 AGM, financial information for both internal use and external and the final results which included all votes cast for and publication and to comply with the requirements of the against and those withheld were announced via the London UKCorporate Governance Code.
Stock Exchange and on the Companys corporate website.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed reporting days before the meeting.
system covering both technical progress of projects and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in On behalf of the Board place procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing Simon R Thompson principal risks that face the Group.
Principal risks are Chairman regularly reported to the Board.
7 February 2017 Tullow recognises that any system of internal control can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
However, the Boards objective is to ensure that Tullow has appropriate systems in place for the identification and management of risks.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Directors is required to monitor the Companys risk management and internal control systems and, at least annually, carry out a review of their effectiveness, and report on that review in the Annual Report.
At Tullow, the Board has delegated responsibility for this assessment to the Audit Committee, and results of the assessment are described on page 73.
Risk management 44 Long-term viability statement 52 68 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts
