6 Strategic report Our business model We provide our clients with voice, hybrid and electronic execution services, and data products and analytics.
How we transact Our business model Name Passing Executing Broker We provide our clients with voice, hybrid Around 76% of the Groups broking revenue Around 5% of the Groups broking revenue and electronic execution services, and data is derived from Name Passing activities, is derived from operating as an Executing products and analytics.
where the Group identifies and introduces Broker, where the Group executes a buyer and seller who wish to transact but transactions on certain regulated exchanges How we create value is not a counterparty to the trade itself, as per client orders, and then gives-up the The Groups business model is primarily and where its exposure to a client is limited trade to the relevant client or its clearing based on generating a return from providing to outstanding invoices for commission.
The majority of the Groups an intermediation service to clients, enabling revenue generated under the Executing them to trade efficiently and effectively.
This Almost all of the Groups activities in Broker model relates to listed equity service can be provided without actively derivatives, such as forward FX, FX options, derivatives and listed interest rate futures taking credit and market risk.
As well as interest rate swaps, interest rate options, and options on futures to the relevant client providing an intermediary service, we also credit derivatives, and the vast majority or its clearing member.
have a data and analytics business that sells of the Energy & Commodities business are OTC pricing data that is generated from our transacted under the Name Passing model.
The majority of the Groups revenue broking activities.
generated under the Executing Broker model Matched Principal relates to listed equity derivatives and listed Our business is structured along business Around 19% of the Groups broking revenue interest rate futures and options onfutures.
division see page 2 and regional lines, and is derived from Matched Principal activities, is operated under competing brands as this where the Group is the counterparty to both Our people provides our clients with different sources the buyer and the seller of a matching trade.
Our people include skilled and specialist of liquidity.
brokers and data experts who have The vast majority of the Groups activities extensive product and industry experience The intermediary service we provide is across conducted under the Matched Principal and deep and trusted relationships a wide range of financial and commodity model are in government and agency bonds, with clients.
products, which are traded in numerous municipal bonds, mortgage backed markets and geographies.
These trades may securities, and corporate bonds.
The Group Our front office people work in close be bespoke in nature, complex and of high bears the risk of counterparty default during partnership with our technology developers nominal value so the access our brokers have the period between execution and who are experienced at developing to the largest pools of liquidity provides us settlement of the trade.
applications, software and electronic with a competitive advantage.
Our brokers platforms that are tailored to the needs relationships with market participants, of the markets in which we focus.
together with the operations and Our businesses are supported by our finance, infrastructure they are provided with, are operations, risk, compliance, legal, HR and keydeterminants of the ongoing success facilities functions.
ofthe Group and a key source of value.
We pride ourselves on our dynamic, professional, ambitious and collaborative approach to how we work.
Our values of Honesty, Integrity, Respect and Excellence underpin our corporate culture and guide how we behave every day and how we serveclients.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 7 Our brands We operate a portfolio of highly respected brands, each with a separate and distinctclient offering.
