CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION 2 Results and dividends Shareholders rights The loss on ordinary activities after taxation of the The rights and obligations of shareholders are set out in the Groupfortheyear ended 31 December 2016 was Companys Articles of Association which can be amended by $597.3million 2015: loss of $1,036.9 million.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are as follows: No dividends have been recommended by the Board in 2016 2015: nil.
dividend rights holders of the Companys shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare Subsequent events dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the On 5 January 2017, Tullow announced that Ian Springett, Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends.
CFO, had taken an extended leave of absence in order to Nodividend may be paid other than out of profits available undergo treatment for a medical condition with Les Wood, for distribution.
Subject to shareholder approval, payment VicePresident Finance and Commercial, appointed Interim CFO.
or satisfaction of a dividend may be made wholly or partly bydistribution of specific assets: On 9 January 2017, Tullow announced that it had agreed a substantial farm-down of its assets in Uganda to Total.
For voting rights voting at any general meeting is by a show of further details please see the Strategic Report.
hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands every shareholder who is present in person at a general On 11 January 2017, the Group announced that Paul McDade, meeting and every proxy or corporate representative currently Chief Operating Officer, will be appointed Chief appointed by a shareholder and present at a general Executive Officer following Tullows Annual General Meeting on meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares 26 April 2017.
This follows an internal and external process led held by the shareholder or represented by the proxy or by Tullows Nominations Committee.
At the same time, after six corporate representative.
If a proxy has been appointed by years on Tullows Board and five as Chairman, Simon Thompson more than one shareholder and has been instructed by one will step down from the Board.
Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer or more of those shareholders to vote for the resolution and founder of Tullow Oil, will succeed Mr. Thompson asChairman and by one or more of those shareholders to vote against of the Group for a transitional period of up to two years.
Ann Grant, aparticular resolution, the proxy shall have one vote Senior Independent Director, will retire at the AGM after nine years forandone vote against that resolution.
On a poll, every service on the Board.
Jeremy Wilson, anon-executive Director of shareholder who is present in person has one vote for every Tullow Oil and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will share held by that shareholder and a proxy has one vote for succeed Ms Grant as Senior Independent Director.
every share in respect of which he has been appointed as On 17 January 2017, the Group announced that the Erut-1 well proxy the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is in Block 13T, Northern Kenya, had discovered a gross oil set out in the form of proxy.
On a poll, a corporate interval of 55 metres with 25 metres of net oil pay at a depth of representative may exercise all the powers of the company 700 metres.
The overall oil column for the field is considered to that has authorised him.
A poll may be demanded by any of be 100 to 125 metres.
the following: a the Chairman of the meeting: b at least five shareholders entitled to vote and present in person or Share capital by proxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate As at 1 February 2017, the Company had an allotted and fully paid representative at the meeting: c any shareholder or up share capital of 914,481,960 each with a nominal value of 0.10. shareholders present in person or by proxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate representative and holding Substantial shareholdings shares or being a representative in respect of a holder of As at 7 February 2017, the Company had been notified in shares representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth accordance with the requirements of provision 5.1.
2 of the of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to attend Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Rules and and vote at the meeting: or d any shareholder or shareholders Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings in the present in person or by proxyor represented by a duly Companys ordinary share capital: authorised corporate representative and holding shares orbeing a representative in respect of a holder of shares Number of % of issued Shareholder shares capital conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 132,051,991 14.44 to not less than one-tenth of the total sums paid up on all Deutsche Bank AG 73,138,818 8.02 the shares conferring that right: Genesis Asset Managers, LLP 54,857,056 5.99 Majedie Asset ManagementLimited 45,815,547 5.02 1 Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. 45,191,459 4.96 2 IFG International Trust Company Ltd 38,960,366 5.98 1.
Following requests under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company understands that the percentage of its issued share capital held by Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. as at 31 January 2016 was 0 per cent.
No further notifications under DTR5 have been received from Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. during the year ended 31 December 2016, orto the date of publication.
Based on notification received 14 November 2006.
IFG is now known as First Names Trust Company.
com 101 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Shareholders rights continued under the $300 million secured revolving credit facility return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the agreement between, among others, the Company and Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, HSBC taking priority, the balance of assets available for Bank plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB Bank plc distribution will be distributed among the holders of and Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the thelenders specified therein, each lender thereunder shares held by them.
A liquidator may, with the authority of maycancel its commitments immediately and demand a special resolution, divide among the shareholders the repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the whole or any part of the Companys assets, or vest the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it Companys assets in whole or in part in trustees upon such under the agreement and any connected finance trusts for the benefit of shareholders, but no shareholder is document, which amount will become due and payable compelled to accept any property in respect of which there within 15 business days: and is a liability: under the $1 billion secured revolving credit facility control rights under employee share schemes the agreement between, among others, the Company and Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Crdit Under some of these arrangements, shares are held by Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Standard trustees on behalf of employees.
The employees are not Chartered Bank and the lenders specified therein, each entitled to exercise directly any voting or other control lender thereunder may cancel its commitments rights.
The trustees will generally vote in accordance with immediately and demand repayment of all outstanding employees instructions and abstain where no instructions amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries are received.
Unallocated shares are generally voted at the of the Company to it under the agreement and any discretion of the trustees: and connected finance document, which amount will become due and payable within 15 business days: restrictions on holding securities there are no restrictions under the Companys Articles of Association or under UK to the extent that a change of control occurs, in general law that either restrict the rights of UK resident shareholders terms, as a result of i a disposal of all or substantially to hold shares or limit the rights of non-resident or foreign alltheproperties or assets of the Company and all its shareholders to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares.
restricted subsidiaries other than through a merger or consolidation in one or a series of related transactions: There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on ii a plan being adopted relating to the liquidation or thepayment of dividends to US persons on the Companys dissolution of the Company: or iii any person becomes ordinary shares.
thebeneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of shares of the Company which grant that person more than 50 per cent Material agreements containing change of control provisions ofthe voting rights of the Company: The following significant agreements will, in the event of a change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: under an indenture relating to $650 million of 6 per cent Senior Notes due in 2020 between, among others, the to the extent that a change of control occurs as a result of Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and any person, or group of persons acting in concert as Deutsche Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee, defined in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, gaining theCompany must make an offer to noteholders to control of theCompany: repurchase all the notes at 101 per cent of the aggregate under the $3.4 billion or up to $3.9 billion in the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid eventthat the Company exercises its option to increase interest.
The repurchase offer must be made by the thecommitments by up to an additional $500 million Company to all noteholders within 30days following the andthelenders provide such additional commitments change of control and the repurchase must take place senior secured revolving credit facility agreement no earlier than 10 days and no later than 60days from the between, amongothers, the Company and certain date the repurchase offer is made.
Each noteholder may subsidiaries oftheCompany, BNP Paribas, HSBC Bank take up the offer in respect of all or part ofits notes: and plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and the lenders specified therein, each lender thereunder may cancel its commitments immediately and demand repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it under the agreement andany connected finance document, which amount will become due and payable within 15 business days and, in respect of each letter of credit issued under the agreement, full cash cover will be required within 15 business days: 102 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 under an indenture relating to $650 million of 6.25 per Directors cent Senior Notes due in 2022 between, among others, The biographical details of the Directors of the Company at the the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and date of this report are given on pages 42 and 43.
Deutsche Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee, Details of Directors service agreements and letters of theCompany must make an offer to noteholders to appointment can be found on pages 90 and 91.
Details of the repurchase all the notes at 101 per cent of the aggregate Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid in the Groups long-term incentive and other share option interest in the event that a change of control of the schemes are set out on page 96 and pages 98 to 100 in the Company occurs.
The repurchase offer must be made by Directors Remuneration Report.
the Company to all noteholders within 30 days following the change of control and the repurchase must take place Directors indemnities and insurance cover no earlier than 10 days and no later than 60 days from the As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which date the repurchase offer is made.
Each noteholder may the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent take up the offer in respect of all or part of its notes: and permitted by the Companies Act 2006, against claims from third to the extent that a change of control occurs, in general parties in respect of certain liabilities arising out of, or in terms, as a result of: i any person or persons, acting connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and together, acquiring or becoming entitled to more than responsibilities as Directors of the Company or any of its 50per cent of the voting rights of the Company: or ii an subsidiaries.
The Directors are also indemnified against the cost offer being made to all of the Companys shareholders to of defending a criminal prosecution or a claim by the Company, acquire all or a majority of the issued ordinary share capital its subsidiaries or a regulator provided that where the defence of the Company or such offeror proposing a scheme of isunsuccessful the Director must repay those defence costs.
arrangement with regard to such acquisition, and thereby TheCompany also maintains Directors and Officers Liability becoming entitled to exercise more than 50 per cent of the insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
voting rights of the Company : Conflicts of interest under a trust deed constituting $300 million of A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she 6.625percent guaranteed convertible bonds due in 2021 has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or theConvertible Bonds between, among others, the possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group.
The Board Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and requires Directors to declare all appointments and other Deutsche Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee, the situations that could result in a possible conflict of interest and bondholders shall have the right to require the Company: has adopted appropriate procedures to manage and, if to i convert, in accordance with a formula specified in appropriate, approve any such conflicts.
The Board is satisfied the trust deed, the Convertible Bonds into preference that there is no compromise to the independence of those shares inthe Company, which in turn will be exchanged Directors who have appointments on the boards of, or by the Company for ordinary shares: or ii redeem the relationships with, companies outside the Group.
Convertible Bonds at their principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest at the date of the Powers of Directors change of control event.
The Company is required to The general powers of the Directors are set out in Article 104 of givethe Trustee notice of the occurrence of an event the Articles of Association of the Company.
It provides that the constituting a change of control within five calendar days business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which of the occurrence of such event, and the bondholders may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating shall thereafter have 60 calendar days in which to tothe management of the business of the Company or not.
This exercise the election referred to above.
If the bondholders power is subject to any limitations imposed on the Company by elect to redeem the Convertible Bonds, the Company is applicable legislation.
It is also limited by the provisions of the required to make payment of this amount 14 business Articles of Association of the Company and any directions given days after receiving notification of such election.
by special resolution of the shareholders of the Company which are applicable on the date that any power is exercised.
com 103 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Powers of Directors continued Appointment and replacement of Directors Please note the following specific provisions relevant to the The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate Directors no exercise of power by the Directors: fewer than two and no more than 15 Directors.
The appointment and replacement of Directors may be made as follows: Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares the holders ofordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the the shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect any Articles of Association of the Company.
However, the ability person who is willing to act to be a Director: of the Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, the Board may elect any person who is willing to act to be a securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, Director.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be isrestricted under the Companies Act 2006 which provides eligible for election: thatthe directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express each Director is required in terms of the Articles of authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Association to retire from office at the third Annual General articles of association or given by its shareholders in general Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at which he or meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than she was last elected or re-elected, although he or she may five years.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be re-elected by ordinary resolution if eligible and willing.
also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an However, to comply with the principles of best corporate employee share scheme without first making an offer on a governance, the Board intends that each Director will pre-emptive basis to existing shareholders, unless this submit him or herself for re-election on an annual basis: requirement is waived by a special resolution of the the Company may by special resolution remove any Director shareholders.
The Company received authority at the last before the expiration of his or her period of office or may, by Annual General Meeting to allot shares for cash on a ordinary resolution, remove a Director where special notice non-pre-emptive basis up to a maximum nominal amount of has been given and the necessary statutory procedures are 9,116,822.
The authority lasts until the earlier of the Annual complied with: and General Meeting of the Company in 2017 or 30 June 2017. there are a number of other grounds on which a Directors Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by office may cease, namely voluntary resignation, where all the shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its own other Directors being at least three in number request his or shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Any her resignation, where he or she suffers physical or mental shares that have been bought back may be held as treasury incapacity, where he or she is absent from meetings of the shares or must be cancelled immediately upon completion of Board without permission of the Board for six consecutive the purchase.
The Company received authority at the last months, becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her Annual General Meeting to purchase up to 91,168,225 ordinary creditors or where he or she is prohibited by law from being shares.
The authority lasts until the earlier of the Annual aDirector.
General Meeting of the Company in 2017 or 30 June 2017.
Borrowing powers the net external borrowings of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to four times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in Article 105 of the Companys Articles of Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders.
104 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Encouraging diversity in our workforce Auditor and disclosure of relevant audit information Tullow is committed to eliminating discrimination and Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are encouraging diversity amongst its workforce.
Decisions related aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by to recruitment selection, development or promotion are based section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the upon merit and ability to adequately meet the requirements of Companys auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the job, and are not influenced by factors such as gender, steps that ought to have been taken to make him or herself marital status, race, ethnic origin, colour, nationality, religion, aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that sexual orientation, age or disability.
the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
We want our workforce to be truly representative of all sections A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys of society and for all our employees to feel respected and able auditor will be proposed at the AGM.
More information can to reach their potential.
Our commitment to these aims and befound in the Audit Committee Report on page 72. detailed approach are set out in Tullows Code of Ethical Conduct and Equal Opportunities Policy.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting will be mailed to We aim to provide an optimal working environment to suit the shareholders separately and will set out the resolutions to needs of all employees, including those of employees with beproposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The meeting will be held disabilities.
For employees who become disabled during their on26 April 2017 at Tullow Oils Head Office, 9 Chiswick Park, time with the Group, Tullow will provide support to help them 566Chiswick High Road, London W4 5XT from 12 noon.
remain safely in continuous employment.
This Corporate Governance Report which includes the Employee involvement and engagement Directors Remuneration Report and the information referred We use a range of methods to inform and consult with to herein has been approved by the Board and signed on its employees about significant business issues and our behalf by: performance.
These include webcasts, the Groups intranet, town hall meetings and Tullow World, our in-house magazine.
We have an employee share plan for all permanent employees, which gives employees a direct interest in the business success.
Kevin Massie Political donations Corporate Counsel and Company Secretary In line with Group policy, no donations were made for politicalpurposes.
7 February 2017 Registered office: Corporate responsibility 9 Chiswick Park The Group works to achieve high standards of environmental, 566 Chiswick High Road health and safety management.
Our performance in these areas London W4 5XT can be found on pages 38 and 39 of this report.
Further information is available on the Group website: www.
Company registered in England and Wales No.
3919249 com, including archived copies of the separate Corporate Responsibility Report which was published in previous years.
com 105 P Other statutory info TLW AR16 CG.
indd 5 23 02 2017 14:44:16 Aerial view of the TEN FPSO, Prof. John Evans Atta Mills, offshore Ghana 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Directors responsibilities 108 Independent auditors report for the Group Financial Statements 109 Group Financial Statements 116 Company Financial Statements 150 Five-year financial summary 159 Supplementary information Shareholder information 160 Licence interests 161 Commercial reserves and resources 166 Transparency disclosure 167 Sustainability data 172 Tullow Oil plc subsidiaries 175 Glossary 177
