STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY STRATEGY RESILIENT TO INDUSTRY FLUCTUATION Our strategy has shown Tullows resilience during the recent industry downturn and demonstratesour flexibility to oil price volatility.
EXPLORATION & APPRAISAL Strategy in action: The fall in oil prices since Future plans: Exploration is fundamental to our mid-2014 saw us reduce our exploration expenditure growth strategy.
Lower industry costs, carries for but we have made this investment work harder, our share of costs by JV partners and appropriate focusing on targeted drilling, seismic acquisition in equity interests enable us to maximise a constrained key prospective areas and replenishing our prospect budget and maintain a meaningful exploration and inventory.
In 2016, we continued low-cost exploration appraisal programme.
In 2017, Tullow plans to drill activities in the South Lokichar Basin in Kenya and the exciting Araku prospect offshore Suriname and management estimates that gross mean recoverable conduct seismic campaigns in Mauritania, Kenya, resources increased to 750 mmbbls.
Exploration Ghana, Jamaica, Uruguay and Guyana.
activity recommenced in December to further underpin the discovered resource base and close the gap towards the basins upside of 1 billion barrels.
HIGH-MARGIN PRODUCTION CASH FLOW Strategy in action: Our production was enhanced in 2016 with the addition of the TEN field, offshore Ghana.
With the Jubilee and TEN fields, we now have two young assets in Ghana which High Margin Exploration have a low cost of supply compared to other fields globally.
Production Cash Flow & Appraisal These fields together with a prudent hedging policy will provide a solid revenue base for our business, even if oil prices remain low in the short to medium term.
Future plans: Through the assets we have onstream today, ourproduction profile has potential to reach in excess of 100,000 bopd net to Tullow from the early 2020s, delivering substantial cash flow.
We also plan to further reduce the underlying operating cost of each barrel produced in Ghana Costs through the synergies in operating two offshore fields.
& Dividends COSTS Strategy in action: Tullow has a focus on continued Future plans: Tullow will remain disciplined in cost management, and the Group is on track to deliver terms of its budgeting, capital allocation and savings G&A cost savings in excess of its $500 million realised from more efficient ways of working.
While some budget reductions are a result Group is committed to retaining its cost-conscious of lower industry costs, a large proportion of savings approach, even when oil prices recover.
can also be attributed to thinking innovatively and adapting our processes to be more efficient.
14 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 MONETISATION OPTIONS & PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Strategy in action: In 2016, Tullow made good Future plans: In 2017, we will focus on completing progress to divest andexit relinquish its Norwegian the farm-down of the interest in our Uganda assets and all deals are expected to complete by April asset.
Tullows high equity levels in parts of our 2017.
Inearly 2017, Tullow agreed to farm-down to asset basealso present further future portfolio Total a substantial portion of its Uganda assets for a management opportunities.
total consideration of $900 million, leaving Tullow with an11.76 per cent interest in the upstream, which we expect to reduce to 10 per cent once the Government ofUganda formally exercises its back-in right.
Additional cash flow from new production SELECTIVE DEVELOPMENT Strategy in action: We selectively develop the oil we find, focusing on development projects that are economically viable and will return sustainable future cash Monetisation Options Selective flows.
The TEN Project, a large complex development offshore & Portfolio Management Development Ghana was delivered on time and on budget in August 2016.
Further progress on the Kenyan and Ugandan developments was achieved in 2016 and significant steps have been taken in both countries to progress the projects and commence Front End Engineering Design FEED in 2017.
Future plans: The opportunity to develop the significant resources discovered in Kenya and Uganda is a major part of Tullows strategy.
These low cost developments make them Surplus Shareholder very competitive and commercially viable, even at low oil prices.
Cash value SHAREHOLDER VALUE Strategy in action: As and when surplus cash Future plans: The Boards main priority is to is generated, cash is reinvested into additional deleverage the business and to achieve our policy operational activities, used to pay down debt or of having less than 2.5 times net debt to Adjusted returned to shareholders.
Following first oil from EBITDAX.
We are pursuing multiple paths to achieve theTEN fields, Tullow started generating positive this objective, including organic repayment of debt free cashflow in the fourth quarter of 2016. from free cash flow: portfolio management: as well as other financing levers available.
