STRATEGIC REPORT SHARED PROSPERITY CREATING A POSITIVE LONG-TERM LEGACY Tullow has a role to play in creating shared prosperity and leaving a legacy of sustainable social and economic benefits.
We aim to do this by paying fair and appropriate amounts of tax, being transparent in the payments we make to governments, creating local employment, and building capacity to enable local businesses to compete as prospective suppliers to Tullow.
Tullow prides itself on its strong licence to inpayroll globally and $3.3 million in operate and deep relationships with host discretionary spend onsocial projects.
There is a role for us to governments in Africa, which are based play in supporting the Our total payments made to the on a history of respect and delivery.
These Ghanaian Government in 2016 amounted development of institutional relationships are underpinned by our to $236 million 2015: $237 million.
alignment to host governments national and industry capacity to Theincrease in income taxes and Value priorities.
Tullows successful exploration meet our needs and to allow Added Tax was partially offset by a has initiated nascent oil industries in reduction in our carried interest payments governments and the allthree of our key operating countries.
national economies to There is therefore clearly a role for us toplay in supporting the development optimise the socio-economic Opportunities for local business ofinstitutional and industry capacity benefits that a growing oil Activity on Ghanas TEN Project and, more tomeet our needs and to allow recently, the Jubilee Turret Remediation industry can bring.
governments and the national economies Project have created opportunities for to optimise the socio-economic benefits Aidan Heavey Tullow to meet our commitment to that a growing oil industry can bring.
Chief Executive Officer increasing the participation of local We do this by paying fair and appropriate companies in our supply chain.
Our strong amounts of tax to our host governments, engagement with the Ghana Petroleum being transparent about the taxes we Commission PC has been integral to PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENT pay, creating local employment within ensuring our efforts are aligned to Tullow and across our supplier base, and LocalContent and Local Participation helping to build capacity to enable local Regulations LI 2204.
As a result of $438 M businesses to participate in our supply initiatives such as unbundling large Including payments in kind chain and in the broader economy.
scopes of work to identify opportunities forparticipation oflocal businesses and TOTAL SOCIO-ECONOMIC Tullows Group scorecard includes KPIs early recognition of contracts which can CONTRIBUTION that track the progress we make in the be tendered exclusively in country, our area of Shared Prosperity, which account spend with local companies has increased for part of Executive Directors and $1 BN as a proportion of total supplier spend and employees variable, performanceis up 5 per cent from 2015 to 17 per cent.
Including tax payments, local related pay.
See pages 16 to 21 for supplier expenditure, Tullow On selected contracts we continue to moreinformation.
employee payroll and social mandate minimum local content investment expectations within contracts with our Tax transparency international suppliers.
Contracts with Our payments to governments, including LOCAL SUPPLIER SPEND in-country capability in 2016 included: payments in kind, amounted to $438 million construction, information services, in 2016 2015: $391 million.
Total payments socio-economic investment projects, civil $337 M to all major stakeholder groups including engineering, training and consultancy employees, suppliers and communities, Spent with indigenous companies services, aviation and marine transport.
aswell as governments, brought our total in our host countries socio-economic contribution to$1billion During the year in Ghana, there was a 2015: $1.1 billion.
This included $337 million notable shift in spend away from purely spent with local suppliers, $227.4 million international companies to Joint Ventures between Ghanaian and international 56 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 companies.
Joint Ventures registered in-country meet the Local job creation requirements of LI2204, bring further foreign direct investment In Ghana, we have built a strong relationship with the regulator to build capacity to meet the requirements of the industry, toimprove the number of nationals in the Ghana operations.
anddevelop a competitive supplier base for Tullow to engage.
Therehave been a number of joint initiatives between the PC and Tullow Ghana tosupport localisation through weekly Tullow in Ghana continues to support local businesses to meetings, resulting in thejoint review and signing off of develop their capacity to meet the high technical standards Tullow Ghanas localisation plans.
Ghana has also initiated and requirements of the oil and gas industry.
Together with alocalisation programme with five streams Development, the PC, we delivered three pre-tender seminars, bringing Resourcing, Localisation Strategy, Localisation Performance thetotal number of local business development seminars Management, and Employee Value Proposition led by the provided since2013 to over 20, reaching 1,300 participants.
leadership team toaddress localisation challenges holistically.
Outside the traditional oil and gas scope of work, Tullow The Ghana business introduced its RISERS Programme Ghana also carried out a six-month pilot programme where whichis focusing on developing high-potential employees into 25 per cent of our foreign exchange business was tendered management roles and enhancing localisation at the senior through indigenous banks.
This initiative, supported by a levels.
The programme is for two years with two development capacity-building seminar, received a commendation from streams: Future Managers Programme and Technical Experts thePC.
Ourongoing efforts were also recognised at the 2016 Programme.
Eighteen employees, spread across various Offshore Oil and Gas Awards, where Tullow Ghana received functions, at mid-career level who have demonstrated the Best Ghana Local Content Initiative Award.
consistent strong performance and high potential have In Kenya, the trend of increasing the proportion of Tullow beenselected and are being developed in line with the capital expenditure targeting local suppliers continued.
In Tullowdevelopment framework on the programme.
2016, 31 per cent of overall supplier spend was with Kenyan businesses, up from 25 per cent in 2015.
However, lower oil Socio-economic investment prices in 2016 led to lower capital spending and a significant 2016 was a year of transition for Tullow.
Flagship reduction in operational activity, reducing the overall amount programmes, including our international scholarship spent with both local and international companies.
programme which saw 426 African students complete masters programmes in the UK and Ireland over the course The increased participation of Kenyan businesses in Tullows of six years, were completed.
We completed our commitment supply chain has been achieved as a result of a number of to the Jubilee Technical Training Centre JTTC in Takoradi, initiatives included in our Local Content and Capacity Building Ghana, and that facility is now a part of Takoradi Polytechnic.
These include supporting training in business Finally, we opened both the Essikado Maternity Hospital and skills such as project management, record keeping, business Asuansi Science Laboratory and transferred the management planning, accounting and marketing.
This training targeted of both to the local authorities.
small and medium-sized businesses which may benefit in general from the presence of our industry, even if not directly Tullows approach to socio-economic investment has been engaged in our supply chain.
For potential suppliers, we also reviewed and improved with a focus now on: 1 building provided training on the process and requirements for capacity through education STEM subjects science, technology, participating in tenders, as well asmentorship programmes, engineering and mathematics: 2 projects which strengthen supplier on-boarding and quarterly supplier forums.
This local and national economies: and 3 developing shared approach is expected to help increase participation of local infrastructure by adapting and leveraging Tullows suppliers across our activities.
infrastructure plans and projects to benefit host communities.
Tullow will look for funding from other businesses, multilaterals and foundations to better leverage our investments.
To improve SPEND WITH SUPPLIERS $ MILLION delivery, we will commission partners with expertise in implementing projects.
Putting this new approach into operation will be a priority in 2017.
$2,511 1,008 $2,044 $1,932 719 752 This Strategic Report and the information referred to herein 1,194 have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: 1,100 843 Kevin Massie 337 309 225 Corporate Counsel and Company Secretary 14 15 16 Internationals International JV Local businesses www.
com 57 K Org Culture Shared Prosp TLW AR16 SR. indd 4 23 02 2017 14:42:57 Operatives onboard the TEN FPSO, Prof. John Evans Atta Mills, offshore Ghana 58 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report 60 Audit Committee report 69 Nominations Committee report 74 EHS Committee report 76 Ethics & Compliance Committee report 78 Remuneration report 80 Other statutory information 101 www.
