STRATEGIC REPORT ORGANISATION & CULTURE A LEAN & EFFICIENT ORGANISATION Despite the challenges of the downturn for Tullow and the industry, we ended 2015 with a new organisation structure that makes us more efficient, providing clearer lines of responsibility and accountability inside the business.
Introduction on career and personal development and A year on from the implementation of trust.
Weare now working to understand CELEBRATING Tullows Major Simplification Project MSP, the detailed reasons behind these responses and will implement action which saw a headcount reduction of OUR 30TH plans during2017.
around 40 per cent, and with further headwinds and uncertainty generated ANNIVERSARY Reward by lower and more volatile oil prices, In order to attract and retain the best Last year Tullow reached its the teams across Tullow focused talent available at all levels of the 30-year anniversary, which on what we could control: project organisation, our total reward package is presented a company-wide execution, cost and efficiency.
designed to be competitive in the oil and opportunity to celebrate the From an organisational and cultural gas sector and across all locations in companys history, heritage perspective, we made progress in which Tullow operates.
Our approach of andvalues and reiterate its embedding a more performancepaying for performance ensures that visionand strategy.
focused culture across our business.
our employees are engaged and Our organisational performance is Each major office planned various motivated through an appropriate mix of incentivised through Tullows Group activities and celebrations to mark fixed base salary, pension and benefits scorecard, related to Executive the day and provide opportunities and variable cash bonus and share Directors and employees variable pay.
See pages 16 to 21 for more Staff in London networked This year, we made changes to our information.
at a poster fair, which was Employee Bonus Plan EBP and annual focused on sharing best practice performance management process to Employee engagement between functions, demonstrating better reflect our new structure and the During the year, we carried out an progress against the corporate challenging business circumstances in employee survey, Tullow Pulse, to ask scorecard and cost cutting which we continue to operate.
foremployee feedback and views about efficiency initiatives.
our organisation following our 2014 MSP.
The EBP has been changed to pay Eighty-eight per cent of employees and Employees from all over the group 30per cent up from 20 per cent contractors took part in the survey, which contributed to a video montage of ofbonus to reflect Company was the highest ever response rate.
This Tullow people stories to showcase performance, while the remaining high level of engagement, with rich and the Companys diversity.
We also 70per cent is dependent on an honest feedback, has paved the way to ran a Tullow history quiz and a employees individual performance.
put in place plans to build on the positive timeline poster with the future left Annual share awards, made under the blank for people to write their Employee Share Award Plan ESAP, feedback received and concentrate on willthen match the value of the thoughts on what Tullows future areas of concern.
The survey showed employees annual bonus for the year.
clear support for improvements in financial governance and organisational The new EBP and ESAP are more structure, which were two main features transparent to our employees and more of the MSP.
There were also positive views in line with the Tullow Incentive Plan TIP about our EHS performance, and the offered at senior levels.
We also believe performance of line managers, which that the changes provide better employee employees felt continued to improve alignment with our overall Company yearon year.
Areas which received less scorecard objectives and reflect our favourable comments included certain collaborative approach and team spirit.
feedback for SeniorManagement, views 54 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 Around 1,100 Tullow employees across 12 countries benefited of the benefits of a diverse workforce through diversity and inclusion workshops and held some sessions on unconscious from the first half ofan exceptional ESAP award vesting in bias with the Executive and senior managers.
In addition, we December the first time in six years that shares have vested conducted several focus groups to access employees views for current employees of the Company.
This acknowledges and opinions on diversity and we have incorporated that thecollective effort in implementing the reorganisation of feedback into our plan.
To ensure we have a broad perspective on these challenges Performance management, under the annual appraisal wecarried out extensive external networking in our own sector process, has been simplified and now ranks performance and beyond.
We then undertook a benchmarking exercise to inthree categories: outstanding, successful and developing.
gain a better understanding of the particular challenges of These categories assist in providing more clarity to employees increasing the number of technically skilled female and on their performance and recognise the desired highAfrican staff in the workforce.
performing nature of our organisation.
Further work in this area included a regulatory requirements People plan review of employment law in all our countries of operations to During 2016, we completed work to ensure we have the right ensure we are compliant.
At the end of the year we launched a size of organisation to meet Tullows business needs.
While taskforce to assess our in-house recruitment and promotions there was a marked reduction in recruitment across the policies and procedures, the results of which will be reported Company, our offices in Ghana, Kenya and Uganda continued next year.
Our scorecard this year also included the to evolve, increasing the representation of local nationals in development of a sustainable diversity plan.
their workforces, in line with the respective governments localisation objectives.
Training and development In 2016, we launched two major employee development Tullow continues to focus on fair and equal representation programmes across the organisation to prepare talented ofAfrican nationals and female employees across the group.
people for future leadership roles.
24 high-potential employees While we have strong diversity in nationality with 46 countries were selected to attend a development centre as part of the represented, there is an under representation of Africans Senior Leadership Programme where they were assessed inleadership roles.
Our largest business in Ghana has over against a model of potential options for future roles and 65per cent of employees from the African continent: over wereallocated targeted support from the leadership team.
aquarter of the workforce is British and the rest are from Abespoke development plan was then designed for othernations.
However, the challenges in increasing African eachparticipant.
participation are significant as the oil and gas sector is only just developing in our countries of operations and so there The Executive Development Programme identified eight arecurrently fewer people with sector-specific skills.
individuals in Tullow who have the potential to move into an Executive level role within an agreed timeframe.
Women made up 29 per cent 336 1,152 of our total workforce Participants were provided with a one-to-one assessment 2015: 28 per cent: 396 1,403, 13 per cent 9 68 of senior tocreate a detailed profile outlining their strengths and managers 2015: 12 per cent: 14 115 : and 18 per cent development needs.
In Ghana, we held a career development week.
The event was While there is gender parity in many of our functions, there successful and will be run annually and used in other locations areimbalances in Development & Operations and Information to build capacity and remind employees of the leadership and Systems, reflecting the lower participation of women in these development tools and systems available.
There are also more women in clerical We have implemented and applied a 70:20:10 development and administrative roles than in professional or senior Framework that provides 70 per cent on the job training and leadership levels.
The Board is addressing these issues experience, 20 per cent mentoring and 10 per cent formal through long-term planning and management of a sustainable training.
We also ran short focused courses to help leaders and people plan and has endorsed a set of aspirational targets.
managers support the growth of their teams and improve performance.
Over 150 employees attended and more topics Diversity and inclusion will be introduced next year.
Our diversity and inclusion plan reinforces our policy of nottolerating discrimination and recognising that our rich The employee survey showed clearly that career and personal diversity, skills, capabilities and cultural backgrounds can development is one of the most important areas for our addhuge value to our business and enhance the employee employees and we will address the issues raised through value proposition, staff engagement and retention.
adedicated work stream and action plan in 2017.
Our focus in 2016 was to secure senior leadership commitment to the diversity and inclusion agenda and to raiseawareness about the benefits of a diverse workforce.
Oneof the first actions we took was to scrutinise our whole population data with the Executive team and those who report to them so they fully understand our challenges and can start to document progress.
We also took steps to raise awareness www.
