78 Governance report Directors report Set out below is additional statutory Branches outside the UK Appointment and replacement information that the Company is required to Details of branches operated by the Group ofDirectors disclose in its Directors Report.
Some of the can be found on page 144 to 152.
With regard to the appointment and matters required to be included in the replacement of Directors, the Company is Board of Directors Directors Report have instead been included governed by its Articles of Association the The Directors who served throughout the in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 40 as Articles, the UK Corporate Governance year, except as noted, were as follows: the Board considers these to be of strategic Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related importance.
An indication of the likely future legislation.
The Articles may be amended by Rupert Robson developments in the business of the Group special resolution of the shareholders and Non-executive Chairman is included in the Strategic Report.
were last amended at the Companys AGM in May 2012.
A resolution to amend the John Phizackerley Listing Rule 9.5.
4 Disclosure current Articles will be put to a shareholder Chief Executive There are no disclosures to be made other vote at the 2017 AGM and details are than the trustee of the Employee Benefit included in the Notice of Meeting.
At each Andrew Baddeley Trust waived its rights to receive dividends on AGM all the Directors who held office on the Chief Financial Officer shares held by them.
date seven days before the Notice of that appointed 13 May 2016 AGM must retire from office and each Results and dividends Director wishing to serve must submit Paul Mainwaring The results for the year ended 31 December themselves for election or re-election Finance Director resigned 5 May 2016 2016 are set out in the Consolidated Income by shareholders.
Angela Knight Corporate Governance Report Senior Independent Non-executive Director The Board declared a first interim dividend A separate Corporate Governance Report of 11.25p 2015: 11.25p per ordinary share, isincluded within this Annual Report on Roger Perkin paid on 14 November 2016.
A second pages 42 to 76 and which is, where relevant, Independent Non-executive Director interim dividend of 5.6p per ordinary share incorporated into this Directors report 2015: 5.6p was declared to shareholders by reference.
The Corporate Governance Stephen Pull on the register on 23 December 2016 and Report on pages 42 to 76 includes the Independent Non-executive Director paid on 13 January 2017.
The Board is information that fulfils the requirements of accordingly not recommending a final section 7 of the Disclosure and Transparency Carol Sergeant dividend and so, as advised in our Interim Rules DTR with the exception of the Independent Non-executive Director Announcement on 3 August 2016, the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6 which shareholders up to the date of completion is included in this Directors Report.
David Shalders ofthe acquisition of ICAP have received Independent Non-executive Director dividends of 16.85p per share for 2016 Share capital and control 2015:16.85p.
Details of the issued share capital, together Biographical details of the Directors are with details of the movements in the set out on pages 44 to 45.
Details of Post balance sheet events Companys issued share capital during Directors beneficial and non-beneficial In January 2017, the Group issued 500m the year, are shown in Note 27 to the interests in the shares of the Company are unsecured Sterling Notes due January 2024.
Consolidated Financial Statements which shown on page 66.
The Notes have a fixed coupon of 5.25% is incorporated into this Directors report paid semi-annually, subject to compliance by reference.
Directors conflicts with the terms of the Notes.
Proceeds were The Directors are required to notify the used to repay the 470m bank loan.
The Company has one class of ordinary Company of any potential conflicts of shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
interest that may affect them in their roles as Each share carries the right to one vote Directors of TP ICAP.
All potential conflicts of at general meetings of the Company.
interest are recorded and reviewed by the full Board at least annually.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all Directors indemnity arrangements issued shares are fully paid.
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit The voting rights of the ordinary shares held of its Directors, which remain in place at the by the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit date of this report.
The principal employer of Trust 2007 are exercisable by the trustees the Tullett Prebon Pension Scheme has given in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
indemnities to the Directors who are trustees The right to receive dividends on these of that Scheme.
The Company maintains shares has been waived.
Details of employee liability insurance for its Directors share schemes are set out in Note 29 to the andofficers.
Consolidated Financial Statements which TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 79 is incorporated into this Directors Report Significant agreements and change of control by reference.
The Companys banking facilities give the lenders the right not to renew loans and tocancelcommitments in the event of a change of control.
The Companys Share Schemes Restriction on transfer of securities and contain provisions relating to change of control, subject to the satisfaction of relevant variation of rights performance conditions and pro ration for time, if appropriate.
The Company are not There are no specific restrictions on the size aware of any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, change of control of the Company, nor any agreements with the Company and its which are both governed by the provisions employees or Directors for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The because of a takeover bid.
Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares Substantial shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer As at the year-end, and at 9 March 2017, being the latest practicable date before signing of of securities or on voting rights, nor are there this document, the following not being Directors, their families or persons connected, within any arrangements by which, with the section 252 of the Companies Act 2006 had notified the Company in accordance with DTR Companys co-operation, financial rights 5 that they were interested in the following voting rights of the issued ordinary share capital carried by securities are held by a person of the Company: other than the holder of those securities.
31 December 9 March 2016 % 2017 % Power of the Company issuing or buying back shares Schroders plc 13.28 12.86 The powers of the Directors include the Jupiter Asset Management 8.57 8.57 authorities to allot shares and to buy the Old Mutual plc N A 7.10 Companys shares in the market as granted Oppenheimer Funds, Inc 5.01 5.01 by shareholders at the AGM.
At the last AGM Silchester International Investors LLP 4.62 4.62 resolutions were passed to authorise the Mr Michael Spencer 8.97 Directors to allot up to a nominal amount of 40,586,037.75 subject to certain restrictions Corporate responsibility and to purchase up to 24,351,622 ordinary Information concerning the Groups policies on equal opportunities, employee engagement, shares.
Similar authorities will be proposed and the employment of disabled staff is included in the Resources, Relationships and at this years AGM.
At an Extraordinary Responsibility section of the Strategic report on pages 38 to 40, which is, where relevant, General Meeting on 24 March 2016 a incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
resolution was passed to approve the allotment of an additional 325,426,232 Greenhouse gas emissions shares.
Details of the shares issued during The estimated Group greenhouse gas emissions for 2016 and 2015 are set out below: the year and up to the date of this Annual Report are set out in Note 27 to the Tonnes of CO e 2 Consolidated Financial Statements.
At the date of this Annual Report, no shares 2016 2015 had been purchased in the market under Combustion of fuel, vehicles, the authority granted at the 2016 AGM.
fugitive emissions scope 1 629 584 The allotment and buy-back authorities Purchased electricity scope 2 8,977 8,156 will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM Total 9,606 8,740 or, if earlier, on 1 July 2017, unless renewed Total emissions per employee 3.4 3.4 before that time.
The emission statistics were calculated by Sustain Limited and cover all material sources of Further powers of the Directors are described emissions for which the Group is directly responsible.
The methodology used was that of the in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised theBoard, which is available on the edition, 2004.
Responsibility for emissions sources was determined using the operational Companys website.
The estimate covers all TP ICAP operations that are consolidated in the Related Party Transactions financial statements.
Data was collected for the Groups largest offices which employ Details of Related Party Transactions are set approximately 45% of the Groups employees, and extrapolated to cover all the Groups out in Note 36 to the financial statements.
offices, as well as for the Groups disaster recovery sites and any corporate vehicles.
Collected data was converted to greenhouse gas estimates using the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016. www.
com 80 Governance report Directors report continued Political donations The assessment has been made taking into Auditor It is the Companys policy not to make cash account the following: Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness contributions to any political party.
However, to continue in office as auditor and a the current liquidity position of the Group within the normal activities of the Group resolution to re-appoint them will be and its base case and stressed case cash there may be occasions when an activity proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
flow forecasts: might fall within the broader definition the liquidity stress testing and reverse Disclosure of information to the auditor of political expenditure contained within stress testing which are undertaken as Each of the persons who is a Director at the the Companies Act 2006.
During 2016 part of the Groups Review of Capital date of approval of this Annual Report no political donations were made by the Adequacy and its UK regulatory confirms that: Group 2015: nil.
obligations: so far as the Director is aware, there is Information on financial instruments the due diligence and working capital no relevant audit information of which Information relating to financial instruments analysis undertaken prior to the the Companys auditor is unaware: and can be found in Note 26 to the Consolidated completion of the acquisition of ICAP: the Director has taken all the steps that Financial Statements.
the ICAAPs undertaken by the Groups heought to have taken as a Director FCA regulated entities: Going concern inorder to make himself aware of any the assessment of the Groups principal The Groups business activities and relevant audit information and to risks, including those that would threaten performance, and the financial position establish that the Companys auditor the Groups business model, future of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, is aware of that information.
These borrowing facilities and hedging strategy, risks are discussed in the risk management This confirmation is given and should be together with the factors likely to affect report on pages 34 to 37: and interpreted in accordance with the provisions its future development, performance and the effectiveness of the Groups of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. position, are explained in the Strategic riskmanagement and internal report on pages 2 to 40.
Analysis of the controlsystems Annual General Meeting Groups key risks and approach to risk The AGM of the Company will be held management is also set out in the Strategic The Directors consider that they have at 12.15pm on 11 May 2017.
Details of the Groups interest undertaken a robust assessment of the Resolution to amend the articles will be put bearing loans and borrowings, long term prospects of the Group and its principal risks to shareholders at the AGM plus a resolution provisions, other long term payables over the three year period, and the Directors to adopt a new share plan.
Details of the and financial instruments are set out in have a reasonable expectation that the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM Notes 23 to 26 to the Consolidated Group will be able to continue in operation are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting FinancialStatements.
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over at which will be sent to all shareholders entitled least the period of assessment.
Only members on the The Group has considerable financial register of members of the Company as at resources both in the regions and at the In arriving at this conclusion, the Directors close of business on 9 May 2017 or two days corporate centre comfortably to meet the assumptions included: before any adjourned meeting, excluding Groups ongoing obligations.
maintaining access to liquidity through non business days will be entitled to attend After making enquiries, the Directors have the Groups 250m revolving credit and vote at the AGM.
Any proxy must be a reasonable expectation that the Company facility Note 23 : lodged with the Companys registrars or and the Group have adequate resources to reducing the excess goodwill in submitted to CREST at least 48 hours, continue in operational existence for the accordance with the terms agreed with excluding non-business days, before the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Annual the FCA in the Groups waiver from AGM or any adjourned meeting thereof.
Report and Financial Statements continue consolidated capital adequacy Resolutions dealing with the authority to to be prepared on the going concern basis.
requirements under CRD IV page 31 : allot shares, disapplication of pre-emption refinancing the 80m Notes that mature Viability Statement rights, authority to buy back shares and to in June 2019 Note 23 : and The Directors have assessed the prospects for convene general meetings other than annual the successful integration of the ICAP and viability of the Group over a three year general meetings on no less than fourteen business and delivery of the expected period to the end of December 2019.
We days notice will be put to the AGM as special synergies believe that a three year time horizon is the business.
The resolutions are set out in a most appropriate timeframe over which the Statement of Directors responsibilities Notice of Annual General Meeting together Directors should assess the long-term The Directors Statement regarding their with explanatory notes which are set out in viability of the Group as it has a sufficient responsibility for preparing the Annual a separate circular to shareholders which degree of certainty in the context of the Report is set out on page 81. accompanies this Annual Report.
current position of the Group and the By order of the Board assessment of its principal risks, and it matches the business planning cycle with Tiffany Brill regard to the integration of ICAP.
Company Secretary 14 March 2017 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016
