CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EHS COMMITTEE REPORT Committees role DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Committee works to enhance The Environment, Health and Safety EHS theBoards engagement with EHS Committee monitors the performance through appropriate in-depth reviews andkey risks the Company faces ofstrategically important EHS issues inrelation toits occupational and forthe Group.
The Committee has a processsafety, security, health forward-looking agenda, and provides andenvironmental management.
appropriate advice about emerging risks The Committee has an ongoing focus on that the business might face in its process safety.
Following its site visit to the operations.
Italso reviews a wide range FPSO Kwame Nkrumah in October 2015, of EHS leading and lagging indicators the Committee actively monitored the togain an insight into how EHS policies, Jubilee Asset Integrity Plan throughout standards and practices are being The Committee has a 2016.
The Committee also reviewed the implemented in theGroups operations.
forward-looking agenda, new operating and offtake procedures In particular, theCommittee reviews which were implemented following and provides appropriate high-potential incidents, especially identification of an issue with the Jubilee where they have occurred repeatedly in advice about emerging turret bearing.
It also scrutinises risksthat the business the outcome ofaudits and investigations.
With the commissioning and start-up might face in its operations.
ofa second FPSO in Ghana this year, Committees main responsibilities theCommittee was also involved in Anne Drinkwater The Committees responsibilities are: reviews of the readiness of equipment, Chair of the EHS Committee processes, and the organisational advising on Company EHS policies: structure and staff competence Meetings providing feedback on Company oftheintegrated operations team Committee member attended EHSstandards and practices: forbothfacilities.
Anne Drinkwater Chair 4 4 monitoring the implementation During 2016, Tullow issued a new Human Paul McDade 4 4 ofenvironmental, health, security Rights Policy.
This supports and enhances Simon Thompson 4 4 andsafety policies, including the Companys commitment to the UN processsafety management: Voluntary Principles on Security and Mike Daly 3 4 Human Rights VPSHR in its operations.
providing feedback on reports relatingto material environmental, Anne Drinkwater health andsafety risks: and Chair of the EHS Committee 2016 highlights Overseeing improvements in assessing material regulatory 7 February 2017 occupational health & safety andtechnical developments inEHSmanagement.
Issuing a Human Rights Policy The Committees terms of reference Reviewing readiness of arereviewed annually and are available equipment & processes ahead on the corporate website.
of TEN start-up The Committee currently comprises threenon-executive Directors and one Executive Director Paul McDade, who has executive responsibility for EHS across the Group.
Anne Drinkwater is Chair of theCommittee and chaired all meetings throughout the year.
Collectively, the Committee members have considerable operational EHS experience gained from diverse operating environments across theoil and gas and extractive industries.
76 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 In addition to the core Committee members, functional heads During the year the Committee worked to ensure that and senior managers from across the Group were invited to lessons learnt from incident investigations and audits meetings to provide additional details and insights on specific wereincorporated into the IMS and business processes.
They also provide guidance on EHS issues and Anexample of this work is the inclusion of environmental support discussions about how EHS can be embedded across and social management plans in the Companys stage their parts of the business.
In 2016 those attending the meetings gateassurance and decision processes.
included Senior Management from Tullows operations and The Committee reviewed risk management in drilling management team members from the Safety, Sustainability andcompletion operations including processes, tools &External Affairs function.
Committee activities in 2016 The Company carried out a thorough review of business The Committee reviewed the EHS elements of the SSEA continuity planning as part of its review of crisis management.
The plan sets out milestones that need to be Improvements were identified and made part of the system, reached to meet SSEAs multi-year objectives and covers and the Committee reviewed and discussed this work.
Examples of these milestones include: Looking forward to 2017 finalising Safe and Sustainable Operations and Human The Committee will have a continued emphasis on process Rights policies, and issuing supporting standards: safety, and will continue to closely monitor the Jubilee Asset carrying out a process safety and asset integrity audit Integrity Management Plan until it is completed and to review ofthe Jubilee FPSO: well control.
Additionally, the Committee will provide oversight on how lessons learnt from Jubilee are being factored into implementing the Voluntary Principles on Security the first year of TEN production operations.
andHuman Rights VPSHR : and The Committee will review assurance work focused continuing to develop competence across the range onimprovements made in the Companys management ofEHS skills.
In 2016, this was a focus area for Tullow In monitoring the SSEA plan during 2016, the Committee dueto a malaria-related fatality in Ghana in late 2015. noted the benefits to the business of the application of clear, The Committee will continue to review the EHS elements simple standards and accountabilities.
This has brought a ofthe East Africa development project plans.
greater focus on improving the foundations ofgood EHS performance, including work planning, workforce competency, and adherence to critical procedures.
At each meeting the Committee tracked performance against the EHS KPIs, which cover both leading and lagging indicators.
In addition to providing a snapshot of progress, they have been used to identify areas where more focus maybe required, such as asset integrity.
Some of the EHS KPIs are part of the corporate scorecard and are linked to remuneration and these are overseen by the Committee.
During 2015, Tullow implemented a four-tiered risk assurance framework in order to provide different levels ofthe organisation with assurance that risks are being appropriately managed.
Using this framework, in 2016 theCommittee reviewed asset integrity management onJubilee, pre-start reviews of TEN and environmental management in Kenya.
An issue with the turret bearing of the Jubilee FPSO wasidentified in February 2016.
This resulted in the needtoimplement new operating and offtake procedures.
TheCommittee reviewed these procedures from an EHSperspective.
The Integrated Management System IMS was embedded inall of Tullows businesses during 2016.
The Committee monitored its implementation across all aspects relating toEHS and security.
