INVESTMENT MANAGER REVIEW Continued Despite the uncertainty associated with political wrangling, UK real estate continues to provide an elevated yield compared to other assets.
When looking at opportunities to deploy these Market Outlook resources, we have increased our focus on longterm secure income, often found in alternative Despite the uncertainty associated with political sectors, which we will look to access provided wrangling, UK real estate continues to provide that they have the potential to be accretive to an elevated yield compared to other assets.
Furthermore, lending to the sector is at a lower level than the Financial Crisis of 2007 08 and Importantly we are also open to exploiting pricing liquidity remains reasonable.
In an environment Property Portfolio opportunity in the market, across most sectors, where the economic fundamentals are expected with a large team and the resource to react quickly.
to soften further and with uncertainty remaining As the intricacies of the UK leaving the EU unfold, by geography high, we expect lower returns from property than we expect there to be more buying opportunities as has been the case over the last few years.
the property market waxes and wanes.
The steady secure income component generated by Turning to asset management it is noticeable, when the asset class is likely to be the key driver of returns.
compared with the benchmark, that the Companys From a sector perspective, we expect Central London portfolio has a low vacancy rate 3.7%.
Whilst we are offices to be the most negatively impacted sector in very pleased with the continuance of this low rate, the near term, given the linkages to European markets we aim to augment net operating income through via cross border trading.
We expect industrial, and the a focused strategy on asset management and leasing best retail assets, to be comparatively resilient with activity across the portfolio whilst seeking to protect potentially some growth, while long income assets shareholders from the risk of new vacancy by should provide most resilience and our strategy is negotiating lease extensions with existing tenants.
therefore aligned with this outlook.
As the property market seems firmly established Portfolio Strategy in a period where the fundamental attributes of property reassert themselves, where income and income growth will drive returns, we believe the Your Company aims to deliver an attractive level of Company is well positioned to meet its objective of income, together with the potential for capital and providing shareholders with an attractive level of income growth, through investment in a diversified income, together with the potential for capital and UK commercial property portfolio.
Our strategy income growth from investment in a diversified to achieve this combines investment, divestment, portfolio of UK commercial property.
and asset management, including disciplined investment in existing stock where accretive.
Will Fulton Fund Manager UKCPT is in the fortunate position, having planned Standard Life Investments and executed a number of sales throughout the 19 April 2017 past year, of having a generous cash position of 75 million 31 December 2016 available for investment into opportunities which fit the Companys investment policy.
This cash available for investment is after allowing for dividend and capital expenditure commitments and, if opportunities arise, the Company has a further 50 million of capital available to be drawn down tactically from its revolving credit facility.
