INVESTMENT MANAGER REVIEW TOTAL RETURN INDEX Office Investment activity rebounds announcements, and much media speculation, With a strong balance in Central London that some of the large investment banks may start to move a proportion of their staff outside the UK.
sheet and cash resources In the UK office market, Central London offices Generally across Central London and the South experienced the most noticeable slowdown in available, we will look East office markets, occupiers have been cautious 2016 compared to the double digit growth the lately and hence take-up has been below the long sector delivered in the previous year.
Total office to invest prudently into term average.
Rental incentives have also started returns of 2.4% were recorded over 2016 reflecting 400 to increase to entice occupiers.
further new income accretive pessimistic sentiment following the Referendum vote to leave the EU on top of forecasts which, in opportunities over the course Despite this slowdown in growth, office investment the first half of the year, were already switching off accounted for 43% of overall investment activity any yield price improvement.
Through the year, of the year.
Central London, where activity rebounded overall, office capital values reduced by 1.6%.
in the final quarter from the low levels witnessed Inner London recorded the highest rental growth in the third quarter, had the largest share of the at 5.2% followed by the South West of the UK and overall investment pie at 27% the same level as 300 the West End.
Overseas investors, the majority from the witnessed the lowest performance with the city of US, Hong Kong, China, Canada and Singapore, Aberdeen a key element behind Scotlands weaker Will Fulton continued to account for a significant share of office performance impacted by its uncertain and 250 Fund Manager Central London activity in 2016 at close to 70% dominant oil industry.
of all investment in the capital.
Office investment outside Central London accounted for 16% of overall The Referendum uncertainty also dampened Market Review activity up slightly on the 14% share in 2015.
200 occupier activity in the office markets, particularly in terms of the outlook for Central London with Over the 12 months ending December 2016, All Property recorded a 3.6% total return as measured 150 by MSCI IPDs Balanced Monthly & Quarterly UK PROPERTY INVESTMENT ACTIVITY 2016 Index.
Compared to the 12.7% recorded for 2015 and, Average Volume following a number of years of strong growth, this 10.8% reduction was generally anticipated, albeit perhaps 100 2000 accelerated as a result of the EU Referendum result.
UKCPT industrial assets delivered a total return of 10.8% 2001 This lower return represents a transition from a capital growth cycle to one where income dominates 2002 50 a move away from strong London and South East 2003 office returns to a market where industrial stock and long-dated leases are king.
2004 0 Investment volumes over the year, though down 2005 from a 70 billion peak in 2015, remained healthy 2006 at 50 billion: it was interesting to see this Industrial Strong returns in the Industrial sector split more or less evenly between the first and 2007 The industrial sector continues to demonstrate its Key: UK Property shares UK Property UK Gilts UK Equities second halves of the year, either side of the EU strength in the current environment.
Overseas investment boosted the Source: Thomson Reuters, IPD, Standard Life Investments the MSCI IPD Balanced Monthly & Quarterly Index, total, accounting for 43%, with many of those 2009 the industrial sector delivered a total return of investors attracted by both cheaper sterling and 7.3% with capital values having risen by 2.0% on the relative safe haven status of the UK.
2010 a 12 month basis to the end of December 2016.
In comparison, values for assets in the retail and 2011 and department stores.
In contrast, household Despite the UK government unexpectedly raising Review by Sector office sectors fell by 3.5% and 1.6% over the same goods sales were down on the previous year.
Stamp Duty Land Tax in the March 2016 Budget, 2012 time frame.
Industrial rents rose by 3.9% and effectively reducing commercial values by 1%, However, despite the improvement in the value of significantly outperformed all property as a whole.
Retail Polarised sales taken, the quantity of goods bought fell 2013 the first half of the year saw capital maintained Retail remained the laggard of the sectors, recording which could be down to price increases feeding the outcome of the EU Referendum on 23 June The sector fundamentals continue to look attractive 2014 a total return of 1.6% in the 12 months to the end of through via the weakness of sterling and also less was too close to the half year valuation point for with demand, driven by retailers stronger online December 2016.
Retail capital growth continued to discounting in the sector.
Consumer confidence the Industrys valuers to gauge any impact and 2015 sales growth requiring more distribution space, be weak with values falling by 3.5% over the year and, so their 30 June 2016 figures were caveated with remains at relatively low levels and the forward having reduced supply earlier than expected, H1 H2 H1 2016 whilst rents were fairly stable, retail rental growth looking indicators for consumer spending, together an uncertainty clause.
The market then fell leading to higher rental growth expectations.
continued to be considerably weaker than the other with actual figures for the three months to the end of in the third quarter by 2.5%, valuations largely 2017 Estimate As building costs increase, supply should be kept two major sectors at 0.5%.
This was well below office February 2017 showing non-food sales at a five year remaining caveated for uncertainty, only to under control which will act to balance take-up rental growth at 3.2% and industrial at 3.9%.
low, suggest that retailers face a more challenging recover by 1.1% in the final quarter.
For the wider industrial was a 1.2% market capital decline in 2016, a year environment in the year ahead.
The pressures sector, the pace of manufacturing and industrial billion Christmas trading was broadly reasonable with most include higher import prices impacting margins in which the income element of total return activity has held up well due to the weaker pound sectors recording an increase in sales compared and more forceful cost pressures from the National remained stable at 4.9%.
As for the equity markets, translating into significantly more letting activity to last year.
There were increases in clothing and Living Wage, increased business rates, particularly the FTSE All-Share and the FTSE 100 total returns and government incentives to support the sector Average of estimate from Source: Propertydata, footwear albeit from subdued levels previously, in London and parts of the South East, higher were 16.8% and 19.0% respectively over the calendar Key: Central London office Jones Lang LaSalle and Savills Standard Life Investments in the event of the UK leaving the EU.
personal goods, food and beverage and leisure year whilst listed real estate equities produced inflation and, potentially, interest rate increases.
