Mr Robertson has been a major contributor to STRATEGIC OVERVIEW the Company over his tenure.
His breadth and depth of knowledge, integrity and valuable insights will be very much missed.
We wish him well on his retirement.
Through its Nominations Committee, the Board has instigated a process to appoint a new Director to replace Mr John Robertson on his departure.
It is also my intention to stand down from the Board at the AGM in 2019.
In due course a replacement Director will be appointed, with the Board as a whole deciding on a new Chairman nearer the time.
The Group is permitted Borrowings of the Group These changes, whilst continuing to refresh the to invest up to will not exceed Board, additionally respond to the Companys changing circumstances but without a sudden loss 15% 25% of invaluable knowledge and collective experience.
of its total assets in of total assets at the Investment Manager indirect property funds time of draw down The Board note the recent announcement relating to a proposed merger between Standard Life and Aberdeen Asset Management.
It is too early to Ocado Distribution Unit comment on the potential implications for the Hatfield Company of the proposed merger and we will monitor the progress of the transaction closely.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Outlook The purpose of the Strategic Overview is to provide The Groups performance in meeting its objective The Board and the Investment Manager recognise Continued The political and therefore the economic outlook shareholders with details of the Companys strategy is measured against key performance indicators the importance of managing the premium discount for2017 is expected to bedominated bythe Article and business model, as well as the principal risks as set out below.
A review of the Groups returns of share price to net asset value in enhancing 50 process for the UK to exit the European Union.
and uncertainties faced by the Company.
during the year, the position of the Group at the shareholder value.
One aspect of this involves Additionally, the possibility of changes in the political end of the year, and the outlook for the coming appropriate communication to gauge investor landscape elsewhere in the world isexpected to year is contained in the Chairmans Statement and sentiment.
The Investment Manager meets with Investment Strategy command the headlines.
Notwithstandingthe the Investment Manager Review.
current and potential new shareholders, and with strength of the UK economy since the EU referendum, stockbroking analysts who cover the investment I therefore believe that UKCPT The Companys investment strategy is set out and the Bank of Englands recent upgrade of its company sector, on a regular basis.
In addition, Board in its investment objective and policy below.
GDP growth forecast for 2017 to 2%, the same as that communication of quarterly portfolio information achieved in 2016, there will continue to be uncertainty is provided through the Companys website, is well positioned to meet the The Companys investment objective is to provide The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall at home and abroad.
co. uk, and the Company also utilises ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of stewardship of the Company, including investment commercial UK real estatehas many significant a public relations agency to manage its profile income together with the potential for capital and dividend policies, corporate strategy, corporate benefits as an asset class, not least its ability to among investors.
The Board and and income growth from investing in a diversified governance, and risk management.
Biographical produce an attractive and sustainable income UK commercial property portfolio.
details of the Directors, all of whom are nonstream against a backdrop of limited speculative Borrowings executive, can be found on page 3233 and indicate development, generally low supply and modest the Manager together have an Investment risks to the Group are managed by their range of property, investment, commercial gearing levels compared to previous cycles.
These investing in a diversified portfolio of freehold and professional experience.
The Company has As at 31 December 2016 the Group had total should help reduce potential volatility and there also and long leasehold UK commercial properties.
no executive Directors or employees.
remains a significant gap between the attractive and borrowing facilities drawn of 250 million, unerring focus on continuing to The Group invests in income producing assets in stable yields currently being earned on real estate and representing a gross gearing level of 18.2% net four commercial property sectors: office, retail, Management of Assets and Shareholder Value the returns fromother mainstream asset classes.
gearing 11.4% of the year end total assets with industrial and leisure.
The Group has not set any a blended fixed interest rate of 2.89% per annum.
maximum geographic exposures within the UK nor UKCPT is well placed not only in terms of the quality The Board has contractually delegated the any maximum weighting limits in the principal of its property portfolio but also its sound financial Key Performance Indicators management of the investment portfolio and property sectors.
No single property shall, however, base.
It has a strong exposure to the favoured other services to Standard Life Investments exceed at the time of acquisition 15 per cent of the industrial sector and limited exposure to potentially Corporate Funds Limited.
gross assets of the Group.
The Companys benchmark is the MSCI Investment Continuation Vote Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS underperforming sectors, such as City of London Property Databank IPD Monthly and Quarterly offices, where only 2.2% of the portfolio by capital The Company invests in properties which the Funds.
This benchmark incorporates all monthly and The Group is currently permitted to invest up value is located.
The Company offers an attractive and Investment Manager believes will generate a UKCPTs discount control policy provides that The Board has noted the announcement in to 15 per cent of its total assets in indirect quarterly valued property funds and the Board believes sustainable dividend yield, based on rental income combination of long-term growth in income and if the market price of its ordinary shares is more the 2016 Autumn Statement relating to BEPS, property funds including in other listed this is the most appropriate measure to compare the from a portfolio with a strong tenant base as ranked capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions than 5 per cent below the published NAV for including the ramifications for non UK resident investment companies.
The Group is permitted performance of a quarterly valued property investment by IPD.
This is particularly relevant in an environment are based on analysis of, amongst other things, a continuous period of at least 90 dealing days, property companies and the proposed restriction to invest cash, held by it for working capital Company with a balanced portfolio.
where interest rates are forecast to remain historically prospects for future capital growth, sector and following the second anniversary of the Companys on interest deductions.
Although legislation has purposes and awaiting investment, in cash low, particularly in the UK, for sometime to come.
geographic prospects, tenant covenant strength, most recent continuation vote in relation to not yet been finalised, the proposals as currently deposits, gilts and money market funds.
The Board uses a number of performance measures to The strong balance sheet and low gearing should lease length and initial yield.
In the year to the discount control policy, an extraordinary drafted arelikely to mean thatadditional tax assess the Companys success in meeting its objectives.
help minimise volatility in an environment where 31 December 2016 the company generated general meeting EGM has to be convened.
will have to be paid on the Companys net At an EGM of the Company on 28 April 2011 The key performance indicators are as follows: property values are under pressure.
It will also allow operating cash flows of 49.4m 2015: 53.6m On 11 October 2016, with the discount to published rentalprofits in the medium term.
Therefore, the shareholders of the Company approved the Manager to invest further in the portfolio in order NAVhaving been more than 5 per cent for more the Board is exploring how shareholder value Net asset value and share price total return against a revised gearing policy of the Group amended to extract latent value and to act quickly and flexibly Investment risks are spread through investing than 90 continuous days, an EGM was convened can be protected as far as practicable, including to read as follows: Gearing, calculated as the IPD benchmark and other selected comparators.
in a range of geographical areas and sectors, and for 9 November 2016.
This continuation vote was the possibility of joining the UK REIT regime.
borrowings as a percentage of the Groups gross Premium Discount of share price to net asset value.
through letting properties to low risk tenants.
passed resoundinglywith 99.99% of shareholders assets, may not exceed 65 per cent.
The Board I therefore believe that UKCPT is well positioned A list of all the properties held as at 31 December voting being in favour of continuation, on Board Succession intends that borrowings of the Group at the Dividend per share and dividend yield.
to meet the challenges ahead.
The Board and 2016 is contained on page 29 and further analysis 76% turnout.
The Company is not now required to time of draw down will not exceed 25 per cent the Manager together have an unerring focus can be found in the Investment Manager Review.
have a continuation vote in relation to its discount of the Total Assets of the Group.
The Board on continuing to deliver value for shareholders.
Last years annual report noted the Boards At each Board meeting, the Board receives a control policy for another two years.
This vote does receives recommendations on gearing levels intention regarding a phased and orderly succession detailed portfolio, financial, risk and shareholder These indicators for the year ended 31 December not change the current policy on share buybacks, from the Investment Manager and is responsible Andrew Wilson of its Directors.
Therefore John Robertson, who presentation from the Investment Manager together which is set out on page 37 of this report.
2016 are set out on page 6. for setting the gearing range within which the Chairman has served on the Board since the launch of the with a comprehensive analysis of the performance Investment Manager may operate.
19 April 2017 Company in 2006, will retire in December 2017. of the portfolio during the reporting period.
