REPORT OF DIRECTORS The Directors present the report and accounts The Company maintains an appropriate level Share Capital of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited, the of insurance in respect of Directors & Officers Company for the year ended 31 December 2016. liabilities in relation to work undertaken on The issued ordinary share capital at 31 December behalf of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
2016 consisted of 1,299,412,465 ordinary shares In addition, individual Directors may, at the Results and Dividends of 25p each.
At 12 April 2017 these numbers were expense of the Company, seek independent unchanged.
Each ordinary share of the Company professional advice on any matter that concerns carries one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The results for the year are set out in the attached them in the furtherance of their duties.
Save for the provision of the articles of association, accounts.
there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary As recommended by the AIC Code of Corporate Energy consumption and shares in the Company other than certain restrictions The Company has paid interim dividends in the Governance and the UK Corporate Governance which may from time to time be imposed by law year ended 31 December 2016 as follows: Code, the Companys policy is for all Directors to for example, insider trading law.
retire and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM immediately greenhouse gas emissions Directors following their appointment and annually Payment date Rate thereafter.
Accordingly, Mr Michael Ayre, per share p Mr Ken McCullagh, Mrs Sandra Platts, Mr John The Directors who held office during the period Robertson and Mr Andrew Wilson will retire and Fourth interim and their interests in the ordinary shares of the February 2016 0.92 for managed assets in the for prior period offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Company as at 31 December 2016 all of which are beneficial are shown in the table below.
Following evaluations for each individual Director First interim May 2016 0.92 and the Board as a whole, as well as a review of On 6 March 2017 Mr Michael Ayre purchased Company reduced by 6% and the performance of the Chairman by the other 42,000 shares.
There have been no other changes Second interim August 2016 0.92 members of the Board, the performance of all of in the above interests between 31 December and the Directors continues to be effective with each 31 March 2017. making a positive contribution to the performance Third interim November 2016 0.92 of the Company.
Therefore, the re-election and 11% respectively in 2015 16 The Directors are also Directors of UK Commercial election of all the Directors who are being put Property Holdings Limited, UK Commercial forward is recommended to shareholders at TOTAL 3.68 Property GP Limited, UK Commercial Property the 2017 AGM.
An external review of the Board Nominee limited, UK Commercial Property Estates was carried out in February 2017, facilitated by Holdings Limited, UK Commercial Property Estates compared with the year before.
Boardroom Review Ltd: the action points arising Limited and UK Commercial Property Finance from this review will be addressed and, where On 8 February 2017 the Company declared a fourth Holdings Limited which are all wholly owned appropriate, revised practices will be adopted.
Interim dividend of 0.92 pence per ordinary share subsidiary undertakings.
In addition the Group with an ex-dividend date of 16 February 2017, wholly owns Brixton Radlett Property Limited, which was paid on 28 February 2017. a UK Limited Company, the Directors of which are Mr Andrew Wilson and Mr John Robertson.
Principal Activity and Status Date of Appointment Shares as at Shares as at The Company is a Guernsey company and 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 during the year carried on business as a property investment company.
The principal activity and Andrew Wilson September 2006 75,000 75,000 status of the Companys subsidiaries is set out in Note 10 on page 69.
John Robertson September 2006 10,000 10,000 Listing Requirements Ken McCullagh February 2013 40,000 40,000 Throughout the period the Company complied and intends to continue to comply with the Sandra Platts December 2013 conditions applicable to property investment companies set out in the Listing Rules.
Michael Ayre February 2016 Christopher Hill retired 16 June 2016 September 2006 n a 20,000 34 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts 35 REPORT OF DIRECTORS Continued 10% SHARE CAPITAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 Non pre-emptive share issuance authority being sought from shareholders 14.99% Share buy back authority being sought from shareholders Phoenix Life Limited Phoenix Life Assurance Limited Investec Wealth Limited Alliance Trust Savings Limited Nestle Capital also only be made in accordance with the rules of The next continuation vote required by the Annual General Meeting PLL PLAL Management Limited the UK Listing Authority which provide that the Companys Articles of Association is set for price to be paid must not be more than the higher 2020 and every seven years thereafter.
Number of ordinary shares held Number of ordinary shares held Number of ordinary shares held Number of ordinary shares held Number of ordinary shares held Among the resolutions being put at the Annual of i five per cent above the average of the middle General Meeting of the Company to be held market quotations for the ordinary shares for the Auditors 537,189,905 84,775,094 140,797,236 61,373,487 56,137,385 on 21 June 2017, the following resolutions will five business days before the purchase is made and Deloitte LLP was appointed as auditors of the be proposed.
ii the higher of the last independent trade and the % Held % Held % Held % Held % Held Group for the year ended 31 December 2016. highest current independent bid on the London A resolution proposing their re-appointment Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Stock Exchange.
The minimum price exclusive 41.34 6.52 10.65 4.72 4.32 will be put to the AGM.
of expenses that may be paid is 25 pence a share.
Resolution 10 gives the Directors, for the period until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no The Company may retain any shares bought back in 2017 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months relevant audit information of which the Companys as treasury shares for future re-issue, or transfer, from the passing of resolution 10, the necessary Auditor is unaware, and each has taken all the steps or may cancel any such shares.
During the period authority either to allot securities or sell shares held he she ought to have taken as a Director to make when the Company holds shares as treasury shares, in treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders themself aware of any relevant audit information Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM PLAL which provides that PLL and PLAL and their The assessments performed include review of the rights and obligations in respect of those shares on a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal and to establish that the Companys Auditor is associates will not take any action which would be the valuation and liquidity of investments as may not be exercised or enforced by or against the amount of 32,485,312.
This is equivalent to aware of that information.
detrimental to the general body of shareholders.
at the balance sheet date and forecasts of NAV, Company.
The maximum number of shares that approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary Up until 29 December 2015, Ignis Fund Managers Given the total Phoenix holdings are now below cash resources and income under both normal can be held as treasury shares by the Company is share capital of the Company as at 19 April 2017.
Limited registered in the United Kingdom was Recommendations 50%, the results of the Company are no longer and stressed conditions.
10 per cent of the aggregate nominal value of all There are no shares currently held in treasury.
the appointed AIFM of the Company undertaking consolidated into the Phoenix Group.
The Directors believe that the resolutions to issued ordinary shares.
Ordinary shares held as The Directors will allot new shares pursuant to this the management of the Company in accordance Having thoroughly considered the going concern be proposed at the Annual General Meeting treasury shares will only be re-issued, or transferred authority only if they believe it is advantageous with the requirements of the Alternative Post the year end, an in-specie transfer between assessment the Board has concluded that there are in the best interests of the Company and its at prices which are not less than the published net to the Companys shareholders to do so and in no Investment Fund Managers Directors AIFMD.
the two Phoenix entities resulted in the PLL are no material uncertainties that may cast shareholders as a whole, and recommend that asset value of an ordinary share.
circumstances would this be done if it results in a On 29 December 2015, Standard Life Investments holding being 494,897,693 shares 38.09% and significant doubt about the Company and Groups shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, dilution to the prevailing net asset value per share.
Corporate Funds Limited was appointed as the PLAL holding 127,067,306 shares 9.78%.
ability to continue as a going concern over the next as the Directors intend to do in respect of all It is the intention of Directors that the share buy Companys AIFM.
twelve months from the date of the annual report.
back authority may be used to purchase ordinary Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares No other changes to any of the above holdings had The Directors have a reasonable expectation that shares, subject to the income and cash flow The current authority of the Board granted to it by Depositary been notified to the Company as at 31 March 2017. the Company and Group will be able to continue requirements of the Company, if the share price of Statement Regarding shareholders at the 2016 AGM to buy back shares in in operational existence and to have adequate an ordinary share is more than 5 per cent below the the Annual Report and Accounts the Company expires at the end of the AGM to be held resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due Going Concern published net asset value as last calculated, adjusted In accordance with the requirements of AIFMD, in 2017.
The Board intends to renew such authority to over the next twelve months.
Due consideration downwards for the amount of any dividend declared the Board appointed Citibank International PLC buy back shares up to 14.99 per cent of the number of Following a detailed review of the Annual Report has also been given to the viability of the Company by the Company upon the shares going ex-dividend, as depositary to the Company on 18 July 2014. ordinary shares in issue.
This special resolution, The Companys business activities, together with as set out on page 14.
Therefore, the Board continue and Accounts by the Audit Committee and by for a continuous period of time.
In the event that On 29 December 2015 this changed to Citibank if approved, will enable the Company to buy back up the factors likely to affect its future development, to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in any Directors who are not members of the Audit such discount is more than 5 per cent for 90 dealing International Limited.
to 194,781,928 shares based on the current number performance and financial position are set out in Committee, full details of which can be found in preparing the annual financial statements.
days or more, following the second anniversary of of shares in issue excluding any treasury shares.
the Strategic Overview on pages 11 to 15.
In addition, the Audit Committee Report, the Board consider the Companys most recent continuation vote, Substantial Interests in Share Capital Any buy back of ordinary shares will be made subject note 17 to the financial statements includes the that when taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments which was on 9 November 2016, the Directors to Guernsey law and within guidelines established Companys objectives, policies and processes for understandable and provides the information will convene an Extraordinary General Meeting from time to time by the Board, which will take into managing its capital: its financial risk management necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys At 31 December 2016 the above holdings, EGM to be held within three months to consider account the income and cash flow requirements of The Company currently conducts its affairs so objectives: details of its financial instruments: and position, performance, business model and strategy.
representing more than 3 per cent of the an ordinary resolution for the continuation of that the shares issued by the Company can be the Company, and the making and timing of any buy its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Companys issued share capital, had been the Company.
If this continuation resolution is backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors The Board welcomes views from shareholders notified to the Company.
not passed, the Directors will convene a further in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to At both the Company and Group levels, and company analysts on the Annual Report and extraordinary general meeting to be held within Purchases of ordinary shares will only be made non-mainstream investment products and intends comprehensive going concern assessments Accounts and, where practical, will incorporate any The Phoenix shareholding is held in the above six months of the first extraordinary meeting through the market for cash at prices below the to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The Board has followed suggestions that will improve the document.
two legal entities via a number of With Profit Funds to consider the winding up of the Company or The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions prevailing published net asset value of an ordinary the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on which are closed to new investment and hence a reconstruction of the Company which offers share as last calculated, adjusted downwards which apply to non-mainstream investment Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Approved by the Board on 19 April 2017. are in run-off over the medium to long term.
all Shareholders the opportunity to realise their for the amount of any dividend declared by the products because the Company would qualify Financial and Business Reporting 2014. when The holding is managed on an arms length basis investment.
If any such continuation resolution Company upon the shares going ex-dividend, as an investment trust if the Company were performing their going concern assessments and and by a separate team within Standard Life is passed, this discount policy, save in respect of Andrew Wilson Ken McCullagh where the Directors believe such purchases will based in the UK.
also considered the recommendations on Risk Investments to the team who manage the Company share buy backs, would not apply for a period Director Director enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will Management and Control in the UK Corporate led by Will Fulton.
There is also a shareholder of two years thereafter.
Governance Code April 2016. agreement between the Company and PLL and 36 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts 37 The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide an appropriate and satisfactory level of transparency to shareholders.
