UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Relations with Shareholders Shareholder engagement Remuneration consultation The Board recognises the essential role that shareholders This year the Remuneration Committee Chairman, Greg Lock, play in safeguarding the Groups governance.
Led by the consulted with shareholders on the draft 2017 Remuneration Chairman, the Board is committed to proactive and Policy.
He wrote to 22 of UBMs top shareholders of whom constructive engagement with its shareholders.
It receives 19 responded and meetings were held with 11 institutions to regular feedback on investor meetings and other investor discuss the proposed adoption of the new Policy.
Further relations activities, in addition to having access to sell-side detail on the consultation process is provided in the Directors research and analyst notes.
The Board believes that allowing shareholders direct access Private shareholders to Non-Executive Directors is necessary to help the Board Shareholders are kept informed about the activities and develop a balanced understanding of any issues or concerns progress of the Group through the Annual Report and the that may exist in the investor community.
The preliminary results, interim results, Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive trading updates and other information about the Company is Directors are available to meet major shareholders.
Institutional shareholders During the year the Company undertook an exercise to The Chairman has a programme of ongoing engagement reunite a number of untraceable dissentient shareholders with shareholders and is available at all times for any who held shares in companies which were associated with the discussion.
During 2016, the Chairman had five meetings UBM group including MAI, Fleet Holdings and ICAP.
These with institutional shareholders and the Company also shareholders did not take up their rights to exchange their consulted with institutional shareholders on the development shares for shares in the Company at the time of the relevant of the 2017 Remuneration Policy.
We have written to over 1,500 of these shareholders to notify them of unclaimed assets held on their Financial results are communicated to the market twice a behalf.
The Registrar, Equiniti, should be contacted if year, with trading updates provided in the interim.
After the unclaimed asset entitlements remain outstanding.
Equinitis preliminary and interim results, a presentation is made to contact details are set out on page 189. shareholders and analysts, which is made available to the public through a webcast on the Companys website at AGM www.
All shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting where they are able to ask questions of the Directors.
There is a scheduled programme of meetings with institutional shareholders which is led by the Investor Voting at the Annual General Meeting takes place by poll.
Relations team, and generally undertaken by the CEO and The results are notified via a regulatory information service CFO.
This is an opportunity for the CEO and CFO to discuss and displayed on the Companys website as soon as performance and respond to any questions raised by practicable following the meeting.
The key elements of the Groups investor at the 2016 Annual General Meeting were passed.
relations programme during 2016 are set out below.
Date Event February 2016 Preliminary Results 2015 March April 2016 Investor Roadshows London, Edinburgh, New York and Boston May 2016 Trading Update and AGM June 2016 Bank of America Merril Lynch Global Telecom and Media Conference, JP Morgan CEO Conference July 2016 Interim Results August September 2016 London Investor Roadshows, Deutsche Bank TMT Conference, and Barclays Media & Telecom Forum November 2016 Trading Update and Morgan Stanley TMT Conference 76
