BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4 Andrew Wilson is a resident of the UK.
He was BOARD OF DIRECTORS 6 Will Fulton graduated from the University of formerly of Richard Ellis, Royal Insurance as Chief Aberdeen in 1987 with a degree in Land Economy Surveyor and he joined Rugby Securities as AND MANAGEMENT TEAM when he joined Standard Life, becoming a member a director in 1987.
He was a founder director of of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive Rugby Estates plc in 1990 and Chief Executive in 1990.
Throughout his 28 year career he has Officer through its official listing, move to the held a variety of commercial real estate positions and are independent of the Investment Alternative Investment Market and subsequent gaining multi-disciplinary experience spanning fide-listing and sale.
He is also a non-executive investment, valuation, asset management, debt Manager, are responsible for the determination Chairman of a London based Family Office and of facility management, development and investor a major West End office agency.
He was previously of the investment policy of the Group and its relations both in the UK and across continental a non-executive Director of a Building Society.
Prior to managing UKCPT, he oversaw a Chartered Surveyor and was until his appointment overall supervision.
a team managing the 2.3 billion Standard Life as Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and Heritage With Profits Real Estate Fund.
Chair of the Property Valuation Committee.
4 6 1 2 3 5 7 1 Ken McCullagh is a resident of Ireland.
Since 2 John Robertson is a resident of the UK.
3 Sandra Platts is a resident of Guernsey and is 5 Michael Ayre is a resident of Guernsey.
He is 7 Graeme McDonald graduated from the 2000 he has been Chief Executive Officer of LNC Mr Robertson has over 35 years experience a non-executive director of Investec Bank C. I. currently a consultant to the Guernsey taxation University of Strathclyde in 1995 with a BA Property Group, a private real estate investment in investment management in a variety of Ltd and Starwood European Finance Partners and private client business of Intertrust Group, degree in Accountancy and joined Hardie company which held and managed 500 million roles, and was most recently Director Funds Ltd. Sandra was Managing Director of Kleinwort Intertrust Reads Private Clients Limited.
Mr Ayre is Caldwell Chartered Accountants in 1996 where of assets.
Previously he worked as a Director and and Corporate Governance at Ignis Investment Benson in Guernsey and Chief Operating Officer also currently a Director of ABN Amro Guernsey he qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1999.
Partner of Corporate Finance for Farrell Grant Services Limited.
Prior to his retirement in 2012, for Kleinwort Benson Private Banking Group UK Limited and Brooks MacDonald Investment Funds In 2001 Graeme joined Glasgow Investment Sparks, Chartered Accountants and was also he was a director of Ignis International Funds plc, and Channel Islands.
She also held directorships plc which is listed in Ireland.
Mr Ayre is member of Managers GIM as chief accountant focusing a Financial Controller of Gunne Estate Agents Ignis Alternative Funds plc, Ignis Liquidity of the Kleinwort Benson Trust Company and the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants on the finance, administration and company now CBRE in Dublin.
He is a Fellow of the Fund plc, Ignis Strategic Solutions Funds plc and Operating Boards, retiring from Kleinwort Benson and is also a member of the Chartered Institute of secretarial work for three investment trusts.
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ireland.
He is a Fellow of the boards in 2010.
Sandra holds a Masters in Business Taxation.
Mr Ayre was appointed to the Board in Following GIMs takeover by Aberdeen Asset Mr McCullagh was appointed to the Board in Chartered Association of Certified Accountants.
Administration and The Certificate in Company February 2016.
Managers in 2007, Graeme transferred to the February 2013.
Mr Robertson has been a Director of the Company Direction from the Institute of Directors.
Mrs Platts investment trust secretarial team within Aberdeen since launch in September 2006. was appointed to the Board in December 2013. working on both investment trusts and Venture Capital trusts.
In 2009 Graeme joined Scottish Widows Investment Partnership where he was a finance project manager before joining Ignis in January 2011 as a Fund Accounting Manager to provide a dedicated fund accounting and company secretarial service to the closed end clients within Ignis Asset Management.
Graeme transferred over to Standard Life Investments in October 2014.
32 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts 33 MANAGEMENT TEAM
