STRATEGIC OVERVIEW Continued the Company reduced by 6% and 11% respectively in 2015 16 compared with the year before.
The Company also achieved its zero waste to landfill target, recovering value from all waste produced.
In conjunction with these environmental principles the Company has a health and safety policy which demonstrates commitment to providing safe and secure buildings that promote a healthy working customer experience that supports a healthy lifestyle.
The Company, through the Manager, manages and controls health and safety risks systematically as any other critical business activity using technologically advanced systems and environmentally protective materials and equipment.
The aim is to achieve a health and safety performance the Company can be proud of and allow the Company to earn the confidence and trust of tenants, customers, employees, shareholders and society at large.
Bribery & Ethical Policy It is the Companys Policy to prohibit and expressly forbid the offering, giving or receiving of a bribe in Kew Retail Park The Rotunda any circumstances.
This includes those instances Richmond Kingston upon Thames where it may be perceived that a payment, given or received, may be a bribe.
The Company has adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to ensure robust compliance with The UK Bribery Act 2010.
The Company has made relevant enquiries of its Manager and has received assurances that appropriate anti-bribery and corruption policies have been formulated and communicated to its employees.
In addition the Board has adopted an ethical policy Other risks faced by the Company include the An additional operational risk is failure by the The Board has also carried out a robust assessment Based on the results of the analysis outlined above, which highlights the need for ethical considerations following: Investment Manager, or other third party provider, of the principal risks faced by the Company, the Board has a reasonable expectation, assuming to be considered in the acquisition and management to implement appropriate policies and procedures as detailed on pages 1214, including periodic the periodic continuation vote in 2020 is passed, of both new and existing properties.
Economic inflation or deflation, economic to manage information and cyber security risk, continuation votes.
The main risks which the Board that the Company will be able to continue in recessions and movements in interest rates leading to financial loss and business disruption consider will affect the business model, future operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due could affect property valuations, and its bank for the Company.
performance, solvency, and liquidity are ongoing over the five year period of its assessment.
Approval of Strategic Report borrowings.
discounts leading to continuation votes, tenant The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these failure leading to a fall in dividend cover, company Sustainable Real Estate Investment Policy The Strategic Report of the Company comprises the Strategic incorrect strategy, including sector risks through the operation of the Risk Committee, indebtedness, taxation and macroeconomic following on pages 3 to 29: Financial and Property and property allocation and use of gearing, policy setting and enforcement of contractual uncertainty.
The Board takes any potential risks Highlights, Performance Summary, Chairmans The Investment Manager acquires, develops and could lead to poor returns for shareholders.
It also regularly monitors the to the ongoing success of the Company, and its Statement, Strategic Overview, Investment manages properties on behalf of the Company.
investment environment and the management ability to perform, very seriously and works hard Manager Review and Portfolio Information.
It is recognised that these activities have both direct Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could of the Companys property portfolio and levels to ensure that risks are consistent with the and indirect environmental and social impacts.
lead to suspension of the Companys London of gearing, and applies the principles detailed Companys risk appetite at all times.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board The Board has adopted the Investment Managers Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details on 19 April 2017. own Sustainable Real Estate Investments Policy and a qualified audit report.
of the Companys internal controls are described In assessing the Companys viability, the Board associated Environmental Management Systems in more detail in the Corporate Governance has carried out thorough reviews of the following: Andrew Wilson Ken McCullagh and is committed to environmental management Management and control changes that cause Report on page 42.
Director Director in all phases of an assets cycle from acquisition the management and control of the Company Detailed NAV, cash resources and income through demolition, redevelopment and operational to be exercised in the United Kingdom could forecasts, prepared by the Companys Manager, Viability Statement management to disposal.
The focus is on energy lead to the Company becoming liable to United for a five year period under both normal and conservation, mitigating greenhouse gases Kingdom taxation on income and capital gains.
stressed conditions: The Board considers viability as part of its ongoing emissions, maximising waste recycling and water The Companys ability to pay its operational programme of monitoring risk.
To facilitate this, the Manager works Financial inadequate controls by the expenses, bank interest, tax and dividends over five years to be a reasonable time horizon over in partnership with contractors, suppliers, tenants Investment Manager or third party service a five year period: which to review the continuing viability of the and consultants to minimise those impacts, seeking providers could lead to misappropriation of Company, although it does have regard to viability continuous improvements in environmental assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies or Future debt repayment dates and debt over the longer term, in particular to key points performance and conducting regular reviews.
failure to comply with accounting standards could covenants, in particular those in relation to outside this time frame, such as the due dates for lead to misreporting or breaches of regulations.
LTV and interest cover: the repayment of long-term debt.
The Company was awarded a Green Star ranking Demand for the Companys shares and levels from the Global Real Estate Sustainability Operational failure of the Investment The Board has considered the nature of the Benchmark 2016.
A Green Star is awarded to of premium or discount at which the shares Managers accounting systems or disruption Companys assets and liabilities and associated entities that perform well in both categories of the trade to NAV and: to the Investment Managers business, or cash flows and has determined that five years is the GRESB Assessment: Management & Policy and that of third party service providers, could The valuation and liquidity of the Companys maximum timescale over which the performance of Implementation & Measurement.
Our approach lead to an inability to provide accurate property portfolio, the Managers portfolio the Company can be forecast with a material degree to monitoring and improving the sustainability reporting and monitoring, leading to a loss strategy for the future and the market outlook.
of accuracy and so is an appropriate period over performance of the assets held by the Company has of shareholders confidence.
which to consider the Companys viability.
Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions for managed assets in 14 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts 15
