INVESTMENT MANAGER REVIEW Continued Purchases Investment Activity Asset Management Activity No purchases were made during the year.
However, shortly after the year end in early Sales During the year the Company continued its drive February, the Company completed the forward to strengthen income streams, extend lease lengths In line with the Companys strategy to sell assets purchase of a pre-let 258,370 sq ft distribution and add value to the portfolio.
Over 6.5 million expected to underperform in the short to medium warehouse development reflecting a yield on of annual income was generated after rent free term or where non-accretive capital expenditure capital of 5.8%.
Located beside Burton upon periods and incentives through 44 new leases and requirements has the potential to undermine future Trent, equidistant between Nottingham and 25 lease renewals.
performance, the Company sold its mixed-use Birmingham on the A38 dual carriageway between West End asset, 6 Arlington Street, London, W1 and the M1 and M6 motorways, from which 87% of the 81 George Street It was good to witness the majority of the Dolphin House, an office in Sunbury-on-Thames, Edinburgh UK population can be accessed within a legally seven open market rent reviews within the for a combined price of 45.6 million prior to the continuous 4.5 hour HGV drive time, the tenant, portfolio generating rental increases this year.
UK Referendum on EU membership, representing Palletforce Limited, has committed to a 15 year The most notable uplift took place at the Wembley an aggregate 14% premium to the 31 March 2016 lease at 5.58 psf, or 1.4 million per annum.
distribution facility, Hannah Close, Neasden, market value.
The lease includes RPI inflation linked rent increases let to Marks & Spencer where the rent jumped of between 1% and 3% per annum, compounded by 18% to 2.1 million per annum.
Overall rent Sales momentum continued into early January and payable 5 yearly.
Having purchased the land, reviews achieved approximately 1% in excess of 2017 when the Company took advantage of a special the balance of the total consideration of circa expected rental value with an increase to rental opportunity to sell one of its West End Soho office 22.2 million is payable when the property is fully income of over 527,000 per annum.
properties, 13 Great Marlborough Street, to the built, scheduled for summer 2017 a purchase in owner of the adjoining property.
The disposal line with UKCPTs strategy to focus its portfolio on There were nine instances of stepped or fixed price of 30.5 million, ahead of the year end assets that deliver a higher and sustainable income.
increases in rent across the portfolio during the valuation, equated to a yield of 3.3%.
The building year, all of which helped to improve rents by is wholly leased to Sony and, with less than two The acquisition is in line with UKCPTs strategy 33%, adding over 435,000 per annum.
years remaining, the sale removed short term to focus its portfolio on assets that deliver a higher letting risk and the need for potentially significant and sustainable income, and it is being funded capital expenditure.
by the proceeds from the 30.5 million sale of 13 Great Marlborough Street, at a 3.3% net initial yield, as mentioned above.
Craven House Charles Darwin Centre Soho, London Shrewsbury CGI VOID RATE BY SECTOR With uncertainty in the economy it was pleasing As steady progress is made towards the delivery to see the Companys continuing low void position of Primark in Shrewsbury handed over to Primark at 31 December 2016 of 3.7% of ERV, comfortably in early March 2017 with the opening scheduled 15 below the IPD benchmark void rate of 6.9%.
for summer 2017, three lease renewals completed at the Charles Darwin shopping centre with Claires, The Company is pleased to report that on average Grape Tree and Body Shop securing 136,500 12 99% of rent was collected within 21 days of each per annum of rental income, 11% ahead of ERV.
quarterly payment date during 2016 with a modest Fashion retailer, Yours, also relocated and upsized 0.4% of annual rent 274,287 written off as bad to facilitate the introduction of Costa Coffee.
In Edinburgh, following the successful letting to At Junction 27, Leeds, Dean House, trading as Joules in the first half of the year 320,000 per 6 Betta Living, was placed into Administration in annum for 10 years and completion of the lease November 2016.
However, following this tenant to Clydesdale Bank Plc 750,000 per annum for failure, new occupier tension emerged over this 20 years in October, contracts were exchanged 3 Junction 27 prime retail park unit which culminated with Intergen UK Ltd at 81 George Street.
Once Leeds in Carpetright agreeing an Assignment of the refurbishment works to the second floor office Dean House lease, paying the Administrator suite have completed, 325,000 per annum will 0 Industrial Oce Retail Leisure Other Overall a premium, and an increased rent to the Company.
be secured on a new 10 year lease and Intergen will relocate from the third floor, releasing this for refurbishment in a City starved of prime Key: IPD Benchmark Grade A city centre office stock.
This ongoing Source: IPD, Standard Life Investments active rejuvenation of the property has increased its value, added income and improved the average weighted unexpired lease length.
Just off Carnaby Street at Craven House, Soho, the company renewed the lease with the buildings occupier, Molinare TV & Film Ltd, the postproduction supplier of drama and feature films including Sherlock and Netflixs The Crown.
The new rent of 1,027,250 per annum is an Marks & Spencer Distribution warehouse under construction increase of 37% on the previous rent passing.
Neasden, Wembley Burton upon Trent 22 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts 23
