CONTENTS COMPANY SUMMARY An overview Company Summary 1 Strategic Report 3 The Company The Group Objectives UK Commercial Property Trust Limited The Group consists of the Company and its The investment objective of the Company is to Financial and Portfolio Highlights 4 the Company is an authorised closed ended, subsidiaries.
provide ordinary shareholders with an attractive Performance Summary 6 Guernsey registered investment company which level of income together with the potential for Chairmans Statement 8 was launched on 22 September 2006.
The subsidiaries are disclosed in note 10 to the capital and income growth from investing in a audited financial statements and include: UK diversified portfolio of UK commercial properties.
Strategic Overview 11 The Company has a single class of share in issue, Commercial Property Finance Holdings Limited The investment policy of the Company is set out Investment Manager Review 18 which is premium listed on the official list and UKCPFH, UK Commercial Property Holdings on page 11. traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Limited UKCPH, UK Commercial Property GP Property Portfolio 27 Limited the GP, UK Commercial Property Nominee Management The Company has an indefinite life, subject to Limited UKCPN, UK Commercial Property Estates periodic continuation votes, and was incorporated Holdings Limited UKCPEH and UK Commercial Governance 31 Standard Life Investments Corporate Funds on 24 August 2006.
The next periodic continuation Property Estates Limited UKCPEL and are Limited is the Investment Manager of the Group.
vote is scheduled for the first quarter of 2020. incorporated in Guernsey.
Brixton Radlett Property Limited BRPL is a company incorporated in the Board of Directors 32 Further details of the management contract are UK.
The principal business of UKCPFH, UKCPEL, and Management Team provided in the Notes to the Accounts.
BRPL and the GP are that of an investment and Report of Directors 35 property company.
The principal business of ISA Status Corporate Governance Report 40 UKCPN is that of a nominee company.
The principal business of UKCPFH and UKCPEH are that of Audit Committee Report 43 a holding company.
The Companys shares are eligible for ISA Directors Remuneration Report 45 investment.
The limited partnership, UKCPT Limited Partnership, Directors Responsibility Statement 47 the GLP is a Guernsey limited partnership.
UKCPH and the GP have a partnership interest of 99 and 1 per cent respectively in this entity.
Independent Auditors Report 49 and Financial Statements The GP is the general partner and UKCPH is a limited partner of the GLP.
The limited partnerships principal business is that of an Independent Auditors Report 50 investment and property entity.
to the Members of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited Consolidated Statement 56 of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Balance Sheet 57 Consolidated Statement 58 of Changes in Equity Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 59 Notes to the Accounts 60 Additional Information 83 Notice of Annual General Meeting 84 Shareholder Information 86 THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
Corporate Information 88 If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own independent financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are in the United Kingdom or, if not, from another appropriately authorised financial adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in UK Commercial Property Trust Limited, please forward this document, together with the accompanying documents, immediately to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker bank or agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
