S St tr ra ate teg gi ic R c Re ep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e R Re epor port t F Fi in nanc anci ia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s Living Events First Business Journals Inc BJI is a great example of a strategic acquisition, completed effectively.
Through our experience and strategic focus on fashion we had identified that buyers and sellers had been asking for more coordinated shows.
Our insight into this market, disciplined approach to M&A and ability to uncover the synergy potential helped us identify and complete this bolt-on in a complementary adjacent sector.
Having acquired BJI, we have used our integration playbook to bring the teams and events together and target the immediate synergies, and are now using our event plan process to merge the BJI strategy into the overall fashion strategy and to identify and deliver performance gains across our portfolio.
BJI is a terrific example of an Events business that makes UBM better and is made better by UBM.
Actively and strategically managing our Events portfolio 2016 was a significant year for UBM, with a number of Our event planning process adopted by all our Major highlights: the conclusion of our sale of PRN to Cision for events focuses on ensuring that we direct resource, $841m: the acquisitions of CMI and BJI in the fashion market attention and investment towards the right events and that complementing Advanstar : and the acquisition, in late we rigorously drive to achieve the full growth potential of our December, of Allworld, an events business with strength in portfolio.
Through this, we actively manage both the larger, Asia which enables us to strategically redeploy the proceeds higher-margin event brands of scale and those smaller events from the PRN sale.
which have the potential to grow fast and be the bigger brands of the future.
Improving alignment between our activities and our events In a world where online and offline powerfully combine, we In 2016 we maintained our focus on the Major events, which are ensuring that we align all our OMS, digital and content together represent over 86% of our Annual Events revenue activities to support our target customer sectors and events, and deliver an attractive margin profile.
In parallel, we and to exit from those activities where this alignment is weak.
continued to improve the quality of the overall portfolio During 2016, we completed the strategic alignment of our through strategic disposals, such as the Electronics media Americas OMS business and discontinued non-aligned portfolio, as well as discontinuing smaller, lower growth and activities that generated 3.8m of revenues in 2015, albeit lower margin events representing 11.7m of revenue in 2015. at reduced margin.
Enhancing our portfolio through strategic acquisitions Looking forward The global events market is highly fragmented and we see We expect to continue actively managing our portfolio, strong opportunities for high-quality acquisitions that including a continued focus on organic growth and high accelerate growth and complement our portfolio, where UBM quality M&A, and to complete our event tail and OMS can drive additional value.
27 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Review continued Customer We focus on customer insight that enables us to insight and better serve and innovate to meet our customers needs innovation 2.4%pt Uplift in NPS Visitors 1.8% Uplift in CSAT scores Visitors 21.3%pt Uplift in NPS Exhibitors 4.1% Uplift in CSAT scores Exhibitors 28 S St tr ra ate teg gi ic R c Re ep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e R Re epor port t F Fi in nanc anci ia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s Living Events First Virtual Reality Developers Conference Our early insight led us to launch Virtual Reality Developers We all know that 2016 was a big year for Virtual and Augmented Conference VRDC, aimed at a wider audience than just the Reality VR AR in the technology world, finding mainstream gaming industry.
We sold out prior to launch, and the event was application and press coverage.
UBM had this insight some time exceptionally well attended with more than 750 professionals ago particularly in working closely with our gaming customers from nearly 30 countries, including a great majority of the key and communities, with VR AR a feature of our Game Developers industry players represented.
We were therefore well-positioned to anticipate the potential of VR AR as a growth industry and Yet we dont stand still.
On the back of this success, UBM is now its likely impact on other markets.
exploring other opportunities and applications to other events and industries.
Understanding our customers better through Customer experience and innovation enhanced data and analytics We continuously explore new ways of improving our events We operate consistent global metrics across our events which and how we serve our customers incorporating our focus enable teams to better understand customer needs, thereby on customer experience, design thinking and taking a more improving their experience and delivering enhanced value.
systematic approach to rolling out successful innovations.
The consistency in the metrics also allows us to both target improvements and to benchmark performance effectively Our Orbit, Touchplan and Matchmaking tools are great and efficiently so that we drive new learnings across all examples of innovative event technology developed and rolled our events.
out to improve at-event experience, scaled across events.
This year our Supplier Finder technology, deployed at some In 2016, we improved the quality and consistency of the data of our largest shows, won the prestigious AEO award for Best we collected and rolled out our customer metrics standard to use of Technology an innovation that not only serves all Major events.
This process has established baselines for customers but also provides our teams with valuable insight.
all events against which we will be able to measure and target ongoing performance improvements across the three main 2016 also saw us design and run a number of pilots at our Asia customer metrics: CSAT, Loyalty, and NPS.
shows to combine online digital services with face-to-face trade shows.
This was pioneered as part of our O2O2O Marketing Excellence strategic collaboration with Alibaba an example of our Investing in our marketing community remains one of our commitment to innovation and partnering with world-class priorities and is key to maintaining focus on our customers partners.
Our MX initiatives, coupled with investments in technology, equip our marketers with the right skills, Looking forward tools and information to really understand and engage In 2017, we will focus on improving our customer metrics, our customers.
the insights we harness and our ability to drive customer value and experience.
We will continue to invest in our Our MX community has thrived in 2016, through actively marketing community and MX initiatives, and are launching managing involvement and engagement across UBM teams.
a number of customer-led design pilots focused on creating This effort has been supported by MX training, seminars and more radical, high-innovation improvements and ideas that modules: the creation of templates and promotion of best offer future potential.
practices: access to thought leadership: and targeted efforts to improve processes and workflows.
Marketing remains a continued focus, in particular with the deployment of our marketing standards and tools.
29 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Review continued Operational excellence 6.6m Annualised procurement savings We continuously improve all aspects of the way we work, pursuing common approaches that enable our teams to become more efficient and effective c. 900 People trained on SX 30 S St tr ra ate teg gi ic R c Re ep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e R Re epor port t F Fi in nanc anci ia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s Living Events First CORE in action With the new global integrated finance system in place, our teams have been focused on ensuring we derive the maximum benefit from the tools and processes in place, while continuing to explore cost efficiencies within the Group.
The CORE system is delivering better quality data through a single chart of accounts: quicker and more accurate financial information shortening month-end reporting times: and improved forward-looking data.
These allow us to manage the organisation more effectively.
Our priority remains to drive continuous operational This work has enabled us to better understand this important improvement, enabling efficiency and effectiveness gains.
aspect of our business but also to identify improvements The combination of both, and the resulting headroom this to working practices and processes for all major contracts creates, enables us to increase investment in innovation and going forward.
insight and offer the potential for upside in the margin in the medium-term.
Pricing As part of event planning, all of our Major events regularly Sales Excellence report pricing plans, performance and strategies to the UBMs global SX programme defines our best practice sales Executive Committee.
The adoption of VBP continues as model and processes, performance management and training, appropriate across our portfolio and currently around 30% and ensures we provide our sales teams with support and of our Major events have implemented VBP most recently incentives to attain high performance.
Throughout 2016, we in 2016 at Black Hat and at our Fashion events.
have completed the roll-out of SX Phase 1, giving all our sales people a foundation level of training, a common sales Other operational excellence initiatives methodology and process and a consistent way of reporting These include the leveraging of our common global finance pipeline and sales metrics.
This roll-out has been supported in system, which has materially improved our management EMEA by the launch of UBMs standard CRM platform.
information capabilities and enabled the identification of efficiencies and operating gains.
This work is also enabling Procurement reviews of global costs and ensuring we take appropriate In 2016, we accelerated our global procurement programme advantage of shared services and low-cost model opportunities.
which has now delivered 6.6m of annualised savings more than our initial ambition.
Our activities have principally been Looking forward focused around our marketing, venues and event services and In 2017, we will build upon the progress made.
In particular print cost categories.
We see the potential to drive further we will continue to drive sales excellence and the adoption of savings elsewhere going forward.
UBMs global sales model, sustain and drive new procurement savings, remain focused on our cost base and evaluate Venue contract review further potential savings, and drive improvements in business This year, we have conducted an in-depth, risk-based review intelligence and management information through leveraging of all our major venue contracts.
These represent a our finance platform and event plan process.
significant proportion of our costs, an important aspect of our customer service experience, and a key influencer on operational delivery, including health, safety and security.
31 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Review continued Standardised technology and data We underpin our business with common 76% technology and standards to create EMEA events revenues a scaleable global platform for growth now running common and performance CRM platform 100% Event websites on common CMS platform in EMEA 81% Event websites on common CMS platform in Americas 32 S St tr ra ate teg gi ic R c Re ep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e R Re epor port t F Fi in nanc anci ia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s Living Events First Sales Excellence SX and the transformation of sales at UBM took a giant leap in 2016.
Our standard CRM platform is now live in most of EMEA.
This, coupled with process improvements and training of our sales teams, has enabled us to drive greater efficiency and effectiveness across our sales and brand functions up to 20% more time selling, better quality sales pipelines, reduced reporting burden as a result of improved information and data admin time down 18%, the removal of almost all non-value add activity and improved focus on our customers through dedicated brand teams.
The roll-out of our CRM platform has now been extended to Asia, focusing initially on our Hong Kong brands.
In the Americas, SX training is being delivered to all our sales people, with advance planning for CRM also well under way.
Common technology platforms allow us to maximise the Looking forward impact of our investment and to secure the benefits for all Our priority remains the implementation of our global sales our events, part of building a truly scaleable platform for B2B model underpinned by the roll-out of our common CRM events success.
Notable initiatives include: platform which will extend to Asia and the Americas.
In support of other initiatives, we will also begin to deploy our Leveraging our global ERP system standard marketing and data models in 2017.
This enables operational excellence initiatives and management data which drives both our agile growth, insight We will complete the CMS platform consolidation in the and efficiency agendas.
Americas and EMEA and improve our understanding of costs to ensure we are in a position to lower our operational IT Common CRM tools costs from 2018 onwards.
Rolled-out in our EMEA region, and to the rest of UBM over 2017-2018, our CRM solution puts the tools and information at the fingertips of our sales teams, enabling them to drive sales through delivering a tailored experience to meet customers needs.
Standard platforms We have brought over 200 digital properties globally onto standard platforms, driving operational efficiency benefits, better mobile device support, procurement opportunities and enhanced information security.
In addition, our Americas and EMEA businesses have adopted Office 365 bringing all users onto the same platform for email, office and instant messaging.
This allows us to collaborate effectively and efficiently and support both regions.
33 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Review continued High performance culture We invest in our people and organisational capabilities so that we can deliver excellence for our customers 69% Employee engagement 2015: 65% 23% Reduction in voluntary attrition 70% of L&D budget spent on Sales and Marketing 34 S St tr ra ate teg gi ic R c Re ep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e R Re epor port t F Fi in nanc anci ia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s Living Events First Consistent with our commitment to high performance through leadership, in December we brought the 52 global event leaders responsible for all of UBM Major events together in Miami for the first time, many of whom had never met each other before.
Hosted by GEM, this experiential Event Leaders Forum ELF served to ignite exciting new relationships and collaboration, to inspire bold thinking and design and to ensure the effective cascade of messaging from the SLT meeting.
The ELF cohort have direct responsibility for the delivery and development of c. 120 UBM events and their myriad of collective experience enriched discussions on organic growth through product innovation and customer experience design, significant outputs from which will be used to shape next stage event plans, metrics and event models.
To continue the future-proofing of our events it is our intention to continue investment in the positive connectivity and best practice sharing within this leadership group and to meet again at the end of 2017.
In line with our strategy to standardise data and technology People and drive meaningful insights, we use a global organisational Our ambition is to motivate and retain our high performers by and people dashboard of KPIs to define and measure high rewarding our people fairly based on their performance.
These KPIs are tracked monthly and form the have strengthened the link between pay and performance in basis for quarterly, divisional and functional organisational 2016 by implementing new equity and bonus plans which align reviews and bi-annual global reviews.
Other notable initiatives we are undertaking to build Engagement a high-performance culture include: We intend to accelerate our strategic objectives and drive performance through engaged employees.
From our annual Organisation employee engagement survey we saw overall understanding Our structure and the balance of our resources have to of Events First increase by 15%pts.
Across the Group we saw reflect our strategy and support our initiatives.
New design voluntary attrition drop 23% and employee engagement principles for the sales function were successfully introduced increase 4%pts to 69%.
in EMEA, freeing sales experts to sell.
We will deploy the same principles in the Americas and Asia during 2017.
Looking forward Our emphasis in 2017 will be to: Capability Continue to evolve our organisational design to best serve We are investing in the skills needed for our future 70% our customers: of our learning and development budget is focused on skills Invest in the transformational skills to enable the strategy: specific to Events First including our global Sales and Further align short and long-term incentives to strategic KPIs Marketing Excellence programmes.
Identify and reward superior performance: and Leadership Galvanise, strengthen and support our global senior leaders We held aspirational leadership meetings both for our senior and Event Directors to drive Events First.
business leaders and our Event Directors to ensure full alignment and support of our three-year plan.
