Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Accountability Financial and business reporting received an update on the development of a suite of The Board has procedures in place to satisfy itself that the Business Conduct Policies at its July 2016 meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is a fair, received updates on health and safety at its February and balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys May 2016 meetings and specifically reviewed health and position and prospects, and that the Company continues to safety risks and the strategic approach to mitigating such be a going concern.
The Audit Committee plays a key role in risks at its December 2016 meeting: supporting the Board in making this assessment, and the way reviewed risks in relation to staff and succession planning in which it satisfies itself that all relevant requirements have at its September 2016 meeting: been met is set out in its report overleaf.
assessed the effectiveness of the risk management processes and internal controls based on its ongoing review The Strategic Report sets out a description of the Companys of strategy, which aims to identify potential risks to the strategy, business model and explanation of how it creates Groups achievement of objectives.
It has also reviewed: value for customers, shareholders, employees, and other stakeholders.
monthly financial reporting against budget: specific material areas of risk across the Group and A statement of the Directors responsibility for preparing mitigation plans for example the Advanstar integration : the Annual Report and Accounts is given in the Directors and Report.
The Financial Review contains the Directors going specific acquisitions through a series of post-acquisition concern statement.
EYs audit report which contains its reviews.
reporting responsibilities is contained within the financial statements.
In conducting its review, the Board ensured that: the monitoring and review covered all material controls, External Auditor including financial, operational and compliance controls: Following the Audit Committees recommendation to the Board, EY were re-appointed as auditor at the AGM in 2016. there is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and Further detail on the activities of the Audit Committee is set managing the principal risks faced by the Company: and out in their report which follows.
the systems have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Risk management and internal control Accounts, and that these systems accord with the FRC The Internal Audit and Group Risk functions operate across Guidance on risk management, internal control and related the organisation and have ownership of risk management and financial and business reporting.
internal control policies, processes and structures.
Reviews and audits are undertaken based on assessments of the risk The Boards ongoing review has resulted in continued profile of the Company, its principal subsidiaries and business expansion in scope of the Groups risk management practices.
divisions, and the results are reported formally to the Details of the enhancements made to the risk management Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board policies and procedures during 2016 is set out on page 40 of as appropriate.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews the The Board has concluded that there have been no significant system of internal control and risk management on an failings or weaknesses in the risk management and internal ongoing basis, including Internal Audit and Group Risk control systems during the year.
Further detail on the reports, reports from the Groups external auditor and assessment process is provided in the Audit Committee regular management reporting.
Details of the Audit Report on page 70.
Committees work in this regard is set out in its report on page 71.
As part of the year-end reporting processes, and consistent with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal controls for 2016.
In this respect, during the year under review the Board has: approved the risk management disclosure and Long Term Viability Statement in the Strategic Report on page 41: reviewed the potential impact of Brexit on multiple occasions: specifically reviewed technology risks applicable to the Group at its July 2016 meeting, covering cyber-security risks and execution risks for technology projects.
This included consideration and challenge of the strategy to mitigate such risks: 69
