Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Effectiveness Professional Development, Support, Training Board Effectiveness Review and Induction for Directors Each year the Board, as required by the Code, carries out All Directors are offered the opportunity to further their an evaluation of its own effectiveness.
In 2015 an external professional development by attendance at seminars and evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its briefings.
Another resource provided to the Directors is a Committees was carried out by Independent Audit Limited.
Reading Room, accessible through the electronic board The results were presented to the Board in February 2016 and portal.
The Reading Room contains key induction information, an action plan drawn up and approved by the Board in May including Board Committee Terms of Reference and other 2016.
Progress against the action plan is monitored regularly.
documents relevant to the Groups corporate governance structure, including the Matters Reserved for the Board.
The An internally-managed effectiveness review was completed Reading Room also provides the Board with access to analyst for 2016, the output of which was discussed at the Board reports, financial, risk and controls information including meeting in February 2017 and will be reported on in the 2017 monthly financial reports, project and industry updates.
The induction process includes discussions with the Chairman Conclusions of the 2015 Review and Executive Directors as well as individual briefings and The review concentrated on strategic focus, decision-making, presentations from other Directors and Executive Committee composition and dynamics, talent and succession planning, members on matters relating to UBMs business and risk governance and culture.
It also looked at the Boards operational processes and procedures.
The induction also strengths and opportunities, balance of skills and diversity.
involves meetings with other senior management as well as UBMs corporate brokers, external auditor and other advisers.
Strengths of the Board were found to be a strong and constructive relationship between Non-Executive Directors Diversity and Executive Directors, an effective CEO CFO partnership, We strongly support the principle of improving gender balance and a clearly articulated strategy.
Non-Executive Directors both at Board level and throughout our business, having were encouraged to sustain their level of challenge to achieved the Board level target of having 30% female continue to hold management accountable for the delivery Directors by the end of 2015.
The UBM Board is comprised of of operational and financial performance consistent with the 40% Directors who are female.
At the Executive Committee Groups ambitions.
The Board agenda would be developed to this percentage stands at 33% and for the SLT the percentage ensure that it reflected the current stage of the strategic currently stands at 27% as detailed on page 23. journey with its focus on core performance, the Human Resources strategy, customers and innovation.
The Board believes that diversity should not solely consider gender and embraces diversity in its broadest sense.
The review included feedback on the performance of each A wide range of experience, background, perspective, skills of the Non-Executive Directors which the Chairman has and knowledge is required to contribute towards a high discussed with them privately.
The Senior Independent performing, effective Board, which is better able to support Director received feedback from the review regarding the and direct the Company.
The Board supports the preliminary Chairmans performance and this has been communicated recommendations of the Parker review to increase the ethnic to the Chairman.
diversity of UK Boards and will encourage management to review UBMs Diversity Policy in the light of the final report when it is published.
67 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Effectiveness Board effectiveness review on 2015 Topic Recommendation Action Taken Review the length of Board meetings The Board calendar has been updated to Board Discussion and to ensure that there is adequate time extend the time allotted for each meeting.
Debate to consider all important items.
Effectiveness Board papers to be shorter and more Authors of Board and Committee papers Information Flows to focused on the needs of the Board, have been briefed on the requirements.
All the Board with a good executive summary.
papers now include an executive summary Effectiveness which links the topic to one of UBMs strategic priorities, and set out the recommendation s and what is being asked of the Board.
Ensure that the Board is kept appraised Post-acquisition reviews have been added to Information Flows to of the progress of acquisitions.
the Boards forward agenda plan to ensure the Board that Directors have the opportunity to review Effectiveness progress against the original business plan.
Introduce more structure to Board Specific topics are now selected for Board Discussion and dinners to increase their value.
consideration at some Board dinners and Debate external speakers or members of senior Effectiveness management are invited to join periodically.
Board agendas were focused on the recent Items considered on the Board agenda include Strategy major transactions more focus to be not only reports on the progress of major Leadership placed on core performance and delivery.
transactions and integration activity, but also reports on performance against strategic, operational and financial objectives.
Ensure that management give adequate The Board receives periodic updates on People in Succession planning in focus to talent management, developing support of the High Performance Culture priority.
the wider organisation the executive pipeline and that there is An annual review of the talent management Leadership a robust succession plan in place.
programme is discussed at the Board.
Develop a programme of Board development Directors liaise with the Group Company Secretary Non-Executive sessions for Non-Executive Directors, to indicate topics on which they would like to focus.
Director Training and and office or event visits to help give the These are incorporated into Board agenda plans or Directors a deeper understanding of and separate sessions where appropriate.
Directors are Induction greater insights into the business.
encouraged to attend UK and international events, Leadership and specific events are identified throughout the year, to which Directors are invited.
