10.1% Leisure Other 20.7% Office INVESTMENT MANAGER REVIEW Continued Retail Portfolio Performance Profit from the Companys two office sales also boosted performance whilst a dampener on The IPD retail sector, with the exception of what would otherwise have been far stronger Central London, underperformed the market in As identified in our review of the market, real estate outperformance came from the Companys 2016.
The Company has a marginal underweight returns were lower for 2016 than in recent years.
shopping centre portfolio which, particularly retail position compared to its benchmark but its Against this backdrop it is pleasing to report that the at Swindon following the loss of the Companys exposure is still significant at 37% of total portfolio Companys real estate portfolio outperformed its only BHS store, created a material drag.
Overall total return for the Companys retail IPD benchmark, generating a total return of 4.4% for stock was -1.2% against 1.6% for the benchmark.
the year against 3.6% for its benchmark.
An income Projecting forward to a period of slowing capital return of 4.8% countered a decline in capital growth growth across the whole market, the more prime It is worth delving a little deeper into the generators of 0.3%.
At 31 December 2016 the portfolio was nature of the Companys portfolio should stand it of this performance and highlighting three very externally valued by CBRE at 1.28 billion.
in good stead to deliver sustainable income, better SECTOR SPLIT different sub-sectors, or types, of stock held, protect capital, and, with cash resources available, particularly as, when the shopping centres in The dominant driver of performance was the acquire new stock fit for the economic environment.
Swindon and Shrewsbury are excluded from the Companys South East industrial portfolio both calculations the overall retail performance in 2016 from the tailwind impact of being intentionally The table below sets out the components of total increases demonstrably from -1.2% to 4.2%.
overweight in the sector, by 10.8%, following return of the Company and of the benchmark in the 2015 repositioning exercise, and from outeach sector for the year to 31 December 2016: The Companys largest exposure, 59% of the retail performance from the portfolios specific properties total, is to a set of well let principally prime retail against other industrials in the benchmark.
parks most of which are classified as Bulky so called as town planners allocate these to the sale of bulky retail goods: many commentators feel Industrial these bulky parks are more resilient to competition from online retailing, compared to their Fashion retail park peers.
Collectively, these provided the In common with the wider market, the Industrial Total Return 2016 Income Return 2016 Capital Growth 2016 Company with a healthy 5.3% income return.
sector was the Companys strongest performer in 2016, boosted by a series of positive asset The second sub-sector, accounting for 14% of our Fund % Benchmark % Fund % Benchmark % Fund % Benchmark % management leasing initiatives and profit from retail exposure, is that of regional shop units, where the sale of Dolphin House, situated on its Dolphin the Company has a small prime portfolio of assets Industrial Estate in Sunbury, being allocated to the in good locations in Manchester, Edinburgh and Industrial 10.8 7.3 5.4 5.2 5.1 2.0 industrial return.
Through positive asset management action in these prime locations this sub-sector delivered The Company has a good mix of prime UK big box 5.1 2.4 4.6 4.1 0.5 -1.6 Office an excellent total return of 16.0% for the Company distribution warehouses and multi-let industrial compared to 1.4% for the benchmark.
estates, the latter focused on the four points of the SALES Retail -1.2 1.6 4.6 5.3 -5.6 -3.5 compass in and around London.
This dynamic Sales proceeds in the year The third sub-sector is shopping centres, where the portfolio delivered a total sector return of 10.8%, represented an aggregate 14% Companys holdings in Swindon and Shrewsbury outperforming the benchmark of 7.3% for the year.
14% premium to prior account for 20% of its retail exposure, or 7% of the 3.9 7.2 3.6 5.1 0.3 2.0 Leisure Other In the final quarter of the year the 160,000 sq ft premium quarter market values.
The value of these assets dropped industrial unit formerly occupied by B&Q at Ventura on sales by 20% through the year, with the largest impact Park, Radlett north M25, fell vacant, increasing TOTAL 4.4 3.6 4.8 4.9 -0.3 -1.2 felt at Swindon mainly due to the loss of BHS as an overall portfolio vacancy to 3.7%, still well below anchor tenant at The Parade Shopping Centre.
the benchmark vacancy rate of 6.9%.
Agents report Source: IPD, Standard Life Investments good interest from distribution operators looking to The ongoing short term strategy for these shopping lease the building.
centres is to maintain and, where possible, improve TOTAL PORTFOLIO RETURN the net operating income at each centre.
Office In Shrewsbury, at the Charles Darwin Centre, work on the refurbishment of the main mall has recently The Companys well located portfolio of office completed, transforming the appeal of this area investments provided a total return of 5.1% against Leisure Other to shoppers and retailers.
This, together with the the benchmark of 2.4% for 2016.
City of London creation of a new anchor unit for Primark, also exposure, of most concern from potential Brexit recently completed and handed over for them to The Companys leisure investments Cineworld, fallout, was limited to one asset.
Whilst this asset carry out their shop fit, will, aside from improving Glasgow, The Rotunda, Kingston upon Thames accounted for only around 2% of the Companys net operating income in its own right, significantly and Regent Circus, Swindon experienced whole portfolio it outperformed its IPD City of improve the attractiveness of this shopping mixed fortunes in 2016.
The cinema in Glasgow London benchmark, assisted by leases agreed centre for other tenants.
We expect this will create outperformed the benchmark, primarily as during the period increasing several rental levels a snowball of interest, further improving net a result of the value created by extending 4.4% 3.6% in the holding from 31 psf to circa 53 psf.
operating income in what is the Companys largest Cineworlds lease length from 20 to 35 years.
The Companys West End of London office assets, Portfolio return IPD Benchmark current void.
Already, new lettings to Smiggle, New namely Craven House in Soho, 13 and 15 Great Look Menswear and Costa Coffee can be directly This strong result was, however, offset by some Marlborough Street, and 6 Arlington Street in attributed to the imminent introduction of Primark stubborn vacancies amongst the food units and the St Jamess, significantly outperformed their and, with their opening in summer 2017, we are out of favour supermarket component in Swindon, IPD benchmark at 2.6%, aided by profit on the analysing the wider strategic options for this asset.
together with the performance of the anchor Q2 sale of 6 Arlington Street.
The regional office Odeon cinema at Kingston upon Thames where, holdings in Bristol, Newcastle and Birmingham despite continuing to deliver a healthy yield from also helped drive performance.
a well located and popular asset, the rent is not expected to grow.
Collectively during the year the Companys leisure assets returned 3.9% against the benchmark of 7.2%.
20 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts 21 37.3% Retail 31.9% Industrial
