UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Board of Directors UBM Board members provide foresight and oversight, based on a wealth of experience in global business environments Dame Helen Alexander Tim Cobbold Greg Lock Mary McDowell John McConnell Chairman Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Dame Helen has wide ranging Board level Tim has significant experience of operating Greg brings the benefit of his significant Mary has a strong background leading John has extensive experience of working Gender diversity leadership experience from multiple industry complex international businesses in a number experience in the technology, software and innovation and high performance in technology in senior finance roles in UK based public sectors on a national and international of sectors, which is key to driving forward the computer services industry, having spent 30 and telecommunications sectors globally, companies operating worldwide, with his role Female representation: scale.
Dame Helen is the Deputy Chair of the implementation of Events First.
He has had years at IBM holding a wide range of senior with experience of running both enterprise as a serving CEO providing an added dimension Group Board Hampton-Alexander Review to improve gender substantial executive leadership experience roles in the UK, Europe and the US.
and consumer divisions in global technology to his contribution.
Johns experience of balance in FTSE Leadership.
In 2015 Dame in the UK listed environment, having been companies.
Mary brings extensive management technical financial, regulatory and compliance Sector Experience Helen was awarded the Legion dhonneur.
the CEO of two FTSE 250 businesses prior to skills and in-depth knowledge of technology matters is of particular importance to his role Software, Technology and Computer Services joining UBM.
as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
40% Sector Experience Current External Appointments Sector Experience Sector Experience Sector Experience Media & Publishing, Technology and Communications, Chairman at Computacenter plc, Development Insurance, Engineering, Not-for-Profit.
Technology, Telecommunications, Consumer Capital Markets, Automotive, Health Board Member and Fellow of Churchill College, Executive Directors Current External Appointments Current External Appointments Cambridge.
Current External Appointments Current External Appointments NED of Drax plc CEO of Polycom, NED and Chair of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director NED of Huawei UK, PwCs Public Interest Body, Past Appointments Senior Advisor to Bain Capital, Chairman of the Compensation Committee of Autodesk Inc. of Automotive Holdings Group Limited listed Past Appointments Chairman of Kofax plc and Surfcontrol plc, 50% on the Australian Stock Exchange.
Trustees of Thomson Reuters, Chancellor of the Chief Executive of fide La Rue plc, Chloride NED at Target Group and Liberata plc.
Senior Past Appointments University of Southampton and Director of the Group plc.
executive roles held at IBM included being Executive Vice President at Nokia, senior Past Appointments Grand Palais Paris.
a member of IBMs Worldwide Management executive roles held at Hewlett-Packard Chief Finance Officer of Inchcape plc, senior Executive Committee Council and Governor of the IBM Academy of and Compaq Corporation.
Former Director executive roles at Reckitt Benckiser.
Past Appointments CEO of The Economist Group, President of the Technology.
and Chair of Compensation Committee of Bazaarvoice, Inc. CBI, Deputy Chairman of esure Group Holdings plc, 33% Chairman of the Port of London Authority.
Held Non-Executive Directorships at Northern Foods plc, BT plc, Centrica plc and Rolls Royce plc.
Nationalities represented Tenure Marina Wyatt Dr Alan Gillespie CBE Terry Neill Trynka Shineman David Wei Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Marina brings extensive and wide ranging Alan has had a broad ranging career in Trynka excels in growing businesses, building David built his career in the investment, Terry has extensive experience in leading and financial experience to the Group from multiple investment banking and financial services teams, and driving change which enables management and growth of complex delivering large-scale projects and managing international sectors, making her ideally placed firms, having held senior executive roles with organisations to deliver results in line with the businesses operations in China.
David has transformational change from his executive 0 - 1 year: 2 Directors to lead the Company successfully through the Citibank and Goldman Sachs.
In addition, Trynkas understanding strong digital and customer credentials, roles at Accenture and Andersen Worldwide.
2 - 4 years: 4 Directors next stage of its development.
Marina provides understanding of multi-jurisdictional business of marketing for online global businesses is having held the position of CEO of the global Terry also brings significant global business 5 - 7 years: 2 Directors effective oversight of the Groups finance, tax, and M&A has proven invaluable as UBM pursues invaluable in the implementation of UBMs leading e-commerce company Alibaba.
com experience to the Boardroom.
8 - 9 years: 2 Directors treasury and internal audit teams.
As CEO of Vistaprint, a leading global Limited until its listing on the Hong Kong Stock Sector Experience online provider of professional marketing Exchange.
Sector Experience Sector Experience Banking, Accounting, Professional Services, products and services to tens of millions of Technology, telecommunications, resource Corporate Finance, Financial Services, Sector Experience Construction micro-business owners, Trynka brings valuable management.
Financial Services, Capital Investment, Retail, Committee membership key insight to the Boardroom.
Current External Appointments e-commerce Current External Appointments Current External Appointments Non-Executive Member of the Institute of Sector Experience NED of Shanks Group plc.
Member of the Senior Independent Director at Old Mutual plc, Current External Appointments International & European Affairs and Trinity Audit Marketing, Consumer, Technology Supervisory Board at Lucas Bols B. V. Chairman of the Economic and Social Research Chairman and Founding Partner of Vision College Dublin Foundation Board and Chair of Council, NED of Jefferies International Limited Current External Appointments Knight Capital P ast Appointments Council of Wexford Festival Opera.
Remuneration and Director of the St Pauls Theological Centre.
CEO of Vistaprint Chief Financial Officer and member of the Past Appointments Past Appointments Nominations Management Board at TomTom NV, Chief Past Appointments Past Appointments NED of HSBC Bank China and the China Chairman of Andersen Worldwide, Senior Financial Officer of Colt Telecom, Group Chairman of the Ulster Bank Group, Chairman Chief Customer Officer and EVP Global Advisory Board of IMI plc, CEO of B&Q China Partner of Accenture.
Held NED positions Denotes Committee Chair Finance Director at Psion Plc.
of the Northern Ireland Industrial Development Marketing at Vistaprint, Director of Marketing and Alibaba.
com, and Head of Investment at Bank of Ireland Group and CRH plc and Board, Chief Executive of the Commonwealth at PreVision Marketing.
Banking at Orient Securities Co.
Governor of London Business School.
Development Corporation and Chairman of the International Finance Facility for Immunisation.
58 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Dame Helen Alexander Tim Cobbold Greg Lock Mary McDowell John McConnell Chairman Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Dame Helen has wide ranging Board level Tim has significant experience of operating Greg brings the benefit of his significant Mary has a strong background leading John has extensive experience of working leadership experience from multiple industry complex international businesses in a number experience in the technology, software and innovation and high performance in technology in senior finance roles in UK based public sectors on a national and international of sectors, which is key to driving forward the computer services industry, having spent 30 and telecommunications sectors globally, companies operating worldwide, with his role scale.
He has had years at IBM holding a wide range of senior with experience of running both enterprise as a serving CEO providing an added dimension Hampton-Alexander Review to improve gender substantial executive leadership experience roles in the UK, Europe and the US.
Sector Experience Current External Appointments Sector Experience Sector Experience Sector Experience Media & Publishing, Technology and Communications, Chairman at Computacenter plc, Development Insurance, Engineering, Not-for-Profit.
Technology, Telecommunications, Consumer Capital Markets, Automotive, Health Board Member and Fellow of Churchill College, Current External Appointments Current External Appointments Cambridge.
Current External Appointments Current External Appointments NED of Drax plc CEO of Polycom, NED and Chair of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director NED of Huawei UK, PwCs Public Interest Body, Past Appointments Senior Advisor to Bain Capital, Chairman of the Compensation Committee of Autodesk Inc. of Automotive Holdings Group Limited listed Past Appointments Chairman of Kofax plc and Surfcontrol plc, on the Australian Stock Exchange.
a member of IBMs Worldwide Management executive roles held at Hewlett-Packard Chief Finance Officer of Inchcape plc, senior Council and Governor of the IBM Academy of and Compaq Corporation.
and Chair of Compensation Committee of Bazaarvoice, Inc. CBI, Deputy Chairman of esure Group Holdings plc, Chairman of the Port of London Authority.
Marina Wyatt Dr Alan Gillespie CBE Terry Neill Trynka Shineman David Wei Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Marina brings extensive and wide ranging Alan has had a broad ranging career in Trynka excels in growing businesses, building David built his career in the investment, Terry has extensive experience in leading and financial experience to the Group from multiple investment banking and financial services teams, and driving change which enables management and growth of complex delivering large-scale projects and managing international sectors, making her ideally placed firms, having held senior executive roles with organisations to deliver results in line with the businesses operations in China.
David has transformational change from his executive to lead the Company successfully through the Citibank and Goldman Sachs.
next stage of its development.
Marina provides understanding of multi-jurisdictional business of marketing for online global businesses is having held the position of CEO of the global Terry also brings significant global business effective oversight of the Groups finance, tax, and M&A has proven invaluable as UBM pursues invaluable in the implementation of UBMs leading e-commerce company Alibaba.
treasury and internal audit teams.
Financial Services, Capital Investment, Retail, insight to the Boardroom.
Member of the Senior Independent Director at Old Mutual plc, Current External Appointments International & European Affairs and Trinity Marketing, Consumer, Technology Supervisory Board at Lucas Bols B. V. Chairman of the Economic and Social Research Chairman and Founding Partner of Vision College Dublin Foundation Board and Chair of Council, NED of Jefferies International Limited Current External Appointments Knight Capital Past Appointments Council of Wexford Festival Opera.
and Director of the St Pauls Theological Centre.
CEO of Vistaprint Chief Financial Officer and member of the Past Appointments Past Appointments Management Board at TomTom NV, Chief Past Appointments Past Appointments NED of HSBC Bank China and the China Chairman of Andersen Worldwide, Senior Financial Officer of Colt Telecom, Group Chairman of the Ulster Bank Group, Chairman Chief Customer Officer and EVP Global Advisory Board of IMI plc, CEO of B&Q China Partner of Accenture.
Held NED positions Finance Director at Psion Plc.
