Communications & Security 32 This Division is responsible for the following segments: Communications Communications C2ISR & Security Communications & Securitys results included The divisional margin was 15.3% compared a full year of revenues from Herley and a part to 16.9% in 2015.
A strong performance year for the ID business.
The Division was from Herley, particularly over the last quarter, impacted by timing of overseas export orders, was offset by the ECU RP programme which caused revenue declines at GigaSat completion and the sale of the ID business.
and the legal intercept business.
As the ECU RP programme reached completion, revenue reduced signicantly as expected, although this was partially offset by the follow-on End Cryptographic Unit Contracts Logistic Support ECU CLS contract.
TCS, our military radio and Electronic Warfare EW business based in Canada, grew in 2016 as a result of its activity on the Electronic Intelligence ELINT contract won during the year.
Encouragingly, the Divisions order book increased on an underlying basis to 227.0m.
This was due to a number of contract wins, notably the ECU CLS contract and the TCS ELINT contract.
Features of the Divisions performance in the year that will underpin future performance include: Securing a 16m programme for the continued support of our world-leading software dened crypto device ECU RP for the UK MoD.
Awarded a $34.6m contract by the US DoD to continue providing critical infrastructure protection solutions.
A substantial contract to supply Ultra Orion radios, through a strategic collaboration with a major systems integrator, for a large military communications programme in the Middle East.
For further information on Ultras strategies see pages 10-11 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Communications & Security 33 Operational excellence Revenue Profit 259.0m 8.2% 39.7m -1.7% Order book Number of employees 227.0m 6.2% 1,506 How?
Delivering We innovate to disrupt our vision market dynamics.
ORION was specifically designed to meet the requirements of the programme and We offer superior is interoperable with in-service High solutions in Capacity Line of Sight systems.
It has been thoroughly tested and proven to meet regulated markets.
The US trial Over the past four years, Ultra TCS, team referred to it as the magic radio.
which has provided three generations of Following the assignment of Department high-capacity radio systems for the US of Defense nomenclature AN GRC-262 Armys Tactical C2 Network, has worked in December 2016, TCS was awarded its closely with the customer to position the first contract for the programme and is ORION X-500 radio as the Line of Sight anticipating a further award early in 2017 and Mesh solution for the Armys Signal prior to Limited Rate and Full Rate Modernisation Tactical Network production awards later in the year.
We enjoy delighting our customers!
Strategy in action In May 2016, Ultra TCS was awarded a contract valued at Canadian $18.4m for a customer in a NATO country with options for after-sales support.
This significant award was to provide Electronic Warfare equipment and engineering support for the delivery of UAV platforms that will be used in surveillance missions.
see footnote on page 144 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
