Board of Directors 54 Board of Directors Douglas Caster1 Rakesh Sharma 2 Amitabh Sharma 3 Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Time with Ultra: Time in position: Time with Ultra: Time in position: Time with Ultra: Time in position: 28 years 2 months 5 years 8 months 27 years 2 months 5 years 8 months 12 months 8 months Mark Anderson 4 Sir Robert Walmsley 5 Martin Broadhurst 6 Group Marketing Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Time with Ultra: Time in position: Time in position: Time in position: 5 years 7 months 4 years 8 months 7 years 11 months 4 years 5 months John Hirst 7 Sharon Harris 8 Non-Executive Director Company Secretary & General Counsel Time in position: Time with Ultra: Time in position: 2 years 5 years 1 month 4 years 8 months Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary & General Counsel Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member Nomination Committee member NOTE: All details correct as at 31 December 2016 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Amitabh Sharma CBE BSc FIET BSc EMBA MInstP FRAeS FREng CPhys BSc FCA Douglas is a highly experienced engineer and Rakesh has managed businesses and divisions Amitabh is a highly experienced financial manager of electronics businesses.
He has a long across the full range of Ultras wide portfolio, professional, having held senior finance positions track record of delivering growth through with consistent success in driving growth in the at listed and private companies.
He has extensive effective acquisitions and superior financial Group.
Combining business and technical industry experience as well as an excellent track performance in the companies he has led.
insight, he ensures Ultra businesses maintain a record of delivery across different sectors.
competitive advantage in the Groups specialist Douglas started his career as an electronics Amitabh was previously Group Financial market sectors.
design engineer with the Racal Electronics Controller at Ultra from 1999 to 2005.
He was Group in 1975, before moving to Schlumberger Rakesh started his career as an electronic design Group Finance Director at Gibbs and Dandy plc in 1986 and then to Dowty as Engineering engineer at Marconi in 1983, before moving to now Gibbs and Dandy Ltd and a Divisional Director of Sonar & Communication Systems in Dowty as Chief Engineer of Sonar & Finance Director at Saint Gobain.
In 1992, he became Managing Director of Communication Systems in 1989.
He was an audit manager with KPMG in London and that business and, after participating in the appointed Marketing Director of that business qualied as a Chartered Accountant in 1993. management buy-out which formed Ultra in 1993, when Ultra Electronics was formed.
Amitabh joined Ultra in January 2016 and Electronics, joined the Board in October 1993.
In From 1997 to 1999, he worked in the US as became Group Finance Director with effect from April 2000, he was promoted to the position of Ultras Operations Director, North America.
May 2016, when he was appointed to the Board.
Managing Director of Ultras Information & After returning to the UK, he was Managing Power Systems division.
In April 2004, he was Director of PMES and then of Sonar & appointed Chief Operating officer and became Communication Systems, before taking his first Chief Executive in April 2005.
He was appointed divisional role in 2005 as Managing Director, deputy Chairman in April 2010 and became Tactical & Sonar Systems.
In 2008, he moved to Chairman of Ultra in April 2011. run the Groups Information & Power Systems division, before being appointed Chief Douglas is a Non-Executive Director of Morgan Operating officer in January 2010.
He was Advanced Materials plc and was appointed appointed to the Board in April 2010 and Chairman of Metalysis Limited in January 2015. became Chief Executive in April 2011.
Martin Broadhurst CB BSc KCB, FREng OBE MA C. Dir FIoD FRAeS Ultras strategic process benets from Marks broad Sir Robert brings to Ultras Board solid experience Martin has a wealth of valuable experience in customer perspective and operational experience.
in the defence, security, transport and energy the defence and aerospace markets, having run sectors.
He has a deep knowledge of Ultras a large engineering organisation within the Mark joined the Royal Navy in 1974 as a main geographic markets and substantial sector for fifteen years.
He has demonstrable weapon system engineer, before switching experience of government procurement.
expertise and skill in growing international career path to achieve both nuclear submarine business and in expanding capabilities.
His MoD staff appointments Sir Robert was Chief of Defence Procurement at include policy roles in two Strategic Defence the UK Ministry of Defence MoD, a post which Martin joined Marshall Aerospace as a Reviews and equipment customer responsibility he held from 1996 until his retirement from management trainee in 1975 and, following a for all underwater programmes.
He has worked public service in 2003.
Prior to his MoD number of roles with the company, including closely with the United States throughout his appointment, Sir Robert had a distinguished Production Director and Director of career, including sensitive roles within the US career in the Royal Navy, where he rose to the Programmes, was appointed as Chief Executive Joint Staff.
Promoted to Rear Admiral, he rank of Vice Admiral in 1994 and served for two in February 1996.
During his time as Chief commanded all Fleet Operations and headed years as Controller of the Navy.
Sir Robert is a Executive, he served on the Group Holdings the UK submarine service up to the end of his Non-Executive Director of Cohort plc.
He was Board and was Chairman of a number of 36 years service in June 2011.
He then joined appointed to the Board in January 2009. subsidiary companies.
Martin is a Non-Executive Ultra in a divisional strategy role, before being Director of Beagle Technology Group and Centre selected to join the Board in April 2012. for Engineering Excellence: and a trustee of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
He was appointed to the Board in July 2012.
Sharon Harris CBE BA DSc FCA MCT CCMI LLB of Marsh UK, Jelf plc, SME Insurance Services, John is a highly experienced leader of large Sharon is the Groups Company Secretary and Anglian Water, IMIS Global Ltd, Hammerson plc global organisations, in both the private and General Counsel.
She brings corporate legal Pension Fund, ORSUS Medical Ltd and White public sector.
He has a wealth of knowledge and expertise to the Board role, together with plc Square Chemical Inc. John was appointed to the expertise which he brings to Ultras Board.
John was Chief Executive of the Met Ofce, a Sharon graduated from Kings College, London post he held from 2005 to 2014.
Prior to this, with a law degree.
She started her career at John was CEO of Premier Farnell.
Before this, he Norton Rose as a trainee solicitor and has spent 19 years with ICI plc, during which time international plc experience gained in the FMCG, he was Chief Executive of two of ICIs Global pharmaceutical, media and electronics sectors.
businesses, ICI Performance Chemicals and ICI She joined Ultra in November 2011 and was Autocolor, and was Group Treasurer.
He was appointed Company Secretary in April 2012. awarded a CBE in the 2014 New Years Honours List for his national and international services to Meteorology.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, a Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers and a companion of the Chartered British Institute of Management.
John is a Non-Executive Director Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
