Strategies for growth 10 Ultras four strategies for growth Ultras objective is to add long-term shareholder value, as measured by market capitalisation and the Groups ranking in the FTSE index, more rapidly than other companies in order to outperform the market.
This will be facilitated by an above-average rate of revenue growth.
Ultra constantly strives to increase its share of the highgrowth sectors of the markets in which it has positioned itself.
1 2 Increase the Groups portfolio Increase the number of long-term of specialist capability areas platforms and programmes on which Ultras specialist capabilities Concentrate on providing customers are specified with capabilities and systems Identify new platforms and Offer electronic and software solutions programmes to apply Ultra capabilities in niche markets Platform lives are typically 30 to Focus on developing specialist 50 years which provides a long-term capabilities with demanding and critical ywheel effect requirements Enables resilient financial performance Provide specialist solutions, often for despite market uctuation demanding environments 3 4 Broaden customer base Widen geographic footprint Independence allows portfolio Increased access to two of the to be sold to a broad range of largest addressable defence budgets customers globally in the world Supply to different project ofces, The US still spends more on teams and platform teams within defence each year than other wider customer relationships nations combined Build on largest customers, Undertaken the majority of including: US DoD, UK MoD, acquisitions in North America to Lockheed Martin, BAE Systems, achieve transatlantic capability Boeing and Australian DoD Focus now is to gain competitive advantage through measured expansion into Australia, the Middle East, India and Asia-Pacic Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Strategies for growth 11 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Examples of how the Group is performing in each strategy can be found below: Precision Control Systems PCS received Corporation of China AVIC has requested an order from the US DoD for a demonstration prior to negotiating a CombatConnect, a new electronic soldier supply agreement with Ultra, and the US architecture Ultra had developed for the State Department is interested in using this UK Army.
This breakthrough order could technology to upgrade its UH-1, CH-46 and lead to a significant opportunity utilising UH-60 rotorcraft platforms.
PCS is entering into a partnership with Ultra Electronics signed a strategic Nanjing Engineering Institute of memorandum of agreement with Northrop Aircraft Systems NEIAS to supply the Grumman NG Corporation to deliver new Nose Wheel Steering System for the Ocean Systems was contracted by Lockheed Maritime Domain Awareness MDA and MA700.
This is Ultras first partnership Martin to provide fully integrated Array Anti-Submarine Warfare ASW capabilities with a Chinese company for the provision Nose Assemblies to increase the US Navys for NGs family of autonomous vehicles and of aerospace systems.
This expands Ultras specialist will provide Ultra with access to additional capability areas to include unmanned platforms because the MK 48 is used by all autonomous platforms to supplement our classes of US Navy submarines as well as by existing position on manned ASW platforms.
many western navies as their primary ASW 3eTI was contracted by the US Department and anti-surface warfare ASuW weapon.
In addition, Ocean Systems plans to expand of the Navy to continue providing cyberits acoustic sensor capability to include the secure critical infrastructure solutions.
The MK 54 acoustic nose assemblies.
The MK 54 contract will see 3eTI work with the Navy to design, develop, integrate and install a is the primary ASW weapon for the airborne and seagoing ASW assets of many variety of cyber-secure systems for critical western navies.
Following on from its success upgrading the first Indonesian Navys Fatahillah Class NCSs acquisition Lab Impex is now fully corvette, Ultra continues to expand its integrated into the business and has geographic footprint as its Command & facilitated engagement with new customers Sonar Systems business was awarded a across markets that were previously not contract from the Philippine Government accessible, offering access to a much wider for the restoration of their Jacinto Class customer base and enabling totally new Patrol Vessels.
This two-year contract will business to be won in 2016 at the Sequoia include replacement of the electro-optic fire reactor in the US and EDF Heysham II control system and navigation sensors and reactor in UK.
overhaul of the 25mm and 76mm guns on Herley was awarded a contract by a major two ships of the Jacinto Class.
US prime contractor to supply nextPCS has secured a position on the Saab generation RF assemblies for the Surface Gripen NG aircraft for the supply of the Electronic Warfare Improvement Program HiPPAG stores management solution.
This is SEWIP, a substantial and long-term Ultras CIS business expanded its footprint the first time a dual-purpose HiPPAG programme focused on electronic support in the Middle East region with the award of system has been fielded, capable of capability improvements on US navy ships.
a major contract to provide an integrated providing stores ejection and seeker head Following a successful Integrated Ballistic security system to protect naval ports from cooling from the same unit.
The Gripen Identification System IBIS trial installation underwater threats.
aircraft is enjoying strong sales and has a in Beijing, Ultras Forensic Technology long service future ahead of it.
Production is In 2016, Flightline Electronics was business anticipates its first IBIS order from expected to start ramping up in 2019 and successful in working with Airbus to secure China in early 2017. continue for at least a decade.
development and production funding to Ultra successfully delivered the first of three implement Ultras aircraft Health and Usage The US WIN-T Increment 1 Signal Air Warfare Destroyer Integrated Sonar Monitoring System HUMS into the US Modernization Terrestrial Transmission Suites to the Royal Australian Navy.
Armys fleet of UH-72 Lakota light utility Program was established as a DoD Program helicopters.
Ultras HUMS product is gaining of Record enabling funding to be applied global attention as the Aviation Industry to the long-term procurement of TCS Orion radios.
