Market-facing segments 14 Aerospace Revenue by segment Across the civil and military aerospace sectors, demand for innovative Aerospace technologies to reduce cost, improve efficiency and increase safety play well to Ultras established strengths in controls systems and niche aviation technologies.
This has allowed the Group to establish positions on a number of long-term aerospace programmes now ramping up production.
17% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength Commercial aerospace remains a vibrant In the civil aerospace sector the twin-aisle sector with predictions of worldwide market continues to grow, and will remain Ultras CORE capabilities include: passenger growth doubling over the next dominated by Airbus and Boeing for the Ice protection and detection 15 years.
Large aircraft manufacturers are foreseeable future.
Ultra provides unique Position sensing and control buoyed by record order backlogs that exceed electrical wing ice protection systems and 13,000 aircraft, although new orders have position sensing electronics to the Boeing 787 Active noise and vibration control probably reached a peak.
This growth in as well as providing specialist harnessing, Health and Usage Monitoring HUMS platform numbers is driven by the demand for landing gear service panels and a new Fuel system solutions new aircraft in developing regions, while the electrical ground door opening system to the Ground handling equipment more established markets need new aircraft new Airbus A350.
The single-aisle market is to replace ageing fleets as well as to capture also in growth and, while currently dominated Pilot controls the greater efficiencies in fuel, emissions and by Boeing and Airbus, is seeing new entrants Data and power transfer system reliability.
The military aerospace from China and Canada.
The regional aircraft Stores and gas management market continues to see growth driven market is highly competitive.
Nonetheless, predominantly by the production ramp-up of Ultra has secured content on the Japanese the existing major military aircraft Mitsubishi Regional Jet and the new Chinese programmes.
There are few new military MA700 regional turboprop.
Growth in the aircraft programmes, with the market focused business jet market is focused on larger on technology insertion and capability aircraft, where Ultra has secured business on upgrades of existing airframes.
the new Gulfstream G650, G600 and G500 as well as the Cessna Citation Longitude.
In the rotary wing market the large reduction in energy prices is reducing orders from the oil and gas rig servicing businesses and key requirements in this market are minimising aircraft through-life costs.
Ultras new Health and Usage Monitoring System HUMS specifically targets these requirements.
In the military aerospace sector, the fixed wing combat aircraft market will be dominated for the next 20 years by the increasing build rate and entry-into-service of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and its F-135 engine.
Ultra provides significant content to this aircraft engine combination including precision pneumatics HiPPAG for weapons ejection and the engine inlet ice protection system controller.
The air transport market is seeing a number of competitors looking to fill the niches left by C-17 and C-130.
In this sector Ultra has secured positions on the Embraer KC-390 and on the Airbus A400M.
The UAV market Strategy in action remains an attractive but crowded sector.
In 2016, Ultras Flightline business in Victor, NY collaborated with CurtissWright to provide a new compact and lightweight Cockpit Voice and Flight Data Recorder with integral HUMS capability designed for use on rotorcraft platforms.
Market-facing segments 15 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Infrastructure Revenue by segment Ultra is a trusted international provider and integrator of critical Infrastructure systems and software needed to operate and secure todays and tomorrows transport and energy infrastructure.
4% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength Transportation, including airport and rail In the airport sector, the market for Airport systems, remains an area of strong Master Systems Integration continues to Ultras CORE capabilities include: investment worldwide.
The increase in global experience growth, especially in the demand Broad suite of integrated air traffic and national prestige projects is for Tier 2 airport capabilities.
This is particularly infrastructure offerings spanning driving investment in airport infrastructure, so in South America, the Middle East and Asia, airports, rail and energy although competition in this sector is where there are a number of key capital Secure localised network increasing.
Globally, rail infrastructure is also projects.
The airport and airline information communications for measurement growing rapidly as a key commercial and management market is also forecast to see and control national enabler in both established and investment grow, although many of the emerging economies.
In established operational systems are becoming increasingly Protection of critical energy and economies infrastructure investment is commoditised.
There is growing polarisation transport information systems focused on upgrading existing capabilities between global offerings and those with more Power management and control and driving economic recovery.
In emerging localised niche expertise, so Ultra has Compact power solutions economies, such investment is being used to continued to focus upon market intimacy, Flexible delivery models: outstanding secure growth and build national capacity.
customer relationships and comprehensive service reputation Increasing global demand for energy has led solutions over individual products.
The rail to increased investment in power generation, transit power conversion and control market is Integration and domain expertise at power distribution, secure power also anticipated to see significant growth.
both technological and programme level management and the renewables markets.
However, with the exception of the rail control Energy dominates the global trend in smart sector and the drive towards smart digital infrastructure, with Smart Grid and secure solutions, the market is becoming increasingly energy management lying at the heart of price-sensitive.
In the power management and Smart Cities and Critical National renewables sector, the growing need for Infrastructure.
Whilst global infrastructure compact, power-dense solutions plays to demand is largely being driven by China, Ultras capabilities with power resilience, India and the Middle East and North Africa energy storage and fast switching all being regions, at least 50% of the global market key drivers for growth.
The secure energy for smart solutions lies in Europe and the US.
management sector is forecast to see substantial investment, particularly in areas related to secure monitoring, analysis and control.
The emergent Smart Grid market relies on the ability to securely identify each connected device.
In 2015, Ultra launched a cyber-hardened critical infrastructure management system to improve site management and performance without the need to replace legacy equipment.
This is now being fielded.
Opportunities in the Smart Grid market are likely to remain fragmented until the appropriate regulatory frameworks are established.
However, Ultras broader secure communication and data portfolio places it in Strategy in action a strong position with the Group able to offer In response to the growing need for the highest level of assurance that can be compact, power-dense solutions, Ultra gained for the storage of unique digital keys supplied the London Underground Jubilee and identifiers of devices.
Line Upgrade project with compact transformer rectifier equipment.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report.
Market-facing segments 16 Nuclear Revenue by segment Through its established relationships with Original Equipment Nuclear Manufacturers OEMs, the domain knowledge of its Suitably Qualified and Experienced Personnel SQEP, and its broad range of qualified safety systems and sensors, Ultra is well positioned to support the growing market in the licensing, delivery and safe operation of reactors and associated systems via a full defence 8% in depth approach.
Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength There are over 430 commercial nuclear power Although the nuclear market is a long-cycle reactors operating in 31 countries worldwide.
one, with plants taking several years to come Ultras CORE capabilities include: They provide over 11% of the worlds to completion, the outlook is positive.
Much Extensive pool of Suitably Qualified electricity as continuous, reliable, base-load of the current global fleet of plants will need Experienced Personnel SQEP power and remain an important part of the life extensions and upgrades.
These plants Nuclear safety system expertise low carbon energy mix.
In addition, 56 are largely older analogue Instrumentation countries operate around 240 civil research and Control I&C designs, with the biggest Qualified reactor instrumentation reactors, with many of these in developing market by far being the US.
The new build, and control countries.
Globally there are over 70 new digital I&C market, which is currently Radiation detection sensors reactors under construction.
Many of the new dominated by China, India and Russia, is of Nuclear energy management systems builds are being developed within emerging a similar magnitude.
Ultra has invested Nuclear operational support economies and in those countries where there significantly in new facilities for the testing, is substantial state backing.
However, the development and manufacture of sensors.
Nuclear rod control for submarines emphasis in established Western markets has This has shown its value through further largely shifted to a shorter-term focus on contract wins with EDF for the provision of safety system upgrades, life extensions, specialist sensors and, with the Strategic emergency management and plant Partnership announcement with NuScale, sustainment programmes.
In addition to this, to develop a suite of reactor and plant I&C the UK is proceeding with a new commercial systems for their Small Modular Reactor model it has pioneered in support of new SMR.
The Group currently provides nuclear build ambitions.
The nuclear market is equipment to over 190 reactors across 16 generally very conservative and supported countries, plus another 32 reactors currently through large multinational organisations: under construction.
Furthermore, Ultra is however, there remain several complex niches uniquely qualified on eight new types as well served by smaller specialist companies.
It is a as many legacy plants, meaning that it is highly regulated market, with high barriers to well positioned for the future.
entry, and as such is dominated by a number Growth in the nuclear emergency of well-established global players.
The management market continues, prompted qualification of sensors and products across by the Fukushima accident which caused a multiple standards and platforms is extremely global reassessment of post-accident expensive and offers further barriers to entry response and support needs.
Plant safety is once established.
now increasingly reliant on secure data and, as such, cyber security is a key part of meeting the formal safety requirements.
Security concerns around the proliferation of nuclear and the threat of terrorism are also driving the growth in new deployable security and surveillance systems for nuclear plants and enhanced border security.
Ultras domain knowledge, through its SQEP, coupled with its extensive security and surveillance capabilities as described on page 18, Strategy in action position Ultra well in this sector.
EDFs ageing fleet of AGR reactors are undergoing life extension reviews to ensure their continued operational availability to end of station life.
In 2016, NCS was awarded a 7.3m contract spanning 10 years to maintain design integrity and equipment reliability across the fleet via a structured management and risk-mitigation approach.
Market-facing segments 17 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Communications Revenue by segment Ultra is well positioned as one of the most trusted and respected Communications providers of secure communication capabilities in the world offering advanced, interoperable solutions that are scalable and low-risk.
15% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength The communications market includes The trend towards greater connectivity and shipborne, ground-based, underwater, air-tonetworking will persist, driving significant Ultras CORE capabilities include: ground and airborne communications, and further investment in military Encryption and key management encompasses a wide and diverse range of communications.
The emphasis will be on solutions capabilities.
Within the military and security resilient networked communication Data link systems sector, there is continued demand for greater capabilities enabling people to be connected bandwidth and broader connectivity, coupled anywhere, anytime, all the time.
On the High-performance, high-reliability with a growing need for interoperability.
The battlefield, this will drive the requirement for radio and wireless systems emphasis today on secure networked high-performance tactical communication Secure voice, video and data communications is spreading to all nations systems such as the Ultra Orion multi-mission communication platforms seeking to modernise their systems.
The software-defined radio, one of the most Secure wireless mesh networking ability to deliver real-time voice and data with versatile and advanced radios available today.
Fixed, mobile and transportable ad hoc mesh capabilities was becoming It will also see military satellite systems essential.
This is driving investment in a moving towards higher frequency Ka band satellite earth stations market where proven designs, which can be solutions and smaller, more portable earth Identification and autonomous integrated with existing equipment and are stations that deliver higher bandwidth: guidance products interoperable with allies, are preferred.
developments that Ultra, in collaboration with Airborne communication exchange Additionally, this is where commercial off the a number of partners, is positioned to exploit.
Personal protective gear shelf technology is increasingly being applied Similarly, in the data link market, in which communications to reduce costs and improve performance.
In Ultra remains well placed with its wide range particular, there is a shift towards softwareof advanced data link and airborne gateway Acoustic hailing devices defined solutions that enable fast-cycle solutions, the demand for secure tactical and Through the earth communications upgrades of capability and the use of open full-motion video links will continue to grow.
Outside the In the encryption market, the move to smaller military and security market, there is a form factor products and from link to Internet growing reliance on Machine-to-Machine Protocol IPbased cryptographic solutions will M2M communications and, with the rising continue.
Additionally, there is a shift from prevalence of connected devices, increasing paper-based key to electronic key distribution emphasis on the Internet of Things IoT.
Ultra has proven next-generation end-to-end cryptographic products and a strong position in both UK and US cryptographic programmes.
This, allied to the Group's electronic key distribution and management solutions, ensures Ultra remains well positioned in this sector to pursue a variety of opportunities.
Finally, with the increasing awareness of the vulnerabilities of M2M communications, and a growing recognition of the need for solutions to secure such systems, the secure M2M market will continue to grow.
Ultras proven certified security solutions, which are Strategy in action tailored to meet critical national infrastructure In November, Ultras TCS business was and industrial needs, position the Group well awarded a substantial contract to supply in this arena and have led to partnerships with Ultra Orion radios, through a strategic OEMs in the building automation, collaboration with a major systems energy utilities, and oil and gas markets.
integrator for a large military communications programme in the Middle East.
Market-facing segments 18 C2ISR Revenue by segment As a trusted supplier of innovative surveillance and security C2ISR solutions to government and commercial customers, Ultra is well positioned to exploit this growing market.
21% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength C2ISR remains a priority capability within Global spending on C2ISR systems is global defence budgets due, primarily, to the expected to remain robust.
In the military Ultras CORE capabilities include: increased importance of these systems in arena, there will be a continued emphasis on Surveillance solutions for critical modern warfare.
C2ISR applications are used intelligence and surveillance assets, as well as national infrastructure, coastal and across a variety of platforms with air power, the ability to fuse or correlate these data border security needs as the principal mechanism for early or streams into a single real-time integrated Covert surveillance solutions urgent delivery of military effect, driving the picture that can be disseminated down to the demand for intelligence, surveillance, target lowest level.
This will drive growth in realCommand and control systems acquisition and reconnaissance ISTAR.
Here, time ISTAR for both manned and unmanned Airborne surveillance and targeting the growth in platforms, particularly platforms and the connectivity between Electronic Warfare solutions, unmanned platforms, fulfilling these roles assets in the battlespace.
Ultras leading data Electronic Warfare simulators and continues unabated.
The challenge, as ever, fusion, situational awareness and radar test systems being the timely and secure dissemination of visualisation systems play well to this growing Document examination systems the associated data, typically video, around need.
Electronic Warfare EW is also gaining the battlespace.
In the face of terrorism, in prominence.
The global EW market is Ballistics and crime scene analysis organised crime, drug trafficking and illegal forecast to grow significantly over the next immigration, C2ISR capabilities are also few years driven by the increasing emphasis growing in importance in the wider border placed on information superiority and security and Critical National Infrastructure situational awareness.
Ultra bolstered its CNI protection markets.
Overall, there capability in this area with the acquisition of continues to be an increasing demand for Herley in 2015 and continues to grow its interoperable and mobile networks that share of the EW market.
deliver a single integrated picture for timely The border security and CNI protection situational awareness.
With a growing markets are also projected to grow.
The number of devices capable of collecting illegal movement of arms, narcotics and sensor data operating across multiple people will continue to drive growth, while communication networks, the complexity the shift from labour-intensive security to and scale of integrated surveillance systems high-tech networked solutions will continue.
Solutions need Ultra has all the necessary elements to deliver to be tailored to customers needs, multiple applications into these markets and comprehensive and able to draw on is focused on those opportunities where best-of-breed, established and clearly there is a growing need, the political impetus differentiated technologies.
Growth in the CNI physical protection market will continue to be underpinned by the increasing adoption of video surveillance and wireless technologies for perimeter security.
The rising awareness of cyber threats and government mandates will drive similar growth in the protection of industrial control systems.
Drawing on its advanced secure communications and surveillance capabilities, Strategy in action Ultra remains well-positioned to provide In 2016, 3eTI was awarded a $34.6m complete cyber-physical security solutions to contract by the US Navy to continue this growing market.
providing critical infrastructure protection solutions.
Initial tasks of $13.9m are due to be completed by September 2017.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Command & Control, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance 6.
Market-facing segments 19 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Underwater warfare Revenue by segment Ultras world-leading domain knowledge, acoustic technical expertise Underwater warfare and ability to provide leading technology in Anti-Submarine Warfare ASW performance through rapidly delivered, modular, affordable and reliable solutions means that it is well positioned to exploit this large and growing market.
25% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength Submarines are strategic assets, able to fulfil a The US continues its strategic rebalancing of variety of missions from covert surveillance military assets and capability between the Ultras CORE capabilities include: through to anti-surface warfare, stand-off land Atlantic and Pacific theatres.
As a result, Expert knowledge of acoustic attack and ultimately, strategic deterrence.
despite the wider US government funding performance in the maritime domain This multi-mission capability, combined with pressures, ASW and submarines remain areas Design and manufacture of airtheir innate characteristics of stealth and of preferential spend with increased budget deployable sonobuoys endurance, has made submarines highly allocation.
Specifically, the US continues to attractive to nations wishing to exercise costbuild two Virginia Class SSNs per year, and Sonar transducer and towed array effective power projection.
Submarines pose has delivered more than 30 P-8A maritime design and manufacture more than just a military threat.
These patrol aircraft to the US Navy, as well as Acoustic countermeasure techniques platforms can easily and effectively disrupt the awarding contracts to upgrade both light and for torpedo defence sea lines of trade that sustain the global heavyweight torpedoes.
Future funding is Sonar processing, display, and economy.
As a consequence, there has been earmarked to further bolster the US Navys decision aids a substantial investment in submarine ASW capability through the award of next Recognised integrator of complex sonar technology by Russia, China, North Korea, and generation torpedo countermeasures and systems both towed and hull-mounted Iran.
Moreover, many smaller nations in Asiatorpedo defence systems.
Elsewhere, several Pacific are rapidly procuring submarines in an of the major Commonwealth countries have effort to protect their national interests.
This embarked on a major recapitalisation of their growth in submarine capability is no longer ASW frigates: the steel on the Royal Navys offset by traditional western underwater first T-26 Global Combat Ship is due to be cut technological superiority, which has eroded during the summer of 2017.
Activity is well through years of neglect.
Therefore, underway on Canadas Common Surface investment in ASW has become a top priority Combatant fleet with the initial contracts due for nations.
Similarly, Australias SEA5000 programme has started the Global financial pressures, coupled with Strategy in action competitive evaluation process and should go increased capital platform costs, mean that to contract in 2020.
In all, more than 30 The Royal Netherlands Navy received its nations can typically no longer afford second Multistatic Active Passive Sonar vessels will be constructed with a mission platforms dedicated to a specific role.
Instead, MAPS system from Ultra in 2016.
More broadly in the they are generally moving to the use of installed and underwent successful addressable Asia-Pacific market, spend increased, smaller multi-role platforms, of related to ASW systems, including towed harbour acceptance tests in October whilst frigate or offshore patrol vessel size.
As a the first system completed its operational torpedo defence solutions, is projected to rise result, ASW solutions now need to be modular evaluation trial with the Dutch Navy in to almost 0.5bn.
Specifically, India intends with reduced footprints to fit on these smaller November.
The trials were so successful to award three major ASW related vessels.
Another key factor in this growing programmes totalling in excess of 100m that the commander of the Dutch Navy ASW market is the desire for increasingly short tweeted the MAPS system was a over the next five years.
Ultra is well placed development times, requiring investment in quantum leap in ASW capability.
Lastly to address these needs based on its advance of contract awards.
Ultra has Ultra, through its joint venture ERAPSCO, continued investment in integrated sonar positioned itself well in both of these areas, systems and surface ship torpedo defence commenced production of the next with continued investment in ASW generation of High Altitude Antisystem technologies.
technologies including multistatic active Submarine Warfare HAASW sonobuoys.
systems and sonobuoys for use with These sensors have been designed to be Unmanned Aerial Vehicles UAV.
A key export deployed from P-8A Poseidon aircraft and market driver is the increasing requirement for will provide extended detection ranges on indigenous technology transfer to overseas enemy submarines due to their coherent customers, another area where Ultra has a multistatic active capability.
strong pedigree with recent export contracts.
Market-facing segments 20 Maritime Revenue by segment Combining its expertise in power electronics and open architecture Maritime design, Ultra provides innovative, scalable and affordable solutions to meet customer needs in signature management, power-dense motors and command and control systems for maritime platforms.
7% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength Post the Afghanistan and Iraq land-based The power products segment in the US conflicts, many nations are now looking to market remains stable.
The Virginia Class Ultras CORE capabilities include: rebalance their force structure and have a Submarine VCS production is well protected Magnetic and electric signature renewed focus on the procurement of with manufacturing steady at two hulls per management for ships and submarines maritime and air domain equipment.
As a year for the foreseeable future.
Longer-term Specialist motor drives and power result, national military shipbuilding strategies growth opportunities for Ultra specialist converters are being developed by several Western power products will come with the new nations with the objective to stimulate longColumbia Class SSBN, projected to provide Power conversion and control term, sustained new ship construction.
In the 12 new hulls beginning in 2021.
The use of management US and the UK, the construction of new common sub-systems with VCS will help Nuclear rod control for submarines strategic deterrent submarine fleets has been lower the cost-growth risk that currently Stable positioning for precise electroapproved and is now underway.
In other exists on the Ohio Replacement Programme.
optic EO tracking on moving platforms parts of the world the requirement for The US Navy is investing in a technical refresh Customised command, control and increased maritime capability is clear, but of Arleigh Burke Class guided missile navigation systems for small ships fiscal constraints are driving life extensions of destroyers DDG-51, landing platform docks existing platforms through cost-effective LX-R and replenishment naval vessels T-AOX capability upgrades.
Consequently, the which will provide further opportunities for demand for system sensor upgrades and growth of the Groups advanced power and technology insertion programmes on existing signature management products.
hulls is growing, particularly for navies in The incumbent position on the UK emerging nations.
For the export market in Dreadnought SSBN development and general, maritime platform programmes are qualification programme will ensure a high often dominated by the industrial politics of probability of production follow on for main the nation concerned, especially if they have static converters, electric cruise propulsion and indigenous capabilities.
Clean Power technology transfer is an increasingly requirements of the US DoD and aerospace important factor enabling business in the specifications will continue to drive the need export market.
for Ultras speciality components such as power filters and multi-phase transformers.
The Groups specialist signature management capabilities will see growth opportunities in the next five years through the US Navys Columbia Class SSBN Programme, replacement auxiliary vessels, ongoing Littoral Combat Ship production and DDG-51 upgrades.
There is also increased focus on electric field signature management due to the growing awareness of Influence mine threat.
With the protection of maritime resources rising in importance in areas such as the South China Sea, there are increasing requirements Strategy in action for submarines with extended patrol times.
The advent of air-independent propulsion Ultra Command & Sonar Systems was capability is expected to increase demand for awarded a contract in September for the power conversion and degaussing products.
upgrade of the electro-optic fire control systems, navigation and gun systems on More broadly, the continuing demand for two Philippine Navy patrol vessels.
This surface platform system and sensor upgrades award leverages Ultras established position plays well to Ultras strengths in naval combat on ship modernisation as highlighted systems and electro-optics and the Groups through the Indonesian Fatahillah-class pedigree in partnering with local industry.
upgrade which underwent successful at-sea acceptance in December.
Market-facing segments 21 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Land Revenue by segment Ultra is primed to exploit the growing market for capabilities and Land products that conform to the Open Architecture Standards.
Niche electronic products enable Ultra to gain a foot in the door of most significant programmes.
The land segment product range includes innovative, affordable and reliable solutions which meet current customer needs in power and electronics.
3% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength The market for armoured vehicles is stable In the UK and European markets, the although showing a slight decline in new reduction in the number of new vehicle Ultras CORE capabilities include: vehicle programmes in Ultras established programmes has been partially offset by a Power systems markets.
Asia-Pacific is predicted to be the significant increase in the number of platform Information systems area of major growth over the next ten years.
life-extension and technical insertion Afghanistan, Australia, China, India, programmes.
There is also an increase in Control systems Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, the upgrade programmes as a number of Mission systems Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan platforms, procured to meet urgent Electronic architectures and Thailand all have major armoured vehicle operational requirements over the last decade Soldier systems procurement programmes underway or in a of operations, are now being absorbed back planning phase.
Ultra, as a provider of Operating base solutions specialist capabilities, is well positioned to be There is a significant growth in the number of Vehicle systems able to support such upgrade programmes.
In major capability enhancements and lifeFire control and weapon systems the UK, the Group has teamed with Morgan extension programmes for land platforms Advanced Materials to provide through life playing to Ultras strengths in electronic support to the Mastiff platforms.
Land platforms are now increasingly complex, with multiple sensors, In the US, despite the budgetary pressures weapons and communication systems: this that led to the cancellation of several large suits our core product range.
These complex new vehicle programmes, the DoD has electronics are driving the increased electrical funds for a number of platform upgrades generation capacity and management within that present Ultra with new opportunities the platform.
due to the Groups capabilities.
More broadly, the export marketplace is growing with a The dismounted soldier opportunities number of prospective new vehicle and continue to grow and our offerings are upgrade programmes being initiated.
includes the established markets of India and Australia and the emerging markets in the Middle and Far East.
In the Middle East, Ultra is working in partnership with an indigenous platform provider to support the upgrade of the existing vehicle fleet.
Combined, these potential programmes offer significant opportunities.
Military forces are looking at how they can Strategy in action integrate soldiers, and their associated systems, into the wider land battlespace and Building on its expertise in land vehicle there are several active programmes in this architecture systems, Ultra has developed area.
Ultra has won several demonstration technology to solve the problems of mancontracts in this area which apply technology to-platform interface by providing a to the soldier.
seamless power and data transfer.
This expansion into soldier-wearable technology has positioned Ultra to participate in the UK Dismounted Soldier Awareness programme as well as the US Armys Nett Warrior system.
Ultras soldierwearable technology is also of interest to paramilitary organisations and was successfully trialled with the Police Services of Northern Ireland in 2016.
