Making a difference 44 Sustainability Making a difference Ultra recognises that the success and sustainability of the business is enhanced by positive relationships with stakeholders and continues to focus on value creation for all: shareholders, customers, employees, the environment, local communities and suppliers.
In the community: Ultras businesses continue to be active in Fundraising and voluntary work in the local their local communities, building positive community or at a national level is links by engaging with local people and something the Group is keen to encourage.
Many businesses form special It actively supports employees who relationships with educational undertake voluntary activities.
Some establishments in the surrounding noteworthy examples in 2016 include: communities offering work placements and Ultra has created Charity Champions visits to businesses as part of AS level within each Ultra UK business to promote courses, as well as providing interview the Groups partnership with Macmillan practice sessions, supporting lessons, careers Cancer Support to raise enough money to events and school science fairs.
Ultra is fund a Macmillan nurse for a whole year.
involved in the nationwide initiatives on The initiative began with the Worlds STEM education and also offers Arkwright Biggest Coffee Morning on 30 September scholarships: a scholarship that sponsors and continues until April 2018.
A-level students looking to pursue a career ATS has received the Distinguished in engineering through their education.
Partnership Award from the Del Valle Ensuring a long-term supply of talent to the independent school district in Texas for business is essential and Ultra commits itself a third year in a row for outstanding to developing the talent pipeline in schools contributions throughout the year to and higher education institutions.
This was Smith Elementary School.
This is a exemplied at the Dorset Business Awards neighbouring elementary school which where NCS was a nalist in the Best ATS has adopted.
Each business manages its own charitable CIS worked in collaboration with SPEAR budget, which it uses to maintain and grow Group, an organisation dedicated to helping young people who nd it difficult connections with local communities.
to gain employment to become more employable.
Together they have run CV For more about securing the workshops and introduced participants to talent pipeline, see page 48 various professionals, sharing career knowledge and success stories.
STEM: Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Making a difference 45 Sustainability, people and culture Shareholders: Employees: The environment: The Groups primary objective is to Ultra believes that the right people are its Ultra is committed to implementing and outperform the market by delivering abovemost important asset: the capabilities of its enforcing effective measures to minimise the average increases in total shareholder return, employees allow the Group to innovate environmental impact of its activities.
All which it has a long track record of doing, continually and meet customer needs.
Ultra businesses are audited at least biennially.
and by communicating effectively with has a strong commitment to developing Ultra continues its commitment to investing in shareholders and the financial community.
people and securing the talent pipeline, manufacturing facilities to offer increased details of which can be found in the section efficiencies and reduce energy consumption, Customers: Developing Ultra's people.
The Group while improving productivity across the Ultra aims to be an excellent strategic believes that, to ensure its continuing growth Company.
The Group also looks for its supplier to its customers.
To enable this, and success, these initiatives for talent suppliers to reduce their environmental impact.
Ultras businesses are focused on helping development and employee retention are customers identify their true needs whilst Initiatives that have taken place within the essential.
However, ultimate responsibility for developing long-term relationships based on Group include: individual talent development and employee performance excellence and meeting its retention resides within each of Ultras 3eTI continued to promote its Go Green commitments.
Ultras businesses aim to build businesses, a number of which have launched Campaign with the addition of the long-term, mutually beneficial relationships unique initiatives to ensure continuing Paper Reduction Campaign which with their customers and become part of the employee development and engagement.
supplements the on-going paper recycling customers extended enterprise.
Examples include: Examples from 2016 that highlight Ultras CIS held a waste and recycling awareness In 2016 a Chief Executives Mentoring commitment to its broad customer base are: day to improve the awareness and visibility Club was established across the Group.
NCS was named EDFs Supplier of the of waste management for all employees.
This aims to help high-potential people Year at the EDF Energy Generations 5th develop their careers and realise their Flightline hosted the New York State Annual Performance and Innovation full potential by being mentored by the Department for a voluntary audit of the Awards ceremony.
This is in recognition of Chief Executive.
This is a proactive effort to keep the Neutron Flux Detector programme.
employees safe and ensure compliance.
Airport Systems was a nalist in the national Herley, which was acquired by the Group in award for the best employee engagement A two-day external Achilles Audit at NCS 2015, received Raytheons Operational initiative by the professional HR body CIPD, resulted in the Environmental Management Excellence Award.
In addition to this, following the turnaround of business system gaining a 100% score.
Lockheed Martin and the US Navy presented morale, engagement levels and YOURviews Suppliers: Certicates of Recognition to employees feedback over the past three years.
who went above and beyond in service on Ultra views its suppliers as an extension of For the second year in a row Ultra the Trident Fleet Ballistic Missile programme.
the Ultra enterprise as many businesses rely Electronics US was presented with the Gold on these suppliers for delivery of their EMS received special recognition as a Wellness Award by the Business Council of products and services.
These are safety or critical supplier of the hand controllers Faireld County, Connecticut.
This performance critical in their end markets so used in the Boeing Commercial Crew recognises the UltraFit programme and working together is crucial.
Partnership with Transportation System CCTS for NASA.
Ultra as a leading company in promoting a suppliers and customers generates innovative healthy workplace for its employees.
and differentiated solutions which are at the core of Ultras business model.
Many Ultra businesses work with their suppliers to enable them to operate more efficiently.
To read more about Ultras To read more about Ultras people, To read more about the customers, see page 2 see pages 46-50 environment, see pages 52-53 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
