Aerospace & Infrastructure 30 This Division is responsible for the following segments: Aerospace Aerospace Infrastructure & Infrastructure Nuclear Aerospace & Infrastructure revenues benefited from growth in licence sales of Features of the Divisions propeller electronic controllers at Precision performance in the year Controls Systems PCS, as well as greater that will underpin future demand for nuclear sensor products at Nuclear Control Systems NCS and a full year performance include: of revenues from Furnace Parts acquired in Entering into a partnership with Nanjing 2015.
These gains were offset by customer Engineering Institute of Aircraft Systems delays to a number of land vehicle NEIAS to supply the Nose Wheel programmes and the timing of the JSF Steering System for the MA700.
The civil aerospace industry is This is Ultras first partnership with a largely denominated in US Dollars, so the Chinese company for the provision of weakening of Sterling provided much of the aerospace systems.
Securing orders for cockpit, lighting The Divisions margins improved to 15.8% and HiPPAG equipment on the 2015: 14.9%.
This was helped by the Typhoon aircraft amounting to increased revenues from higher margin sales 12.3m, largely due to the new export in the period and an improved operational order for 28 aircraft for Kuwait.
performance at CEMS arising from site rationalisation in early 2016.
Continuing strategic partnership with NuScale to provide a suite of The order book was broadly at compared to instrumentation in support of their the end of 2015, when adjusting for Small Modular Reactor SMR.
For further information on Ultras strategies see pages 10-11 U Ullt tr ra a E Elle ec ct tr ro on niic cs s H Ho olld diin ng gs s p pllc c.. A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 16 6 6.
Aerospace & Infrastructure 31 Operational excellence Revenue Profit 204.7m 6.0% 32.4m 12.9% Order book Number of employees 267.8m 0.9% 1,205 How?
Delivering We innovate to disrupt our vision market dynamics.
Ultras HiPPAG solution takes air from the atmosphere, compresses, cleans and We offer superior dries it, and then provides it as required solutions in removing logistical and other problems.
It ts in the same volume that would regulated markets.
have been needed for a compressed gas Ultra provides the innovative HiPPAG bottle.
The system is also capable of solution for the F-35 aircraft which providing cryogenic cooling for weapon jettisons external stores and also cools seekers, which is something no other the weapon seekers.
Traditionally, aircraft system can do.
use either compressed gas storage The system was developed from existing bottles or pyrotechnic charges to jettison high-pressure gas products to solve external stores.
Both of these methods problems in a way never before seen in present problems: compressed gas bottles the market.
The Ultra solution is need to be stored, lled and replaced on technically superior to all competitor the aircraft, which presents a significant products and has now been tted to logistical burden: pyrotechnics are dirty many aircraft types including the F-35.
and require cleaning of the pylons after use, and the heat generated by the pyrotechnic creates a thermal signature that can be used to locate the aircraft and is a problem for the aircrafts internal weapon bay required for stealthy aircraft.
We enjoy solving tough problems!
Strategy in action PCS was awarded a $751k contract from Boeing to provide HiPPAG compressors for the New Zealand Navys P-3 Orion aircraft.
This win is the first application of a HiPPAG for the purposes of sonobuoy ejection, representing the first step in a strategy to exploit the technology to provide sonobuoy launchers for unmanned air vehicles, lightweight maritime patrol aircraft and helicopters.
PCS has a longer-term strategic goal to be able to provide an integrated solution using Ultras sonobuoy technology.
see footnote on page 144 U Ullt tr ra a E Elle ec ct tr ro on niic cs s H Ho olld diin ng gs s p pllc c.. A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 16 6
