Business model 08 Business model The value Ultra creates through its business model enables it to Portfolio Customer strength need achieve its primary objective: to outperform the market in terms of annual increases in shareholder return.
Objective Operational excellence Ultra faces the market Ultra constantly innovates with portfolio strength to meet customer needs Eight distinct and wide-ranging Focus on Tiers 2-4 Ultra aims to invest 5% of revenue in market segments R&D to develop new offerings and its Ultra has no strategic intent to be a Tier 1, customers typically invest a further 15% Clearly defined market segments allow Ultra top-level platform provider.
Therefore, the to provide more complex offerings from Group is non-threatening to the Tier 1 Ultra aims to maintain investment at 5% or across the full range of the Groups prime contractors, for example, BAE Systems more of its revenue on innovation, new capabilities, rather than only supplying or Boeing, and so counts them amongst its products and business development.
In individual products from single businesses.
As such, Tier 1 contractors addition, over 14% of Group revenue is This approach establishes a framework that can rely on Ultra to provide the specialist customer-funded product development.
In aligns resources to greater effect across each capabilities at which the Group is expert, total over 18% of revenue spend is focused market-facing segment and utilises the most rather than regarding us as a competitor.
on enhancing the portfolio of capabilities effective customer relationship.
In turn, this and programme positions which underpin Ultras specialist capabilities are mainly at supports the development of coherent further growth.
Tiers 3 and 4, supplying equipment and strategies against particular end markets, components to support Tiers 1 and 2 Funded by: based upon collective market research and systems and programmes.
The Group does Group 23% opportunity capture.
The market segment undertake Tier 2 system integration, but approach provides the Group with improved Customer 77% does this mainly when integrating its own analysis at an appropriate level of Tier 3 offerings where it understands the complexity, thus allowing Ultra to better detailed Tier 3 interfaces and so is able to manage and prioritise the Groups manage the risk inherent in system investments, including Research and integration activities.
Development R&D alignment and acquisition strategy.
Where the Group has Acquisition and divestment to complementary capabilities, it position in growth markets can combine these to offer more Ultra invests in targeted acquisitions to further strengthen its portfolio and will comprehensive and innovative dispose of capabilities that no longer t Tier 1 solutions.
This means that Ultras within the portfolio.
The Group invests in products, capabilities and the acquisitions that develop and apply domain Tier 2 expertise, capabilities and technical associated domain expertise synergies in common end markets.
Ultras Tier 3 uniquely position the Group to deep understanding of the users domain, Tier 4 its enduring customer relationships, and its be able to meet more complex outward-facing nature inform the Groups and demanding system and subinvestment decisions.
Innovative solutions focused on customer need Ultra creates value by generating innovative Tier 1.
Equipment supplier Responsible for being the prime contractor Ultra has a large presence at this level of solutions from across its portfolio and by becoming a key partner in its customers of the platform in question, examples being the supply chain, supplying equipment design process ensuring their needs are met.
a naval ship or a terminal at an airport.
such as data links, cryptographic equipment and sonobuoys.
Sub-system integrator Ultra businesses innovate constantly to Responsible for integrating equipment or Tier 4.
Component supplier create solutions for customers often components that will make up a functional Ultra also provides a broad range of smaller through highly specialised, disruptive element of the platform.
Examples of components for many programmes worldwide, technological innovation which are system integration completed by Ultra including sensors for measuring the different from, and better than, those of the include the integrated sonar systems and performance of a nuclear reactor and joysticks Groups competitors.
to control unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs.
Business model 09 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Maintaining Ultras operational excellence BOARD RESPONSIBLE FOR: Form external partnerships to develop Agility through a devolved organisation LEADERSHIP doing the right thing the best solutions for customers A key differentiator for Ultra is the agility GROWTH IN SHAREHOLDER VALUE REVIEWING GROUP STRATEGY Ultra has an established capability to partner that businesses in the Group exhibit in their RISK MANAGEMENT and team both internally and externally in customer relationships.
STANDARDS OF ETHICS order to offer the best-of-breed technologies AND BEHAVIOURS The Board delivers effective leadership which meet its customers requirements as and direction in achieving the key corporate closely as possible.
The Group is agnostic as EXEC TEAM objective of reliable and consistent growth to the source of technology which is required in shareholder value.
At an operational RESPONSIBLE FOR: to deliver these solutions.
Where proven level, the Executive Team is responsible for MANAGEMENT doing things right technology exists outside the Group that DEVELOPING GROUP STRATEGY running the Group, for the delivery of meets customers requirements, Ultra will FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE strategy, for financial performance and for TEAM DEVELOPMENT readily form external teaming partnerships to team development.
Ultra sees these teaming 19 To ensure it provides the exceptionally agile arrangements as a source of competitive AUTONOMOUS and responsive support to customers and advantage, allowing it to deliver BUSINESSES partners that is normally associated with a differentiated solutions which meet customer smaller business, Ultras individual needs efficiently.
By working together, Ultra RESPONSIBLE FOR: businesses have a high degree of businesses are able to win opportunities MANAGING THE INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS operational autonomy.
The agility of the DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING which would not be possible in isolation.
COMPETITIVE STRATEGIES individual businesses is enhanced by access WINNING AND EXECUTING BUSINESS Ultra is continually evolving its approach to wider and complementary technologies DEVELOPING PEOPLE in response to: WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP and expertise that lie elsewhere in the changing customer demands Group collaborative autonomy and by anticipating the direction of travel of Ultras strong financial position.
the markets Ultras businesses are focused on Achieving operational efficiency striving to be the first to bring new helping customers identify their true through engaged competent people solutions to market.
needs while developing long-term with domain expertise In its specialist capability areas, a key relationships.
This enables the Group Ultra believes that the right people, who differentiator for the Group is its to be an excellent and strategic supplier embrace and sustain Ultras culture and understanding of the: to its customers.
who have the domain expertise, are its customers domains Ultras LAUNCH is a set of behaviours most important asset in successfully demanding operational environments developed by the Group to facilitate customer enabling the Group to deliver value to projected capability gaps which engagement and relationship building.
LAUNCH is a way for Ultras businesses to In short, Ultras understanding of the generate long-term customer relationships Ultras business model is underpinned by: customers needs allows it to develop effective which lead to a better pipeline of and innovative solutions.
opportunities and ultimately, enables Sustainability.
This approach ensures Ultra understands the real needs of its customers Customer problem and encourages a long-term strategic Ultras people statement relationship where Ultra businesses become and culture.
Pages 46-53 part of the customers extended enterprises, to mutual benefit.
Pages 36-43 Ultras 3rd-party solution technology Find out more about LEAP Good governance.
Pages 54-91 and LAUNCH on page 47 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
