Standardisation & Shared Services 12 Standardisation & Shared Services S3 Challenging markets and a deationary economy demand increasing efficiency.
Ultras move over the past two years to a Divisional structure aligned around eight key market segments is enabling its businesses to collaborate more easily in the marketplace, and address customer needs more efficiently.
As Ultra has grown as a Group, through acquisition and organic success, each 08 01 autonomous business has maintained its own enabling functions including finance, IT, HR, Global sourcing and property.
After 20 years of Property Business growth, mergers and acquisitions, and the recent restructuring of market segments, the Service Group now has the size and infrastructure to streamline these functions thereby increasing efficiency and realising savings.
The 07 02 Standardisation & Shared Services Indirect programme, known as S3 and established in ICT late 2015, is focused on bringing together Sourcing these enabling activities from across all the businesses under a Global Business Service GBS function.
By adopting common, best practice solutions, Ultra will deliver these services to the businesses in more effective and efficient ways.
An internal roadshow by the Chief Executive and the S3 Managing 06 03 Director is helping to explain and promote Facilities Direct the initiative, and ensure each business understands the benets S3 will deliver to Management Sourcing them and the Group as a whole.
For 2016, the S3 programme was in a costneutral position realising savings of 6.9m.
It is expected that by 2019, recurring annual 05 04 savings from S3 will total in excess of 20m.
Ultras continued commitment to realising ERP HR savings is matched by its commitment to preserving and encouraging each individual businesss autonomy, thereby allowing them to strive for excellence on a daily basis without being hampered by out-of-date or inefficient processes.
The S3 programme is structured around eight individual workstreams, illustrated in the diagram.
These are the key functional areas for S3 to focus on redening.
Standardisation & Shared Services 13 Portfolio strength focused on customer need 2 Global Property Footprint ft End of 2015.
94% 6% The S3 programme generated End of 2017.
0 0.5M 1.0M 1.5M 2.0M 2.5M 3.0M 3.5M An announcement made in February 2017 Elsewhere in the Group, workshops have been Some S3 Highlights to date: confirmed that the second GBS, supporting held in collaboration with distributors.
As a Global Business Services GBS the US businesses, will be located in result new supply chain solutions are being The first stage of the S3 programme centred Rochester, New York and will mirror the same established with the aim of tailoring the supply around understanding the requirements approach and services as the UK GBS centre.
chain to better meet Ultras needs.
In one case, of the individual businesses and ensuring a forecast-driven Reduced Lead Time that any changes did not detract from a Property programme to decrease costs is now being businesss autonomy or restrict their ability Greater attention is being paid to Ultras piloted for a major project.
It is expected that to outperform the market.
By the end of 2016, the this pilot will also reduce working capital costs potential areas to increase efficiency, the property footprint had reduced by 6%, a and supply chain risk, and improve overall 2 2 programme has now reached its second total of 218,967ft.
phase and is actively managing the been identied for 2017, to be achieved implementation of the appropriate changes through a combination of exiting, subleasing ERP necessary to bring the service functions and general consolidation of the estate.
Additionally, some key S3 enablers are being together.
A key requirement for the This represents a further 15% reduction.
progressed, including a new ERP strategy programme is the setting up of two shared Following the development of a central which will deliver significant operational service centres, one in the UK and one in database, managed by GBS, work is already efficiencies over the next three years and the US.
underway to rigorously assess the future transform businesses ability to report and property requirements across the Ultra Group extract data in ways they have not been able UK GBS, based in Dorset, opened on 1 June targeting a total reduction of 21% by the to before.
This will lead to efficiencies wider 2016 with the direct and indirect sourcing end of 2017. reaching than finance, providing transparency teams being the first functions on site.
and agility in manufacturing and projects too, Following the successful pilot tests of GBS Sourcing through automation and elimination of systems and processes, services will, business by With a forecast to achieve 7.6m of total duplicate processes.
business, be migrated into GBS.
This includes savings from indirect and direct sourcing, payroll management, facilities management, work on increasing efficiencies has already IT and expenses processing and payment.
helped to realise 0.5m of savings by the end The appointment of a Chief Information of 2016 through changes to indirect officer in February 2017 is helping to Continuous improvement techniques will be sourcing, procurement and payment.
The streamline and encourage IT efficiency and put in place within GBS to develop these implementation of the Coupa system as the compatibility across the Group.
By building services going forward.
In most cases, this single Group-wide online system for sourcing, an internal capability through a specialised will involve the implementation and adoption procurement and expenses is underway, with team, continuous improvement will be of new systems and best practice processes.
all UK businesses due to adopt the system in enabled across the Group, reducing IT In turn, this will lead to Ultra businesses the first half of 2017.
Similarly, changes in support costs, and greatly improving longenjoying the benets of an integral service direct sourcing have delivered savings on a term system robustness and alignment with partner and the efficiencies gained from number of items by increased collaboration best practice models.
consistent service and product contracts across the Group and new supplier sourcing negotiated at a Group level as opposed to an as indicated in the following examples: individual business level.
By combining the requirements of three Ultra businesses, negotiations with a wire supplier resulted in an average combined price reduction of 7.1% Expanding an existing relationship with a freight supplier to cover more Ultra It is expected that by businesses for their truck freight service is 7.1% forecast to realise full year savings of $230k 2019, recurring annual Sourcing from lower-cost regions will see a Price reduction through savings from S3 will total reduction of 60% against costs on the consolidation of wire suppliers.
industrial Thermowell line at NSPI.
