Maritime & Land 34 This Division is responsible for the following segments: Underwater Warfare Maritime Maritime & Land Land The Maritime & Land Division achieved growth driven by an increase in sales of US Features of the Divisions and international sonobuoys.
This reects the performance in the year continued global focus on underwater that will underpin future warfare, particularly in the US.
Increased sales of sonobuoy receivers at Flightline on the performance include: MH-60 programme and data switching Successful delivery of the first of products also contributed to this years three Air Warfare Destroyer AWD growth.
This was partially offset by Astute integrated sonar suites ISS to the Class Submarine-related programmes coming Royal Australian Navy.
to an end at our PMES business, and a slight decline in revenues at Ocean Systems relative The provision of seamless power and to a particularly strong 2015.
The order book data transfer technology to solve the was largely at at constant currencies.
This expansion in capability Within Maritime & Land, margins improved into soldier wearable technology has to 18.3% 2015: 17.3% owing to increased positioned Ultra to participate in the revenues and the production phase of a UK Dismounted Soldier Awareness number of US sonobuoy contracts, although programme as well as the US Armys this was partly offset by the completion of Nett Warrior system.
some Astute Class Submarine programmes at PMES.
A strategic memorandum of agreement with Northrop Grumman NG Corporation to deliver new Maritime Domain Awareness MDA and Anti-Submarine Warfare ASW capabilities for NGs family of autonomous vehicles and systems.
For further information on Ultras strategies see pages 10-11 Ultra products are featured on a range of submarine platforms including: Trafalgar UK Astute UK Vanguard UK Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Maritime & Land 35 Operational excellence Revenue Profit 322.1m 9.6% 59.0m 15.9% Order book Number of employees 304.5m 10.8% 1,755 How?
Delivering We innovate to disrupt our vision market dynamics.
Recognising that the primary purpose of the Royal Australian Navys new Hobart We offer superior Class destroyer is anti-aircraft warfare, solutions in Ultra has devised an innovative solution to provide the platform with an effective regulated markets.
Anti-Submarine Warfare ASW system To meet the anti-submarine warfare with a view to minimising any impact to requirements for Australias Air Warfare the warships primary role.
Ultras ISS is the Use of a single-winch system signicantly Destroyer programme, Ultra has world's first single-tow active-passive sonar reduces the weight and volume dedicated conceived a novel solution that runs that is fully integrated with the ships to the sonar suite and enables the counter to traditional naval sonar hull-mounted sonar.
Employing an industry operator to focus acoustic energy on implementations, developing the worlds first dual-frequency towed horizontal underwater targets of interest and rapidly first truly integrated sonar solution.
projector array in combination with a pinpoint their position.
This, coupled with Whereas previous ship sonar tments quadrature receive array.
Ultras ISS only Ultras Ping Wizard, which utilises operate as discrete and independent requires one winch, instead of the two knowledge of the environment and systems, Ultras Integrated Sonar Suite normally required for a traditional activereduces operator workload, has enabled ISS employs a holistic, capability-led passive sonar system.
the development of integrated acoustic anti-submarine warfare methodology.
displays in its ISS solution, reducing both operator training and ships personnel For the Royal Australian Navys new requirements as one operator can operate Hobart Class destroyer, Ultras ISS both sensors from a single station.
underwent extensive development, sub-system design proving, and dry land integration before the sonar was deemed ready for in-water testing.
has resulted in a best-in-class sonar solution whose on-going sustainment We enjoy beating will be undertaken in-country.
Strategy in action Ultra Electronics USSI significantly broadened its acoustic hailing and indoor outdoor mass notification customer base with the development of the HS-10 portable loudspeaker.
Based on the same HyperSpike technology employed in military and Virginia US life safety applications, the HS-10 was chosen by the University of Notre Dame, Singapore Interior Police, and numerous law enforcement agencies due to its capability to broadcast intelligible voice commands at great distances with exceptional clarity.
This commercial success was leveraged highly from voice of the customer design and cost targeting that was disruptive to the marketplace.
USSI created a new online e-commerce system that is resulting in orders from previously unknown customers and will continue to introduce new products to the market utilising this 21st-century business model.
see footnote on page 144 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
