DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED mainly in higher-growth Personal Care brands, which has helped OUR SHAREHOLDERS make Personal Care our biggest category.
UNILEVERS STRATEGY FOR LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION Our categories are supported by innovation that targets high growth, on-trend segments, which are critical to staying ahead of the HAS ENSURED ANOTHER YEAR OF GROWTH THAT IS competition, and our research and development capabilities which are CONSISTENT, COMPETITIVE, PROFITABLE AND RESPONSIBLE embedded within each category.
We are focused on faster innovation SUPPORTING CONTINUED GROWTH IN THE DIVIDEND so ideas reach market more quickly.
We are aiming to make global FOR SHAREHOLDERS.
roll-outs 30% faster and up to 50% faster for local innovations, while we are also simplifying innovation processes to have 30% fewer touch- 2016 brought to the fore the volatile, disruptive and complex forces points in decision-making.
at play that affect Unilevers business.
Slower global economic growth and intensifying geopolitical instability provided a challenging Marketing drives consumer demand-led sales and requires content backdrop to our operations while competitive pressures continued that is ever more personal and specific to consumers, served to them to intensify globally and locally.
at the most appropriate time and place to trigger purchase intent and sales.
Digital technology enables such targeted approaches and also Despite this uncertainty our priorities remain unchanged: to deliver adds more sophisticated data and insight into consumers habits and consistent growth ahead of our markets, steady margin improvement, interests, which are crucial as e-commerce and direct-to-consumer and strong free cash flow.
In delivering these priorities we are led by our Purpose to make Our broader customer development programmes further ensure our sustainable living commonplace which inspires our Vision to presence in the appropriate channels from supermarket chains to accelerate growth in our business, while reducing our environmental websites driven by our Perfect Stores programme of brilliant execution.
footprint and increasing our positive social impact.
To achieve these ambitions, we have placed the USLP at the heart of our business DEVELOPMENTS IN 2016 model and we have based our strategy for long-term growth on it.
We have taken significant steps this year to support and enhance our Thanks to initiatives such as the Coalition for Inclusive Capitalism, which growth model by responding to the rapidly changing world in which Unilever is part of, the importance of sustainability in driving returns has we operate.
The action we have taken means we can maintain become a mainstream idea in capital markets, reinforced by research our competitive advantage in the marketplace and maintain our which also shows the increasing relevance of sustainability to consumers.
track record for long-term delivery of steady and consistent shareholder returns.
Sustainability is also integrated in our financial decision making we have set an internal cost of carbon, so that greenhouse gas emissions During the year we continued our policy of investment in the business, are factored into capital projects.
including bolt-on acquisitions, rather than share buy backs or special dividends.
Acquisitions play a key role in our quest for innovation PERFORMANCE alongside those breakthroughs we make ourselves through research Despite volatility in the operating and financial environment, we and development.
The brands we acquire take us into new growth delivered another year of steady returns for shareholders.
Over the last segments but can also bring innovative business models that we 5 years our dividends have increased 7% per annum and our share continue to operate separately from the core where appropriate.
price is up by around 50% for both PLC and NV shares.
In Personal Care we have acquired the male grooming online This reinforces our medium-term performance over the past five years subscription business, Dollar Shave Club.
This is a direct-to-consumer 2012-2016 which has witnessed underlying sales growth of 4.4% per model where we will preserve its entrepreneurial approach, taking year, which was ahead of our markets, and core operating margin up, valuable lessons for the rest of our portfolio.
We also announced an on average 0.4 percentage points per year.
Over the same period agreement to acquire Living Proof in 2016, the US hair care brand turnover growth averaged 2.7% per year and operating margin was up which will also join our Prestige business.
The deal completed on 0.2 percentage points per year: Core earnings per share grew 7% per 1 February 2017. year on average.
Constant core EPS, which is at constant exchange In Home Care we acquired Seventh Generation, a Vermont-based rates, grew by an average of 10% per year.
Average working capital as a business producing plant-based detergents and household cleaners, percentage of turnover improved by 1 percentage point per year and we complementing our responsible growth goal and supplementing our have delivered cumulative free cash flow of 21 billion over the 5 years.
We also bought Blueair, the Swedish air Return on invested capital has remained in the range of 18-19%.
purifier business active in markets such as China and India, Reliable long-term returns for shareholders result from our focus on addressing the issue of air quality and pollution.
four categories with distinct but complementary priorities that fulfil In Refreshment we announced an agreement to dispose of AdeS, specific objectives across our portfolio of brands.
The largest category the Latin American soy beverage business, continuing the active is Personal Care, accounting for 38% of turnover in 2016 which has a management of our brand portfolio.
strategy of growing its core business while extending into premium The adoption of new flexible business models is one part of the ranges.
Foods, which accounts for 24% of turnover, has the objective of Connected 4 Growth transformation programme which will make us accelerating growth while preserving the value of its strong cash flows.
more agile with lower costs.
This is a series of self-help changes that Home Care, 19% of turnover, is improving profitability and scaling its will make Unilever fit for the future, maximising our global scale and household cleaning business while Refreshment, 19%, is tasked with expertise while making us quicker and more agile to respond locally growing ice cream Return on Invested Capital and accelerating top line where local competition is becoming more sophisticated and growth in tea.
successful at growing market share.
We are simplifying our organisation to empower Unilever people to be more experimental.
ACTIVE PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Our brand portfolio is not set in stone and continues to evolve to match At the same time we are rolling out Zero-Based Budgeting, which our categories strategic priorities, resulting in the sale of assets that benchmarks our expenditure against peers and identifies savings to no longer fit our growth model or the acquisition of assets that take us further support our business.
It is a deep dive into our cost base and, into new market segments and build new market positions.
This active with the cost saving elements of the organisational change, aims to portfolio management means that in the past eight years we have sold deliver savings of 1 billion by 2018.
In addition, we are continuing to 2.8 billion of turnover, mainly in the lower growth Foods businesses.
take a further 1 billion per year of costs out of our supply chain to During that same period we have acquired 4 billion of turnover offset cost inflation, reducing the need for price increases and making our brands more competitive.
22 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016
