ABOUT US OUR PURPOSE UNILEVER IS ONE OF THE WORLDS BEST KNOWN UNILEVER HAS A CLEAR PURPOSE TO MAKE SUSTAINABLE CONSUMER GOODS COMPANIES.
EVERY DAY, 2.5 BILLION LIVING COMMONPLACE.
WE BELIEVE THIS IS THE BEST WAY TO PEOPLE USE OUR PRODUCTS TO FEEL GOOD, LOOK GOOD CREATE LONG-TERM VALUE FOR ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS, AND GET MORE OUT OF LIFE.
ESPECIALLY IN A VOLATILE AND UNCERTAIN WORLD.
We are truly global, operating in more than 100 countries, selling Our Purpose inspires our Vision to accelerate growth in our our products in more than 190 countries and employing around business, while reducing our environmental footprint and increasing 169,000 people.
We want our business to grow but we recognise that growth at the expense of people or the environment is Unilever is organised in four categories, each with a clearly defined both unacceptable and commercially unsustainable.
Sustainable strategy and portfolio of brands.
The largest is Personal Care, then growth is the only acceptable model for our business.
Foods followed by Home Care and Refreshment.
Each one is discussed in more detail on pages 14 and 15.
Our Purpose and Vision combine a commercial imperative to succeed against competition globally and locally, with the changing attitudes We have 13 brands with sales of 1 billion or more: and expectations of consumers.
Axe This Annual Report and Accounts explains how, in 2016, we have 2.
Dirt is Good e. g. Omo continued to pursue our Purpose and work towards making our Vision 3.
During 2016 we continued to deliver growth that is 4.
Family Goodness e. g. Rama consistent, competitive, profitable and responsible.
Heartbrand e. g. Walls of long-term success is underpinned by the USLP, which helps us 6.
Hellmanns manage risk, inspires brand purpose and innovation, drives down 7.
Knorr costs to improve returns and builds trust among consumers across 8.
Lipton our categories and operations.
Magnum Our success depends on the expertise and talent of our people.
Rexona are constantly challenged by an environment that remains volatile, 12.
Sunsilk uncertain, complex and ambiguous.
At the same time it is getting easier to enter our industry.
Our markets are fragmenting as a result of changes in Our business model is detailed on pages 8 and 9.
It places consumer habits, sales channels, the media and to traditional sustainability at its heart through the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan business models.
USLP which spans our entire value chain and involves a wide range of stakeholders.
This is why Unilever is also changing through our business transformation programme, Connected 4 Growth, which we started to Our brands are household names but we constantly assess our portfolio implement during 2016.
It is creating a business which is more to ensure the right balance and resilience.
We dispose of brands that no consumer and customer-centric, faster, more efficient and longer fit our strategy while acquiring those that give access to new empowered so that our people can meet these challenges with the segments and channels.
We have around 400 brands allowing us to necessary resources.
operate both globally and locally and this scale offers efficiencies and lower costs while reducing risk and mitigating volatility.
As part of this change, we are also adopting new ways of working to be more entrepreneurial to complement our existing category strategies.
In 2015 we had 12 Sustainable Living brands which grew 30% faster In turn, these clearly-defined strategies across our four categories than the rest of the business Knorr, Dove, Dirt is Good e. g. Omo, involve the active management of our portfolio through acquisitions Lipton, Hellmanns, Smile e. g. Signal Pepsodent, Lifebuoy, Ben & and disposals to ensure Unilever has a well-balanced and resilient Jerrys, Radiant, Breyers, Heart Health and Domestos.
In 2016 these portfolio relevant to meeting our Purpose and Vision.
brands grew 40% faster than the rest and delivered nearly half of Unilevers growth.
They are brands which combine a strong purpose delivering a social or environmental benefit, with products contributing to at least one of our USLP goals.
Our Sustainable Living brands for 2016 will be announced in May 2017 once the analysis is complete.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 1
