OUR BUSINESS MODEL WE BELIEVE THAT SUSTAINABLE AND EQUITABLE GROWTH COLLABORATION Collaboration is critical to our success.
We are open to external ideas IS THE ONLY LONG-TERM BUSINESS MODEL.
THAT IS WHY and adept at capturing and integrating their benefits.
The USLP WE HAVE PLACED THE UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING involves working with many governments and NGOs.
Our supply chain PLAN AT THE HEART OF OURS.
operates our Partner to Win programme to encourage innovations Our sustainable business model drives growth that is consistent by from suppliers.
For example, we work with biotechnology partners to reducing risks, is more competitive by inspiring innovations that help create laundry products that give superior stain removal and us grow, is more profitable by reducing costs and is more responsible whiteness while using less water and energy.
This furthers innovationleading to enhanced trust in our business.
led growth and our USLP commitment to halve the environmental impact of our products across their lifecycle.
The three big goals of the USLP to help more than 1 billion people improve their health and well-being by 2020: to halve the INNOVATION environmental impact of our products across the value chain by 2030: Unilever spends 1 billion annually on research and development, and to enhance the livelihoods of millions as we grow our business by employing approximately 6,000 experts to drive innovation, often in 2020 are integrated into our business model.
From sustainable partnership with suppliers and academia.
Our innovations use insights sourcing of our agricultural raw materials to eco-production in and technologies to deliver brand-led benefits which meet the latest manufacturing to marketing brands with purpose the USLP is our trends.
Examples include natural variants in Foods and Personal Care blueprint for achieving our vision.
by our Knorr and TRESemm brands, and vegan product variants by Ben & Jerrys and Hellmanns.
Our innovation is increasingly We invest in innovation and brands, which creates profitable volume responsive to local needs, landing results faster into markets.
Our scale spreads fixed overheads, improving profitability further, and this profitable growth allows us to reinvest, generating An important development in 2016 has been the announcement of our more free cash flow which can be further invested in brands and intention to build a new global Foods Innovation Centre in Wageningen, innovation which in turn drive more profitable volume growth.
Our The Netherlands, complementing similar innovation centres in Port geographical reach also helps spread the risks of local environmental Sunlight and Colworth in the UK, Shanghai in China, Bangalore in India disruptions in our markets caused by climate change.
CONSUMER INSIGHT SOURCING Our business model begins with consumer insight which informs Our procurement teams are responsible for purchasing 34 billion brand innovation.
Accurate insight is critical to understanding how of goods and services.
They are central to driving efficiencies to markets are changing and segmenting.
We forge relationships with enhance profitability, delivering over 1 billion of savings, but also consumers through insights from focus groups and quantitative implementing our USLP.
51% of our agricultural raw materials were studies.
Digital research adds one-on-one sophistication while new sustainably sourced in 2016, including 95% of our top 13 vegetables lines of communication are opening through direct-to-consumer and herbs and 75% of tea, supporting brands such as Knorr and channels, allowing closer relationships.
67% of our suppliers met the mandatory self-assessed criteria in our Responsible Sourcing Policy.
Our Consumer and Market Insight CMI group helps us prioritise growth opportunities.
Through CMI we monitor data about consumption patterns and social media dialogue to inform action, including sustainability insights, which drive product innovations and behaviour change programmes.
COLLABORATION INNOVATION CONSUMER INSIGHT SOURCING MANUFACTURING SALES MARKETING LOGISTICS 8 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MANUFACTURING SALES We operate 306 factories in 69 countries and employ approximately Generating turnover of 52.7 billion in 2016 in a highly competitive 100,000 people in 100 countries.
Our focus is on implementing World market place involves a sophisticated Customer Development function.
Class Manufacturing with 119 factories enrolled and 139.5 million We work closely with retailers, online through e-commerce and in of savings identified.
We also carry out annual climate change physical stores.
Our teams ensure our brands are always available, risk assessments at the manufacturing site level alongside properly displayed and in the right recommended price bracket.
strive to be supplier of choice for customers and trade partners, through strong joint business planning and in-store execution applying Our Aguai factory in Brazil is setting new benchmarks in sustainability.
In 2016 this reached 10 million plus With Brazils water system under huge strain due to climate change, executions, to deliver sales growth as we launch product innovations 60% of the sites water needs will be met by collecting rainwater and and brand extensions, and enter new geographies.
recycling waste water, while returning clean water to the environment.
Skylights reduce artificial light needs and solar panels power the In 2016 we developed a strategic framework to ensure Unilever wins entire administration block.
with every shopper on every occasion.
As the traditional channels continue to fragment, we have brought renewed focus to e-commerce LOGISTICS and out-of-home.
We have now added an additional focus on small and We operate a network of around 400 warehouses globally coordinated convenience stores.
There are 33 million of these globally, growing at by a central system of control towers that improve customer service, about 5% annually as consumers shop more regularly for smaller cut costs and reduce emissions.
We transport goods the equivalent of baskets of goods.
We are using our global advantages of technology approximately 1.5 billion km a year.
In 2016, despite significantly and analytics to help us execute through these local channels via higher volumes, we have achieved a 7.5% CO absolute emissions 2 flexible service models and digitised distribution systems, further reduction across 14 countries compared to 2015.
We have also strengthening our strong heritage in this channel.
delivered a 27% improvement in CO efficiency measured as kg 2 CO tonne sold compared to 2010 figures across these 14 countries.
DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 2 This has been achieved by reducing truck mileage: using lower Key to our sustainable business model are our stakeholders.
To emission vehicles and fuels: employing alternative transport such as succeed we need to engage and work in partnership with them.
They rail or ship: and improving the energy efficiency of our warehouses.
include customers and consumers: investors: suppliers: governments, regulators and legislators: NGOs and charities: scientific institutions MARKETING and academia: and other organisations in the business world, In 2016 we mapped consumers purchase journeys in the digital world, including peer companies and trade associations.
using data to delve deeper and segment consumers more accurately.
Some of our stakeholders are direct participants in our value chain This enables us to deliver more relevant, authentic and effective and are integral to our ability to deliver consistent, competitive, marketing content in real time using the full range of digital profitable and responsible growth.
Others influence how we do communications.
We have launched U-Studio, our in-house studios, business by setting the laws and norms within our countries of to create content and advertising across our digital platforms, operation.
In turn, we deliver value to our stakeholders in various direct-to-consumer, e-commerce channels and our social and forms.
Read about the value we deliver for consumers, society, digital communications to make marketing faster, more efficient employees and shareholders on pages 14 to 22. and effective.
In parallel U-Entertainment collaborates with media companies to create brand-inspired entertainment content.
Stakeholder engagement is essential in delivering our Compass strategy outlined on page 10 and in tackling the issues addressed by Sustainability is an integral part of our brand strategies.
We also combine action in our business with external our top brands to be Sustainable Living brands, which combine a advocacy and joint working with governments, NGOs and others strong purpose delivering a social or environmental benefit, with through transformational change partnerships.
By working together, products contributing to at least one of our USLP goals.
we believe that fundamental change is possible in the near-term.
Read more about our work in our four transformational areas in the Society section on page 16.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 9
