OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS OUR CATEGORIES HAVE CLEARLY DEFINED STRATEGIES WITH THE COMMON GOAL OF GROWTH THAT IS CONSISTENT, COMPETITIVE, PROFITABLE AND RESPONSIBLE.
Further binding the category strategies together are our Compass Each of Unilevers four category strategies includes specific priorities pillars which define how Unilever wins in the FMCG industry.
They are: aimed at growing sales and delivering improved financial metrics, Winning with brands and innovation such as margin and cash flow, against a backdrop of continued low Winning in the marketplace growth in markets globally.
The individual category strategies are: Winning through continuous improvement Personal Care Grow the core and build premium Winning with people.
Foods Accelerate growth and preserve the value of strong cash flows Underpinning the Compass is the USLP which is the foundation of our Home Care Step up profitability and scale household care business.
By delivering social and environmental benefits throughout Refreshment Grow ice cream return on capital investment and our business we drive our growth, which in turn drives our ability to accelerate growth in tea.
improve the lives and opportunities of people everywhere.
Our categories face numerous and increasingly complex challenges in The USLP contributes directly to consistent growth by helping manage their markets as the industry experiences rapid fragmentation and risk through the supply of sustainably-grown agricultural raw disruption.
However, our Compass pillars provide strategic responses materials, such as vegetables in our Foods brands, especially to help drive growth ahead of our markets.
important as climate change affects rainfall.
It drives growth that is competitive by stimulating innovation to create brands that meet the Our success as an organisation depends on our ability to identify growing consumer demand for sustainable products.
Profitable growth and mitigate the risks generated by our business and the markets is achieved by reducing costs through our eco-production methods we are in.
In doing this, we take an embedded approach to risk in our factories, which reduce waste, use fewer raw materials and management which puts risk and opportunity assessment at the core consume less energy.
And responsible growth is an outcome from the of the leadership team agenda, which is where we believe it should be.
trust that we earn by acting ethically and responsibly.
Our impact on A summary of the most material risks to our business performance society through the USLP and our wider partnerships and our Principal Risk Factors are described on pages 37 to 41. collaboration, is detailed further on page 16.
WINNING WITH BRANDS AND INNOVATION We are innovating to meet trends displaying high growth.
For instance, Pure Leaf tea responds to the demand for natural ingredients, Sunsilk Hijab Recharge shampoo benefits Muslim women wearing hijabs, while Lux Silicone-Free and the recently launched Hellmanns vegan mayonnaise provide free-from alternatives.
Our ambition is to divide our innovation work as follows: 70% global brands at scale, such as Magnum and Axe: 20% global brands locally adapted, for example Knorr and Sunsilk: 10% local brands like Bango and Marmite.
We are focused on innovating in high-growth segments, creating our own disruptive technologies, innovating faster and being more agile locally.
In 2016 43% of innovation turnover was driven by new technology which differentiates us from competitors, up by more than 20% in recent years.
This is increasingly driven by collaboration with external parties through our global R&D, supply chain and procurement functions.
Marketing drives consumer-led growth but has to remain relevant.
In 2016 we have trained more than 5,000 marketers globally with over 90,000 lessons through our Connected World Programme to increase the digital skills and understanding that are essential in a connected world.
We work closely with partners developing leading marketing and insight technology.
Through Unilever Ventures, for example, we have invested in and partnered with Blis to provide geo-located mobile targeting services to drive footfall to our T2 tea stores.
Technology also drives further efficiency in our 8 billion annual marketing spend.
For instance, ULTRA is our proprietary trading desk which allows programmatic planning and buying across digital platforms globally.
10 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 WINNING IN THE MARKETPLACE We lead market development by growing new channels with a focus on execution through our Perfect Stores programme.
We work with customers, such as large retail chains, to generate insights about who visits their stores using technology that creates detailed shopper profiles.
This allows us to target and personalise campaigns.
We also work closely with these customers for our new Selling with Purpose programme, which will increase the number of touch-points in our distribution chain, thereby creating more employment opportunities for people across the world, and enabling our consumers to enjoy our brands with purpose, which in turn unlocks growth.
E-commerce grew 49% in 2016 and the direct to consumer channel expanded significantly, mainly through the acquisition of Dollar Shave Club, growing at 47% year-on-year.
Acquisitions are part of our relentless focus on actively managing our brand portfolio.
They help preserve our market position in attractive segments where we can bring our global scale and local strengths to bear.
They also bring us disruptive business models and business styles that are entrepreneurial, helping transform our business culture.
Disposals liberate capital to reinvest in higher-growth segments in support of our objective of long-term growth.
WINNING THROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT Key to Unilever meeting its growth ambitions is building agility and resilience into our organisation.
We have three key initiatives within our Connected 4 Growth programme: Organisational Change a programme to make us faster, simpler, more consumer and customer-centric while unlocking capacity.
It will make us more agile at lower cost with a more streamlined organisation.
We are deploying more resource in global brand communities and local operations, with fewer layers in decision-making.
It will allow us to leverage what can be done globally at scale while empowering people to take more effective action locally.
Zero-Based Budgeting ZBB we have analysed expenditure and challenged what we spend, where and why to help drive value and growth.
Having benchmarked Unilever to identify where we spend above and below peers, we have identified which activities can deliver savings and which have appropriate expenditure.
ZBB, together with the Organisational Change programme, will aim to deliver at least 1 billion of savings by 2018 and more than 1 billion by 2019, to further support our business.
Net Revenue Management NRM a detailed programme to optimise pricing which aims to drive additional volume as well as value.
It ensures the right packs, at the right prices in the right channels to optimise differing buying opportunities.
At the end of 2016 NRM had been applied to about 50% of our turnover since its introduction.
WINNING WITH PEOPLE Our People strategy aims to ensure that we attract and retain the talent we require to achieve our strategic growth priorities.
Our workforce, totalling around 169,000 people, is our most powerful resource to transform our business.
We are becoming a more agile and empowered organisation.
By changing our structure, we are creating more capable leaders with more time to focus on their roles and we are inspiring our people through purpose, well-being and management.
Our people are also key to delivering the USLP and contributing to its targets.
More details about Our People can be found on pages 20 and 21.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 11
