OUR MARKETS UNILEVER OPERATES IN THE FAST-MOVING CONSUMER ECONOMIC FORCES 2016 has added further evidence to the prevailing wisdom among GOODS FMCG INDUSTRY, ONE OF THE LARGEST AND MOST economists of a slow growth global economy becoming embedded as COMPETITIVE INDUSTRIAL SECTORS IN THE WORLD.
a mediumto long-term issue, caused by falling population growth As an indication of the size of the FMCG industry that Unilever competes and productivity levels.
The OECD has predicted that its members, plus in, the top 25 global players generate sales of about 590 billion.
While Nigeria Africas largest economy, will see average growth over the enjoying significant scale, global FMCG players are also facing material next 50 years of 2.4%, down from 3.6% over the previous 50 years.
risks and challenges to their traditional business models.
In the short-term, a mix of weakening consumer confidence during Our markets are characterised by intense levels of competition, globally 2016 combined with a recovery in commodity prices, such as Brent but also locally, and equally intense levels of change and fragmentation Crude and palm oil, and sharp fluctuations in the currency markets, among consumers, routes to market, media used to reach consumers have continued to drive volatility in our markets.
Against this backdrop, and business models.
This is disrupting the competitor landscape.
growth in Europe was slightly down, with increased political and 2016 has seen significant milestones achieved in Unilevers response, economic uncertainty caused by events such as the UKs decision to through innovation-led growth, acquisitions and disposals or our leave the EU.
We respect the outcome of the UKs EU referendum.
Brexit will not change our commitment to creating a strong and thriving UK and European business.
Since we sell our products in Increased competition and disruption within the FMCG industry more than 190 countries, we are used to dealing in many currencies continue to drive the trend for consolidation and focus, notably among and inside many different trading structures.
We will adapt to the new larger players.
In the meantime, we remain Cost reduction is a constant theme, as is a requirement to ensure focus focused on delivering consistent, competitive, profitable and on execution and the management of brands which fit specific strategic responsible growth.
This continues to lead to disposals, with proceeds at least North America is witnessing slightly better economic conditions and in part reinvested in rebalancing portfolios for long-term growth.
In emerging markets, Latin America has Our markets continue to see rapid and conflicting changes to how experienced slowing consumer demand with countries such as Brazil consumers live, representing significant social challenges for our in recession while Asia has seen weaker demand with some business.
The middle class, middle income, nuclear family once inflationary pressures coming through.
the bedrock of FMCG businesses is no longer as culturally dominant.
Emerging markets still provide the FMCG industry with significant In the US, the middle class has ceased to be the nations economic growth potential and cause for optimism.
Unilever is unique in having majority, although in emerging markets the middle class continues around 70% of its volume in emerging markets, equal to 57% of to expand.
However, worldwide the demographic divide continues to turnover in emerging markets.
Unlike in developed markets such as widen with older generations commanding significant spending the US, the number of people at middle income levels is expected to power compared with younger generations often exposed to high continue to grow, with a further 800 million by 2020 generating higher levels of unemployment.
levels of per capita consumption that will benefit FMCG companies.
That said, research shows that by 2025 Millennials 18-34 year olds The continuing trend of urbanisation in emerging markets means will number around 2.3 billion people, representing the largest there will be another 400 million people living in cities while an population cohort globally.
Their spending power will have risen additional 300 million women are predicted to move into paid to 1.7 trillion, 570 billion of which will be for non-essential employment by 2020, supporting demand for FMCG products.
Such spending power encourages the trend for growth There are certainly bright spots in emerging markets but overall growth categories such as foods with organic and traceable ingredients, is weaker at present than many FMCG groups have been used to.
free-from alternatives and personal care products with natural formulations and greater authenticity all areas in which Unilever MARKET DISRUPTORS has innovated this year.
These more restrained growth rates make traditional business models Consumer concerns once considered niche, such as sustainability, all the more sensitive to greater competition, which is becoming have gone mainstream.
Our own research shows that interest in ever more disruptive and unpredictable in nature.
sustainability cuts across demographic and socio-economic groups, A key disruptor is the increased success of local competitors.
These with 78% of consumers in the US, 53% in the UK, 85% in Brazil and players have always been present but are increasingly sophisticated.
88% in India agreeing that they felt better about themselves when they Their advantages include a scale and organisational approach that bought products that they knew were sustainable or better for the allows for a more agile, nimble and culturally attuned response to environment.
These trends are shared across emerging markets and changing consumer needs, thanks to relevant local insights.
developed markets with consumers in emerging markets often more acutely aware of sustainability issues.
In South Africa, for instance, our At the same time, the FMCG industry is seeing a new generation of laundry brand Sunlight responded with a revolutionary water-saving entrepreneur enter the industry with brands that speak directly to formulation in 2016 which reduced by half the amount of water and growth segments, such as Millennials, with values, purpose and time required for laundry.
attributes directly relevant to these groups.
Whether in emerging or developed markets, the trend for consumers to be motivated to buy sustainably is clear.
In Unilevers study, 54% of consumers either already buy sustainably or are open to buying sustainably.
6 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Such entrepreneurial challengers utilise digital distribution and Artificial Intelligence, augmented and virtual reality are increasingly marketing to forge alternative business models that represent another being incorporated in many companies marketing plans with source of disruption.
Chief among these is a direct-to-consumer these technologies rapidly going mainstream and falling within model with cost advantages and faster response times to changing consumer affordability, increasing take-up and further accelerating consumer needs.
Crucial also is the direct relationship forged with its development.
consumers, providing data that can be utilised to improve brand offers ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL CHALLENGES and more accurately generate and predict sales opportunities.
Such The business case for sustainability is increasingly accepted, direct-to-consumer models are accelerating the further fragmentation witnessed by private sector support of the Global Goals for Sustainable of the traditional sales channels used by FMCG groups, such as the Development see page 19 and evidence that consumers want to big box retailers and long-established distributors within markets.
Unilever is not alone in recognising that a Brands that can apply a subscription model generally premium sustainable business requires sustainable production, sustainable brands with strong consumer engagement or are a replenishment consumption and climate stability but there is more work to be done.
purchase are particularly well suited to the direct-to-consumer model.
According to the World Meteorological Organization, 2016 was the Unilever is responding to these challenges by making the business hottest year on record.
The top three ten-year risks in the World fitter and more agile through our Connected 4 Growth programme.
Economic Forums Global Risks Survey relate to this fact.
They are: Our focus on active portfolio management means we can also respond water crises: failure of climate change mitigation and adaptation: and through acquisitions and disposals to ensure our brand portfolio extreme weather events.
The FMCG industry relies on agriculture remains resilient.
Our acquisition of Dollar Shave Club in 2016 is a to provide its raw materials but agriculture is also part of the good example of this.
environmental problem, causing deforestation which accounts for DIGITAL REVOLUTION 15% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
Consumption places a The adoption of digital technology continues to impact every walk of strain on natural resources such as water and uses energy in both life.
Research shows that global online shopping retail sales are manufacturing and end-use which contributes to harmful emissions predicted to grow to US$370 billion in 2017, while 18-34 year olds in and further climate change problems.
the US spend US$2,000 per head on e-commerce annually which is We are taking direct action to address climate change within our value more than any other group.
For instance, we have committed to being carbon positive in our Digital shopping is being powered by mobile devices with about 50% of operations by 2030, with all electricity purchased from the grid coming the worlds population now mobile subscribers and PC sales in from renewable sources and coal eliminated from our energy mix by decline.
Mobile access to the internet is being accelerated by the take- 2020.
We will also support the generation of more renewable energy up of smartphones, which Cisco predicts will account for half of all than we consume and make the surplus available to the markets and global devices and connections by 2020. communities where we operate.
Digital technology is also empowering companies understanding of There are serious human and social consequences to these consumers.
Unilevers own Consumer and Market Insights CMI group environmental challenges too, not least displacement caused by has created People Data Centres which analyse data from social severe weather events and threats to the livelihoods of smallholder media, consumer carelines and digital marketing to turn millions of farmers.
Shortages of clean water have hygiene implications while conversations into business decisions to maximise sales and revenue.
the dwindling of natural resources reinforces social inequality.
Find out how we are addressing societal issues on pages 16 to 18.
Consumers use of technology, however, is constantly changing.
Generation Z post-Millennial generation are increasingly adopting applications such as WhatsApp and Snapchat, reflecting an evolving approach to social media usage, including a more comprehensive use of privacy settings.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 7
