GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The following matters are reported by the Directors in accordance The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution with the Companies Act 2006 the Act in force at the date of this ofthe shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in Annual Report andconsolidated financial statements.
theBoards terms of reference, copies of which are available on request, and the Corporate Governance report on pages 55 to 60.
Principal activity Directors indemnities The principal activity of the Group undertaken during the year was The Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against research, development and commercialisation of novel therapeutic liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, which products and drug delivery systems for human use.
remains in force as at the date of approving the Directors report.
Review of business Other than the indemnity provisions described above, none of the The consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2016 Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to is set out on page 97.
Key events during the past year are described which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a in the Strategic report: highlights of FY 15 16 are shown on pages 1 to 3 party during the year ended 31 March 2016 and up to the date and are referred to in more detail in the Chairmans statement, the ofthe publication of this report.
Chief Executives statement and the Financial review.
Shares The Company is required to report annually the Groups greenhouse Share capital gas emissions: Director and employee gender, social, community At 13 May 2016, the nearest practical date to the date of this and human rights disclosures.
Details of the Groups policies in report, the Company had a total of 3,240 ordinary shareholders relation to these matters are set out within the Corporate responsibility and410,618,150 ordinary shares in issue.
section of the Strategic report on pages 47 to 50.
Rights and obligations The Groups risk management process and the Boards assessment The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set of the key risks and uncertainties facing the business, including the out in the Companys Articles.
The Articles may only be amended Viability statement, are set out on pages 20 to 29.
During the year, by special resolution of the members of the Company.
A copy of the Board has reviewed the risk management policies in place, as the Articles is available upon request.
summarised in the Corporate governance statement on pages 55 to60.
Key performance indicators are set out on pages 18 and 19.
Share price The mid-market share price as shown by the London Stock The above-referenced disclosures, together with the Chairmans Exchange Daily Official List on 31 March 2016 was 162.60p.
introduction, the Corporate governance statement, the Audit Themid-market share price ranged from 143.25p to 200.10p Committee report, the Nomination Committee report and the during the year to 31 March 2016.
The average share price Remuneration Committee report, are incorporated into this fortheperiod was 169.74p.
reportby reference and should be read as part of this report.
Capital structure Groups result and dividend Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with The consolidated profit after tax for the year was 5.0m details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital 2014 15:3.7m.
The Directors do not recommend the during the year, are shown in note 23. paymentofa dividend 2014 15: nil.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right Financial instruments to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general The policy and practice of the Group with regard to financial meetings of the Company.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed instruments is disclosed in note 22 to the financial statements.
on the London Stock Exchange.
The redeemable preference shares Directors carry no interest, nor do they carry voting rights.
The percentage The Directors listed on pages 52 to 53 served throughout the year, ofissued nominal value of the ordinary shares is 75.1% of the total with the exception of James Ward-Lilley.
issued nominal value of all share capital.
James Ward-Lilley was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the 24September 2015.
Chris Blackwell served as a Director from transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions 1April 2015 to 30 June 2015. of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares other than Brief biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 52 certain restrictions imposed by laws and regulations, e. g. insider and 53. trading and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Details of Directors remuneration and their interests in the share Authority whereby prior clearance is required from the Company capital of the Company are given in the Remuneration report.
inorder for certain employees to deal in the Companys securities.
Noneof the Directors has any interest in any contract of The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders significance to the financial statements.
ofthe Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Company is governed by its Articles of Association the Articles, Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 23. the Code, the Act and related legislation.
Sharesheld by the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 89 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Substantial shareholdings On 13 May 2016, the Directors were notified of the following substantial holdings in the Companys share capital: Number of shares 000 % Invesco Asset Management Limited 66,019 16.1 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 27,257 6.6 OppenheimerFunds Inc. 25,980 6.3 Baillie Gifford & Co 24,640 6.0 AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 22,137 5.4 Neptune Investment Management Limited 17,763 4.3 Aviva Investors Global Services Limited 16,183 3.9 Templeton Investment Council LLC 14,001 3.4 Aberforth Partners LLP 13,857 3.4 Disabled employees Annual General Meeting Applications for employment by disabled persons are always The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at the offices fullyconsidered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant ofCovington & Burling LLP, 265 Strand, London WC2R 1BH on concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, 7September 2016 at 12.00 p. m. Details of the business to be every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the transacted at the forthcoming AGM will be given in a separate Group continues and that appropriate training is provided.
It is circular to shareholders.
thepolicy of the Group that the training, career development Auditor andpromotion of disabled employees should, as far as is possible, Deloitte LLP has expressed a willingness to continue in office beidentical to thatof other employees.
asauditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be put to Employee consultation themembers at the forthcoming AGM.
The Group places considerable value as the involvement of its The Directors that were members of the Board at the time employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters ofapproving the Directors report are listed on pages 52 and 53. affecting them as employees.
Refer to pages 48 and 49 for details Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys of our employee communications.
auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: Political and charitable donations to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no Vectura encourages employee involvement in charitable causes, information relevant to the preparation of their report of which butdoes not contribute itself because it continues to make an the Companys auditor is unaware: and operating loss.
There were no political donations during the year each Director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably 2014 15: nil.
beexpected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit Going concern information and to establish that the Companys auditor The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Although certain economic conditions may place pressures on This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance customers and suppliers who may face liquidity issues, the Groups with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. product diversity and customer and supplier base substantially mitigate these risks.
In addition, the Group operates in the relatively By order of the Board defensive pharmaceutical industry, which we expect to be less affected compared to other industries.
The Group made a profit after tax of 5.0m for the financial year ended 31 March 2016 2014 15: 3.7m and had 99.8m of cash and cash equivalents as at 31 March 2016 2015: 90.0m.
The Board Andrew J Oakley operates an investment policy under which the primary objective is Company Secretary to invest in low-risk cash or cash equivalent investments to safeguard 25 May 2016 the principal.
The Groups forecasts, taking into account likely revenue streams, show that the Group has sufficient funds to operate for the foreseeable future.
After reviewing the Groups forecasts and assessing the uncertain nature of some of the Groups forecast revenues, the Directors believe that the Group is adequately placed to manage its business and financing risks successfully.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Further information regarding the Directors assessment of going-concern and viability are set out in the Strategic report on page 29.
90 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
