ORAL AND NON-INHALED ORAL AND NON-INHALED EXPAREL Solaraze Lyon facility: Focused to maximise value of facility and leverage contract multilayer tableting, oral technology andhigh-quality manufacturing capacity.
The core market in which Vectura operates is in inhaled airways Of the twelve oral and non-inhaled products, thefacility currently disease.
Prior to the merger with Skyepharma, Vectura had two manufactures sevenoral products for the Groups partners.
TM legacy revenue-contributing non-inhaled assets partnered with Fiveproducts use the Geomatrix family of technologies: Baxter ADVATE and Adept.
The Groups ADVATE patent expired at , Coruno, ZYFLO CR, Madopar the end of January 2016: however, owing to higher than anticipated DR Prolopa and Sular, whilst Lodotra RAYOS uses the TM production of ADVATE inventory by Baxter prior to this expiry, Geoclock chronotechnology.
The facility also manufactures Vectura has continued to receive royalties from sales of this product oneother oral product, Triglide, which utilises the Groups totalling 8.2m for the period under review 2015 16: 12.7m.
The facility has cGMP status, with continues to make a minor contribution to revenue.
Skyepharma also approvals from the European Medicines Agency, the FDA, had twelve revenue-contributing oral and non-inhaled products including ANVISA Brazil and KFDA South Korea amongst others.
the topical product Solaraze, partnered in the US with Sandoz and Vecturas current focus remains maximising the volumes in our Almirall in Europe ROW, and Paciras injectable, EXPAREL.
During the period theGroup signed four licensing The merger with Skyepharma brought significant oral technology agreements, demonstrating the capability of Lyon as a solution and manufacturing expertise andcapabilities.
Until 30 June 2016, provider for generic development usingone of its core the Groups manufacturing facility in , Lyon, competencies, multilayer tableting production.
France, was leased to Aenova France SAS.
As expected, this facility transferred back to the Group at the end of June 2016 and since Nine months to December 2016 this time a number of initiatives have commenced to maximise the recurring revenues value of the facility, leveraging proven capabilities in multilayer tableting formulation and oral technology innovation.
25.7m Learn more about our capabilities: www.
com 28 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 OUR VALUES COLLABORATION We seek to understand each others needs consistently, and use our combined knowledge and expertise to enable mutual success in every collaboration.
