OUR PRODUCTS MARKETED PRODUCTS ATA GLANCE We have eight products marketed by partners.
We receive royalty income from the sales of these products.
30 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT PARTNERED Ultibro Breezhaler EU & RoW LABA-LAMA indacaterol glycopyrronium bromide Primary indication: History: COPD Glycopyrronium bromide was exclusively licenced to Novartis in April 2005 Partner: byVecturaand our co-development Description: partnerSosei Group Corporation.
A novel, once-daily fixed dose, dual Progress: bronchodilator approved inthe EU as a Approved for use in over 80 countries maintenance bronchodilator treatment including Japan and countries in the EU.
Seebri Breezhaler EU & RoW LAMA glycopyrronium bromide Primary indication: History: COPD Glycopyrronium bromide was exclusively licenced to Novartis in April 2005 by Partner: Vecturaand our co-development Description: partnerSosei Group Corporation.
A novel, once-daily fixed dose, maintenance Progress: bronchodilator treatment for adult Approved for use in over 90 countries patientswith COPD.
including Japan and countries in the EU.
AirFluSal Forspiro EU & RoW ICS-LABA fluticasone propionate salmeterol Primary indication: History: Asthma COPD Vectura initially developed the productand created the design of the innovative inhaler Partner: before licensing the assetto Sandoz in 2006.
Description: Progress: Innovative inhaler with inhaled combination Approved in more than 40 countries and therapy for asthma and or COPD.
launched in 24 countries including South Korea, Mexico and countries in the EU.
Photos of Seebri Breezhaler and Ultibro Breezhaler courtesy of Novartis AG.
Ultibro, Seebri, Breezhaler, AirFluSal andForspiro are registered trade marks of Novartis AG.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 31 OUR PRODUCTS continued PARTNERED continued 1 ADVATE Global Antihaemophilic Factor Recombinant Primary indication: Description: For the treatment of haemophilia A and marketed worldwide by Baxter, fromwhichVectura Haemophilia A earns royalties from sales.
Partner: History: In 2000, Vectura granted worldwide rights to Baxter to use its stabilisation patents initsserum-free recombinant Factor VIII, ADVATE.
1 Advate came off patent at the end of January 2016.
V ectura does not expect to receive any material royaltiesfrom this product during its financial year ending 31 March 2017, or thereafter.
Adept Global Icodextrin Primary indication: Description: Adept is a 4% icodextrin solution used during surgery toreduce post-surgical Prevention of adhesions, afrequent and major complication after gynaecological and other surgical adhesions abdominalsurgery, whereabnormal scarring causes the surfaces ofinternal Partner: structurestostick together.
Whilst not necessarily dangerous in themselves, they can lead to future complications, oftenyears later or if further abdominal surgery is required.
Ithas been used in Europe since2000 and since2006 in the US.
History: In December 2005, Vectura signed a licence deal with Baxter for the manufacture anddistributionof Adept.
32 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT LICENCED In August 2010, GSK entered into a licence and an option-to-licence agreement for certain of Vecturas dry powder formulation patents.
Vectura is entitled to a low single-digit royalty on net sales of products using these patents, capped 1 at a maximum of 13m per calendar year.
Anoro Ellipta Global LAMA-LABA umeclidinium vilanterol Primary indication: Description: A multi-dose dry powder inhaler containing an anticholinergic, umeclidinium, COPD and a long-acting bronchodilator, vilanterol, formulated by GSK using proprietary Technology Vecturatechnology.
licensee: GSK Relvar Ellipta Breo Ellipta Global ICS-LABA fluticasone furoate vilanterol Primary indication: Description: Asthma, COPD A multi-dose dry powder inhaler containing a steroid, fluticasone furoate, and a long-acting bronchodilator, vilanterol, formulated by GSK using proprietary Technology Vecturatechnology.
licensee: GSK Incruse Ellipta Global LAMA umeclidinium Primary indication: Description: COPD A multi-dose dry powder inhaler containing an anticholinergic, umeclidinium, formulatedbyGSK using proprietary Vectura technology.
Technology licensee: GSK Anoro Ellipta, Relvar Ellipta Breo Ellipta and Incruse Ellipta are registered trade marks of GSK, photos courtesy of GSK.
Read more about our product pipeline on page 34 1 Refer to note on licence in Financial Review Royalties.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 33 OUR PRODUCTS continued PRODUCT PIPELINE 1 2 PRE-CLINICAL PHASE I PHASE II VR475 FAVOLIR VR179 Grifols Severe Adult Asthma US Cystic Fibrosis Global VR647 SCIPE VR736 Ventaleon 1 Paediatric Asthma US Severe Influenza Global VR465 Ablynx RSV Infection Global VR588 VR942 UCB VR096 Janssen Severe Inflammatory Uncontrolled Asthma Anti-inflammatory AirwaysDisease Global Co-development global Asthma and COPD Global 1 Bridging study to enable Phase III.
Branded Generic Biologic Partnered Wholly owned 34 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 DPI FAVORITE STRATEGIC REPORT 3 PHASE III GENERICS PRE-LAUNCH VR475 FAVOLIR Severe Uncontrolled Adult Asthma EU VR876 partner undisclosed Serious Lung Disease Europe QVM149 Novartis VR315 Hikma Utibron Asthma EU, RoW Asthma COPD US Neohaler Novartis COPD US VR506 Hikma Asthma US Seebri Neohaler Novartis COPD US VR632 Sandoz Asthma COPD EU Branded Generic Biologic Partnered Wholly owned Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 35 OUR PRODUCTS continued BRANDED AND GENERIC INVESTIGATIONAL DRUGS PARTNEREDAND WHOLLY OWNED PRE-CLINICAL VR647 SCIPE Paediatric Asthma US VR647 is a drug device combination comprising smart delivery of nebulised budesonide for maintenance treatment of asthma in children VR588 Severe Inflammatory Airways Diseases for the US market, delivered with Vecturas smart nebuliser system, the TM AKITA JET nebuliser, utilising Vecturas FAVORITE technology.
Global VR588 is a broad-based, potent and selective pan-JAK inhibitor that This product pipeline asset has the following key elements: demonstrates a pharmacokinetic profile suitable for development opportunity to introduce an improved product to an established as aninhaled treatment.
Pre-clinical development activities have USmarket: progressed successfully and Phase I-enabling inhalation toxicology studies have commenced.
developed to increase precision and reduce dosing time in children: This product pipeline asset has the following key elements: developed as a maintenance treatment for asthma for the paediatric multiple indications are possible: and label only age range twelve months to eight years with the objective to retain current label indication for budesonide: investment and focus on activities that generate data to support licensing will be minimised.
FDA agreed 505 b 2 pathway for development programme: anticipated IND filing in mid-2016: and Phase III study to start mid-2018 with filing anticipated in mid-2020.
1 PHASE I VR465 Ablynx Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection Global VR475 FAVOLIR Severe Uncontrolled Adult Asthma The Belgian biotech company Ablynx is developing the anti-RSV US Nanobody ALX-0171 for the treatment of RSV infections in infants.
VR475 is an inhaled, add-on therapy for the treatment of adult patients ALX-0171 is a Nanobody drug candidate, administered via inhalation, for with severe, uncontrolled asthma with a history of exacerbations with the treatment of RSV infection in infants.
VR465 is being developed by or without dependence on oral corticosteroids.
VR475 is a drug device our partner Ablynx and utilises Vecturas smart nebuliser technology device, combination comprising smart delivery of nebulised budesonide, the FOX, to deliver the Nanobody to patients.
The FOX device used in delivered with Vecturas smart nebuliser system, the AKITA JET, this programme has been adapted for use with neonates and infants.
Ablynx confirmed in December 2015 that it has completed target This product pipeline asset has the following key elements: enrolment of the first in-infant Phase I IIa safety study with its wholly developed to reduce exacerbations in severe uncontrolled owned anti-RSV Nanobody, ALX-0171.
asthmatics GINA steps 4 and 5 with a history of exacerbations and or dependence on oral corticosteroids: Post the period end, on 2 May 2016, Ablynx reported positive top line results which they believe supports advancement into a Phase II efficacy aim to show greater efficacy than conventionally nebulised study in infants.
budesonide and to be more cost effective than mAbs: programme endorsed by CHMP scientific advice procedure: and development plan will be discussed with FDA post completion of the EU clinical study.
Branded Generic Biologic Partnered Wholly owned 36 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT VR942 UCB Uncontrolled Asthma PHASE III 3 Co-development global In September 2013, Vectura and UCB announced a collaboration for the development of an innovative inhaled biologic immunomodulatory product in the area of severe inflammatory respiratory disease.
VR475 FAVOLIR Severe Uncontrolled Adult Asthma EU The partnership, leveraging Vecturas DPI formulation and clinical regulatory experience with UCBs biologics and immunology expertise, will focus upon VR475 is an inhaled, add-on therapy for the treatment of adult patients the development of VR942 to completion of Phase II clinical proof of concept.
with severe, uncontrolled asthma with a history of exacerbations with or without dependence on oral corticosteroids.
VR475 is a drug device In June 2015, following the successful completion of a number of pre-clinical combination comprising smart delivery of nebulised budesonide, delivered studies, enrolment commenced into a Phase I clinicalstudy in healthy with Vecturas smart nebuliser system, the AKITA JET, utilising Vecturas volunteers and patients with asthma.
The selection of final Phase II clinical study design is anticipated in H1 2016.
This product pipeline asset has the following key elements: developed to reduce exacerbations in severe uncontrolled asthmatics GINA steps 4 and 5 with a history of exacerbations and or dependence on oral corticosteroids: 2 PHASE II aims to show greater efficacy than conventionally nebulised budesonide and to be more cost effective than mAbs: a programme endorsed by CHMP scientific advice procedure: VR179 Grifols Cystic Fibrosis Phase III results anticipated in mid-2018: and Global patient recruitment underway.
VR179 is a nebulised alpha-1 antitrypsin product, under investigation for the treatment of cystic fibrosis.
The programme is partnered with the Spanish company Grifols.
VR876 partner undisclosed Serious Lung Disease Europe VR736 Ventaleon Severe Influenza This is being developed by an undisclosed partner as a nebulised Global version ofa currently marketed drug for the treatment of serious lung disease.
It uses Vecturas smart nebuliser technology to improvethe VR736 is an inhaled treatment, delivered by Vectura's smart nebuliser patient acceptance of the product.
Regulatory action is expected in system, the AKITA JET, for hospitalised patients with severe influenza, 2016 and subsequent commercialisation if approved.
which is being developed by Ventaleon: Vectura has a minority stake with an investment syndicate.
QVM149 Novartis Asthma VR096 Janssen Anti-inflammatory Asthma COPD EU, RoW Global QVM149 is a fixed dose, once-daily combination of the LABA indacaterol, the LAMA glycopyrronium bromide and the ICS mometasone furoate.
Global development and licence agreement with Janssen for the exclusive development of novel anti-inflammatory therapies for the treatment of First regulatory filings of QVM149 are planned for 2018. asthma COPD.
Initial focus is on the development of a Phase II candidate Glycopyrronium bromide was licenced exclusively to Novartis in April 2005 with the possibility to include additional clinical-stage candidates.
by Vectura and its co-development partner Sosei.
Leveraging Vecturas expertise and proprietary dry powder inhaler Under the terms of the agreement with Novartis, Vectura is eligible technologies for the development of inhaled therapeutics.
Vectura will toreceive development, filing and approval milestones.
apply its delivery technologies to develop Janssens pulmonary products into late-stage clinical development and commercialisation.
The clinical development programmes is led by Janssen, with Vectura responsible for pharmaceutical development and manufacturing to support Phase II clinical trials and beyond.
Branded Generic Biologic Partnered Wholly owned Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 37 OUR PRODUCTS continued GENERICS PRE-LAUNCH TM VR315 Hikma Asthma and COPD Utibron Neohaler Novartis COPD US US TM VR315 is the generic version of GSKs Advair Diskus, which is indicated Utibron Neohaler was approved in October 2015 as a twice-daily for the treatment of asthma and the maintenance treatment of airflow dual combination of indacaterol and glycopyrrolate in the US for the obstruction and reducing exacerbations in patients with chronic long-term maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction in patients obstructive pulmonary disease COPD and is delivered using Vecturas with COPD, including chronic bronchitis and or emphysema.
Novartis proprietary dry powder inhaler and formulation technology.
InAugust has indicated this product should be available in the US in 2016.
Once 2011, Vectura signed a licence agreement for the development, manufacturing launched, the product will bring a new royalty stream for Vectura.
and commercialisation of VR315 in the US with Roxane Laboratories, 1 Inc. a subsidiary of Boehringer Ingelheim Corporation.
TM Vectura will receive an US$11m payment onapproval of file: and Seebri Neohaler Novartis COPD Vectura will receive a royalty from sales of VR315 in the US.
US TM Seebri Neohaler was approved in the US in October 2015 as a Post period 8 April 2016, Hikma confirmed that the ANDA had been twice-daily standalone monotherapy for the long-term maintenance accepted for filing by the FDA.
The FDA has provided Hikma with a treatment of airflow obstruction in patients with COPD, including GDUFA goal date of 10 May 2017. chronic bronchitis and or emphysema.
Novartis has indicated this product should be available in the US in 2016.
Once launched, the product will bring a new royalty stream for Vectura.
VR506 Hikma Asthma TM TM Utibron and Seebri are trademarks of Novartis AG.
Neohaler US isaregistered trademark of Novartis AG.
VR506 is an inhaled corticosteroid for the treatment of asthma, which entered clinical development in 2011.
In June 2014, Vectura signed apartnership agreement in the US with Roxane Laboratories, Inc. asubsidiary of Boehringer Ingelheim Corporation and is the same partner asthe VR315 programme.
Under the terms of this partnership agreement, Vecturas partner is responsible for the commercialisation and manufacture of the product together with clinical development.
Vectura has received an initial payment of US$4.0m and is eligible to receive up to US$8.0m upon achievement of future pre-determined milestones.
In addition, Vectura will receive a royalty from all VR506 US sales.
VR632 Sandoz Asthma and COPD EU VR632 is a generic, inhaled combination therapy for asthma and COPD delivered using Vecturas proprietary dry powder inhaler and formulation technology.
In December 2007, Vectura signed a licence agreement with Sandoz for the development, manufacturing and commercialisation of VR632 1 Hikma completed the acquisition of Roxane Laboratories, Inc. fromBoehringer in Europe.
To date, Vectura has announced receipt of development Ingelheim Corporation in February 2016. milestones under the agreement of 1.75m.
Branded Generic Biologic Partnered Wholly owned 38 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
