S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC R RE EP POR ORT T OUR TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS, DEVICES AND DEVELOPMENT CAPABILITY PATENT-PROTECTED TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 39 OUR TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS, DEVICES AND DEVELOPMENT CAPABILITY continued ENABLING THE DEVELOPMENT AND DELIVERY OF VALUE-ADDING PRODUCTS Vectura has a number of patent-protected technology platformswhich generate revenue and will continue togenerate future income streams: FORMULATION DEVICE INHALATION TECHNOLOGIES DRY POWDER DPI AND SMART NEBULISER PowderHale, PowderMax and ParticleMax DELIVERY SYSTEMS FAVORITE The development of inhalation products is complex and requires specialist processes and know-how.
Companies across the world are keen to harness our expertise and technology for their own inhalation programmes.
DRY POWDER FORMULATION TECHNOLOGIES Vectura has a long history and successful track record in the development of novel formulations.
Vecturas formulation technologies seekto achieve state-of-the-art inhaled delivery of dry powders for both small molecules and biologic drugs.
These novel formulation approaches, together with extensive know-how, Dry powder formulation technologies for inhaled biologics have been applied to a broad range of DPI products, including both ParticleMax generic and branded innovative products.
spray drying particle engineering technology Vecturas expertise enables us to achieve performance aligned with wasdeveloped to deliver dry powder biologics product delivery.
For a generic product this will mean developing a and can produce uniform mixtures of drugs formulation device combination with performance to match the andexcipients and can be used to co-formulate reference branded product both in laboratory testing and in the clinic.
multiple APIs in the same particle at a fixed ratio.
For a branded innovative product the goal is to maximise performance as ParticleMaxoffers: befits the target airways disease and mechanism of action of the drug.
reproducible and robust process with good yields: Vectura not only has extensive experience in the development of lactose blend formulations for small molecule drugs but also in the gentle process for labile molecules: development of dry powder formulations of biologics.
design and control of particle characteristics density, surface Dry power formulation technologies for small molecule DPIs characteristics, etc.
e. g. using force control agents to improve Vectura has a range of industry-leading formulation technologies blister emptying and fine particle mass: tofacilitate the development of successful DPI products: improved product stability especially for biomolecules, via sugar PowderHale glass technology: and is a family of processes that primarily uses ForceControl Agents FCA scalable process for commercial production.
toimprove the performance ofinhaled formulations.
PowderHale enables: A wide range of biologic and small molecules have been successfully high lung penetration of aerosolised drug particles: formulated including: improved delivered dose uniformity: and antibodies: enhanced product stability.
immunomodulatory proteins: and, PowderMax cytokines.
creates high performance dry powder formulations by advancing Pharmaceutical development and GMP manufacturing capability PowderHale FCA technology to optimise its placement on the Vectura is able to apply these technologies to product development formulation constituents.
programmes through all stages of pharmaceutical and product development, including pivotal clinical trials and technical transfer tocommercial production.
Vectura has state-of-the-art development and Good Manufacturing Practice GMP facilities in Chippenham, UK, serving our requirements inboth small molecule and biologic product spaces.
This enables us to produce supplies for late-phase clinical trials using equipment that is entirely representative of that which would be used at the final commercial manufacturing site.
This product development capability is supported by an extensive analytical capability generating the high quality data that is essential to the decision making required inproduct development.
40 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT DRY POWDER INHALERS DPIs Vecturas range of pre-metered foil blister DPIs has been developed tomeet patients needs in inhalation therapy forasthma and COPD.
Thedevices are low cost and easy to use, yet they meet challenging technical and regulatory requirements.
The core technology and IP used in GyroHaler has also been incorporated in afamily of devices aimed at meeting future product development and partnering opportunities.
GyroHaler GyroHaler is a cost-effective multi-unit dose dry powder inhaler designed to deliver locally acting drugs to the lungs.
The device has a Red Dot design award and is approved and marketed in Europe and other territories as Sandozs AirFluSal Forspiro Forspiro is the name Sandoz gave to Vecturas GyroHaler device.
GyroHaler is suitable for the delivery of a wide rangeof respiratory drugs and offers: foil blister strips of up to 60 pre-metered doses: excellent moisture protection: and, reproducible dose delivery in line with stringent regulatory expectations.
Lever-operated The lever-operated DPI is based on the proven GyroHaler platform and offers: user interface that is familiar to many DPI patients: foil blister strips of up to 60 pre-metered doses: accommodation of the used blister strip: and, key drug-delivery components from GyroHaler, particularly key drug-contact components.
Open-inhale-close The open-inhale-close DPI is a development programme that is aimed at developing the simplest possible userinterface in addition to incorporating technology and IP used in the GyroHaler and lever-operated DPI.
Theopen-inhale-close DPI offers: simple single-step preparation of the dose: and, key drug-delivery components from GyroHaler.
Unit Dose DPI The Unit Dose DPI is a high performance, reusable device.
It uses the same foil blister material and filling technology as GyroHaler for optimum dose consistency and protection, and is capable of delivering high dosesof drug with high lung delivery efficiency.
Unit Dose DPI offers: good blister emptying and high emitted dose ED : high fine particle fraction FPF : ability to deliver large payloads of drug: low flow rate dependency: and ability to deliver biologic drugs.
Delivery technologies underpinning our products: Vectura has experience of developing products from initial feasibility through to transfer to commercial production combining both Pre-metered foil blister: device and formulation technologies: DPIs are one of the primary platforms used to deliver drug Vectura has demonstrated capability to adapt and quickly substances to the lungs for the treatment of airways diseases: develop alternatives to meet both EU and US requirements: The development of DPI products is challenging and relatively Device patent coverage is geographically broad and long-dated.
fewcompanies have a broad capability in this area: Vectura has developed, and continues to develop, a range ofindustry-leading technologies to facilitate the development ofsuccessful DPI products: Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 41 OUR TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS, DEVICES AND DEVELOPMENT CAPABILITY continued SMART NEBULISER DELIVERY SYSTEMS Achieving higher and less variable regional deposition by FAVORITE Vecturas smart nebuliser delivery systems provide targeted Delivery technologies underpinning our products: inhalation therapy for applications where precise and targeted 1 Smart nebulised platform and for specialty applications delivery of a drug to the lungs is needed.
To achieve this the 1 Smart nebuliser technology utilises FAVORITE nebuliser device creates a liquid aerosol and co-ordinates delivery Flow And VOlume Regulated Inhalation TEchnology as the patient inhales using the FAVORITE principle for precise delivery of drugs to the lungs.
All of Vectura's smart nebulisation devices are CE marked and 510 k cleared.
Key features AKITA JET Additional features Breath actuation Customisation of treatment parameters Low inspiration flow rate by smart card dose, targeting and exclusivity Positive pressure potentially better Controlled inhalation volume targeting of obstructed airways Faster delivery by increased Option for generating the aerosolisation deposition efficiency jet mesh FOX Additional features Aerosol bolus technology High performance aerosol Potential increase of efficacy generationtechnology Ultra low drug residual Potential reduction of drugrequired High speed aerosolisation CE marks and 510 k clearances Potential of generating smaller particlesize Vibrating mesh technology Higher potential for reduction of drugrequirements High degree of control andadjustability for formulations compounds Key-lock features for exclusive drug device combination use 42 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT FAVORITE: Flow And VOlume Regulated Inhalation TEchnology Clear opportunity to leverage FAVORITE approach used in AKITA JET and FOX devices A patients breathing pattern can alter the efficiency of drug FAVORITE improves effectiveness of delivery by reducing delivery to different parts of the lung.
Control of the inspiratory theimpact of variable breathing patterns on drug delivery.
flow rate, the inspiratory volume of the aerosol and the timing 1 during the inspiration when the drug aerosol is delivered can Faster delivery materially affect how much drug gets to central or peripheral 2 Improve lung deposition partsof the lungs.
This is the basis of our proprietary, smart nebulisation-based technology known as FAVORITE.
3 Less drug, better economics This control is achieved through a modified nebuliser unit that 4 Potential to improve outcomes delivers the nebulised aerosol tailored to the individual patients breathing capacity.
The increased efficiency of delivery means the 5 Range of indications where currently used today: drug is distributed more efficiently allowing targeted deposition inthe lungs.
Other benefits for the patient may also be derived Asthma COPD Bronchiectasis Cystic Fibrosis from this approach, such as reduced treatment time.
Just air Aerosol Just air Central airway deposition e. g. bronchodilator applications 1 Tidal breathing typical short and abrupt inhalation pattern Just air Aerosol Deep lung penetration e. g. Alpha1 antitrypsin and antibiotics 1 FAVORITE inhalation slow and deep inhalation 1 Mayer et al.
2001: Deposition von therapeutischen Aerosolen in der Lungenperipherie.
Aerosole in der inhalationstherapie, ed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 43
