CASE STUDY flutiform IN EUROPE A CLOSE AND DYNAMIC PARTNERSHIP DELIVERING SUCCESS The partnership between Vectura and Mundipharma brought the new combination respiratory drug, flutiform, to market in just eight years from the pre-clinicalstage toproductlaunch.
1 flutiform began development in 2002, using Vecturas The success of a complex inhalation product like flutiform in-house respiratory expertise to advance pre-clinical and depends on an effective and efficient supply chain able to chemistry, manufacturing and control CMC work as well meet demand for the product on time and in full whilst asa substantial part of the clinical trials.
When Vectura alsoensuring full compliance with regulatory requirements waslooking for a partner with the scale and ambition to for aninhaled pharmaceutical product in all the countries take flutiform to the next level and bring it to market, wherethe product is approved.
Under its agreements Mundipharmas experience in key areas including market withMundipharma and Kyorin, Vectura is responsible for access and brand building proved to be a great fit.
The Group has built a proven capability was committed to the success of flutiform and quickly to manage this complex process and has established a established a team of respiratory experts, who developed successful arrangement with Sanofi to undertake the aclose working relationship with thespecialist team at manufacture and assembly of flutiform on the Groups Vecturas pMDI R&D site in Switzerland.
Vectura handled all behalf at its factory in Holmes Chapel, Cheshire, UK.
Aspart aspects of pre-clinical and CMC work for flutiform, while of overseeing the manufacture and supply of flutiform, Mundipharma took responsibility for clinical aspects ofthe Vectura maintains the manufacturing and quality processes, programme in Europe, building on the extensive clinical sources the active ingredients, key components and certain work Vectura had undertaken in the US.
The dynamism packaging materials, monitors results of quality testing and andcreativity behind the partnership continues today, schedules production with Sanofi against customer forecasts withVectura being responsible for supplying the product ofdemand to more than 30 countries around the world.
The patient-focused design of the flutiform inhaler developed by Vectura is complemented byMundipharmas marketing strategy and approach.
Inaddition to its commitment to continuing to drive flutiform s growth in launched markets, Mundipharma isalso running clinical trials forasthma for China, and has ongoing roll out of launches in Rest of World markets and LATAM.
Vectura continues tosupport Mundipharma in bringing a breath-actuated version offlutiform to market and has recently announced a new collaboration on the global development of a triple combination product VR2076 significantly leveraging theflutiform platform.
1 As legacy Skyepharma part of the business.
10 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 OUR VALUES INNOV A TION We look to innovate every day.
Each one of us is inspired and enabled to improve what we do and how we do it.
We keep learning so that we can push the boundaries of what is possible.
