OUR BUSINESS MODEL LEVERAGING OUR EXPERTISE IN AIRWAYS DEVICES AND FORMULATION This hybrid business model allows revenue streams from multiple sources and balances current and future capabilities and risk and returns.
STRATEGY ACCELERATION Lower risk Fee for development support Technology access fee and development milestones DEVELOPING DEVICES AND FORMULATION Sales milestones and in-market royalties TECHNOLOGY FEASIBILITY Vectura applies its expertise and proprietary formulation and device A key element of Vecturas strategy is to grow technologies to the third-party asset s in a preliminary evaluation to its revenues from products focused on the demonstrate the viability of the product concept and the value that treatment of airways diseases, and to leverage Vectura can add both to the product and to a development partnership.
These feasibility evaluations are always conducted as the lead into the experience in research, development licence or clinical supply agreements or full development collaboration andcommercialisation through the co-development agreements.
Typically these are not disclosed.
implementation of a hybrid business model.
REVENUE PLATFORM 14 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Sales milestones and in-market royalties DEVELOPMENT, LICENSING AND COMMERCIALISATION CLINICAL SUPPLY AGREEMENTS Developing devices and formulations for partners to enable their Currently we leverage our partners' commercial capability receiving drug assets to be delivered via inhalation.
This provides Vectura royalties from in-market sales of products and milestones based with development services revenue and milestones associated onmeeting certain sales targets in a given period.
In the future, with meeting development targets.
 is an option for Vectura for products that require a hospital-focused sales force.
CO-DEVELOPMENT Co-development with partners to capture and retain greater economics and source new innovative assets without undertaking exploratory research.
The potential revenue streams can vary from low single-digit to mid-teen percentages on in-market sales depending upon Vecturas contribution to the development programmes.
Vecturas participation can be through its expertise and know-how, developing an appropriate formulation and device, development expertise, cash resources or a combination thereof.
HIGHER % MARGIN Higher margin and EBITDA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 15
