3 UNIQUELY POSITIONED Global inhalation market The main market for inhaled therapies is to treatrespiratory diseases, especially asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease COPD.
Inhalation products are complex fixed dosage forms that are challenging to develop within the global regulatory environment.
In recent years, the inhaled respiratory market, currently valued at Triple therapies: asthma triple therapies QVM149 DPI and $40bn has seen an unprecedented level of change with further growth SKP-2076 pMDI give Vectura exposure to this important therapy and changes in class dynamics expected.
Vectura is ideally placed area.
QVM149 is partnered with Novartis and has the potential to capture a growing share of the evolving respiratory market.
tobe first to market in the asthma indication in Europe.
Thanks to its unique device platforms dry powder devices, pressurised Biologics: the Groups innovative co-development programme metered dose inhalers and smart nebulised devices and range of with UCB for a novel dry powder biologic for uncontrolled asthma novel and generic assets in its own and partnered portfolio Vectura delivered using one of Vecturas proprietary DPI devices VR942 is well placed to benefit from the continued market evolution which is moving into Phase II and it has the potential to be the first is underway.
The significant acceleration in the number of new inhaled delivery of a biologic drug.
therapies in development and further generics provide the Group Generics with multiple opportunities to partner and selectively develop its ICS LABA: exposure to this class through AirFluSal Forspiro portfolio and drive shareholder value creation.
VR315, partnered with Sandoz in Europe and ROW territories Market overview and Hikmas generic Advair programme which is currently ina 1 The respiratory market, worth over $40bn in 2015, is expected regulatory process following the FDAs acceptance of an ANDA filing.
tocontinue to grow in low single-digit percentages through 2025.
Vectura has the opportunity to further leverage its assets to Within this the dynamics of the classes of products are forecast develop inhaled generic products through strategic relationships tochange significantly with further generic penetration of core with key generics players including Hikma, where the Group classes such as ICS LABA and LAMA and with newer classes such announced a third collaboration on 22 November 2016. asLAMA LABA, triple therapies and biologics expected to gain Exposure to a range of specialist respiratory diseases, including: momentum.
Specifically: Ablynxs ALX-0171 programme in RSV which utilises Vecturas the respiratory market share of generics within major inhaled smart nebuliser technology VR465.
classes is expected to grow to 25% of value and 33% of volume by 2025.
There will be further penetration of ICS LABA in Europe A programme in pulmonary arterial hypertension VR876, ROW and first entry into the US is expected in 2017: partnered with Bayer which also utilises Vecturas smart nebuliser technology.
the first new biologics after Xolair, Nucala and Cinqair were launched in 2016: and Technology platforms and early-stage assets such as VR588have multiple potential applications in a number the first COPD triple LABA LAMA ICS is expected to launch in ofdifferent indications.
2017 our current assumption is 2018 for the first triple therapy in COPD.
2 The number of people COPD affects : Novels LAMA LABA and LAMA: Ultibro Breezhaler and Seebri Breezhaler partnered with Novartis, in Europe and ROW 210m territories where sales are already reaching significant levels twelve months to 31 December 2016: $363m and $149m The number of people of all ages respectively, as reported by Novartis.
The launch of Utibron 2 suffering from asthma : andSeebri inthe US will provide additional value.
ICS LABA: flutiform is enabling Vectura to compete in the 300m branded ICS LABA market.
1 Global data r eports, 2016, Decision Resources 2015 16.
Market defined as asthma, COPD, Allergic Rhinitis, Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis, Cystic Fibrosis andAcute Respiratory Distress Syndrome.
22 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Dynamic global inhaled respiratory Macroeconomic andsocialtrends 1 market valued at $40bn 51bn 40bn Population growth, ageingpopulations and lifestyle changes Rapid scientific and 2015 2024 technological advances COPD Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Asthma Allergic rhinitis IPF Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis ARDS Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome CF Cystic Fibrosis RSV Respiratory Syncytial Virus Asthma and COPD represent important market opportunities with significant growth forecastin specialty segments.
Long-term economic growth 1 Sour ce: Global data reports, 2016, Decision Resources 2015 16. in emerging markets Our strategic response to the evolving market Vecturas uniquely integrated capabilities, technology platforms, broad pipeline and business model leave the Group well placed tocapitalise upon these changing dynamics.
Our uniquely integrated capabilities and technology platforms Downward pressure on a Our proprietary formulation healthcare costs Asthma and COPD represent significant market opportunities with significant growth forecast in specialty segments.
Vecturas expertise enables us to achieve performance aligned with product delivery.
Fora generic product this will mean developing aformulation device combination with performance to match the reference branded product both in laboratory testing and in the clinic.
For a branded For more about our proprietary formulation innovative product the goal is to maximise performance as befits expertise, please visit: www.
com the target airways disease and mechanism ofaction of the drug.
technologies  Vectura not only has extensive experience in the development oflactose blend formulations for small molecule drugs but also inthedevelopment of dry powder formulations ofbiologics andpMDI formulation.
Vectura has a number of proprietary formulation capabilities for TM TM TM DPI PowderHale, PowderMax, ParticleMax and ParticleMax TM TM TM and pMDI SkyeDry, SkyeStabe, SkyeFine and IDDP devices which enable it to formulate for inhalation a wide variety of molecules including small molecules and biologics.
Furthermore, these technical capabilities can be applied to both generic and new molecular entities thereby enhancing the commercial prospects of the Group.
b Our multiple device platforms Vectura has an industry-leading range of patent-protected device technology platforms which provide access to a $40bn global respiratory market.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 23 3 UNIQUELY POSITIONED CONTINUED Unique range of proprietary devices offering tailored drug delivery options and patient choice Vectura platforms Dry powder inhalers DPIs Pressurised metered dose inhalers pMDI Smart nebuliser technology Lever-operated Dose-indicating GyroHaler AKITA JET MDI actuator OpenFOX inhale-close Unit Dose DPI 1 Estimated % of market 48% 42% 10% Patient suitability Breath activated no propellant therefore Patients with low respiratory flow rates Rapid delivery of high doses of no co-ordination needed to activate e. g. elderly and young treatments often bronchodilators EU and steroids US China Typically requires some dexterity Can be used with spacer devices frequently used for children Delivery in cases where patient education is not feasible e. g. hospital or paediatric Familiar with other pMDI devices e. g. SABA inhalers Patients unable to adopt or use otherinhalers 1 IMS MIDAS Q4 MAT 2016.
Value of inhaled asthma and COPD market sales by device type.
Learn more about our proprietary device platforms, on our website: www.
com technologies device-technologies 24 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.
Our broad pipeline of partnered and wholly-owned programmes is well positioned in key growth segments Key growth classes in asthma and COPD Vectura portfolio and pipeline assets 1 maintenance market Product Vectura Vectura Partner formulation device $1015bn VR942 Global 2 VR465 Global $35bn QVM149 EU and ROW Partner device DPI VR2076 Global Partner device pMDI $25bn AirFluSal EU and ROW VR632 EU $2bn $2bn VR315 US Ultibro EU and ROW $3bn Utibron US Partner device DPI 2015 2024 LAMA LABA Generic ICS LABA ICS LABA LAMA Biologics 1 F orecast estimates from Decision Resources, Pharmacor Asthma 2016, COPD 2015 and select analyst reports: Stifel, September 2016, Leerink, May 2016: JP Morgan, March 2016: Citibank, June 2016: N 1 Singer, June 2016: Socit Gnrale, September 2016: G7 Biologics asthma only, ICS LABA LAMA asthma and COPD.
Our hybrid business model Hybrid business model Pricing pressure A key element of Vecturas strategy is to grow its revenues from Vecturas business model exposes the Company to the anticipated products focused on the treatment of airways diseases, leveraging volume growth of increasing generic drug usage through leveraging the experience in research, development and commercialisation Vecturas formulation and device expertise.
Vectura and its partners through the implementation of a hybrid business model: are developing generic versions of GSKs Advair Flovent as well asAstraZenecas Symbicort.
The former programme is partnered a partnering: to capture value from larger, commercially attractive with Hikma and is undergoing regulatory review.
indications that require large sales forces and high marketing spend: b co-development with partners: to capture and retain greater economics and source new innovative assets without undertaking exploratory research: and c : for products that require a focused sales force i. e. specialty or hospital focus.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 25
