Governance 99 Directors Report Directors Report Research and Development The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the The Groups investment in research and development R&D during audited accounts of the Group and of the Company, Vesuvius plc, the year under review amounted to 28.6m representing approx.
registered in England and Wales No.
Further details of the Groups 31 December 2016.
R&D activities can be found in the Innovation section of the Strategic Report.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to provide a Directors Report for Vesuvius plc for the year ended 31 December Dividends 2016.
The information that ful ls this requirement and which is An interim dividend of 5.15 pence 2015: 5.15 pence per Vesuvius incorporated by reference into, and forms part of, this report is ordinary share was paid on 23 September 2016 to Vesuvius included in the following sections of the Annual Report: shareholders.
The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect the Our Responsibility section of 2016 of 11.40 pence 2015: 11.125 pence per ordinary share t he Governance section which, if approved, will be paid on 19 May 2017 to shareholders Financial Instruments: the information on financial risk on the register at 7 April 2017. management objectives and policies contained in Notes 20 Accountability and Audit and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by This Directors Report and the Strategic Report contained in pages the auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on 2 to 59 together represent the management report for the purpose pages 103 and 106 to 108 respectively.
The Directors ful l the of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R of the UK Listing Authoritys responsibilities set out in their statement within the context of Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Company does not have any an overall control environment of central strategic direction and overseas branches within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006. delegated operating responsibility.
As at the date of this report, Going Concern so far as each Director of the Company is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and Information on the business environment in which the Group each Director hereby con rms that they have taken all the steps that operates, including the factors that are likely to impact the future they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves prospects of the Group, is included in the Strategic Report.
The aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces throughout its Companys auditor is aware of that information.
global operations are shown on pages 20 and 21.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and debt Auditor Appointment facilities are also described in the Strategic Report.
In addition, the A competitive tender process for the appointment of a statutory Groups Viability Statement is set out within the Strategic Report auditor was conducted during 2016.
Following the completion of on pages 19 and 20.
Notes 20 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial this the Company is recommending that  Statements set out the Groups objectives, policies and processes LLP be appointed as external auditor for Vesuvius plc for the year for managing its capital: financial risks: financial instruments and ending 31 December 2017, replacing KPMG LLP.
KPMG LLP has hedging activities: and its exposures to credit, market both currency audited the Groups accounts for the year ending 31 December and interest rate related and liquidity risk.
Shareholder approval to con rm the appointment of Groups cash balances and borrowings are included in Notes 13,  LLP and to authorise the Directors 14 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
to determine its remuneration will be sought at the AGM.
The Directors have prepared cash ow forecasts for the Group for Directors a period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of the 2016 financial statements.
These forecasts re ect an assessment of The Directors of the Company are Christer Gardell, Hock Goh, current and future end-market conditions and their impact on the Jane Hinkley, Douglas Hurt, John McDonough CBE, Franois Wanecq Groups future trading performance.
The forecasts show that the and Guy Young.
Nelda Connors retired as a Director of the Company Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt during the year.
All the Directors will retire at the AGM and offer facilities and show continued compliance with the Companys themselves for re-election at the AGM.
On the basis of the exercise described above for the current Directors is given on pages 22 and 23.
Further and the Groups available committed debt facilities, the Directors information on the remuneration of, and contractual arrangements consider that the Group and Company have adequate resources for, the current Executive and Non-executive Directors is given to continue in operational existence for a period of 12 months from on pages 90 to 98 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
the date of signing of these accounts.
Accordingly, they continue to The Non-executive Directors do not have service agreements.
adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
Vesuvius plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report continued required to offer such shares to existing ordinary shareholders in Directors Indemnities proportion to their existing holdings under Section 561 of the The Directors have been granted Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Companies Act, in connection with a rights issue and in other Provisions by the Company and the Directors of the Groups UK circumstances up to the aggregate nominal amount speci ed by Pension Plan Trustee Board none of whom is a Director of Vesuvius the relevant resolution.
plc have been granted Qualifying Pension Scheme Indemnity At the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2016, the Directors were Provisions by Vesuvius Pension Plans Trustees Ltd.
The indemnities authorised to issue relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal for Directors of Vesuvius plc have been in force since the date of amount of 18,080,926 and empowered to allot equity securities their appointment.
The Pension Trustee indemnities were in force for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate nominal throughout the last financial year and remain in force.
amount of 2,712,138 in accordance with the terms of the Annual General Meeting Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, at any time up to the earlier of the date of the 2017 Annual General Meeting or The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 30 June 2017.
The Directors propose to renew these authorities at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED the 2017 Annual General Meeting for a further year.
In the year on Wednesday 10 May 2017 at 11.00 am.
ahead, other than in respect of Vesuvius ability to satisfy rights Amendment of Articles of Association granted to employees under its various share-based incentive arrangements, the Directors have no present intention of issuing any The Company may make amendments to the Articles by way share capital of Vesuvius plc.
of special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act.
Authority for Purchase of Own Shares Greenhouse Gas Emissions Subject to the provisions of company law and any other applicable Information on our reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, and regulations, the Company may purchase its own shares.
At the the methodology used to record these, is set out on page 56 of Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 12 May 2016 the Strategic Report.
Vesuvius shareholders gave authority to the Company to make Donations market purchases of up to 27,121,389 Vesuvius ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital In accordance with Company policy, no political donations were as at the latest practicable day prior to the publication of the Notice made in 2016 2015: nil.
This authority expires on 30 June 2017 or the date of the AGM to be held in 2017, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will Change of Control Provisions seek renewal of this authority at the forthcoming AGM.
The terms of the Groups committed bank facility and US Private In 2013 the Company acquired 7,271,174 ordinary shares, Placement Loan Notes contain provisions entitling the counterparties representing a nominal value of 727,117 and 2.6% of the entire to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of called-up share capital of the Company prior to the purchase.
control on takeover of the Company.
A number of the arrangements These shares were purchased pursuant to the Boards commitment to which the Company and its subsidiaries are party, such as other to return the majority of the net proceeds of the disposal of the debt arrangements and share incentive plans, may also alter or Precious Metals Processing division to shareholders.
These shares are terminate on a change of control in the event of a takeover.
In the currently held as Treasury shares.
The Company has not subsequently context of the Group as a whole, these other arrangements are disposed of any of the repurchased shares.
During the year, the not considered to be signi cant.
Company did not make any further acquisitions of shares, any Share Capital acquisitions by nominee, nor did it dispose of any shares previously acquired.
The Company does not have a lien over any of its shares.
As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued share capital of 278,485,071 ordinary shares of 10 pence each: 7,271,174 Share Plans of these ordinary shares are held in Treasury.
Therefore, the total Vesuvius operates a number of share-based incentive plans.
number of Vesuvius plc shares with voting rights is 271,213,897.
For the majority of these plans the Group can satisfy entitlements Further information relating to the Companys issued share capital by the acquisition of existing shares, the transfer of Treasury can be found in Note 7 to the Company financial statements.
shares or by the issue of new shares.
Existing shares are held in an employee share ownership trust ESOP.
The Trustee of the The Companys Articles specify that, subject to the authorisation ESOP purchases shares in the open market as required to enable the of an appropriate resolution passed at a General Meeting of the Group to meet liabilities for the issue of shares to satisfy awards that Company, Directors can allot relevant securities under Section vest.
The Trustee does not register votes in respect of these shares 551 of the Companies Act up to the aggregate nominal amount and has waived the right to receive any dividends.
speci ed by the relevant resolution.
In addition, the Articles state that the Directors can seek the authority of shareholders in a General Meeting to allot equity securities for cash, without first being Governance 101 Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Voting Employee Communications The Companys Articles of Association Articles do not contain Vesuvius adopts an open and honest approach to employee any specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the transfer communications, supported by regular updates from senior of shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between management across all businesses and operations within the Group.
holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on Regular communications include email updates on the financial the transfer of securities or voting rights.
performance of the Company and the industry environment in which Vesuvius operates, an employee intranet which distributes No person has any special rights with regard to the control of the Company news and events, as well as local initiatives for employee Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
This is engagement on a site-by-site basis.
The HR department is the a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles should primary point of contact for employees on employment and be consulted if further information is required.
workplace matters, operating with an open door policy and advising employees of any local legal, tax, pension or other employment Interests in the Companys Shares changes.
There are numerous employee sponsored and led The Company has been notified in accordance with DTR 5 of the representative bodies within Vesuvius which differ with respect to Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests of 3%, jurisdiction and geography.
Senior management, supported and or more, of its issued ordinary shares: facilitated by the HR department, encourages open dialogue and seeks opportunities to consult with employee representative bodies As at As at 31 Dec 2016 2 Mar 2017 as appropriate.
Cevian Capital 21.11 21.11 Pensions Franklin Templeton 9.92 9.92 In each country in which the Group operates, the pension Artisan Partners 11.74 9.57 arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with good Deutsche Bank 8.11 8.92 employment practice in that particular area.
Independent advisers Aberforth Partners 5.11 5.11 are used to ensure that the plans are operated in accordance with Pelham Capital Management CfD 5.91 4.58 local legislation and the rules of each plan.
Group policy prohibits Phoenix Asset Management 3.10 3.10 direct investment of pension fund assets in the Companys shares.
Outside the UK, the US, Germany and Belgium, the majority of The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the pension plans in the Group are of a defined contribution nature.
ordinary shares of the Company as disclosed in accordance with the In 2016 the main German defined benefit plan was closed for new Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority are as set out on page 96 of entrants and existing members were offered a buy-out of their the Directors Remuneration Report and details of the Directors benefits under this plan.
Those who accepted this buy-out then long-term incentive awards are set out on pages 95 and 96. joined the new defined contribution plan.
Equal Opportunities Employment The Groups UK defined benefits plan the UK Plan and the Vesuvius plc is an equal opportunities employer and decisions main US defined benefits plans are closed to new entrants and on recruitment, development, training and promotion and other have ceased providing future benefits accrual, with all eligible employment-related issues are made solely on the grounds of employees instead being provided with benefits through defined individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis, without regard For the Groups closed UK Plan, a Trustee Board exists comprising to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, belief, employees, former employees and an independent trustee.
gender, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason not The Board currently comprises six trustee Directors, of whom related to job performance or prohibited by applicable law.
In cases two are member-nominated.
The administration of the UK Plan where employees are injured or disabled during employment with is outsourced.
The Company is mindful of its obligations under the the Group, support, including appropriate training, is provided Pensions Act 2004 and of the need to comply with the guidance to those employees and workplace adjustments are made as issued by the Pensions Regulator.
Regular dialogue is maintained appropriate in respect of their duties and working environment, between the Company and the Trustee Board of the UK Plan to supporting recovery and continued employment.
ensure that both Company and Trustee Board are apprised of the same financial and other information about the Group and the UK Plan.
This is pertinent to each being able to contribute to the effective functioning of the UK Plan.
Vesuvius plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report continued Although the latest full valuation of the UK Plan showed a funding The Groups worldwide net pension fide cit at 31 December 2016 surplus, the Company has agreed to continue to make voluntary was 29.4m 31 December 2015: 35.3m.
The principal reasons for contributions of 2.0m per annum to further improve the funding the 5.9m reduction in the net fide cit were the change in financial position of the UK Plan and to assist with future fide-risking actions.
assumptions, signi cantly, the decrease in discount rates across the UK, US and Germany, which increased pension liabilities by 87.4m, more than offset by actuarial gains on plan assets of 93.2m, principally in the UK.
Further details of pension arrangements are given in Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following disclosures are made in compliance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R Reference Location 1 Interest capitalised by the Group during the year See Note 9.1 on page 121 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of any long-term incentive schemes Pages 82 and 83 5 Director waiver of emoluments Not applicable 6 Director waiver of future emoluments Not applicable 7 Allotment for cash of equity securities made during the year Not applicable 8 Allotment for cash of equity securities made by a major unlisted Not applicable subsidiary during the year 9 Details of participation of parent undertaking in any placing Not applicable made during the year 10 Details of relevant contracts in which a Director or controlling Not applicable shareholder was interested during the year 11 Contracts for the provision of services by a controlling Not applicable shareholder during the year 12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder Vesuvius plc holds 7,271,174 of its 0.10 ordinary shares as Treasury has waived or agreed to waive any dividends shares.
No dividends are payable on these shares.
Cookson Investments Jersey Limited, the Trustee of the Companys ESOP, has agreed to waive, on an ongoing basis, any dividends payable on shares it holds on trust for use under the Companys Employee Share Plans, details of which can be found on pages 91 and 100 13 Details of where a shareholder has agreed to waive See above future dividends 14 Statements relating to controlling shareholders and Not applicable ensuring company independence The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by Henry Knowles Company Secretary 2 March 2017
