Governance 81 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy It is proposed that this policy will take effect from the close of the 2017 AGM.
The previous policy will apply in its entirety up until this date and after this date those elements of the previous policy that relate to remuneration that remain extant on this date such as outstanding share awards will continue to apply until these commitments cease.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of of ce including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out here, where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the date the Companys first Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act came into effect: ii before the policy set out here came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Remuneration Policy Table for Executive Directors Base salary Alignment purpose Paid in cash, subject to local tax and social In line with the two to three-year period Helps to recruit and retain key employees.
for base salary appraisal, individual Re ects the individuals experience, role increases when paid are likely to be in Opportunity and contribution within the Company.
excess of those for the wider population Salary increases will normally be in line with of employees for that year.
Operation the average increase awarded to other The individuals performance is reviewed employees in the Group over a similar No absolute maximum has been set for annually, with changes to base salary period.
In considering any increase in base Executive Director base salaries.
Current normally appraised over a two to salary, the Committee will also consider: Executive Directors salaries are set out three-year period.
i the role and value of the individual: in the Annual Report on Directors ii changes in job scope or responsibility: Remuneration section of this Any change will normally be effective iii progression in the role e. g. for a new Remuneration Report.
from 1 January in the year of the increase.
appointee : iv a signi cant increase in Performance Base salary is positioned to be market the scale of role and or size, value or Any increase will take into account the competitive when considered against other complexity of the Group: and v the need individuals performance, contribution global industrial companies, and relevant to maintain market competitiveness.
international and FTSE 250 companies excluding Investment Trusts.
Other bene ts Alignment purpose Opportunity dependent children, life insurance, Provides normal market practice bene ts.
There is no formal maximum as bene t disability and health insurance, together costs can uctuate depending on with relocation allowance and expatriate Operation changes in provider, cost and bene ts, in some instances grossed up for A range of standard bene ts including, individual circumstances.
tax, in accordance with the Groups but not limited to: car allowance, private policies, and participation in any employee medical care including spouse and Performance share scheme operated by the Group.
None Pension Alignment purpose Operation Opportunity Helps to recruit and retain key employees.
An allowance is given as a percentage of Maximum of 30% of base salary.
This may be used to participate Performance in Vesuvius pension arrangements, None invested in own pension arrangements or taken as a cash supplement or any combination of the above options.
Vesuvius plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration Policy continued Annual Incentive Alignment purpose Performance The Committee has the discretion to Incentivises Executive Directors to achieve determine that actual incentive payments Annual Incentive is measured key short-term financial and strategic should be lower than levels calculated by on targets set at the beginning targets of the Group.
reference to achievement against targets of each year.
The Committee establishes if it considers this to be appropriate.
Additional alignment with shareholders threshold and maximum performance interests through the operation of targets for each financial year.
The majority The Committee has the discretion to bonus deferral.
of the Annual Incentive will be determined award participants the equivalent value by measure s of Group financial of dividends accrued during the vesting Operation performance.
The remainder of the period on any shares that vest.
Normally 33% of any Annual Incentive Annual Incentive will be based on financial, earned by Executive Directors will be Subject to malus and clawback.
strategic or operational measures deferred into awards over shares under Opportunity appropriate to the individual Director.
the Vesuvius Deferred Share Bonus Plan Below threshold: 0%.
Performance is measured over a one-year which normally vest after at least three period.
Actual performance targets will years, other than in speci ed circumstances On-target: 62.5% of base salary.
be disclosed after the performance period outlined elsewhere in this Policy.
These Maximum: 125% of base salary.
They are not disclosed in may be cash or share settled.
advance due to their commercial sensitivity.
Payments made between threshold and on-target and between on-target and maximum are pro-rated.
Vesuvius Share Plan Alignment purpose Performance Awards vest three years after their award Flexible umbrella plan.
Vesting of Performance Share awards is date, other than in speci ed circumstances usually dependent on measures of Group outlined elsewhere in this policy, subject to Aligns Executive Directors interests EPS and relative TSR with the precise the achievement of speci ed conditions.
with those of shareholders through the measures and weighting of the measures delivery of shares.
Rewards Executive The Committee may decide that the determined by the Committee ahead of Directors for achieving the strategic shares in respect of which an award vests each award.
These details are disclosed objectives of growth in shareholder are delivered to participants at that point in the Annual Report on Directors value and earnings.
or that awards will then be subject to Remuneration section of this an additional holding period before Assists retention of Executive Directors Remuneration Report.
participants are entitled to receive over a three-year performance period.
The Company reserves the right only to their shares.
Operation disclose EPS performance targets after The Committee has the discretion to Awards may be granted as: the performance period has ended, due award participants the equivalent value to their commercial sensitivity.
Performance share awards of dividends accrued during the vesting Prior to any vesting, the Remuneration period on any shares that vest.
Deferred share bonus awards Committee also reviews the underlying Subject to malus and clawback.
Restricted share awards financial performance of the Company Opportunity over the performance period to ensure Market-price options Executive Directors are eligible to receive the vesting is justi ed.
These may be cash or share settled.
an annual award with a face value of up to 200% of base salary in Performance Individuals are entitled to an aggregate share awards.
annual maximum amount of awards.
If more than one type of award is granted, Vesting at threshold performance is the individual limit for all awards is reduced 25% rising to vesting of the full award to remain within the maximum.
Governance 83 Malus Clawback Arrangements The Executive Directors variable remuneration is subject to malus and clawback provisions.
These provide the Committee with the exibility, if required, to withhold or recover payments made to Executive Directors under the Annual Incentive Plan including deferred awards and or to withhold or recover share awards granted to Executive Directors under the Vesuvius Share Plan, including any dividends granted on such awards.
The circumstances in which the Committee could potentially elect to apply malus and clawback provisions include: a material misstatement in the Companys financial statements: an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive: gross misconduct by an individual: or signi cant financial loss or serious reputational damage to Vesuvius plc resulting from an individuals conduct, a material failure of risk management or a serious breach of health and safety.
These malus and clawback provisions apply for a period of up to three years after the end of a performance period or end of the deferral period in respect of deferred awards.
Performance Measures In selecting performance measures for the Annual Incentive, the Committee seeks to re ect key strategic aims and the need for a rigorous focus on financial performance.
Each year the Committee agrees challenging targets to ensure that underperformance is not rewarded.
The Company will not be disclosing the speci c financial or personal objectives set until after the relevant performance period has ended because of commercial sensitivities.
The personal objectives are all nonfinancial or job-speci c in nature and track performance against key strategic, organisational and operational goals.
In selecting performance measures for the Vesuvius Share Plan, the Committee seeks to focus Executive Directors on the execution of long-term strategy and also align their rewards with value created for shareholders.
On this basis, the performance conditions for the Vesuvius Performance Share awards will usually be dependent on measures based on TSR and EPS performance.
Within the policy period, the Committee will continually review the performance measures used, including TSR and the applicable comparator group, and EPS and other financial measures, to ensure that awards are made on the basis of challenging targets that clearly support the achievement of the Groups strategic aims.
The Committee may vary or waive any performance condition s if circumstances occur which cause it to determine that the original condition s have ceased to be appropriate, provided that any such variation or waiver is fair, reasonable and not materially less dif cult to satisfy than the original condition in its opinion.
In the event that the Committee were to make an adjustment of this sort, a full explanation would be provided in the next Remuneration Report.
The Committee may: a in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, special dividend or any other corporate event which it reasonably determines justi es such an adjustment, adjust: and b amend the terms of awards granted under the share schemes referred to above in accordance with the rules of the relevant plans.
Share awards may be settled by the issue of new shares or by the transfer of existing shares.
In line with prevailing best practice at the time this Policy Report is approved, any issuance of new shares is limited to 5% of share capital over a rolling ten-year period in relation to discretionary employee share schemes and 10% of share capital over a rolling ten-year period in relation to all employee share schemes.
Vesuvius plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration Policy continued Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Policy for 2017 The charts below show the total remuneration for Executive Directors for 2017 for minimum, on-target and maximum performance.
The xed elements of remuneration comprise base salary, pension and other bene ts, using 2017 salary data.
The assumptions on which they are calculated are as follows: Minimum: Fixed remuneration only.
On-target: Fixed remuneration plus on-target Annual Incentive made at 62.5% of base salary for Franois Wanecq and Guy Young and threshold vesting i. e. median performance for TSR and threshold for EPS for Performance Share awards made at 200% of base salary for Franois Wanecq and 150% of base salary for Guy Young under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
Maximum: Fixed remuneration plus maximum Annual Incentive being full achievement of financial and personal targets, made at 125% of base salary for Franois Wanecq and Guy Young and 100% vesting for Performance Share awards made at 200% of base salary for Franois Wanecq and 150% of base salary for Guy Young under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
Note: In addition the Committee retains the discretion to award dividends either shares or their cash equivalent on any shares that vest.
Remuneration Illustrations 000 Franois Wanecq, Chief Executive Guy Young, CFO Minimum Minimum 100% 802 100% 425 On-target On-target 16% 55% 25% 20% 1,466 57% 27% 750 Maximum Maximum 30% 27% 43% 2,720 32% 31% 37% 1,319 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 Fixed elements Annual variable elements Long-term variable elements Service Contracts of Executive Directors The Committee will periodically review the contractual terms for new Executive Directors to ensure these re ect best practice.
Service contracts currently operate on a rolling basis and are limited to a 12-month notice period.
Franois Wanecq is employed as Chief Executive of Vesuvius plc pursuant to the terms of a service agreement made with Cookson Group plc dated 17 October 2012, which was assigned to Vesuvius plc upon completion of the demerger on 19 December 2012.
Guy Young is employed as Chief Financial Of cer pursuant to the terms of a service agreement with Vesuvius plc dated 16 September 2015.
Each Executive Directors appointment is terminable by Vesuvius on not less than 12 months written notice, and by each Executive Director on not less than six months written notice.
External Appointments of Executive Directors The Executive Directors do not currently serve as Non-executive Directors of any other quoted company.
Subject always to consent being granted by the Company for them to take up such an appointment, were they to so serve, the Company would allow them to retain any fees they received for the performance of their duties.
Governance 85 Remuneration Policy for Non-executive Directors The Company seeks to appoint Non-executive Directors who have relevant professional knowledge, and have gained experience in a relevant industry and geographical sector, to support diversity of expertise at the Board and match the wide geographical spread of the Companys activities.
Non-executive Directors attend Board, Committee and other meetings, held mainly in the UK, together with an annual strategy review to debate the Companys strategic direction.
All Non-executive Directors are expected to familiarise themselves with the scale and scope of the Companys business and to maintain their speci c technical skills and knowledge.
The Board sets the level of fees paid to the Non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies of a similar size and international complexity.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
No variable remuneration is available to Non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors receive reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in attending the Board, Committee and other ad hoc meetings, including gross up payments to cover any personal tax owed on such expenses.
Fees Alignment purpose The Chairman is paid a single fee and Base fees paid to Non-executive Directors To attract and retain Non-executive receives administrative support from will in aggregate remain within the Directors of the necessary skill the Company.
aggregate limit stated in our Articles, and experience by offering currently being 500,000.
Non-executive Directors and the Chairman Performance Operation will be paid market-appropriate fees, None Fees are usually reviewed every other with any increase re ecting changes in year by the Board.
the market or adjustments to a speci c Non-executive Directors role.
Non-executive Directors are paid a base fee for the performance of their role, payable No eligibility for bonuses, retirement in cash, plus additional fees for Committee bene ts or to participate in the Groups chairmanship or acting as the Senior employee share plans.
Bene ts and expenses Alignment purpose Operation Opportunity To facilitate execution of responsibilities All Non-executive Directors are reimbursed Non-executive Directors expenses are and duties required by the role.
for reasonable expenses incurred in paid in accordance with Vesuvius carrying out their duties including expense procedures.
any personal tax owing on such expenses.
Performance None Terms of Service of the Chairman and other Non-executive Directors The terms of service of the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors are contained in letters of appointment.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed subject to their election at the Companys first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and re-election at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
During the first year of his her appointment, the Chairman is entitled to 12 months notice from the Company: thereafter, he she is entitled to six months notice from the Company.
None of the other Non-executive Directors is entitled to receive compensation for loss of of ce at any time.
All Non-executive Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The current policy is for Non-executive Directors to serve on the Board for a maximum of nine years, with review at the end of three and six years, subject always to mutual agreement and annual performance evaluation.
The Board retains discretion to extend the tenure of Non-executive Directors beyond this time, subject to the requirements of Board balance and independence being satis ed.
Vesuvius plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration Policy continued The table below shows the date of appointment for each of the Non-executive Directors: Non-executive Director Date of appointment John McDonough CBE 31 October 2012 Christer Gardell 31 October 2012 Hock Goh 2 April 2015 Jane Hinkley 3 December 2012 Douglas Hurt 2 April 2015 Recruitment Policy On appointment or promotion of a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically use the Remuneration Policy in force at the time of the Committees decision to determine ongoing remuneration.
Base salary levels will generally be set in accordance with the Remuneration Policy current at the time of the Committees decision, taking into account the experience and calibre of the appointee.
If it is appropriate to appoint an individual on a base salary initially below what is adjudged to be market positioning, contingent on individual performance, the Committee retains the discretion to realign base salary over the one to three years following appointment, which may result in a higher rate of annualised increase than might otherwise be awarded under the policy.
If the Committee intends to rely on this discretion, it will be noted in the first Remuneration Report following an individuals appointment.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, other elements of annual remuneration will, typically, be set in line with the Remuneration Policy including a limit on awards under the Annual Incentive and Vesuvius Share Plan of 325% of salary in aggregate.
The Committee retains the discretion to make the following further exceptions: In the event that an internal appointment is made, or where a Director is appointed as a result of transfer into the Group on an acquisition of another Company, the Committee may continue with existing remuneration provisions for this individual, including pension entitlements, where appropriate If necessary and appropriate to secure the appointment of a candidate who has to move locations as a result of the appointment, whether internal or external, the Committee may make additional payments linked to relocation, above those outlined in the policy table, and would authorise the payment of a relocation allowance and repatriation, as well as other associated international mobility terms.
Such bene ts would be set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate for the role and the individuals circumstances If appropriate the Committee may apply different performance measures and or targets to a Directors first incentive awards in his her year of appointment Service contracts will be entered into on terms similar to those for the existing Executive Directors, summarised in the Service contracts of Executive Directors section above.
In addition to the annual remuneration elements noted above, the Committee may consider buying out terms, incentives and any other compensation arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer that an individual forfeits in accepting an appointment with Vesuvius.
The Committee will have the authority to rely on Listing Rule 9.4.
2R 2 or to apply the existing limits within the Vesuvius Share Plan to make Restricted Share awards on recruitment.
In making any such awards, the Committee will review the terms of any forfeited awards, including, but not limited to, vesting periods, the expected value of such awards on vesting and the likelihood of the performance targets applicable to such awards being met, while retaining the discretion to make any buy-out award the Committee determines is necessary and appropriate.
The Committee may also require the appointee to purchase shares in Vesuvius to a pre-agreed level prior to vesting of any such awards.
The value of any buy-out award will be capped, to ensure its maximum value is no higher than the value of the awards that the individual forfeited on joining Vesuvius.
Any such awards will be subject to malus and clawback.
With respect to the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, appointment terms will be consistent with those applicable at the time the appointment is agreed.
Variable pay will not be considered.
With respect to Non-executive Directors, fees will be consistent with the policy at the time the appointment is agreed.
If, in exceptional circumstances, a Non-executive Director was asked to assume an interim executive role, the Company retains the discretion to pay them appropriate executive compensation, in line with the policy.
Governance 87 Exit Payment Policy Vesuvius has the option to make a payment in lieu of part or all of the required notice period for Executive Directors.
Any such payment in lieu will consist of the base salary, pension contributions and value of bene ts to which the Director would have been entitled for the duration of the remaining notice period, net of statutory deductions in each case.
Half of any payments in lieu of notice would be made in a lump sum, the remainder in equal monthly instalments commencing in the month in which the midpoint of their foregone notice period falls and are reduced or extinguished by salary from any role undertaken by the departing Executive in this time.
Executive Directors are subject to certain non-compete covenants for a period of nine months, and non-solicitation covenants for a period of 12 months, following the termination of their employment.
Their service agreements are governed by English law.
Executive Directors contracts do not contain any change of control provisions: they do contain a duty to mitigate should the Director nd an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and Vesuvius Share Plan are typically treated in different leaver scenarios and on a change of control.
Whilst the Committee retains overall discretion on determining good leaver status, it typically fide fines a good leaver in circumstances such as retirement with agreement of the Company, ill health, disability, death, redundancy, or part of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged ceasing to be part of the Group.
Final treatment is subject to the Committees discretion.
Event Timing Calculation of vesting payment Annual Incentive Plan Good leaver Paid at the same time as Annual bonus is paid only to the extent to continuing employees.
that any performance conditions have been satis ed and is pro rated for the proportion of the financial year worked before cessation of employment.
Bad leaver Not applicable Individuals lose the right to their annual bonus.
Change of control Paid on the effective date Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that of change of control.
any performance conditions have been satis ed and is pro rated for the proportion of the financial year worked.
Vesuvius Share Plan Good leaver On normal vesting date or earlier Unvested awards vest to the extent that any at the Committees discretion.
performance conditions have been satis ed and a pro rata reduction applies to the value of the awards to take into account the proportion of vesting period not served, unless the Committee decides that the reduction in the number of vested shares is inappropriate Bad leaver Unvested awards lapse.
Unvested awards lapse on cessation of employment.
1 Change of control On the date of the event.
Unvested awards vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satis ed and a pro rata reduction applies for the proportion of the vesting period not served.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may determine that unvested awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan will not vest on a change of control but will instead be replaced by an equivalent grant of a new award, as determined by the Committee, in the new company.
In the case of the Vesuvius Deferred Share Bonus Plan if the individual leaves for any reason other than dismissal for cause or in the event of a change in control, the deferred award will vest in full, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Vesuvius plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration Policy continued Bene ts normally cease to be provided on the date employment ends.
However, the Committee has the discretion to allow some minor bene ts such as health insurance, tax advice and repatriation expenses to continue to be provided for a period following cessation where this is considered fair and reasonable or appropriate on the basis of local market practice.
In addition, the Committee retains discretion to fund other expenses for the Executive Director, for example, payments to meet legal fees incurred in connection with termination of employment, or to meet the costs of providing outplacement support, and fide minimis termination costs up to 5,000 to cover transfer of mobile phone or other administrative expenses.
The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a Directors cessation of of ce or employment where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors of ce or employment.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including but not limited to settlement, con dentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These would be used only where the Committee believed it was in the best interests of the Company to do so.
Comparison of Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors with that for other Employees The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy set out in this report which also underpins remuneration for the wider Group.
Remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors draw on the same elements as those for other employees base salary, xed bene ts and retirement bene ts with performance-related pay extending down into the management cadres and beyond.
However, given that remuneration structures for other employees need to re ect both seniority and local market practice, they differ from the policy for Executive Directors.
In particular, Executive Directors receive a higher proportion of their remuneration in performance-related pay and share-based payments.
Individual percentages of xed versus variable remuneration and participation in share-based structures decline as seniority decreases.
The process for delivering salary increases on a two to three-year cycle for Executive Directors is also applied to other members of the Group Executive Committee and their direct managerial reports.
Whilst all employees receive an annual performance appraisal, other employees continue to receive salary reviews on an annual basis.
As with Executive Directors, middle and senior managers participate in the Annual Incentive Plan.
For members of the Group Executive Committee and functional employees, the award is predominantly based on Group performance, with the remainder awarded against achievement of personal objectives.
For operational employees, any potential award is based upon achieving three measures relating to Group performance, business unit performance, and individual achievement of personal objectives.
All members of the Group Executive Committee participate in the Vesuvius Share Plan and receive awards of Performance Shares, which vest in accordance with measures and targets set against EPS and TSR.
The level of awards payable to members of the Group Executive Committee who dont serve on the Board are lower than those payable to the Executive Directors.
For certain senior and middle managers, awards are made under the Vesuvius Medium Term Plan MTP.
These managers participate in the MTP at varying percentage levels, and awards are based on the same measures and targets as the Annual Incentive Plan.
Senior managers have their MTP awards made over Vesuvius shares, whilst middle managers receive their awards in cash.
In each case, awards are granted following the end of the relevant financial year.
The MTP share awards vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continuing employment.
Considerations of Conditions Elsewhere in the Group in Developing Policy The Company does not consult directly with employees on Executive Directors remuneration arrangements.
However, the Remuneration Committee will take into account the pay and employment conditions of other Group employees when determining Executive Directors remuneration, particularly when determining base salary increases, when the Committee will consider the salary increases for other Group employees in the same jurisdiction.
Governance 89 Consideration of Shareholder Views Vesuvius is committed to open and transparent dialogue with its shareholders on remuneration as well as other governance matters.
As Chairman of the Committee, Jane Hinkley welcomes shareholder engagement and is available for any discussions investors wish to have on remuneration matters.
During 2016, remuneration matters were discussed at a number of meetings with investors.
The feedback from such meetings is always shared with the Committee and taken into consideration when decisions are made about future remuneration strategy and arrangements.
Shareholding Guidelines The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company.
The required holding of the Chief Executive is to be equivalent in value to at least 2x salary and that required of other Executive Directors is to be equivalent in value to at least 1x salary.
Compliance with the shareholding policy is tested at the end of each year for application in the following year using the average of the closing prices of a Vesuvius ordinary share for the trading days in that December.
General The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out in this Policy Report for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Explanation of Changes Made to the Remuneration Policy Changes in the interpretation and operation of the Remuneration Policy after it was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM were described in the 2014 and 2015 Annual Reports: however, to comply with the regulatory requirement to include in notes accompanying the future policy table, details of which components of the Remuneration Policy have been changed or added since the last approved Remuneration Policy, these explanations are also repeated in this section of the 2016 Annual Report: 1.
In 2015, in order to provide enhanced long-term alignment with shareholders, the Committee increased the required shareholding to be built up and held by the Chief Executive from 100% to 200% of base salary.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the clawback arrangements set out in the Remuneration Policy approved at the AGM in 2014 and, in light of revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code, further strengthened Vesuvius application of this Policy as follows: Malus provisions were added to the existing clawback provisions.
This provides the Committee with the exibility, if required, also to withhold payments made to Executive Directors under the Annual Incentive Plan and or to withhold share awards granted to Executive Directors under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
The circumstances in which the Committee could potentially elect to apply malus and clawback provisions were extended.
Potential events which could trigger the application of these provisions now encompass a misstatement in the Companys financial statements which requires restatement of a prior years accounts: an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive: gross misconduct by an individual: or signi cant financial loss or serious reputational damage to Vesuvius plc resulting from an individuals conduct, a material failure of risk management or a serious breach of health and safety.
This year the Company is required to table a new Remuneration Policy for shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM.
This will be the second triennial vote on the Remuneration Policy since that requirement was introduced.
Having undertaken a comprehensive review of the prevailing arrangements, the Committee concluded that the existing combination of base salary, an Annual Incentive and a Long-Term Incentive awarding Performance Shares, remained the most suitable mechanism for compensating Executive Directors.
Consequently, the new Policy does not differ materially from the existing policy.
In order to increase alignment between our shareholders and Executive Directors, the Committee has introduced a requirement for a proportion of the Annual Incentive normally 33% to be deferred into shares for a pre-fide ned period normally three years.
A number of editorial changes have been made to the text of the old policy, to re ne and improve the explanation of various items, but the only other change of signi cant note is an amendment to align the bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors to 62.5% of base salary for on-target performance and 125% at maximum.
The previous policy differentiated between the Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
Vesuvius plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Directors Remuneration Remuneration Committee Structure The current members of the Remuneration Committee are all the independent Non-executive Directors of the Company.
Jane Hinkley who also serves as the Committee Chairman, Hock Goh and Douglas Hurt served on the Committee throughout 2016 and in 2017 to date.
Nelda Connors served on the Committee until her retirement from the Board on 30 September 2016.
The Committee complies with the obligations of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the composition of remuneration committees.
Each of the members brings a broad experience of international businesses and an understanding of their challenges to the work of the Committee.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Members biographies are on pages 22 and 23.
Meetings The Committee met four times during the year with full attendance at each meeting.
The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, and Vice President Human Resources were invited to each meeting, together with Christer Gardell, our non-independent Non-executive Director, though none of them participated in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
In addition, a representative from Deloitte, the Remuneration Committee adviser, attended each meeting and the Chief Financial Of cer attended where the agenda of the Committee required it.
This attendance supported the work of the Committee, giving critical insight into the operational demands of the business and their application to the overall strategy of remuneration within the Group.
In receiving views on remuneration matters from the Executive Directors and senior management, the Committee recognised the potential for con icts of interest to arise and considered the advice accordingly.
The Chairman of the Committee reported the outcomes of all meetings to the Board.
The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which were reviewed during the year.
The terms of reference are available on the Group website www.
The Committee members are also empowered to obtain outside legal advice at the cost of the Company in relation to their deliberations.
These powers were not exercised during the year.
The Committee may also secure the attendance at its meetings of any employee or other parties it considers necessary.
Role and Responsibilities The Committee is responsible for: Setting the appropriate remuneration for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary Recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, being the first layer of management below Board level and their direct reports Overseeing the operation of the executive share incentive plans Advice Provided to the Remuneration Committee Deloitte is appointed directly by the Remuneration Committee to provide advice on executive remuneration matters, including remuneration structure and policy, updates on market practice and trends, and guidance on the implementation and operation of long-term incentive plans.
The Committee appointed Deloitte following the conduct of a formal tender process in 2014.
Deloitte is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK.
Deloitte also provides the Remuneration Committee with ongoing calculations of total shareholder return to enable the Committee to be updated on the performance of long-term share incentive plans.
In addition in 2016, within the wider Group, Deloitte was procured locally to provide limited accounting and tax advisory work.
During 2016, Deloittes fees for advice to the Remuneration Committee, charged on a time spent basis, amounted to 55,585.
The Committee conducted a review of the performance of Deloitte as Remuneration Adviser during the year and concluded that it is satis ed that the advice provided to it on executive remuneration matters is effective, objective and independent, noting that Deloitte brings signi cant technical depth to the deliberations of the Committee.
No con ict of interest arises as a result of other services provided by Deloitte to the Group.
Activities of the Remuneration Committee The key matters the Remuneration Committee considered during its four meetings in 2016 included: The salary review proposals for the Executive Directors and Company Secretary, and an overview of the proposals for senior management Reviewing achievement against performance targets for the 2015 annual cash bonus incentive arrangements Setting performance targets and approving the structure of the 2016 annual cash bonus incentive arrangements Considering the Companys attainment of performance conditions applicable to the Vesuvius Performance Share awards made in 2013 Setting the performance conditions and authorising the grant of new awards in 2016 under the Vesuvius Share Plan and Medium Term Incentive Plan In the light of advice received from the external advisers regarding trends in remuneration practice and governance, and feedback from institutional shareholders, discussing the Companys overall approach to executive remuneration and reviewing whether any changes should be made Governance 91 Considering, formulating and approving the 2017 Remuneration Policy Reviewing the speci c performance conditions of the 2017 annual incentive arrangement which will now include a target for cash ow performance Reviewing the Remuneration Committees terms of reference Approving the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report and reviewing the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report As in previous years, the Committee was the subject of an externally moderated performance evaluation.
The management of the Committee, and its processes and support, were again rated highly, as was the level of engagement and effectiveness of the relationship with Deloitte as external adviser.
It was felt that the Committee would bene t from gaining greater insight into the remuneration arrangements for employees below the management tier and it was agreed that this would be an area of focus in 2017.
Regulatory Compliance The Remuneration Policy set out on pages 81 to 89 was prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
This Remuneration Report sets out how the provisions of the September 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code are applied by the Company in relation to matters of remuneration.
We have complied for the year under review with these provisions.
Share Usage Under the rules of the Vesuvius Share Plan, the Company has the discretion to satisfy awards either by the transfer of Treasury shares or other existing shares, or by the allotment of newly issued shares.
Awards made under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, to satisfy shares awarded to Directors under the annual incentive, and awards made to senior managers by the Company over shares pursuant to the Medium Term Incentive Plan, must be satis ed out of shares held for this purpose by the Companys employee share ownership plan trust ESOP.
The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by the Remuneration Committee which considers the most prudent and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the Company.
At 31 December 2016 the Company held 7,271,174 ordinary shares in Treasury and 1,081,752 Vesuvius shares were held in the ESOP.
The Trustee of the ESOP can be gifted Treasury shares by the Company, can purchase shares in the open market or can subscribe for newly issued shares, as required, to meet obligations for the provision of shares to satisfy options and awards that vest.
The Vesuvius Share Plan complies with the current Investment Association guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a ten-year period in relation to the Companys issued share capital, with a further limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on discretionary schemes.
More than 9.9% of the 10% limit and more than 4.9% of the 5% limit is available as headroom for the Company.
No Treasury shares have been transferred or newly issued shares allotted under the Vesuvius Share Plan during the year under review.
Policy Implementation The following section provides details of how the Companys Remuneration Policy was implemented during the financial year 2016 and how it will be implemented in the financial year 2017.
Directors Remuneration audited The table below sets out the total remuneration received by Executive Directors in the financial year under review: 1 Franois Wanecq Guy Young 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 2 Total salary 590 550 325 54 3 Taxable bene ts 35 37 19 3 4 Pension 177 165 81 14 5 Total xed pay 802 752 425 71 6 Annual bonus 371 166 7 Long-term incentives 58 8 Total variable pay 371 166 58 9 Total 1,173 752 591 129 Vesuvius plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued The table below sets out the fees and taxable bene ts received by Non-executive Directors in the financial year under review and the total remuneration received by both Executive and Non-executive Directors during the year under review: 2016 2015 Taxable Taxable 2 3 2 3 Total fees bene ts Total Total fees bene ts Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 John McDonough CBE 185 21 206 185 12 197 10 Nelda Connors 34 8 42 45 5 50 Christer Gardell 45 14 59 45 10 55 11 Hock Goh 45 8 53 34 1 35 Jane Hinkley 60 4 64 60 2 62 12 Douglas Hurt 65 2 67 46 1 47 Total 2016 Non-executive Director remuneration 491 Total 2016 Executive Director remuneration 1,764 Total 2016 Director remuneration 2,255 Notes: 1.
Guy Young joined the Board on 1 November 2015.
Base salary or fees, as appropriate earned during the financial year.
Bene ts for Executive Directors comprise car allowance, private medical care and tax advice and a fide minimis amount for Directors spouses travel.
The UK regulations require the inclusion of bene ts for Directors where these would be taxable in the UK on the assumption that the Director is tax resident in the UK.
The gures in the table therefore include expense reimbursement and associated tax relating to travel, accommodation and subsistence in connection with attendance at Board meetings and other Board business during the year, which are considered by HMRC to be taxable in the UK.
Franois Wanecq receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary and Guy Young receives a pension allowance of 25% of base salary.
The gures in the table represent the value of all cash allowances and contributions received in respect of pension bene ts.
The sum of base salary, bene ts and pension.
This gure includes any annual cash bonus incentive payments made to the Executive Directors for their performance in the year under review.
See page 93 for more details.
This gure would include the value of any share award made to the Executive Directors under the Vesuvius Share Plan that is due to vest following the completion of the performance period in the year under review.
Neither the 2013 or 2014 Performance Share awards made to Mr Wanecq achieved the requisite performance conditions necessary to vest.
The gure shown for Mr Young has been updated to show the actual value on the date of grant of the Restricted Share award he received on joining Vesuvius, and includes a cash payment of 952 made to him to re ect the dividends that would have accrued on the shares between his date of joining and the grant date.
See pages 96 for more details.
The sum of annual bonus, any applicable Restricted Share award and the value of long-term incentives where the performance period ended during the financial year.
The sum of base salary, bene ts, pension, annual bonus, any applicable Restricted Share award and long-term incentives where the performance period ended during the financial year.
Nelda Connors retired from the Board on 30 September 2016.
11 Hock Goh joined the Board on 2 April 2015.
Douglas Hurt joined the Board on 2 April 2015.
Total 2015 Director remuneration for the Directors who served during 2015 was 1.701m.
Payments to Past Directors audited There were no payments made to a past Director of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2016.
Loss of Offi ce Payments audited There were no payments made to any Director for loss of of ce during the year ended 31 December 2016.
Base Salary and Fees In the year under review, the Chief Executive received a base salary of 590,000 per annum and the Chief Financial Of cer received a base salary of 325,000 per annum.
Non-executive Directors fees were set at 45,000 per annum.
Supplementary fees of 15,000 per annum were paid to the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, respectively.
A supplementary annual fee of 5,000 was also paid to the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman was paid an annual fee of 185,000.
Neither the Chairman nor the other Non-executive Directors are members of the Groups pension plans, nor do they participate in the Groups incentive schemes.
As reported in our 2015 Remuneration Report, Franois Wanecqs base salary was reviewed in late 2015 in line with the Groups longer-term approach of reviewing the salaries of Executive Directors and senior executives every two to three years.
This was the first time his base salary had been reviewed since demerger and, following this review, it was resolved that his salary in 2016 should be increased by 7.2%, up to 590,000 per annum, in recognition of his leadership of the Group over the three years since demerger and the tough trading environment being experienced.
In considering this increase, the Committee also took into account the fact that over the past three years the salary increase for the UK salaried employee workforce had been 7.6%.
There was no change to Guy Youngs base salary in 2016.
There are no changes to either of the Executive Directors salaries in 2017.
Governance 93 Pension Arrangements audited In accordance with his service agreement, Franois Wanecq is entitled to a pension allowance of 30% of base salary.
Guy Young is entitled to a pension allowance of 25% of base salary.
This amount can be used to participate in Vesuvius pension arrangements, be invested in their own pension arrangements or be taken as a cash supplement or any combination of these alternatives.
Annual Bonus The Executive Directors are eligible to receive an annual incentive calculated as a percentage of base salary, based on achievement against speci ed targets.
Each year the Remuneration Committee establishes the financial performance criteria for the forthcoming year.
These criteria are set by reference to the Companys financial budget.
The target range is set to ensure that maximum bonuses are paid only for signi cantly exceeding performance expectations.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the setting and attainment of these targets is important in the context of achievement of the Companys longer-term strategic goals.
The annual incentive has a threshold level of performance below which no award is paid, a target level and a maximum performance level at which a maximum award is earned.
For 2016 Franois Wanecqs maximum annual incentive potential was 125% of base salary and his target annual incentive potential was 62.5% of base salary.
Guy Youngs maximum annual incentive potential was 100% of base salary and his target annual incentive potential was 50% of base salary.
For the financial year 2016, 80% of the Executive Directors annual incentives were based on a financial target: Vesuvius Group headline earnings per share, with an adjustment based on Vesuvius working capital performance to focus greater attention on cash ow: and 20% on the achievement of personal objectives.
Financial targets The effect of the working capital kicker was to reduce the level of pay-out that could be achieved by up to 10% if speci ed working capital targets were not attained.
This kicker could also increase the level of pay-out by up to 10%, but not above the stated plan maximum.
The 2016 Vesuvius Group headline earnings per share performance targets set out below were set at the December 2015 full year average foreign exchange rates, being the rates used for the 2016 budget process: Threshold: 23.1 pence On target: 28.3 pence Maximum: 30.0 pence In order to achieve the working capital target, the Groups working capital as a percentage of sales had to be between 24.5% to 25.5% of sales.
In assessing the Groups performance against these targets, the Committee uses a constant currency approach.
Thus, the 2016 full year EPS performance was retranslated at December 2015 full year average foreign exchange rates to establish performance.
This is consistent with practice in previous years.
In 2016 Vesuvius retranslated EPS performance was 28.3 pence, and working capital was 26.6%.
Consequently EPS performance was on target, but the working capital target was not met.
Payments of 44.6% and 35.6% of base salary were therefore due under the Annual Incentive Plan to Franois Wanecq and Guy Young, respectively, in respect of the financial performance metrics.
Personal objectives In 2016, for the first time, a proportion 20% of the Annual Incentive for Executive Directors was based on the achievement of personal objectives.
A summary of the objectives set and performance achieved is set out below Chief Executive Summary of objective Summary outcome Implementation of Implementation of programmes to focus growth in China, including sales progression and Board approved strategy production improvements Maintaining growth momentum in India with strong sales and improved trading margin.
Timely implementation Achievement of cash savings ahead of budget of agreed restructuring plans Many actions delivered ahead of schedule Succession planning for executive and Good progress made in operational management senior management roles Adoption by Board of personal development programme for high potential individuals Corporate activity Completed acquisition of mould ux business of Carboox Good progress on other projects Vesuvius plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued In summary, after considering performance as outlined above, the Committee approved an Annual Incentive award of 18.25% of base salary in respect of the personal objectives for Franois Wanecq.
Finance Director Summary of objective Summary outcome People and Team New capability assessment process embedded and cascaded Effective transition as Finance Director from the perspective of his direct team Update IT strategy and progress implementation Updated IT strategy was approved in 2016 IT Governance structure updated Improve Group cash management Strong cash conversion in the context of ongoing challenges in certain key markets Provide outline for a more ef cient back of ce Feasibility study for project approved Proposals for design presented Conduct effective ef cient external audit tender Fully achieved in line with objectives In summary, after considering performance as outlined above, the Committee, approved an Annual Incentive award of 15.50% of base salary in respect of the personal objectives for Guy Young.
2017 Annual Incentive The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2017 the structure of the annual incentive should be amended to strengthen the alignment of this incentive with the Groups strategic objectives.
For 2017, 60% of Franois Wanecq and Guy Youngs annual incentives will therefore be based on Group headline earnings per share, 20% on the Groups cash conversion ratio fide ned as operating cash ow divided by trading pro t and 20% on the achievement of personal objectives.
The working capital kicker utilised in previous years has been removed.
The Committee believes that the substitution of cash conversion for the cash kicker will ensure a clearer focus on cash generation and management on a standalone basis.
The Company will not be disclosing the targets set until after the relevant performance period has ended because of commercial sensitivities.
The personal objectives for 2017 are all nonfinancial or job-speci c in nature and track performance against key strategic, organisational and operational goals.
Franois Wanecq and Guy Youngs maximum annual incentive bonus potential for 2017 will be 125% of base salary.
In addition, as required in our new Remuneration Policy, 33% of any Annual Incentive earned will be deferred into awards over shares for three years.
This further aligns our remuneration arrangements with investors.
Malus Clawback Arrangements in 2017 Vesuvius has malus and clawback arrangements in respect of Executive Directors variable remuneration.
The structure of those arrangements is outlined in our Remuneration Policy.
Longer-term Pay Audited Performance Share awards are allocated to the Executive Directors under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
In accordance with the Remuneration Policy and the rules of the VSP, they are eligible to receive, on an annual basis, a Performance Share award with a face value of up to 200% of salary.
Vesting of 50% of shares awarded is based upon the Companys three-year TSR performance relative to that of the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts, and 50% on headline EPS growth.
The level of compound headline EPS growth speci ed in the targets is set by the Remuneration Committee each year, taking into account the Groups prospects and the broader global economic environment.
The two measures operate independently.
The use of these performance measures is intended to align executive remuneration with shareholders interests.
Targets for the 2014 and 2015 Performance Share Awards Audited Vesuvius Share Plan performance targets TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Annual compound headline excluding Investment Trusts Vesting percentage EPS growth above global GDP Vesting percentage Below median 0% Below 3% 0% Median 12.50% 3% 12.50% Between median Pro rata between Between 3% and 15% Pro rata between and upper quintile 12.50% and 50% 12.50% and 50% Upper quintile 50% At or above 15% 50% Governance 95 Targets for the 2016 and 2017 Performance Share Awards Audited The Remuneration Committee has determined that Franois Wanecq will receive a Performance Share award in 2017 equivalent in value to 200% of his base salary and Guy Young an award equivalent in value to 150% of his base salary.
In February 2016, the Committee reviewed the performance conditions proposed for the award of Performance Shares in 2016 and resolved to simplify and amend the EPS performance measure by removing the reference to global GDP.
Removing the reference to global GDP ensures that the arrangements are simpli ed and are more understandable for all participants.
The same approach is to be used in 2017.
The Committee has set a schedule of EPS targets that is designed at the maximum to be highly challenging, whilst remaining an effective incentive for the management team.
Vesuvius Share Plan performance targets TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Annual compound headline excluding Investment Trusts Vesting percentage EPS growth Vesting percentage Below median 0% Below 3% 0% Median 12.50% 3% 12.50% Between median Pro rata between Between 3% and 6% Pro rata between and upper quintile 12.50% and 50% 12.50% and 25% Upper quintile 50% 6% 25% Between 6% and 15% Pro rata between 25% and 50% At or above 15% 50% Vesuvius Performance Share Award Allocations Audited The performance period applicable to the awards made in 2014 ended on 31 December 2016.
The TSR performance during this three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Companys performance was below median.
As a result, no Performance Share awards will vest under the TSR performance element.
There will also be no Performance Share awards that vest under the EPS performance element of the performance condition as the annual compound headline EPS growth above GDP for the period was -1.9%.
The applicable Performance Share award will therefore lapse on the third anniversary of the grant.
The following table sets out those Performance Share awards that were allocated in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 under the Vesuvius Share Plan: Total share Additional Market price of allocations shares Allocation Total share the shares on as at allocated lapsed during Shares vested allocation the day before Performance Earliest Grant and type of award 31 Dec 2015 during the year the year during the year 31 Dec 2016 award p period vesting date Franois Wanecq 1 22 April 2013 1 Jan 13 31 Dec 15 Performance Shares 341,509 341,509 322.1 22 Apr 2016 2 17 March 2014 1 Jan 14 31 Dec 16 Performance Shares 253,748 253,748 429.3 17 Mar 2017 3 1 April 2015 1 Jan 15 31 Dec 17 Performance Shares 221,533 221,533 491.1 1 Apr 2018 4 8 April 2016 1 Jan 16 31 Dec 18 Performance Shares 373,938 373,938 291.7 8 Apr 2019 Total 816,790 373,938 341,509 849,219 Guy Young 4 8 April 2016 1 Jan 16 31 Dec 18 Performance Shares 128,739 128,739 291.7 8 Apr 2019 Total 128,739 128,739 Vesuvius plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Notes: 1.
The Performance Shares that were allocated in 2013 had performance conditions to be tested over the financial years 2013, 2014 and 2015.
As the requisite performance was not achieved, Franois Wanecqs award lapsed on the third anniversary of grant in April 2016.
In 2014 Franois Wanecq received a maximum allocation of Performance Shares worth two times his base salary, being 253,748 shares.
These Performance Shares had performance conditions to be tested over the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016.
They will lapse on the third anniversary of grant in March 2017.
In 2015 Franois Wanecq received a maximum allocation of Performance Shares worth two times his base salary, being 221,533 shares.
In 2016 Franois Wanecq and Guy Young received allocations of Performance Shares worth 2 times and 1.25 times their base salaries, respectively, being 373,938 shares and 128,739 shares respectively.
These allocations were calculated based upon the average closing mid-market price of Vesuvius shares on the five dealing days before the award was made, being 3.1556.
The total value of these awards based on this share price on the date of grant was therefore 1,179,999 and 406,249 respectively.
All these awards have been made in the form of nil cost options with no exercise price.
If the performance conditions for these awards are not met then these awards will lapse.
If the threshold level of either of the two performance conditions applicable to these awards is met, then 12.50% of the award will vest.
The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to award cash or shares equivalent in value to the dividend that would have accrued during the vesting period on any awards that vest.
The mid-market closing price of Vesuvius shares ranged between 270.6p and 402.2p during 2016 and on 30 December 2016, the last dealing day of the year, was 395.3p.
Restricted Share Award On Guy Youngs appointment as Chief Financial Officer, the Committee resolved, in compliance with the Groups Remuneration Policy on recruitment, that it would partially compensate him for the long-term incentives awarded by his previous employer that he forfeited as a result of joining Vesuvius.
The Committee resolved that Guy Young would receive a one-off Restricted Share award under the Vesuvius Share Plan over Vesuvius plc shares to a maximum value of 150,000 with the number of shares under the Restricted Share award being calculated with reference to the closing market price on 2 November 2015 the first trading day after Guy Young began employment at Vesuvius which was 3.659.
Shortly after his appointment, Guy Young received a proportion of his long-term incentives from his former employer and thus, in line with the agreement made at the time of his appointment, his Restricted Share award was automatically reduced pro rata for this receipt to an amount of 62,625.
Based on the above share price this amounted to a Restricted Share award over 17,115 shares.
Half of this award vested on 13 May 2016, the remainder will vest on the second anniversary of the date of his commencement of employment.
In order to be consistent with the terms of the forfeited long-term awards, vesting of this remaining Restricted Share award will be subject to him remaining employed by the Company and not being under notice of termination on the vesting date above.
It is not subject to any further performance condition.
Details of the portion of the Restricted Share award that remained outstanding as at 31 December 2016 are given in the table below: Total share Market price of the Earliest Shares allocated Shares vested allocation shares on the day vesting date of 1 Date of award during the year during the year 31 Dec 2016 before award p outstanding award 13 May 2016 17,115 8,558 8,557 336.6 1 Nov 2017 Notes: 1.
8,558 shares vested to Guy Young on 13 May 2016.
The mid-market closing price of the Companys shares on the date of vesting was 3.337.
The total value of shares that he received on the date of vesting was therefore 28,558.
In addition Guy Young received a cash payment of 952 to reflect the dividends that would have accrued on the shares between his date of joining and the vesting date.
Statement of Directors Shareholdings Audited The interests of Directors and their closely associated persons in ordinary shares as at 31 December 2016, including any interests in share options and shares provisionally awarded under the Vesuvius Share Plan are set out below: Outstanding Beneficial incentive 1 holding awards Executive Directors Franois Wanecq 1,338,909 849,219 Guy Young 4,527 137,296 Non-executive Directors John McDonough CBE Chairman 100,000 2 Christer Gardell Hock Goh 5,000 Jane Hinkley 12,000 Douglas Hurt 18,000 Note: 1.
Franois Wanecq holds 849,219 and Guy Young holds 128,739 nil cost options granted as Performance Shares under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
These are all subject to performance conditions.
In addition, Guy Young holds an allocation of 8,557 shares under his Restricted Share award which will vest subject to him remaining employed by the Company and not being under notice of termination on the vesting date.
They are not subject to any further performance conditions.
Christer Gardell is Managing Partner of, and has a financial interest in, Cevian Capital which held 21.11% of Vesuvius issued share capital as at 31 December 2016 and at the date of this report.
None of the other Directors, nor their spouses, nor their minor children, held non-bene cial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
There were no changes in the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 2 March 2017.
All awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan are subject to performance conditions and continued employment until the relevant vesting date as set out on pages 94 and 95.
Full details of Directors shareholdings and incentive awards are given in the Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys registered of ce during businesshours.
To this end, Executive Directors are required, not just encouraged, to retain at least 50% measured as the value after tax of any shares received through the operation of share schemes: in addition, permission to sell shares held whether acquired through the operation of share schemes or otherwise will not be given, other than in exceptional circumstances, if, following the disposal, the shareholding policy is not still met.
Executive Directors Shareholdings Audited As at 31 December 2016, the Executive Directors shareholdings against the current shareholding guidelines using the Companys share price averaged over the trading days of the period 1 December to 31 December 2016, of 397.77p were as follows: Actual share ownership as a percentage of salary Policy share ownership Director at 31 Dec 2016 as a percentage of salary Policy met?
Franois Wanecq 903% 200% Yes Guy Young 6% 100% Yes in the build-up period Annual Changes in Chief Executive Pay vs.
Employee Pay The table below shows the percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive comprising salary, taxable bene ts and annual bonus and comparable data of UK salaried employees.
The UK salaried employee workforce was chosen as a fair representation of a suitable comparator group as Franois Wanecq, the Chief Executive, is based in the UK albeit with a global role and responsibilities and levels of pay vary widely across the Group depending on geography and local market conditions.
Franois Wanecqs salary was increased by 7.2% in 2016.
This was the first time it had been increased since the demerger in 2012.
In considering this increase the Committee also took into account the fact that over the past three years the salary increase for the UK salaried employee workforce had been 7.6%.
UK salaried employee workforce average Chief Executive per capita 2016 2015 000 000 % change % change Salary 590 550 7 3.27 Taxable bene ts 35 37 6 4.49 1 Annual bonus 371 0100 369 Note: 1.
There was no payout to the Executive Directors and Corporate staff under the financial element of the annual bonus plans in 2015.
The percentage increase shown therefore re ects the anticipated payouts for 2016.
Vesuvius plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Annual Spend on Employee Pay vs. Shareholders Distributions The charts below show the annual spend on all employees including Executive Directors compared with distributions made and proposed to be made to shareholders for 2015 and 2016: Relative importance of spend on pay 2016 m Relative importance of spend on pay 2015 m 44.7m 43.8m 10% 11% Remuneration Remuneration Dividends Dividends 90% 89% 384.8m 345.7m m m 2016 2015 Change Group remuneration of continuing operations see Note 8 384.8 345.7 11.31% Dividends based on final proposed dividend 44.7 43.8 2.1% TSR Performance and Chief Executive Pay TSR performance graph The TSR performance graph compares Vesuvius TSR performance Vesuvius plc FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts with that of the same investment in the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
This index has been chosen as the comparator 200 index to re ect the size, international scope and diversity of the Company.
TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has 150 provided for its shareholders, re ecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
A spot rate has been 100 used for this graph.
The demerger of Vesuvius plc was effective 19 12 12 on 19December 2012 and therefore the graph shows the period 50 from 19 December 2012 to 31 December 2016.
Chief Executive pay financial year ending 31 12 12 31 12 13 31 12 14 31 12 15 31 12 16 Total remuneration single gure 000 1,227 2,447 1,519 752 1,173 Annual variable pay % of maximum 0% 100% 64% 0% 63% Long-term variable pay % of maximum 67% 28% 27% 0% 0% Statement on Shareholder Voting At the last AGM which was held on 12 May 2016 the resolution concerning the advisory vote on the Remuneration Report for 2015 received 197,395,591 votes 82.86% in favour and 40,836,586 votes against 17.14% : 1,133,645 votes were withheld.
At the AGM to be held on 10 May 2017, shareholders will again be invited to participate in an advisory vote on the Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Policy will next be put to a vote at this years AGM, as that is three years on from 2014, when the policy was approved with 215,577,683 votes 98% in favour and 4,684,029 votes 2% against: 213,747 votes were withheld.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by Jane Hinkley Chairman, Remuneration Committee 2 March 2017
