Vesuvius plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principles We continue to focus our attention on the fulfilment of our ethical responsibilities, supporting the creation of long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Vesuvius is a geographically and culturally diverse A Framework for Business Integrity group employing nearly 11,000 people, with 66 Vesuvius has established a simple framework for explaining and delivering production sites in 26 countries, serving customers the principles we consider to be fundamental to our sustained success: all over the globe.
Maintaining a strong culture, and its consistent application in our worldwide 1.
5. approach to business, is therefore of fundamental Vesuvius Code of Policies & Training Monitoring importance.
Our employees engagement with Values Conduct Procedures & our values and culture is not simply a matter of Evaluation compliance, it is vital to our success and the sustainable delivery of the Groups strategy.
Our Values Values Creativity: Our commitment Cooperation: Encouraging internal and The behaviours we champion in our employees to technology and quality is the basis external cooperation enables us to create are encapsulated in five Vesuvius values.
We again for our competitive advantage.
Creativity unique solutions with our partners.
celebrated these in 2016 with the Groups Living allows us to develop innovative products Through cooperation, each Vesuvius the Values Awards.
Employees from 8 countries, and solutions and the continuous employee is committed to the success improvements that generate value of their community of colleagues and nominated by their peers, came together to through performance enhancement.
customers and that of the wider Group.
celebrate their outstanding individual contributions Code of Conduct to the implementation of Vesuvius values.
Reliability: Our solutions involve us Integrity: At the heart of our promise in critical aspects of our customers lies the trustworthiness of all Vesuvius See more about the Living the Values Awards in our People Code of Conduct Code of Conduct manufacturing processes.
Our employees in their acts and words.
and community section on pages 58 and 59 Code of Conduct commitment to deliver consistent Integrity, honesty and transparency Code of Conduct products and services gives them are essential in all our exchanges.
the level of confidence they require.
Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct places the pursuit of the Code of Conduct Embracing Diversity: Vesuvius is highest possible ethical standards at the heart Code of Conduct a global company built upon a true Code of Conduct of Vesuvius culture.
respect for local customs and experience.
We recognise and embrace the potential During 2016 we relaunched our Code of Conduct for creativity that comes from the throughout the Group, having reviewed and coexistence of so many different cultures.
updated it, to ensure that it remained relevant across all our jurisdictions and cultures and encapsulated the fundamental principles and Code of Conduct principles behaviours we expect from those working for, and on behalf of, Vesuvius.
It was published Health, Employees and Conflicts of Interest Safety and the Human Rights in all 29 of our major functional languages.
Environment In conjunction with this we relaunched our Competitors Trading, Customers, Disclosure confidential, independent Employee Concern Products and and Investors Helpline across the Group, with new dedicated Services local language capabilities.
The Code of Conduct Anti-Bribery Government, is available at and Corruption Society and Local www.
com Communities Our Responsibility 53 Policies & Procedures Supply Chain: We continue the development of our supplier assessment programme engaging We continue to enhance the policies that underpin with suppliers on their business practices to ensure the principles set out in the Code of Conduct.
security of supply to Vesuvius.
This process is These assist employees to comply with our ethical evolving, and will be integrated with the work standards and the legal requirements of the we are doing to address the requirements of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business.
They also give practical guidance as to how this can be achieved.
Amongst these policies are: Prevention of Slavery and Human Traffi cking Speak Up: The importance of being able to speak During 2016 we published our first transparency up without fear of retaliation is the foundation statement outlining the Groups approach to the of our compliance programme.
The availability of prevention of slavery and human traf cking in our the con dential Employee Concern Helpline for business and supply chain.
We are conducting risk employees was re-communicated across the assessments as well as developing our policies and Group in 2016, and allows individuals to raise training to raise the awareness of our employees concerns, anonymously if they wish, knowing to this issue.
that these will be investigated and acted upon.
Training No individual will ever be penalised or disadvantaged for reporting a legitimate concern.
During the year we continued to operate our training programme on the Code of Conduct Human Rights: The Group human rights policy and associated anti-bribery, corruption and other re ects the principles contained within the United policies.
We continue to develop our training Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the processes to help our staff and counterparties International Labour Organisations Fundamental understand that corruption will not be tolerated Conventions on Labour Standards and the United in the performance of our business.
The policy applies to all Group employees, sets out the principles for our actions and behaviour in conducting our business and provides guidance to those working for us on how we approach human rights issues.
The Group commits not to discriminate in any of our employment practices and to offer equal opportunities to all.
The Group respects the principles of freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining and opposes the use of, and will not use, forced, compulsory or child labour.
