Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 77 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 Virgin Money 2 52 132 193 Executive Board member 1 Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE Chief Executive Jayne-Anne joined the Board in March 2007 as Chief Executive.
Further details can be found on page 76.
1 2 Non Board members 2 Peter Bole Chief Financial Officer Peter is a chartered accountant.
Following roles with Deloitte and Standard Life, Peter joined RBS where he held a variety of senior finance roles, latterly in RBS Insurance.
In 2009, he joined Tesco Bank where he established the finance function 3 4 and played a key role in the leadership of the business as it was migrated from RBS infrastructure.
Peter joined Virgin Money in 2016, bringing his extensive retail financial services experience and expertise.
Peter became Chief Financial Officer in January 2017.
3 Marian Martin Chief Risk Officer Marian is a chartered accountant and qualified with Ernst and Young.
She joined the Britannia Building Society where she 5 6 was an Internal Audit Manager, before spending four years at the Britannic Group where she was Head of Group Audit and Risk.
Marian joined RBS in 2004 and served as Risk Director of RBSs consumer finance businesses, the RBS mortgage business and then Tesco Personal Finance.
Marian joined Virgin Money as Chief Risk Officer in 2007 and has been in that role throughout the period of business growth and development.
4 Matt Elliott 7 8 People Director Matts early career was at RBS, where he worked on HR policy and employment issues, before supporting the HR transformation programme following the acquisition of NatWest.
Matt held senior HR roles in several RBS operating businesses including the Consumer Finance division and Tesco Personal Finance.
In 2007, Matt moved to BP as Senior Manager for Corporate and Functions before becoming HR Vice President for BP in North Africa.
Matt joined Virgin Money 9 10 as People Director in 2011.
78 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Virgin Money Executive 5 Michele Greene 9 Caroline Marsh Director of Strategic Development Director of Culture Michele is a chartered accountant and qualified with KPMG.
Caroline has over 30 years experience in banking.
Her She spent three years at Credit Lyonnais as a financial early career was at Barclays where she spent 12 years in accountant before joining Goldman Sachs as group management roles.
In 1999, she joined Virgin One as Sales accountant.
Michele then spent over 15 years at MBNA, most Director.
Following the acquisition of Virgin One by RBS in recently as Chief Finance Officer, where she was a member 2001, Caroline became Sales and Operations Director for of the board and closely involved in setting the strategic the RBS consumer finance business, before leading RBSs direction of the business.
Michele joined Virgin Money in intermediary mortgage business.
Caroline returned to Virgin October 2013.
Money in 2007 and has led the cultural agenda for the Virgin Money business as Director of Culture since the acquisition of Northern Rock in 2012.
6 Hugh Chater Chief Commercial Officer 10 Tim Arthur Hugh has over 25 years experience in financial services.
Creative Director He was an executive founder at MBNA Europe, joining in 1993 from KPMG Management Consulting.
At MBNA Hugh Prior to joining Virgin Money, Tim was Global Chief Executive held executive roles in HR, Credit Management, Customer CEO of Time Out.
He led its expansion across Asia and the US Satisfaction and Marketing before becoming Chief Operating and was responsible for transforming the brand from a print Officer and then UK Managing Director.
In 2007 Hugh joined media business to a global digital platform.
Before Time Out, RBS Retail to run the consumer credit card business.
He Tim was CEO of Cardboard Citizens, and CEO Artistic Director subsequently ran the current account, savings, investments of two arts venues.
He is also a playwright and author.
Hugh joined Virgin Money in joined Virgin Money in 2016.
7 Mark Parker Chief Operating Officer Marks first IT Director role was at British Sugar.
In 2001, Mark joined the HBOS Group, now part of Lloyds Banking Group.
After serving as Group Services Director and Chief Information Officer, he then became Managing Director of Intelligent Finance.
Mark joined Northern Rock as Chief Operating Officer in 2009 and subsequently joined Virgin Money in January 2012.
8 Andrew Emuss General Counsel Andrew qualified as a solicitor in 1996.
He started his career at Clifford Chance, qualifying as a corporate lawyer, and has spent 20 years acting on corporate and capital markets deals.
He spent over ten years at Nomura and served as its Head of Corporate Development for EMEA, executing strategic deals.
Andrew joined Virgin Money as General Counsel in June 2014.
