Strategic report Principal risks continued Risk area and description Mitigation Change Global market environment Exposure to changes and events such as Whilst we continue to monitor and review competitive intelligence, increased competition and competitor wecontinue to focus on cost efficiency opportunities and on further capacity, external global economic conditions, differentiating our business by developing new growth platforms and regulatory rulings or judgements, or political continuing to move downstream beyond polymer manufacturing into environment may impact the Groups semi-finished products and components.
performance and its ability to achieve Delivery of our mega-programmes is influenced by a number of external itsstrategic objectives.
factors: however, our portfolio and product management processes are designed to accommodate these uncertainties.
Mega-programme milestones Political uncertainty, for example the impact are reported within the Financial review and Performance review Executive of Brexit, can affect decisions by our Directors' reports on pages 12 to 19. customers to invest and therefore impact demand for our products.
Whilst growth is impacted by a number of factors outside the Groups control, such as the impact of the oil price on the Energy market and the volatility in demand within the Consumer Electronics market, the diverse nature of its markets and customers and the territories in which it operates, together with appropriate contingency planning, helps to mitigate the impact on the business of such changes and events.
The UK vote to leave the EU Brexit has not had a material impact on the Groups performance in the current reporting period.
We have a central team in place to review and assess the impact as more information becomes available and we are engaging with trade associations which are in contact with government.
Our outlook by market can be found within our results presentation atwww.
Going concern and viability statement In making their assessment, the Directors have considered the Going concern Groups current strong financial position and undertaken a The Directors have performed a robust assessment, including review comprehensive sensitivity analysis over the key trading assumptions of the budget for the year ending September 2017 and longer-term combined with the potential impact ofcrystallisation of one or more strategic forecasts and plans, including consideration of the principal of the principal risks detailed on pages 22 to 24 over the five-year risks faced by the Company, as detailed on pages 22 to 24. period.
The risks have been assessed for their potential impact on the Following this review the Directors are satisfied that the Company Groups business model, future trading and funding structure.
The and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate range of scenarios tested was carefully considered by the Directors, andmeet their liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future, factoring in the potential impact, probability of occurrence and aperiod considered to be at least twelve months from the date effectiveness of the mitigating actions.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial Whilst each of the risks outlined on pages 22 to 24 has a potential statements.
Details of the Groups policy on liquidity risk and capital impact, the sensitivity analysis has been focused on those considered management are included in note 14 tothe financial statements.
to have the most significant financial impact.
These are marked as such in the table above.
In addition to the risk mitigation plans, the Viability statement Groups two distinct segments, both with diverse geographic In accordance with the provision of section C. 2.2 of the 2014 markets, assist in reducing the risk of regional economic challenges revision of the Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of and sector-specific issues.
The strategy of partnering closely with theGroup over a five-year period to September 2021, being the customers to develop the right applications and our existing and period covered by the Groups Board-approved strategic plan.
The growing list of specified products arealso important mitigants.
strategic plan, which is updated annually, includes analysis ofprofit The mitigation assessment also considered the Group's ability to raise performance including our core business and the adoption of new finance and the possibility of delaying capital programmes and or ourHorizon programmes, cash flow, investment programmes restricting shareholder returns over the viability period if required.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable The Board considers five years to be anappropriate time horizon for expectation, predicated on the assumption that an unforeseen event our strategic plan, being the period over which the Group actively outside of the Groups control for example, an event of nature or focuses onits development pipeline.
Whilst there areprojects within terror does not inhibit the Companys ability to manufacture for a the portfolio whichwill take longer to reach this point, a period sustained period, that the Group will be able to continue in operation greater than five years is considered too long given the inherent and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period.
