74 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Company Secretary Additional Directors since 31 December 2016 1 2 9 10 11 KEY Member of Member of N R Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Member of Audit Committee A Committee Chair Member of Ri Board Risk Committee 1 From 25 January 2017 2 From 1 March 2017 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 75 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 Directors 1 Glen Moreno External appointments: N Chairman Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee of Hiscox Limited, Chairman of Premium Credit Appointed: Limited and Independent Non-Executive Director of M&G January 2015 Board, May 2015 Chairman Group Limited.
Skills and experience: Glen has over 40 years experience in business and finance 4 Marilyn Spearing N A Ri R gained from senior positions in a wide range of industries.
Independent Non-Executive Director INED He was previously Chairman of Pearson plc, Deputy Appointed: Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council, and Senior January 2014 Independent Director and Deputy Chairman at Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Glen was also the Chief Executive of Fidelity Skills and experience: International Limited.
Marilyns specialist knowledge in payments, cash management and related technology platforms has been acquired over External appointments: a lengthy executive career.
She also has extensive general Non-Executive Director of Fidelity International Limited and financial services experience, particularly in managing an Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit organisational, operational and structural change.
Marilyn Committee of Promotora fide Informaciones SA.
was the Global Head of Trade Finance and Cash Management at Deutsche Bank AG and Global Head of Payments and Cash 2 Norman McLuskie N R Ri A Management at HSBC.
She also held positions on the Boards of Senior Independent Swift UK Limited and VOCA Limited.
Non-Executive Director SID External appointments: Appointed: None.
January 2010 Skills and experience: 5 Geeta Gopalan Ri A R N Norman has over 35 years of experience in financial services in Independent Non-Executive Director INED the UK listed environment.
He is a chartered accountant and Appointed: a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
He June 2015 previously held a number of Board level roles at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group RBS, including Deputy Chief Executive Skills and experience: and a Non-Executive Director of RBS Insurance.
He was also Geeta has wide-ranging experience and knowledge of the Chairman of MasterCard Europe.
financial services industry, particularly around payments and digital innovation.
Geeta was Director of Payment Services External appointments: with HBOS plc and previously Managing Director, UK Retail None.
Bank and Business Development Head EME at Citigroup.
Geeta was formerly the Chair of Monitise Europe.
She is a chartered 3 Colin Keogh N A Ri accountant.
Independent Non-Executive Director INED External appointments: Appointed: Independent Non-Executive Director of Vocalink Holdings January 2010 Limited and its subsidiary Advanced Payment Technology Skills and experience: Limited, and Non-Executive Member and Vice Chair of the Colin has an extensive knowledge of banking operations drawn England Committee of the Big Lottery Fund.
from over 30 years in financial services, during which he has held a number of senior management and board positions.
Colin was Chief Executive of Close Brothers plc.
He previously held Non-Executive Director roles at Brit SE a specialist investment company listed in Johannesburg and Luxembourg, New World Resources plc and Emerald Plantation Holdings Ltd. 76 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Board of Directors Directors and Company Secretary 6 Gordon McCallum External appointments: N 3 Non-Executive Director Trustee of Tate Government appointment, Deputy Chairman of The Great Steward of Scotlands Dumfries House Trust, Appointed: and Non-Executive Director of Scottish Business in the January 1998 3 Community.
Jayne-Anne has a number of advisory roles and Skills and experience: is the Governments Women in Finance Champion.
Gordon has extensive board, financial and management experience from a range of sectors including media, 9 Eva Eisenschimmel Ri A R N telecommunications, financial services and aviation.
As Independent Non-Executive Director INED a senior executive in the Virgin Group, he led its strategic Appointed: development from 1998 to 2012.
He was previously a January 2017 management consultant at McKinsey & Company and an investment banker at Baring Brothers in London and Asia.
Skills and experience: Eva has 30 years experience as a brand and marketing External appointments: professional.
She was previously Managing Director of Non-Executive Director at Virgin Atlantic Limited and serves Marketing, Brands and Culture at Lloyds Banking Group plc, in a Non-Executive capacity on the boards of a number of Chief Customer Officer at Regus plc, and Chief People and non-Virgin companies.
These include John Swire & Sons Brand Officer at EDF Energy.
Eva has also held senior executive Limited and Hunter Boot Limited in the UK and the Advisory positions at Allied Domecq and British Airways.
Board of Aldo Group in Canada.
He is also a Senior Advisor to private equity firm, Searchlight Capital.
External appointments: Independent Non-Executive Director of Water Plus Limited, a joint venture between Severn Trent and United Utilities.
7 Patrick McCall Non-Executive Director 10 Darren Pope Ri A R N Appointed: Independent Non-Executive Director INED January 2012 Appointed: Skills and experience: To be appointed on 1 March 2017 As a senior executive in the Virgin Group, Patrick has extensive board, financial and management experience across a range Skills and experience: of sectors including financial services, retail, travel and Darren has over 30 years experience in retail banking and healthcare.
Patrick was previously an investment banker at financial services.
He has held executive and senior roles SG Warburg.
during recent transformational projects, having taken a lead role in the design and divestment of the TSB business from External appointments: Lloyds Bank, and its subsequent IPO and takeover.
Darren was Senior Managing Director of the Virgin Group and Nonpreviously Chief Financial Officer of TSB.
Executive Director at Virgin Active, Virgin Rail Group, Virgin Trains East Coast, Virgin Galactic and OneWeb.
External appointments: Independent Non-Executive Director of Equiniti Group plc.
8 Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE Executive Director and Chief Executive 11 Katie Marshall Company Secretary Appointed: March 2007 Appointed: September 2013 Skills and experience: Jayne-Anne has nearly 30 years of experience in finance Skills and experience: and banking.
She was one of the founders of Virgin Direct, Katie joined Virgin Money in 2009, following ten years as a launching the Virgin One Account in 1998.
Following the corporate lawyer at Eversheds LLP.
Katie was appointed Company acquisition by RBS of the Virgin One Account, she went on to Secretary in September 2013.
lead a number of RBS business units, ultimately joining the RBS Retail Executive Board where she was responsible for RBSs mortgage business.
Jayne-Anne re-joined Virgin Money as Chief Executive in 2007.
3 Body not for commercial purposes.
