126 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Directors Report resources to continue to operate for a period of at least Corporate governance report twelve months from the date of approval of this report, the The Corporate Governance Report found on pages 79 Directors have considered a number of key dependencies to 104, together with this report of which it forms part, which are set out in the Risk Overview and Risk Management fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Governance Report sections under Principal Risks on pages 48 to 51 and Statement for the purpose of the Disclosure Guidance and 138, Funding and Liquidity on page 50 and pages 177 to 187 Transparency Rules DTR.
and Capital Position on pages 187 to 192, and additionally have considered projections for the Company and the Groups capital and funding position.
Results Having considered these and made appropriate enquiries, The consolidated income statement shows a profit before tax the Directors consider that the Company and Group have for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 194.4m.
adequate resources to continue in business for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of this report.
Dividends As a result, it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Following the approval of the 2015 final dividend by shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM, a final dividend of 3.1 pence per ordinary share was paid on Viability statement 25May 2016 to those shareholders registered at the close of In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code business on 15 April 2016. requirement, the Directors have assessed the viability of the On 26 July 2016, the Board announced that it had declared and Group, taking into account its current position, the Boards approved an interim dividend of 1.6 pence per ordinary share assessment of the Groups prospects and the potential impact which was paid on 23 September 2016 to those shareholders of the principal risks and uncertainties the Group faces, which registered at the close of business on 12 August 2016. are set out on pages 48 to 51.
The Directors have determined that a three year period to 31 December 2019 constitutes an On 27 February 2017, the Board recommended a final dividend appropriate period over which to perform this assessment in of 3.5 pence per ordinary share in respect of the financial line with the Boards strategic planning horizon.
We believe this year ended 31 December 2016 which will, subject to approval presents a reasonable degree of confidence, while providing a by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, be payable on 10 May longer term perspective.
Further information on dividends is shown in note 11 of the Financial Statements and is incorporated into this In making this statement, the Board has considered the principal report by reference.
and emerging risks facing the Group, including those that could threaten the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, such as changes in the macro-economic Post balance sheet events environment and the macro-structural landscape.
The Groups There have been no material post balance sheet events.
capital and liquidity ratios, including the CET1, total capital and leverage ratios, have been assessed in comparison to risk appetite, early warning indicators and regulatory minima.
Going concern As described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages The going concern basis of the Company and the Group is 79 to 104 and the Risk Management Report on pages 132 to dependent on successfully funding the balance sheet and 192, the Board monitored the effectiveness of the Groups maintaining adequate levels of capital.
In order to satisfy risk management and internal control systems over the themselves that the Company and the Group have adequate Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 127 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 course of the year.
The monitoring and review covered Information relevant to the Boards assessment of viability can all material controls, including financial, operational and be found on the following pages: compliance controls.
the Groups principal activities, business model and strategy The Board considers at least annually, and monitors on an are described in the Strategic Report on pages 32 and 33: ongoing basis its strategic plan.
This plan is stress tested and the Groups emerging risks are disclosed on includes a review of the sensitivity of the Group to business as pages 136 and 137: usual risks and other, severe but plausible events.
The Board also considers the ability of the Group to raise finance and the Groups principal risks, including mitigating actions, key deploy capital.
These results take account of the availability risk indicators and areas of future focus, are described on and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could pages 48 to 51: and be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the the Groups approach to stress testing and reverse stress underlying risk.
testing, including both regulatory and internal stresses, is described on page 135.
As part of the Groups stress testing work, which includes the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment ICAAP and Internal On the basis of this assessment, the Directors confirm they have Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAAP, the Group performs reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue a wide range of severe macro-economic, idiosyncratic and in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due in the period income stress tests, the most material of which relate to rising to 31 December 2019. unemployment, increased base rate and a reduction in HPI.
The results of this stress testing show that sufficient capital is held to cover the stress scenarios and liquidity, both in Directors amount and quality.
Supporting capital and funding plans are The names and biographical details of the current Directors, developed to survive the impact of the stress scenarios over the who, other than Eva Eisenschimmel, all served throughout planning horizon.
the year, are shown on pages 75 and 76.
Particulars of their emoluments and interests in shares in the Company are given on pages 108 to 125 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2016, and up to the date of this report, are shown in the table below.
Further details of Board changes can be found on page 84 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Name Role Date of appointment Eva Eisenschimmel Independent Non-Executive Director 25 January 2017 Appointment and retirement of Directors Directors indemnities The appointment, retirement and or replacement of Directors The Directors have entered into individual deeds of indemnity is governed by the Articles of Association of the Company with the Group which constitute qualifying third party Articles, the 2014 Edition of the UK Corporate Governance indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Act.
The deeds Code Code and the Companies Act 2006 Act.
The indemnify the Directors to the maximum extent permitted Articles may be amended only by a special resolution of the by law and remain in force for the duration of a Directors shareholders in a general meeting.
period of office and for a six-year period thereafter.
The deeds were in force during the whole of the financial year.
All Directors appointed to the Board since the 2016 AGM Deeds for existing Directors are available for inspection at will stand for election by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
In the Companys registered office.
In addition, the Group had the interests of good governance, all of the other Directors appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance cover in will also retire and those wishing to serve again will submit place throughout 2016. themselves for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
128 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Directors Report Internal control and financial risk Share capital, control and Directors powers management Information about share capital, restrictions on the transfer of shares or voting rights, and special rights with regard to Information about internal controls and financial risk control of the Company is shown in note 28 to the Financial management systems in relation to financial reporting, as well Statements and is incorporated into this report by reference.
as the Boards review of these, can be found on pages 98 to 100 of the Audit Committee Report.
The Company operates an employee benefit trust EBT, which holds ordinary shares on trust for the benefit of employees Information about financial risk management objectives and and former employees of the Group, and their dependents, policies in relation to the use of financial instruments can be and which is used in conjunction with the Groups employee found in the Risk Management Report beginning on page 132. share schemes.
Whilst ordinary shares are held in the EBT, the Both of these sections of the Annual Report and Accounts are voting rights in respect of these ordinary shares are exercised incorporated into this report by reference.
by the trustees of the EBT.
The powers of the Directors, including in relation to the issue Information included in the Strategic Report or buy back of the Companys shares, are set out in the Act and in the Articles.
The Directors were granted authorities to issue The following information that would otherwise be required to and allot shares and to buy back shares at the 2016 AGM.
be disclosed in this report, and which is incorporated into this report by reference, can be found on the following pages of Shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities taking the Strategic Report: into account the latest institutional shareholder guidelines at the 2017 AGM.
Subject matter Page reference The Company did not repurchase any of the issued ordinary Future developments 32 to 43 shares during 2016 and up to the date of this report or in 2015.
Employment of disabled persons 36 Colleague engagement 36 and 37 Substantial shareholders Emissions reporting 42 and 43 Information provided to the Company by substantial shareholders pursuant to the DTR is published via a Disclosure of information under Listing Rule Regulatory Information Service.
4R the Company has been notified under DTR Rule 5 of the interests in its issued share capital as set out below.
All such Additional information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R, share capital has the right to vote in all circumstances at where applicable to the Group, can be found on the following general meetings.
pages of this report: Subject matter Page reference Relationship agreement 90 Publication of unaudited financial 139 information Dividend waivers Note 11 and Pg 232 Allotment of equity securities Note 28 and Pg 244 Allotment of other equity securities Note 29 and Pg 245 ATIissuance Significant contracts Note 36 and Pg 253 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 129 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 Direct As at 31 December 2016 Ordinary % of voting indirect Shareholder shares held rights interest Virgin Group Holdings Limited 155,120,454 34.86% Direct Kames Capital LLC 22,404,747 5.04% Direct Indirect York Capital Management Global Advisors, LLC 18,482,971 4.15% Indirect Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 28,777,913 6.47% Indirect Prudential plc 14,003,154 3.15% Indirect In the period from 31 December 2016 to the date of this There are no agreements between Virgin Money and its report, the Company has received notifications from Standard Directors or employees which provide compensation for Life Investments Holdings Limited and the Prudential plc loss of office or loss of employment that occurs because of group of companies.
As at the date of this report, those a takeover bid.
notifications indicate that Standard Life Investments In the event of a takeover or other change of control Holdings Limited shareholding is 44,666,748 Ordinary excluding an internal reorganisation, outstanding awards Shares representing 10.04% of the total voting rights under the Groups share plans vest to the extent any attached to issued share capital and the Prudential plc group applicable performance conditions have been met, and of companies shareholding is 16,018,229 representing 3.60% subject to applicable time pro-rating, in accordance with the of the total voting rights attached to issued share capital.
Change of control Research and development activities The Company is not a party to any significant contracts Virgin Money does not undertake formal research and that are subject to change of control provisions in the event development activities although it does invest in the of a takeover bid, other than the Virgin Money Trademark development of platforms and products.
This is the agreement under which Virgin Enterprises Limited VEL grants a perpetual licence to Virgin Money providing the right to use the Virgin and Virgin Money trademarks.
VEL has the right to terminate the agreement in the event of a change of control, other than a change of control pre-approved by VEL.
VEL shall be entitled to withhold consent only in the event of a takeover by a third party who, in VELs reasonable opinion, is a direct competitor of VEL or any Virgin entity in the UK, or whose reputation or financial standing is reasonably likely to damage materially the value or reputation of the Virgin brand.
130 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Directors Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Statement of Directors responsibilities records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at and the Group and parent company financial statements in any time, the financial position of the parent company and enable accordance with applicable law and regulations.
them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Act.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance on the same basis.
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and the corporate and financial information included on the Groups fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company, website, virginmoney.
Legislation in the UK governing the and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors from legislation in other jurisdictions.
are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 131 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 77 Corporate Governance Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 105 Directors Report 126 2 52 132 193 Responsibility statement of the Directors in Independent auditors and audit information respect of the Annual Financial Report Each of the current Directors, who is in office at the date of Each of the current Directors, who is in office at the date of this this report and whose name is listed on pages 75 and 76, report and whose name is listed on pages 75 and 76, confirms that confirms that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no to the best of his or her knowledge: relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors,  LLP, is unaware and that they have the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted consolidation taken as a whole: and in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of of the development and performance of the business and the  LLP as auditors and authorising the position of the Company and Group together with a description Audit Committee to set the auditors remuneration will be of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, On behalf of the Board: taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Katie Marshall Company Secretary 27 February 2017 Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Registered No.
03087587 132 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Risk Management Report 133 The Groups approach to risk management 135 Risk management framework 136 Emerging risks 139 Risk classes 140 Full analysis of risk classes Virgin Money Lounge, Edinburgh
