30 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Market overview As a UK retail bank focused on serving domestic customers As a UK retail bank we are focused on the decision to exit the EU does not directly impact on serving domestic customers and continue our business.
We have however, implemented monitoring to support and benefit from the robust UK activities and established contingency plans to mitigate economy and housing market.
against a deterioration in the macro-economic environment, should it materialise.
UK economy Based on the HM Treasury consensus view, which we use and The UK economy showed considerable momentum in the first consider in our strategic planning, we believe the most likely half of the year and has shown significant resilience since.
outlook is slightly slower GDP growth in 2017, compared The vote to leave the European Union initially cast a shadow to 2016.
The current consensus for 2017 GDP growth over the countrys growth prospects and its position in the is 1.4 per cent.
Housing and mortgages Despite the volatility, uncertainty and fears of a recession in During 2016, household spending remained resilient and the the immediate aftermath of the referendum, the Office for housing market was stable.
National Statistics ONS estimated that the economy grew by 0.6 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2016, with robust The Council of Mortgage Lenders CML estimates that consumer demand and the expansion of the services sector gross mortgage lending for 2016 was 245 billion, an 11 per underpinning the economy.
The UK economy grew by 2 per cent increase on 2015 and the highest annual gross lending cent in 2016, down from 2.2 per cent in 2015. figure since 2008.
Given the period of uncertainty after the EU referendum, the The resilience of the UK economy, strong employment levels Bank of England announced a package of measures in August and low mortgage rates continue to support customer 2016 to support the economy, including a cut in the Bank Base affordability.
Developments in the housing market and Rate to the historic low of 0.25 per cent.
consumption are closely linked given decisions to consume or To help reinforce the transmission of the rate cut and ensure buy property are driven by common factors such as confidence that households, firms and the real economy would benefit, and income growth.
the Monetary Policy Committee MPC launched the Term The current benign environment, with lower-for-longer Funding Scheme TFS to provide funding for banks at interest interest rates and rising house prices, combined with the rates close to Bank Base Rate.
consistent application of our prudent underwriting criteria, Supported by the measures announced by the MPC and more contributed to our low arrears performance and low cost positive economic activity indicators, financial conditions and of risk in 2016. asset prices recovered from the deterioration seen straight The Governments housing agenda is targeting several key after the Brexit vote and shored up consumer confidence.
segments including shared ownership and starter homes.
This will give supply-side support to stock and transaction UK unemployment fell to 1.6 million in December 2016 the growth.
The CML expects gross lending of 248 billion in lowest level since September 2005.
The number of people in 2017, which reflects general economic uncertainty as well as jobs remains at its highest ever level of 31.8 million.
regulatory changes in the housing and mortgage markets.
Although the UK economy performed better than expected after the EU referendum, economic prospects are likely to Buy-to-let transactions may cool slightly in 2017 given the remain uncertain until a clear picture emerges regarding Brexit changes to the tax regime, both those implemented, such plans and future trading arrangements.
as the extra 3 per cent in stamp duty from April 2016, and forthcoming changes to mortgage interest tax relief from Headwinds to economic growth include higher inflation and April 2017.
While lenders have tightened underwriting stagnant wage growth.
According to the ONS, rising air fares practices and affordability criteria recently, the fundamental and food prices helped to push the annual rate of Consumer consumer demand for rented accommodation remains strong, Prices Index CPI inflation to 1.6 per cent in December 2016, and this will continue to underpin this segment of the market.
its highest rate since July 2014.
Consumer-led growth in the UK economy is likely to be tempered by higher inflation and growing household debt weighing on consumer spending.
Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report V i r g i n M o n e y L o u n g e, S h e ffi e l d Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 31 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 Overall, we anticipate house purchase transactions to remain Government policy, including increased ISA limits, the new broadly flat, remortgage activity to grow as customers personal savings allowance, Help to Buy ISA and reduced take advantage of price incentives to get a better deal and pension tax relief should continue to increase the relative buy-to-let to see modest growth, primarily as a result of attractiveness of cash savings.
The lower-for-longer interest environment is challenging for savers.
We take our responsibility to our savings customers Savings very seriously and aim to offer them both competitive and During 2016, the UK savings market continued to grow.
There fair rates in the context of prevailing market conditions.
was a substantial increase in activity immediately before and after the EU referendum, as households held more savings to protect against future uncertainty.
The potential for higher inflation, lower employment levels, and subdued wage growth is likely to put pressure on household disposable incomes which could impact savings levels in 2017.
