Strategic report Our markets and megatrends Sizeable growth opportunities With long-term megatrends in our favour, we have astrong anddiverse mix of growth opportunities across our key markets.
MARKETS MEGATRENDS CONSEQUENCES OUR OPPORTUNITIES Fuel efficiency and durability Emissions reduction Lightweight metal replacement designchallenges Fuel efficiency, safety and reliability VICTREX PEEK enables lightweighting improvements resulting from andreliability via metalreplacement and Energy efficiency and durability  trends.
iskey to meeting thecomplex challenges areprimarystrategic imperatives ofnext-generation Automotive fortheAutomotive industry.
ABS braking systems, gears and transmission systems arekey application areas.
Fly lighter Weight, cost reduction Lightweight metal replacement andfuelefficiency Lighter weight and more efficient VICTREX PEEK helps Aerospace manufacturing means fuel saving lightweightingvia metal replacement Weight, cost reduction and improved fuel astrategic imperative for the andiskey to driving improved fuel efficiency areprimary strategic drivers Aerospaceindustry.
Aerospace Our materials can also provide more efficient manufacturing.
Natural resource depletion Extreme environments Recover more Increasing demand for and depletion Deeper, hotter, higher pressure and Reliable, safe and high yield operations ofexisting resources driveexploration chemically aggressive wells must areenabled using VICTREX PEEK-based .
betappedto reach new reserves, solutions in exploration and production tooling.
Energy Thinner, smaller, smarter Energy and thermal High durability, managementchallenges thinfilmtechnology The need for instant access to communication and information Increased functionality and miniaturisation Victrex materials, such as PEEK resin, onthemove is driving trends create challenges for mobile device PEEKblends and our Aptiv acoustic film formobiledevices.
performance as well asenergy and technology, create design opportunities by Electronics thermalmanagement.
virtue of their durability in todays thinner, smaller, smartermobile devices.
Ageing global population Joint replacement High performance solutions andpainmanagement whichenable device innovation People are living longer and have astrongdesire to maintain their quality Extended life expectancy results in an Invibio provides solutions for the Medical oflife intheirelderly years.
increasing need toreplace worn out body market that can be used inaminimally parts or to alleviate pain inorderto resume disruptive manner, enhancing clinical Medical normal activities.
Our solutions are also being new solutions in core markets, such as developed forDental, Trauma and Knee.
Spine, and inemerging markets, such as Knee, Trauma and Dental, remains strong.
04 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Medical Industrial Strategic report MARKETS MEGATRENDS CONSEQUENCES OUR OPPORTUNITIES Fuel efficiency and durability Emissions reduction Lightweight metal replacement designchallenges Fuel efficiency, safety and reliability VICTREX PEEK enables lightweighting improvements resulting from andreliability via metalreplacement and Energy efficiency and durability  trends.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 05 MOVE DOWNSTREAM Strategic report Our business model 3.
C REATE FUTUREVALUE u Selected product forms semi-finished 1.
DRIVE CORE BUSINESS u Downstream manufacturing PEEK and PAEK polymers u u Pipes, films andcomposites Core applications u No.
1 upstream u manufacturing capacity of7,150 tonnes Cost efficiency u 2.
DIFFERENTIATE THROUGH INNOVATION Core application u development pipeline Invent and develop u newgrades  u Although we have a focused and differentiated Looking ahead, our innovation programmes Innovate strategy, and not all PEEK is the same with are focused on fourmain areas: the characteristics, quality and repeatability 1 DRIVE core business: core applications to grow in a competitive market of our products having been specified by OEMs 2 DIFFERENTIATE through innovation: over many years in critical applications, we coreapplication development pipeline remain mindful of competition in core polymer Victrexs strategy is to be the world leader in manufacturing.
Innovating and further 3 CREATE future value: new product forms high performance PEEK and PAEK polymer differentiating our business in a competitive solutions.
With over 7,000 tonnes of polymer 4 CREATE future value: mega-programmes market will provide a more sustainable manufacturing capacity, unique downstream Innovating to grow in a competitive market platform for long-term growth.
Innovating manufacturing assets, aproven history means increasing our differentiation by moving to grow beyond core polymer manufacturing ofinnovation, technical excellence and further downstream into selected semi-finished requires increased specialisation, and will help developing new applications and over and finished products, components, new Victrex to stand out as the company building 700people focused on our polymers, grades, product forms and composites.
the high performance polymer market.
Innovating to grow beyond core polymer manufacturing will, we believe, help to further transition our business and drive long-term value for our shareholders.
06 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report AEROSPACE AUTOMOTIVE 4.
CREATE FUTURE VALUE u Selected components semi-finished and finished u Downstream manufacturing MEDICAL u Deliver mega-programmes u Polymer to parts ENERGY ELECTRONICS END MARKETS Shape future performance u Solutions provider u Pipeline programmes offering 50m annual revenue potential in peak sales year.
MEGA-PROGRAMMES NEW GRADES AND PRODUCT FORMS CORE APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE TODAY CORE APPLICATIONS Time Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 07 FROM POLYMER TO PARTS Growth INNOVATION Strategic report Our strategy Moving beyond the polymer Victrexs strategy is to be the world leader in value creation through high performance PEEK and PAEK-based polymer solutions.
FROM POLYMER TO PARTS Our product leadership strategy will further differentiate our usdeliver first meaningful revenue of over 1m for our Magma Oil & Gas business.
Moving downstream beyond the polymer into selected project.
We continue to focus on opportunities for acceleration of all our semi-finished and finished products and components will shape mega-programmes, whether through investment in M&A to acquire future performance for our customers and our markets, and drive technical and design expertise as in the case of our Kleiss Gears value for our shareholders.
acquisition last year, organic investment, or partnerships or licensing agreements to secure know-how or capability to drive market adoption.
Make versus Buy remains a key consideration in our strategy.
Investment case A world leader: building the PEEK PAEK market We now have several downstream manufacturing assets, including u Film in Electronics, Aerospace and Automotive, Trauma plates in u A focused and differentiated strategy: Medical, Pipe for Oil & Gas and Aerospace, and Composites capability.
movingdownstream Whilst we recently completed our major capital expenditure programme, Strong pipeline of medium to long-term u our highly cash-generative business model means we will continue growthopportunities to consider investments in support of our downstream journey.
u Highly cash generative business model Moving downstream: delivering our strategy Victrex has a proven track record in building markets and driving Moving downstream: further differentiating adoption of new technology: for example, we developed a 50m ourbusiness Medical business.
Looking ahead, long-term megatrends remain strong, In a competitive market, further differentiating our business remains although we are mindful of the execution risks to drive adoption key.
Maximising our core polymer business of today means focusing ofour mega-programmes and deliver our strategy, whether this on our core application development pipeline and partnering with istechnological change, recruiting and retaining the right people ourcustomers and end users to gain specification for our products andcapability, or impacts from the global market environment.
Developing new grades and new product forms Further detail on these risks are set out on pages 22 to 24. supported by our Polymer Innovation Centre, which commenced construction this year will also help to drive medium-term growth and differentiate our business.
Continuing to focus on cost efficiency To support delivery of our strategy we will focus on three key and supply chain opportunities in our business will also remain Company priorities: important for Victrex.
Remaining cost competitive in our manufacturing Growth and innovation and supply chain, whilst retaining the differentiators in our polymer u Maximise our core applications and development pipeline chemistry and technical excellence will be a priority.
Accelerate new product forms, new grades and u For tomorrows business, beyond manufacturing polymers, Victrex mega-programmes stands out as the company which will expand the PEEK and PAEK Cost effectiveness market moving downstream beyond the polymer into selected Low cost manufacturing u downstream semi-finished and finished products and components.
u Become a more efficient and effective organisation Moving downstream also offers Victrex the opportunity to not only further differentiate versus the competition, but to capture increased People, processes and systems value from each application opportunity and deliver an appropriate u A safe and rewarding environment return.
An example is Aptiv film, where we can command a higher Recruit and retain the right talent u value share by manufacturing a product form film that is one step u Utilise world-class systems and processes beyond simply selling materials.
Other more recent examples include pipe and composites, whilst, for the medium to longer term, we are progressing semi-finished products and components in both the We remain confident in our strategy.
We will continue to invest as Industrial and Medical markets.
we move further downstream, innovating beyond the polymer to underpin our long-term growth opportunities.
Moving downstream: making steady progress The Strategic report on pages 8 to 36 is signed on behalf of the Board.
Victrex continues to make steady progress moving downstream, although we are mindful that the often disruptive nature of our technology can take time to gain full market acceptance, even if technically proven.
Within our pipeline, several of our programmes David Hummel offer a potential peak year revenue of more than 50m.
2016saw Chief Executive 6 December 2016 08 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016
