Corporate governance Board of Directors N A N R Larry Pentz Pamela Kirby David Hummel Chairman BS ChE MBA Non-executive Director BSc PhD Chief Executive BSc Larry Pentz was appointed to the Board in Pamela Kirby was appointed to the Board David Hummel assumed responsibility for 2008 and became Chairman in 2014.
Larry in2011 and Senior Independent Director in VICTREX PEEK worldwide in 1992 and has isChairman of the Nominations Committee.
Pamela has detailed knowledge more than 25 years of experience of the global Larry hasover 30 years service within of the international pharmaceutical industry, high performance polymer industry.
Formerly multi-national corporations in a variety and was formerly CEO of Quintiles Transnational with Diamond Shamrock, GE Plastics and ICI, ofoperational and general management Corp based in North Carolina, USA.
Pamela has David was appointed to the Board in 1993 positions.
Larry has extensive experience in also held a number of other senior positions following his leading of the successful MBO developing strategy for and successfully leading inthe international pharmaceutical industry ofVictrex from ICI.
He has served as CEO of international growth businesses.
He has been including AstraZeneca PLC where she was a Victrex since that time, overseeing strategic instrumental in the acquisition and integration regional director and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. decision making and day to day management of multiple catalyst and chemical companies where she was director of strategic marketing and leadership of the business.
for JohnsonMatthey Plc, and was formerly and business development.
Pamela was previously executive director responsible for chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited and EmissionControl Technologies of Scynexis Inc, and non-executive director of JohnsonMatthey Plc.
Novo Nordisk A S and Smith & Nephew plc.
Larry retired as an executive director Pamela is a non-executive director of DCC plc, ofJohnsonMatthey Plc during 2016 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc and Reckitt Benckiser whereheheld board-level responsibility for Group plc, and serves on the supervisory board JohnsonMattheys Process Technologies of Akzo Nobel.
Louisa Burdett Tim Cooper Martin Court Group Finance Director BSc ACA Executive Director BA Executive Director BSc Eng PhD Louisa Burdett was appointed as Group Finance Tim Cooper was appointed as an Executive Martin Court was appointed to the Board as an Director in February 2014.
Louisa also has overall Director to the Board in October 2012.
Tim Executive Director in April 2015.
Martin joined responsibility for the Group Legal function, as joined Victrex in January 2010 as Managing Victrex in February 2013 as Managing Director well as the Company Secretarial function.
Louisa Director of Victrex Polymer Solutions.
Tim of Invibio, Victrexs medical business.
Martin formerly held the position of chief financial officer hasover 30 years of international business has significant proven international experience and was an executive director at Optos plc.
management and commercial experience, in the medical and high performance materials Priorto this, Louisa was chief financial officer having held senior leadership positions in and chemicals industries, including with at the Financial Times Group from 2008 to 2012. anumber of industries.
Prior to joining the CytecIndustries, and in a number of senior Louisa has also held roles at Chep Europe, a Victrex business, Tim was with Umeco Plc, roles atboth ICI and UCB.
He is an INSEAD division of Brambles Ltd, the Australian listed initially as managing director of Aerovac alumnus, holds a doctorate in the field of pallet distribution company, GE Healthcare and Systems Ltd, but later becoming group surface chemistry and fracture mechanics and GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Louisahas also worked as managing director of Umeco Composites aBSc Eng degree in mineral technology an M&A Consultant at Charterhouse Bank and Process Materials.
He has been managing fromImperial College ofScience and spent four years atKPMG in London.
director of Tellermate Plc and of Avery Technology, London.
BerkelLtd, having developed his international She has a first class degree in biochemistry career with GEC, BP and Land Rover.
from Imperial College, London and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
38 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance KEY TO COMMITTEES A A A Audit Committee N N N Nominations Committee R R R Remuneration Committee Patrick fide Smedt Andrew Dougal Non-executive Director BSc MSc Non-executive Director B Acc CA Patrick fide Smedt was appointed to the Andrew Dougal was appointed to the Board in Boardin 2008.
Patrick is Chairman of the March 2015 and was appointed Audit Committee Remuneration Committee.
Between 1983 and Chairman effective from October 2015.
Andrew 2006, Patrick held a number of senior positions is aChartered Accountant and brings a wealth in Microsoft, during which time he founded of experience to the Board, from a lengthy the Benelux subsidiaries, led the development executive and non-executive career of over of the Western European business and in the 35years in industrial, manufacturing and period 2003 and 2006 served as chairman of services companies.
Microsoft for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Andrew is a non-executive director and Patrick has previously worked withearly Chairofthe Audit Committee at Carillionplc.
stageventures as well as large, established Hewas previously a non-executive director and multi-nationals.
He has a deepknowledge of Audit Committee Chair of Taylor Woodrow Plc, international markets, technologyand diverse Taylor Wimpey Plc and Creston Plc and industry sectors.
anon-executive director of BPB Plc and Patrick is senior independent director PremierFarnell plc.
Formerly, Andrew served as atPageGroup plc, KCOM Group plc Chief Executive of Hanson plc, the international andMorganSindall Group plc, where building materials group, following its demerger heisalsochairman ofthe remuneration from Hanson, the Anglo-American conglomerate, committee.
He is a non-executive director where he was finance director.
 Limited and Andrew is a member of the Council of NexintoHolding Ltd. theInstitute of Chartered Accountants ofScotland ICAS.
A N R Jane Toogood Non-executive Director MA Hons Jane Toogood was appointed to the Board inSeptember 2015.
Jane has a wealth of experience across a number of senior marketing, sales and business development roles within theglobal chemical industry, including Borealis, ICIand Uniqema, and held anon-executive directorrole with NHS Harrogate and DistrictFoundation Trust.
Jane holds an MA in natural sciences chemistry from the University of Oxford.
Jane is Divisional Director, Precious Metal Products at Johnson Matthey Plc.
