s e u g a e C l l o o r C p o r a t e p a s r t r e n e m r s o t s u C 32 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Business model and strategy Our business model Our ambition to make 'everyone better off' is at the heart of our business model.
By leveraging our strategic assets and capabilities we aim to deliver good value to our customers, treat colleagues well, build positive and mutually beneficial relationships with our corporate partners, make a positive contribution to society and deliver solid doubledigit returns for shareholders.
We benefit from ongoing operational leverage.
Strong cost Company, Customers, Colleagues, discipline, operational efficiency and leverage minimises cost Corporate Partners and Community: growth.
Maximising operational leverage creates value for Our powerful brand and EBO ethos differentiate everyone it flows through into pricing efficiency, shareholder us strongly in the market.
We are well returns, our capacity to invest in good causes and the positioned to continue disrupting the market sustainability of our business model.
and compete effectively with the major Our EBO culture sustains a virtuous circle based on a commitment incumbent banks.
to the communities in which we work and raises awareness of the Our experienced management team and highlyVirgin Money brand and business as a force for good.
engaged colleagues underpin our differentiated approach to banking.
Core strengths of our operating model We continue to protect our unique position as a low risk UK retail bank, unburdened by legacy conduct issues.
As a result, we aim to offer good value, straightforward and transparent BALANCE SHEET POWERFUL BRAND STRENGTH WITHMASS APPEAL products, supported by prudent underwriting and outstanding customer service.
Our customers want to be able to access our STRONG FOCUS ON EBO OPERATIONAL LEVERAGE CULTURE & COLLEAGUE products when, where and how they like and & COST DISCIPLINE ENGAGEMENT our focus on constantly improving our digital journeys across all platforms reflects this.
We continue to protect our high-quality SCALE & STRAIGHTFORWARD COMMERCIAL & TRANSPARENT balancesheet.
The application of strict AGILITY PRODUCT DESIGN underwriting and our data driven approach torisk management supports controlled EBO and high-quality asset growth.
We are DATA DRIVEN RISK LOW RISK unburdenedby legacy conduct issues that MANAGEMENT UK RETAIL BANK continue to weigh down other UK banks.
Our size and scale is a competitive advantage.
We are big enough to compete strongly and - MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL CUSTOMER FOCUSED take our planned share in our core markets PARTNERSHIPS OUTCOMES and more agile than the major banks.
Our strategic commercial approach and agility allows us to optimise business volume and mix MULTI-CHANNEL VIRGIN MONEY GIVING and selectively target growth opportunities & VIRGIN MONEY DISTRIBUTION FOUNDATION in specific value accretive market segments, according to customer needs and prevailing economic and market conditions.
C o m m y u n n i a t i p e m s o C Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 33 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 Our strategy Progress in 2016 Strategic intent Continued to deliver strong growth across core markets Growth We have: Delivering sustainable growth Delivered a strong gross mortgage lending performance of 8.4 billion, We will continue to grow our customer base and balance sheet 12 per cent higher than in 2015, and a net lending performance of 4.3 strongly within our existing risk appetite.
We focus on prime billion, 20 per cent higher than 2015: mortgage business and target 3 to 3.5 per cent of high-quality gross mortgage lending, ahead of our market share of stock.
We will Achieved 17 per cent growth in mortgage balances to 29.7 billion: maintain the application of strict underwriting standards to protect asset quality as we progress towards our target of 3 billion credit Achieved 55 per cent growth in credit card balances, representing card balances by the end of 2017.
We will continue to increase the a 3.5 per cent share of the 68 billion card market: penetration of our insurance, investment and financial services to Increased deposit balances by 12 per cent to 28.1 billion, demonstrating our existing customer base, acquire new customers and explore the strength of our franchise: and the significant potential for further growth in this business line.
Our customers want to be able to access our products when, where Increased our customer base by 15 per cent to 3.3 million customers.
and how they like and our focus on constantly improving our digital capability across all platforms reflects this.
Maintained excellent asset quality Quality We have: Maintaining our high-quality balance sheet Maintained the excellent quality of our mortgage portfolio: Maintaining our high-quality balance sheet is at the core of our strategy.
Our approach to risk management is based on rigorous Mortgages over three months in arrears of 0.15 per cent compared and continuous data analysis and takes a far-sighted approach with latest industry average of 1.00 per cent to asset quality, including strict affordability metrics and prudent The average loan-to-value of the overall portfolio is now 55.4 per cent.
Supported by our risk appetite and strong risk culture, we maintain stringent control over a range of criteria The average loan-to-value of our buy-to-let book is now 54.8 per cent including, credit scoring, customer indebtedness, geographic Maintained the high quality of our credit card book: concentration, business mix and loan-to-value ratios for mortgages.
We are proud of our unique position as a customerCredit card balances two or more payments in arrears of 0.78 per cent, focused, low risk UK retail bank, unburdened by legacy conduct compared with latest industry average of 2.4 per cent issues and we will continue to protect that position and provide our customers with good value, straightforward and transparent Maintained our low cost of risk at 13bps reflecting excellent asset quality.
products, supported by outstanding customer service.
Delivered a 33 per cent increase in underlying PBT Returns We have: Improving returns to shareholders Reduced our average weighted cost of funds to 130bps from 143bps in Our disciplined pursuit of growth and continuing operational 2015, resulting in a net interest margin of 160bps for 2016: leverage are at the heart of our strategy to generate strong and sustainable returns for shareholders.
We will maintain a Limited underlying cost growth during the year to 1 per cent, reflecting consistently low appetite for risk, continue our resolute focus our operating leverage and stringent cost management: on cost management and operational efficiency and explore opportunities for further growth in our financial services business.
Improved our cost:income ratio to 57.2 per cent, from 63.5 per cent in 2015: Delivered a 33 per cent increase in underlying profit before tax as a result of strong growth in lending, excellent asset quality and strong customer satisfaction and retention: Delivered statutory profit before tax of 194.4 million, compared to 138.0 million in 2015: and Strengthened our return on tangible equity from 10.9 per cent to 12.4 per cent as a result of the successful delivery of our business plan for 2016.
