Corporate governance Directors report Other statutory information The Directors present the Annual Report and Financial Statements toshareholders for the year ended 30 September 2016.
Principal activity Rights and obligations attaching to shares The Company is a public limited company, incorporated in England, The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends registration number 2793780.
The principal activity of the Company when declared, to receive the Companys Annual Report, to attend is that of a holding company.
The principal activity of the Group is and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies the manufacture and sale of high performance polymers.
and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of Strategic Report ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval to any The Strategic Report required by the Companies Act 2006 can be transfer except where the Company has exercised its right to suspend found on pages 2 to 36.
The report sets out the business model their voting rights, withhold a dividend or prohibit their transfer andstrategy, contains a review of the business and describes the following failure by the member or any other person appearing to development and performance of the Groups business during the beinterested in the shares to provide the Company with information financial year and the position at the end of the financial year.
It also requested under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors contains a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing may, in certain circumstances, also refuse to register the transfer the Group.
ofashare in certified form which is not fully paid up, where the instrument of transfer does not comply with the requirements of the Research and development Articles of Association, or if entitled to do so under the Uncertificated The Groups spend on research and development is disclosed in note Securities Regulations 2001.
No shares carry any special rights with 9.
Such information is incorporated into this report by reference and regard to control of the Company and there are no restrictions on is deemed to form part of this report.
voting rights except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid and except also where the Company suspends voting rights as referred Results and dividends toabove in the event of non-disclosure of an interest as permitted by Group profit after tax for the year was 82.5m 2015: 83.5m.
There are no known agreements between The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 35.09p holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of per ordinary share that, subject to shareholder approval at the Companys securities or on voting rights and no known arrangements under Annual General Meeting being held on 8 February 2017, will be paid which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder on 17 February 2017 to all shareholders on the register of members oftheshares.
Together with the interim dividend Shares acquired by employees under employee share schemes rank paid in July 2016, this makes a total regular dividend of 46.82p equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
perordinary share for the year 2015: 46.82p per ordinary share.
The Company has established employee benefit trusts EBTs in Own shares held connection with the obligation to satisfy future share awards under As at the date of this report, the Company does not hold any shares certain employee share incentive schemes.
The trustees of the EBTs have asTreasury Shares.
Details of the Companys share capital are given waived their rights to receive dividends on those ordinary shares of the in note 18 to the financial statements.
A summary of the Directors Company held in the EBTs.
Such waivers represent less than 1% ofthe powers in relation to buying back shares is set out below in the total dividend payable on the Companys ordinary shares.
paragraph entitled Powers of the Directors in relation to share capital.
As part of routine resolutions which are proposed to shareholders, the Post balance sheet events Directors will be seeking to renew the authority allowing the Company There have been no post balance sheet events that either require to purchase its own shares, which is set out in Resolution 20 of the adjustment to the financial statements or are important in the notice of the AGM and which can be found on page 101. understanding of the Companys current position, financial No market purchases of the Companys own shares were made performance or results.
Related party transactions A total of 222,070 ordinary shares are held by the EBTs in order During the year ended 30 September 2016, the Company did not tosatisfy the exercise of options by Directors under the Companys have any material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
No shares were purchased with, and did not make loans to, related parties in which any bythe EBTs in the financial year to 30 September 2016.
The Directors Director has or had a material interest.
are beneficiaries of the EBTs.
Share capital AGM The Company has a single class of shares in the form of ordinary The notice of the 2017 AGM of the Company and explanatory notes shares with a nominal value of 1 pence per share which are listed are given on pages 100 to 107. onthe premium segment of the Official List maintained by the UKListing Authority.
Details of the Companys share capital and reserves for own shares are given in note 18.
During the year 76,773shares were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share schemes.
Details of these schemes are summarised in note 17.
The information in notes 17 and 18 is incorporated into this report by reference and is deemed to form part of this report.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 65 Corporate governance Directors report Other statutory information continued Major interests in shares The following information has been disclosed to the Company on request, in respect of interests in the Companys issued share capital asatthe dates stated below the table.
Number of ordinary sharesheld Percentage 3 Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 5,994,818 7.01% 5 T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. 5,251,153 6.14% 4 Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 4,910,969 5.74% 2 Prudential plc group of companies 4,260,684 4.98% 1 Baillie Gifford & Co 3,954,567 4.62% 2 Franklin Templeton Fund Management Limited 3,614,000 4.22% 3 Schroders plc 3,424,253 4.00% 3 BlackRock, Inc. 3,106,097 3.63% 3 David Hummel 3,014,895 3.52% 2 Aberdeen Asset Investments Limited 3,008,665 3.52% 2 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 4 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 2,971,233 3.47% The positions stated above represent the holdings in shares either in their own right or on behalf of third parties and may not represent the total voting rights or authority to vote.
1 Respondents provided details of their holding as at 28 November 2016 2 Respondents provided details of their holding as at 25 November 2016 3 Respondents provided details of their holding as at 30 November 2016 4 Respondent provided details of their holding as at 24 November 2016 5 Respondent provided details of their holding as at 30 September 2016 retirement at each AGM of i any Director who has held office at Directors the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings and who The following served as Directors during the financial year: did not retire at either: and ii any non-executive Director who u Larry Pentz hasbeen in office for a continuous period of nine years or more.
Notwithstanding the retirement provisions in the Companys u Louisa Burdett Articlesof Association, itis the Companys current practice that all u Tim Cooper Directors retire from office at each AGM in accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
u Martin Court In addition to the statutory power, a Director may be removed by u Patrick fide Smedt Special Resolution of the Company.
A Director must also automatically u Andrew Dougal cease to be a Director if i they are removed from office under the Articles or they cease to be a Director by virtue of any law or they u David Hummel become prohibited by law from being a Director: or ii they become u Pamela Kirby bankrupt or make any arrangement or composition with their creditors generally: or iii they suffer from mental or physical ill health and u Jane Toogood theDirectors resolve to remove them from office: or iv they resign Details of the Directors of the Company are given on pages 38 from office by notice in writing to the Company, or in the case of and39.
Details of Directors interests in shares are provided in anexecutive Director, their appointment is terminated or expires theDirectors Remuneration Report on page 62. and the Directors resolve that the office be vacated: or v they are absent for more than six consecutive months without permission At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, resolutions will ofthe Directors from meetings of the Directors and the Directors beproposed for the re-election of all members of the Board in resolve that the office bevacated: or vi they are requested in compliance with the Companys Articles of Association and writing, or by electronic form, by all the other Directors to resign.
asrecommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Amendment of Articles of Association Appointment and replacement of Directors The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the number bySpecial Resolution of the Company at a general meeting of of Directors shall be not more than ten and not fewer than two, itsshareholders.
unless otherwise determined by the Company by Ordinary Resolution.
Directors may be appointed by an Ordinary Resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors.
A Director appointed by the Board during the year must retire at the first AGM following their appointment and such Director is eligible to offer themselves for election by the Companys shareholders.
Additionally, the Companys Articles of Association require the 66 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance Powers of the Directors in relation to share capital Notice required for shareholder meetings The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companys The Shareholders Rights Directive was implemented in the UK by the Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 on 3 August 2009. given by the Company in general meeting.
The Companys Directors The Regulations implementing this Directive increased the notice were granted authority at the Annual General Meeting AGM in period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days, unless 2016 toallot shares in the Company or to grant rights to subscribe shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
On the basis of a for orto convert any securities into shares in the Company up to a resolution passed at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, the Company a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 284,834 being is currently able to call general meetings other than an Annual approximately one-third of the issued share capital prior to that General Meeting on 14 days notice.
The Company would like to AGM and b a further maximum aggregate nominal amount of preserve this ability and resolution 21 seeks such approval.
The 284,834 being approximately one-third of the issued share capital approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General prior to the AGM in connection with a rights issue only.
This Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be authority is due to lapse at the Annual General Meeting in 2017. proposed.
In accordance with the Directive, the Company will Atthe 2017 AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew the authority.
offeran electronic voting facility for a general meeting called Specific details of the resolution and the number of shares covered on14days notice.
by the renewed authority can be found in resolution 17 on page 100 of the Notice of the AGM.
Conflict of interest duties Procedures are in place to ensure compliance with the Directors The Directors were empowered at the 2016 Annual General Meeting conflict of interest duties set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to a maximum Company has complied with these procedures during the year and aggregate nominal amount of 42,725 being approximately 5% of the Board believes that these procedures operate effectively.
During the issued share capital prior to that AGM.
This power is also due to the year, details of any new conflicts or potential conflict matters lapse at the Annual General Meeting in 2017 and shareholders will were submitted to the Board for consideration and, where be asked to grant a similar power, resolution 18 of the AGM notice appropriate, these were approved.
Authorised conflict or potential on page 101. conflict matters will continue to be reviewed by the Board on an Resolution 19 is in addition to resolution 18.
As supported by the annual basis.
Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, as updated in March 2015, resolution 19 will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash Environmental matters or sell shares out of treasury up to a further nominal amount of Information on our greenhouse gas emissions required to be 42,783, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary disclosed by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and share capital as at 2 December 2016 the latest practicable date Directors report Regulations 2013 is set out in the Sustainability before the publication of the Notice, other than to existing shareholders report on pages 25 to 36.
Such information is incorporated into without first having to offer them to existing shareholders in proportion thisreport by reference and is deemed to form part of this report.
In respect of the authority under resolution 19, the Board confirms that it will only allot shares or sell shares out of Directors indemnities treasury pursuant to this authority where the relevant acquisition or The Company has granted indemnities in favour of all of its Directors specified capital investment is announced contemporaneously with under Deeds of Indemnity Deeds.
These Deeds were in force the allotment, or has taken place in the preceding six-month period during the year ended 30 September 2016 and remain in force as and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
The Directors atthe date of this report.
The Deeds and the Companys Articles have no current intention of exercising this authority.
If this authority ofAssociation are available for inspection during normal business is used, the Company will publish details of the placing in its next hours on Monday to Friday excluding public holidays at the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
registered office and will also be available at the Companys AGM The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of from at least 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends.
Resolutions 17 to 19 to maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including any issues to finance business Change of control opportunities should appropriate circumstances arise.
None of the Directors or employees service contracts contain provisions providing for compensation for loss of office or employment The Directors were also authorised at the 2016 Annual General that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The rules of the Companys Meeting under a Special Resolution to make market purchases of employee share plans set out the consequences of a change in the Companys own ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate control of the Company on participants rights under the plans.
number of 8,545,023 shares being approximately 10% of the issued share capital prior to that AGM and subject to the conditions Generally such rights will vest and become exercisable on a change as to pricing set out in the authority.
This authority is also due to of control subject to a separate determination as to the satisfaction lapse at the Annual General Meeting in 2017 when it is proposed of performance conditions.
that shareholders grant a similar authority.
The authority contained in the Special Resolution will expire at the Employment policies earlier of 8 May 2018, or the conclusion of the Annual General The Groups policies as regards the employment of disabled persons Meeting to be held in 2018.
It is the current intention of the Directors and a description of actions the Group has taken to encourage greater to renew this authority annually.
In the event that shares are purchased employee involvement in the business are set out on pages 34 to 36. pursuant to the authority granted under Resolution 20, the shares Such information is incorporated into this report by reference and would either be cancelled and the number in issue would be reduced isdeemed to form part of this report.
accordingly or, subject to the legislation referred to below, retained as treasury shares.
The Directors will only make purchases after consideration of the possible effect on earnings per share, the long-term benefits to shareholders and in consultation with advisors.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 67 Corporate governance Directors report Other statutory information continued UK Corporate Governance Code The Companys statement on corporate governance can be foundinthe Corporate governance report on pages 38 to 50.
TheCorporate governance report forms part of this report and isincorporated into it by reference.
Financial instruments Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest raterisk and foreign currency risk can be found in note 14.
Such information is incorporated into this report by reference and isdeemed to form part of this report.
Branches The Company and its subsidiaries have established branches inanumber of different countries in which they operate.
Donations No political donations were made during the year 2015: nil.
FCAs Disclosure Guidelines and Transparency Rules For the purposes of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidelines and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
8R, this report and Directors report Strategic report on pages 65 to 68 and pages 2to36 together comprise the management report.
4R There is no information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
4R save in respect of allotments of equity securities for cash and dividend waivers, which can be found on pages 65 and 66 respectively of this Annual Report.
Disclosure of information to auditor The Directors in office at the date of approval of this report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor The Board has decided to recommend KPMG LLP be re-appointed asexternal auditor to the Company and KPMG has expressed their willingness to continue.
Accordingly a resolution concerning their re-appointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Brett Gladden Group Company Secretary 6 December 2016 68 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016
