Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Our Main Markets W OR K IN G T HR OUGH T HE C Y C L E 2016 Key drivers: Oil and gas The average US land rig count fell by 48% year-on-year with the Mining equipment demand stabilised.
US land rig count falling 80% from the peak in October 2014 to Upstream oil and gas markets bottomed and showed signs of the trough in May 2016.
A recovery in US land rig count in 2016 recovery late in the year.
was supported by increased oil prices and the November OPEC Power markets were subdued due to general economic uncertainty.
agreement to cut production, with the oil price benchmark West Texas Intermediate WTI increasing by 45%.
US natural gas prices The Group serves markets that are cyclical but have attractive also saw a partial recovery, driven by a normalisation in storage long-term growth prospects.
Demand for energy and natural levels.
International markets saw a significant reduction in activity resources is supported by strong structural trends such as rising with the average rig count in 2016 18% lower than the prior year incomes, increasing population and urbanisation.
We have chosen and drilling levels continuing to decline in the second half of the year.
to operate in these markets because they depend on mission-critical and highly engineered solutions that produce significant aftermarket Oil and gas companies continued to reduce capital spending.
demand for spares and services.
The estimated reduction in North America was around 40%, while international spending is estimated to have fallen 20%.
The number Mining of wells drilled in the US fell 45% with the number of horizontal Commodity prices improved as the year progressed supported by wells drilled down by 41%, substantially reducing demand for supply constraints and improving demand.
Copper prices increased pressure control equipment and services.
17%, iron ore doubled and gold increased 8%, but largely remained below incentive levels for greenfield projects.
US oil and gas frack fleet utilisation fell from an average of 59% in 2015 to 36% in 2016.
In the second half, as activity levels began Overall mining sector capital expenditure fell by an estimated 15%, to increase, service companies commenced the refurbishment marking a fourth consecutive year of double-digit declines.
The year of previously idled frack fleet equipment in anticipation of higher started with an extended shutdown in many regions, with low completion activity in 2017.
Drilling activity also experienced sharp commodity prices impacting sentiment and leading to destocking reductions in line with average rig count declines.
North American and deferral of maintenance.
markets experienced strong further downward pricing pressure through the first three-quarters of the year as both Exploration and As commodity prices improved through the second half of the year, Production E&P and service companies sought to reduce costs customers continued to defer decisions on major expansion projects further, although price points stabilised at these low levels in the but were willing to invest in brownfield optimisations and started to fourth quarter.
Global ore production grew slightly and ongoing declines in ore grade led to increased processing of International markets became increasingly challenged throughout rock, which supported aftermarket demand for spares and services.
the year, despite Middle East production increasing, with national oil companies seeking to reduce capital and operating expenditure.
Regionally, South America benefited from a number of large mines This resulted in increased pricing pressure across the region reaching full production.
There was increased activity in South Africa, together with lower drilling related activity.
Higher cost production particularly in gold, while Central and West Africa were challenging.
regions such as the North Sea and the Caspian continued to face In Europe and Asia Pacific, production levels were relatively stable challenging market conditions.
although capital expenditure remained subdued.
In North America, coal markets continued to decline.
Rising prices in the second half Downstream oil and gas customers reduced spending, impacting of the year supported increased quotation levels in Australia.
demand for both original equipment and aftermarket.
Industrial markets continued to be subdued as customers delayed new investment decisions, although wastewater markets were more resilient.
Following the impact of wild fires in the second quarter, activity levels in the Canadian oil sands recovered in the second half, supported by oil price increases and continued underlying production growth.
Power In conventional power markets, demand was subdued in Europe and the United States with aftermarket demand impacted by reduced maintenance spend.
However, the pipeline for nuclear opportunities in China, Korea and the UK was more promising.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 5
