Strategic Report Our Strategy S TR A TE G Y IN A C T IO N To achieve the Groups vision and mission, we leverage our business model and focus on four strategic priorities: People: Customers: Technology: and Performance.
How we succeed What well do in 2017 Strategic priority #1 Implement our new Safety Charter and improve performance through an embedded behavioural safety culture.
PE O PL E Re-invest in leadership and training programmes and consolidate best practice across the Group to foster a greater coaching culture.
Caring for our colleagues, our neighbours Give additional support to improve diversity further and undertake and the environment and inspiring a global engagement programme supporting the implementation them to flourish.
of the refreshed Group strategy.
Strategic priority #2 Pursue more long-term strategic relationships with customers, strengthening and leveraging existing relationships.
C U S T O M E R S Shift from product focus to a solutions mindset and fully understand and align our offerings with customer strategies through a creative Working in partnership to provide and entrepreneurial approach.
distinctive solutions that deliver New product development and sales processes will be updated to compelling value for money.
ensure they are consistently driven by customer insights.
Strategic priority #3 Expand our digital customer offering including e-commerce, digital field force and the launch of our Synertrex Internet of Things solution.
T E CH N O L O GY Broaden our skills-base to reflect the digitisation of industrial products and increase investment in research and development.
Driving the development of new Embed the Groups new innovation framework throughout the business technologies and capabilities that supported by an extensive training programme.
Strategic priority #4 Continuously improve operational performance with a specific focus on on-time delivery and inventory turns.
P E R F O R M A NCE Lean disciplines will be reinvigorated supported by a simplified value chain excellence process.
Delivering excellence for all our Embed customer and Weir-specific sustainability goals in value chain stakeholders through strong improvement plans.
leadership, accountability and a lean mindset.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 14 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report How well measure success Associated risks Link to remuneration Reduction in Total Incident Rate.
Failure to adequately protect our people and The Groups strategic priorities, Delivery of behavioural safety training.
other stakeholders from harm associated and our achievement against Increased utilisation of learning and development with a breach in Safety, Health and Environment them, are taken into account resources: launch new leadership programme.
when determining how Businesses to deliver priority actions following Failure to recruit, develop or retain key Executive Directors are paid.
management and staff may lead to disruption to Level of engagement indicated in employee the Groups operations, functions and processes.
Objectives within the annual opinion survey.
bonus are based on progress against all four strategic priorities.
You can read more in the How we Manage Risk section from page 36.
Our Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is focused on sustainable value creation for our shareholders.
Changes in key markets, including commodity Number of face-to-face interactions with key prices affecting mining and oil and gas, have an You can read more in the account customers.
adverse impact on customers expenditure plans.
As markets improve we fail to effectively upscale operations to meet customer needs.
Increase number of digital customer success We fail to drive innovation or to react to emerging stories.
Revenues from new products introduced in the past 3 years.
Growth ahead of end markets.
Failure to achieve supply chain management Margin performance.
improvements and the associated reduction in Improve inventory turns.
Reduce energy consumption as a proportion of activity.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 15
