Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued L E A D E R S HIP Our Board of Directors Charles Berry Jon Stanton John Heasley Alan Ferguson Melanie Gee Mary Jo Jacobi Professor Sir Richard Rick John Mogford Christopher Morgan Keith Cochrane Dean Jenkins Jim McDonald Menell Chairman 64 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary and Former Chief Executive Former Chief Operating 49 42 59 55 65 63 General Counsel 46 Officer 52 Officer 45 Non-Executive Senior Independent Director 59 Director 61 Nationality Nationality British British British British British Dual American and British South African British British British Australian British citizenship Date of appointment Date of appointment Chairman since January Chief Executive Officer October 2016 December 2011 May 2011 January 2014 January 2015 April 2009 June 2008 May 2016 Joined the Group as Finance January 2016 2014 and Non-Executive since October 2016 Director in July 2006 and Senior Independent Director Director since March 2013 appointed Chief Executive from 1 February 2015 in November 2009 Committee membership Committee membership N None None A R A N R R A N R A N S N former member Expertise Expertise Charles was an Executive Jon joined the Board as Prior to his appointment Alan was Chief Financial Melanie is a Senior Adviser Mary Jo advises companies Jim is Principal and Vice Rick was appointed Chief John was formerly a Christopher joined the Following a number of Dean joined the Group in Director of Scottish Power Finance Director in 2010 as Chief Financial Officer, Officer and a Director of at Lazard & Co. Limited, on international affairs and Chancellor of the University Executive of Anglovaal Managing Director for First Group as Deputy General years with Arthur Andersen, November 2010, becoming plc from 1999 to 2005 where he helped shape John was the Divisional Lonmin plc, from 2007 until having worked for them reputation management.
of Strathclyde and has held Mining in 1996, then Reserve, a large global Counsel in April 2014 and Keith joined Stagecoach Power & Industrial Divisional and Chief Executive of its the Groups strategy and Managing Director for 2010.
Prior to this he was since 2008.
Formerly, she the Rolls-Royce Chair in Executive Chairman in energy focused private was appointed as Company Group plc in 1993.
He was Managing Director in She was formerly a senior UK operations between developed Weirs finance, Weir Flow Control.
Group Finance Director of spent a number of years Electrical Power Systems 2002.
In 2005, he was equity firm and an Executive Secretary and General appointed Finance Director January 2011 and Minerals executive of BP America, 2000 and 2005.
Prior to treasury, tax and information the BOC Group plc.
Alan with S. G. Warburg now part since 1993.
He holds a appointed President and Vice President of BP plc.
Counsel in May 2016. in 1996 and Group Chief Divisional Managing Director Prior to joining Weir in Royal Dutch Shell, Lehman joining Scottish Power, he services capability.
also spent 22 years working of UBS and was appointed number of Non-Executive Chief Executive of TEAL Executive in 2000.
He was 2008 he held a number of Brothers, HSBC Holdings and He was Chairman of Prior to joining Weir, was Group Development for Inchcape plc in a variety a Managing Director of Director roles including in Exploration & Mining Inc. joined Scottish Power plc appointed to the role of Before joining Weir, senior financial, commercial Drexel Burnham Lambert Amromco Energy LLC and Christopher was the General Director of Norwest Holst, of roles, including six years UBS in 1999.
Her executive ScottishPower Plc, the UK He was formerly Chairman in 2003 where he became Chief Operating Officer he was a partner with and operational roles, and a Non-Executive Director White Rose Energy Ventures Counsel of Balfour Beattys a subsidiary of Compagnie as Group Finance Director.
career has involved providing Offshore Renewable Energy of Avgold Ltd and Bateman Director of Group Finance.
Ernst & Young, one of the including positions at of Tate & Lyle plc.
LLP, and a Non-Executive Rail Division and their Group Gnrale des Eaux and held corporate finance advice to Catapult and the UK National Engineering BV.
worlds largest professional  Alan is a member of the Director of Deep Gulf Compliance Officer, based He is a chartered Dean previously worked Mary Jo was Special management positions a broad range of clients in Physical Laboratories.
He services companies, where and Scottish Power.
Institute of Chartered Rick is a Senior Advisor to Energy LP.
He has also held accountant and a member for Qantas Airlines and Assistant to President within subsidiaries of both the UK and overseas.
co-chairs the Scottish Energy he led global board-level Accountants of Scotland Credit Suisse and Chairman senior legal positions with of the Institute of Chartered the Australian listed He is a Chartered Accountant Ronald Reagan, Assistant He is a fellow of the Pilkington plc.
Advisory Board with the First relationships with a number and sits on their Business She was an alternate of Credit Suisse Securities Honda Motor Europe and Accountants of Scotland.
infrastructure services and a member of the Institute US Commerce Secretary for Institution of Mechanical Minister and is Chairman He is a former Non-Executive of FTSE-100 multi-national Policy Panel.
member of The Takeover Johannesburg Pty Limited.
company UGL Ltd, most of Chartered Accountants President George H. W. Bush Engineers and a visiting Keith is Chairman of of the Royal Academy of Director and Chairman of companies.
Panel LIBA CFC between recently as Chief Executive of Scotland.
and a British Civil Service He is a fellow of the Professor at the University He is a qualified Solicitor in the selection group for Engineering Research Eaga plc, Drax Group plc and 2006 and 2013. of the latters Rail Division.
Jon is a Chartered Commissioner from 2005 Geological Society London, of Strathclyde.
both Scotland and England CSCLeaders, a senior Committee and Chairman Thus Group plc, and a former Accountant and a member until 2010. and both the Australasian and a member of the Law leadership programme of the Scottish Engineering Non-Executive Director of the Institute of Chartered and South African Institutes Society of Scotland and the for leaders from across and Energy Research Pools.
of Impax Environmental Accountants in England of Mining and Metallurgy.
Law Society of England the Commonwealth.
He is FREng, FRSE, FIET, Markets PLC and Securities and Wales.
Key external appointments Key external appointments Non-Executive Chairman None Non-Executive Director Senior Independent NonNon-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of None Senior Independent None of Senior plc of Royal Scottish National Executive Director and Audit Remuneration Committee of Mulvaney Capital of Scottish Power Limited Gold Fields Ltd and Sibanye DOF Subsea AS in Norway Non-Executive Director Orchestra Society Limited Committee Chairman of Chairman and member Management Limited Gold Limited, both South of Carillion plc Member of the steering Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Johnson Matthey plc of the Risk & Capital African companies listed group of the HamptonMember, UK Government of UK Offshore Renewable of ERM Worldwide Group Lead Non-Executive Committee and Investment on the Johannesburg Stock Alexander Review Non-Executive Director and Advisory Committee on Energy Catapult Board Limited Director for the Scotland Committee of Standard Life Exchange and the New York Audit Committee Chairman Business Appointments Office and the Office of Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director plc.
Non-Executive Director Stock Exchange of Croda International plc the Advocate General Advisory Board co-chair, of National Physical of Network Rail of Ridgeway Partners Senior Independent NonGeorge Washington Laboratory Limited.
Council member Executive Director and Audit University Institute for Non-Executive Director and Trustee of Fauna & Committee Chairman of Corporate Responsibility of Glasgow Science Centre Flora International.
Member Marshall Motor Holdings plc Charitable Trust of the Steering Committee of the 30% Club Committee Membership Key: Executive Non-Executive Board diversity, by gender A Audit Committee Chair 11% 22% female A Audit Committee Member N Nomination Committee Chair 22% N Nomination Committee Member R 1 Chairman Remuneration Committee Chair 67% R 2 Executive Remuneration Committee Member 2 female 7 male S Secretary to the Board, Audit, Nomination 6 Non-Executive and Remuneration Committees The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 60 Strategi Sc tr Re ate pgi or ct Re port Corporate GovernancC eorporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance L E A D E R S HIP Charles Berry Jon Stanton John Heasley Alan Ferguson Melanie Gee Mary Jo Jacobi Professor Sir Richard Rick John Mogford Christopher Morgan Keith Cochrane Dean Jenkins Jim McDonald Menell Chairman 64 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary and Former Chief Executive Former Chief Operating 49 42 59 55 65 63 General Counsel 46 Officer 52 Officer 45 Non-Executive Senior Independent Director 59 Director 61 Nationality Nationality British British British British British Dual American and British South African British British British Australian British citizenship Date of appointment Date of appointment Chairman since January Chief Executive Officer October 2016 December 2011 May 2011 January 2014 January 2015 April 2009 June 2008 May 2016 Joined the Group as Finance January 2016 2014 and Non-Executive since October 2016 Director in July 2006 and Senior Independent Director Director since March 2013 appointed Chief Executive from 1 February 2015 in November 2009 Committee membership Committee membership N None None A R A N R R A N R A N S N former member Expertise Expertise Charles was an Executive Jon joined the Board as Prior to his appointment Alan was Chief Financial Melanie is a Senior Adviser Mary Jo advises companies Jim is Principal and Vice Rick was appointed Chief John was formerly a Christopher joined the Following a number of Dean joined the Group in Director of Scottish Power Finance Director in 2010 as Chief Financial Officer, Officer and a Director of at Lazard & Co. Limited, on international affairs and Chancellor of the University Executive of Anglovaal Managing Director for First Group as Deputy General years with Arthur Andersen, November 2010, becoming plc from 1999 to 2005 where he helped shape John was the Divisional Lonmin plc, from 2007 until having worked for them reputation management.
He services companies, where and ScottishPower.
Member Marshall Motor Holdings plc Charitable Trust of the Steering Committee of the 30% Club Nationality Board diversity, by tenure 11% 11% 7 British 1 South African 78% 0-3 years 3-6 years 6-9 years 1 British American The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 61
