Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued L E A D E R S HIP Our Group Executive Name and title Paul Coppinger Ricardo Garib David Paradis Pauline Lafferty Andrew Neilson Division President Division President Division President of Chief People Officer 51 Director of Strategy of Weir Oil & Gas 55 of Weir Minerals 62 Weir Flow Control 49 & Corporate Affairs 41 Biography Paul joined the Group Executive Ricardo joined the Group Executive David joined the Group Executive Pauline joined the Group as HR Prior to joining Weir in 2010, in January 2015.
He joined Weir in January 2016.
He joined Baker in January 2017.
Prior to this he Director in 2011.
Prior to this she Andrew held a variety of senior in 2011 as President of SPM.
Hughes in 1980 and became the held the position of President of was previously in executive search roles within banking, energy and Prior to joining Weir, Paul was the Managing Director of Weir Chile Pressure Pumping.
Before joining with Miles Partnership and Russell professional services companies, President of the Energy Group for following the purchase of Baker Weir, David spent 22 years in the Reynolds Associates in the UK including HSBC, HBOS, Scottish ten years at Circor International, Hughes Minerals division in 1994 flow control industry including and Australia.
Pauline also held Power plc and KPMG.
Andrew Inc. a diversified manufacturer of by the Weir Group.
In 2001 he was 14 years with Tyco Flow Control.
business planning and operational holds a Masters degree in valves and related products.
He has promoted to Regional Managing He holds a Bachelor of Science roles for 11 years with Motorola engineering from the University been a director of the Petroleum Director of Weir Minerals Latin degree in Mechanical Engineering and Digital Equipment Corporation of Strathclyde and is a qualified Equipment & Services Association America.
Ricardo is Vice President and a Masters of Business DEC in Scotland, Australia and accountant.
He held the position since 2007 and presently is the of the Mining Suppliers Association Administration from Texas A&M Hong Kong, ultimately becoming of Company Secretary from associations Chairman.
He holds and an elected council member of University, where he currently Asia Pacific Director of Supply for December 2015 until May 2016 a Bachelor of Science degree in the Board of the Chilean Federation serves on the Masters of Science DEC. Pauline is a Non-Executive and has had interim responsibility Petroleum Engineering from Texas of Industry.
He holds an MBA and in Marketing Advisory Board in the Director of the Scottish Exhibition for the Groups technology agenda Tech University.
In addition, Centre and Trustee of the charity since September 2016. he is an Advisory Board member Playlist for Life which promotes the Andrew is a member of CBI of the Petroleum Equipment & use of personal music in enhancing Scotland Council and a Trustee Services Association.
the lives of people with dementia.
Jon Stanton and John Heasley are also members of the Group Executive Committee.
Their biographical information can be found on the previous pages.
Keith Cochrane held the position of Chief Executive and was a member of the Group Executive until 30 September 2016.
Dean Jenkins held the position of Chief Operating Officer and was a member of the Group Executive until 30 September 2016.
Group Executive diversity, by gender Group Executive by tenure Group Executive by nationality 14% female 14% 57% 29% 4 British 2 American 1 female 6 male 0-3 years 3-6 years 6-9 years 1 Chilean David Paradis was appointed to the Group Executive on 23 January 2017.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 62 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance L E A D E R S HIP Board Composition During 2016, the Board comprised of three Executive Directors, the Chairman and six Non-Executive Directors.
Keith Cochrane stepped down as Chief Executive at the end of September 2016 and was succeeded by Jon Stanton as Chief Executive Officer at the start of October 2016.
John Heasley was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer in October 2016 to succeed Jon Stanton as Group Finance Director.
Dean Jenkins stepped down as Chief Operating Officer at the end of September 2016.
Biographical information on the Board of Directors, including their relevant experience and significant appointments, can be found on pages 60 and 61.
Following an extensive recruitment process, Christopher Morgan was appointed as Company Secretary and General Counsel on 1 May 2016.
Christopher succeeded Andrew Neilson as Company Secretary.
Andrew held the position from December 2015 until May 2016.
Christopher Morgan is Secretary to the Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
His biography can be found on page 61.
The key responsibilities of the members of the Board of Directors are set out below.
Board Responsibilities The Board of Directors has a collective Chairman of the Board Senior Independent Director Charles Berry Rick Menell duty to promote the long-term success of the Company for its shareholders.
Leading the Board in an ethical manner and Supporting the Chairman in his The Board sets the strategic aims of promoting effective Board relationships.
the Group and provides leadership and Building a well-balanced Board, Leading the annual review of the guidance to senior management to considering succession planning performance of the Chairman.
ensure that the necessary resources and the Boards composition.
Being available to Directors and are in place to achieve the agreed Ensuring the effectiveness of the shareholders with concerns that strategy.
In determining the longBoard and individual Directors.
cannot be addressed through the term strategy and objectives of the Overseeing the Board evaluation and normal channels.
Group, the Board is mindful of its acting on its results.
duties and responsibilities not just to Non-Executive Directors Ensuring appropriate induction and shareholders but also to customers, Alan Ferguson development programmes.
Melanie Gee employees and other stakeholders.
Setting the Board agenda and chairing Mary Jo Jacobi the Board meetings.
Professor Sir Jim McDonald The Board reviews management and Ensuring effective communication with John Mogford financial performance and monitors the shareholders and other stakeholders.
Contributing independent challenge delivery of strategy and the achievement and rigour.
At all times, the Chief Executive Officer Assisting in the development of the Board operates within a robust framework Jon Stanton Companys strategy.
of internal controls and risk management.
Planning the Group objectives and Ensuring the integrity of the financial The Board also develops and promotes strategy for Board approval.
information, controls and risk the collective vision of the Groups Ensuring the effective delivery of management processes.
purpose, culture, values and behaviours.
Monitoring the performance of the Providing leadership to the Group Executive Directors against agreed Each Director brings different skills, and communicating the Companys goals and objectives.
experience and knowledge to the culture, values and behaviours.
Company, with the Non-Executive Day-to-day management of the Company.
Directors bringing additional independent Company Secretary thought and judgement.
The roles of the Chief Financial Officer Christopher Morgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are John Heasley separate, with each having clearly defined Advising the Board on governance, Ensuring an effective financial control duties and responsibilities which are set legislation and regulatory requirements.
environment which is compliant with out in writing and approved by the Board.
Ensuring the presentation of highregulations.
The roles and responsibilities of the Senior quality information to the Board Ensuring effective management of Group Independent Director are also set out in and its committees.
capital structure and financing needs.
writing and both documents are available Ensuring best practice in Board Provision of timely and accurate to view on the Companys website at procedures.
Facilitating inductions and development Assisting in formulating the Group programmes.
Facilitating the Board review process.
Delivery of the Group value chain excellence and IT strategy.
Day-to-day management of the Company.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 63 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued L E A D E R S HIP Board Meetings The Board meets regularly in order to effectively discharge its duties.
Board meetings are held in person or by telepresence video-conferencing.
During 2016, there were eight scheduled meetings and one additional unscheduled Board meeting.
In October 2016, the Board meeting was held in Fort Worth, Texas, USA and full details can be found on page 71.
In addition to the formal Board meetings, the Board maintains an open dialogue throughout the year and contact by telephone occurs whenever necessary.
As encouraged by the Code, the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, met twice during the year without Executive Directors present, once in February at a dinner held in London and once in June at a dinner held in Glasgow.
The table below details the attendance at Board meetings of each of the Directors during their term of office for the period to 31 December 2016.
Board Meeting Attendance Percentage of meetings Name Board meetings attended 19 January 20 January 23 February 28 April 16 June 22 July 6 September 19 October 13 December Charles Berry 100% Jon Stanton 100% 1 John Heasley 100% Alan Ferguson 100% Melanie Gee 100% Mary Jo Jacobi 100% Sir Jim McDonald 100% Rick Menell 100% John Mogford 100% 2 Keith Cochrane 100% 3 Dean Jenkins 100% Notes 1.
John Heasley was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2016.
Keith Cochrane stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2016.
Dean Jenkins stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2016.
The Boards annual timetable is discussed at least 12 months prior to its commencement to allow the Directors to plan their time accordingly.
The 2018 annual timetable was discussed at the Board meeting in January 2017 and circulated as soon as it was finalised.
The 2017 timetable was reviewed during 2015 and 2016.
This process ensures that the Chairman can be comfortable that each Director is able to devote the time and resources required to act as a Director during that period.
The system for establishing the agenda items means that both the Chairman and the Board have the confidence that all required items are included at the most appropriate time of the year and there is sufficient time allocated for discussion by the Board, allowing the Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 64 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance L E A D E R S HIP Board and Group Executive Meeting Locations for 2011-2016 Board Group Executive Matters Reserved for the Board The Board recognises that in order to ensure the long-term success of the Company, certain matters should be reserved for the consideration and decision of the Board alone.
Other matters may be delegated by the Board to its Committees or executive management.
In accordance with the Code, these decisions are formally recorded in a document entitled Matters Reserved to the Board for Approval.
This document was reviewed and substantially updated in 2016 to ensure that it remains appropriate and that there is an effective framework in place to support the Boards decision-making process.
The document is available on the Companys website at www.
Board Activities During 2016 During the year, the Chairman, supported by the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary, maintained a rolling 12-month agenda for Board and Committee meetings.
At each meeting, the Board received reports from the Chief Executive Officer and other members of the Group Executive.
This included updates and information on safety, strategy, legal and financial matters.
The Board also receives updates from each Committee Chairman on items from the most recent committee meeting as well as periodic updates as required.
Standing items also included reviewing the Groups risk dashboard and internal controls, safety, strategy and succession planning.
In order to effectively discharge their duties, the Non-Executive Directors met regularly with senior management and received presentations by members of the Groups senior management team and other external advisers as required.
The Board also received an annual review on the following matters: asbestos, insurance and risk management, the Ethics Hotline, Value Chain Excellence, HR, tax, treasury and agents.
The Boards time during 2016 can be grouped into six key areas as outlined below.
A portion of their time is also spent on administrative matters.
Strategy Risk Governance Finance Stakeholder Safety engagement Setting strategy Risk Appetite Legal updates and Oversight of the AGM and other SHE Standards targets.
new disclosure preparation and shareholder feedback.
Reviewing potential Groups risk and Investor calls, of the financial mergers and internal control The UK Corporate meetings and SHE Audit System.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 65 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued L E A D E R S HIP Board Committees The Board has a number of committees to assist in discharging its responsibilities.
The principal committees are the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The responsibilities of these Board committees are set out in the individual Terms of Reference of each committee, which are available on the Companys website at www.
The roles and responsibilities of the committees, along with the activities undertaken during the period, are outlined in each of their respective reports found on pages 75 to 109.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Board Committees and ensures that the Committees adhere to the highest standards of Corporate Governance and apply the provisions and principles of the Code.
Only committee members are entitled to attend meetings, however, other Board members may attend at any time if they choose to do so.
Professional advisers and members of the senior management team attend committee meetings when they are invited to do so.
The Board may also set up separate committees to consider specific issues, when the need arises.
Board and Committee Structure Board of Directors Board Committees Audit Remuneration Nomination Disclosure General Administration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief Executive Officer Group Executive Management Committees Group Information Finance Engineering Value Chain SHE HR Risk Services CEOs Safety Excellence Excellence Excellence Excellence Excellence Committee Excellence Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee is a sub-committee of the Board which comprises the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and General Counsel and Director of Strategy & Corporate Affairs.
The Disclosure Committee was established in July 2016 to ensure compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation.
The Committee is responsible to the Board and provides information to assist with the identification of inside information and makes recommendations as to how and when the Company should disclose that information, in accordance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The Terms of Reference of the Disclosure Committee are set out in writing and approved by the Board.
General Administration Committee The General Administration Committee is a sub-committee of the Board which comprises two Executive Directors of the Company.
The Committee is responsible to the Board as a whole and meets as required.
The principal duties of the Committee include attending to administrative and procedural matters in relation to existing bank and finance facilities and the issue and allotment of shares under Group share plans.
It also attends to other matters of a routine manner relating to the Companys share capital, including the administration of unclaimed dividends and the Companys Scrip Dividend Scheme.
The Committees Terms of Reference are annually reviewed to ensure their continuing appropriateness.
Minutes of meetings of the General Administration Committee are made available to all Directors at the Board meetings.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 66 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance L E A D E R S HIP Group Executive The Group Executive comprises the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Divisional Presidents, Director of Strategy & Corporate Affairs and Chief People Officer.
Biographical details of the members of the Group Executive can be found on page 62.
The Group Executive is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
In the period ended 31 December 2016, the Group Executive met 12 times.
The Group Executive is responsible for ensuring that each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively and that the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the Board, are achieved.
The Group Executives role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems which provide clear and consistent information on all aspects of business performance, managing and minimising corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career development planning.
It also approves major items of capital expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
Management Committees In addition to the Board committees, there are several management committees, known as Excellence Committees.
The Excellence Committees have clearly defined remits and work across the Group to promote best practice and information sharing.
The Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive can delegate their responsibilities to these committees and utilise the areas of expertise contained within them.
The Excellence Committees report to the Group Executive and to the Board as required.
The composition of the various committees along with their accompanying Terms of Reference, the matters reserved to the Boards for approval and delegated authority matrices combine to create a clear authority matrix across the Group for timely and effective decision-making.
This structure provides the Board with confidence that important decisions are being taken at the appropriate levels, and information flows both up and down the reporting lines.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 67 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued EFFE C T I V E N E S S Board Skills and Attributes Name Board skills and experience Banking Independence and finance Governance International Leadership Engineering Mining Oil and gas Power 1 Charles Berry Jon Stanton 2 John Heasley Alan Ferguson Melanie Gee Mary Jo Jacobi Sir Jim McDonald Rick Menell John Mogford 3 Keith Cochrane 4 Dean Jenkins Notes 1.
Charles Berry was considered independent on his appointment as Chairman in January 2014.
The Board considers that it has the right combination of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to be effective in meeting the needs of the Group.
More than half of the Board are Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
This combination of individuals and skills ensures that the Board is sufficiently balanced and that no individual or group of individuals can dominate the decision-making process.
It also allows for an effective division of responsibilities within the Board and its Committees.
The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held separately and clearly defined in writing.
Each Director devotes sufficient time and attention in order to perform their duties effectively.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Chairman ensures that NonExecutive Directors are properly briefed on any issues arising at Board meetings and Non-Executive Directors have the ability to communicate with the Chairman at any time.
Board Effectiveness Review Building on the external Board evaluation that was undertaken by Independent Audit Limited in 2014 and the responses from the 2015 internal Board evaluation, this years evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out internally in December 2016.
The same process was followed this year as in 2015, with assistance from Independent Audit Limited, by way of a confidential on-line questionnaire.
The questionnaire had quantitative ratings and also sought comments on each of the following areas: strategy and risk taking, leadership and accountability, how the Board works, Board culture, line of sight, risk management, support and progress.
Two reports were produced, one report detailed the findings of the 2016 evaluation and another report compared the findings from 2015 to 2016.
These were circulated to the Board and Committees and were discussed by the Board as a whole at its meeting in January 2017.
The evaluation process confirmed that the Board and Committees had further improved in the areas that were highlighted in the previous evaluation and continued to function well and had made significant progress and improvements against the prior years recommendations.
No specific new areas for improvement were identified and it was the Boards desire to see continued progress in the same areas through 2017.
No significant issues were raised during the evaluation and the general consensus of the Board is that the governance structure of the Board and its Committees continues to operate effectively.
In line with our three-year evaluation cycle, there will be an externally facilitated Board Evaluation Review in 2017 led by the Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 68 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance EFFE C T I V E N E S S Board Appointment And Tenure Date of next Date of election or Name Length of tenure at 31 December 2016 appointment re-election 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 year years years years years years years years years years Charles Berry 1 March 2013 27 April 2017 1 Jon Stanton 1 October 2016 27 April 2017 Alan Ferguson 13 December 2011 27 April 2017 Melanie Gee 4 May 2011 27 April 2017 John Heasley 3 October 2016 27 April 2017 Mary Jo Jacobi 1 January 2014 27 April 2017 Sir Jim McDonald 1 January 2015 27 April 2017 Rick Menell 1 April 2009 27 April 2017 John Mogford 1 June 2008 27 April 2017 Keith Cochrane 3 July 2006 n a Dean Jenkins 1 January 2016 n a Note 1.
Jon Stanton was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director on 19 April 2010 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 October 2016.
The Executive Directors have contracts of service with one years notice, whilst Non-Executive Directors appointments can be terminated with six months notice.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and set out the required commitment to the Company.
Further details can also be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 109.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and good practice, John Heasley will offer himself for election at the Companys AGM on 27 April 2017.
All other Directors on the Board at 31 December 2016 will seek re-election at the Companys AGM in compliance with the Code.
Induction and Ongoing Training When a new Director is appointed to the Board, they are provided with information on the Groups structure, operations, policies and other relevant documentation.
The induction process also includes introductory meetings with senior executives in the Company, a formal briefing on legal and governance matters from the Company Secretary and visits to the Companys operations.
In 2016, an induction programme was provided for John Heasley following his appointment as Chief Financial Officer.
As John was an existing member of the Group Executive he did not receive the full induction programme or one-to-one meetings with management as would normally be provided.
As part of his induction he attended a briefing session with external legal counsel on Directors Duties and met with the Non-Executive Directors.
John was provided with an electronic version of all relevant materials and met with the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
Directors are informed of important changes to laws and regulations affecting the Groups business and their duties as Directors.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on governance matters and is available to all Directors for advice as required.
In addition, the Board meets once a year or more at one of the Groups operational sites, which includes presentations from key senior employees and the opportunity to meet employees across the global operations.
The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each Director their training and development needs.
Additional induction and training is also available to new committee members as required.
Training is also built into the Board meetings with relevant topics being covered.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 69 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued EFFE C T I V E N E S S Directors and their Other Interests Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director of a company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Company has a formal procedure in place to manage the disclosure, consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation of any such possible conflict.
Each Director is aware of the requirement to notify the Board, via the Company Secretary, as soon as they become aware of any possible future conflict or a material change to an existing authorisation.
Upon receipt of any such notification, the Board, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, will consider the situation before deciding whether to approve the perceived conflict.
At the outset of every Board meeting, the Chairman also checks that no new conflicts have arisen.
Only those Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take part in the relevant decision and Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Director in question will then be notified of the outcome.
Overall, the Board is satisfied that there are appropriate procedures in place to deal with conflicts of interest and that they have operated effectively.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have any material business or other relationship with the Company or its management.
Sir Jim McDonald is the Principal and Vice Chancellor of the University of Strathclyde, but he has no direct involvement on a day-to-day basis in relation to the Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC which is operated by the Company in conjunction with the University of Strathclyde.
Nevertheless, he will offer to recuse himself from any discussions in relation to the relationship between the Group and the University of Strathclyde, whether in relation to WARC or otherwise.
Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 109.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 70 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance EFFE C T I V E N E S S Case study BOA RD V ISIT TO OPER ATIONS IN TE X A S In October 2016 the Board visited as 30% from traditional methods.
Particular attention was given to the Groups Oil & Gas division in This new line eliminates the need Pressure Pumpings research and Texas to learn more about its to move equipment from one station development facility where engineering strategic progress in very challenging to another by moving the kit along teams validate and optimise equipment conditions.
The Board recognises one straight line which also reduces in a controlled space with field-like that site visits are important in potential hazards of moving large pressures before sending equipment order to maintain an up to date equipment around the facilities.
Test labs include a pump knowledge of the Company and testing environment, flow product its operations.
The Board then travelled to Fort Worth, erosion testing and other work areas where the Pressure Pumping business which allow us to conduct competitive In Houston, the Board visited the unit, the Groups largest, is based.
The Pressure Control business unit which The Weir campus is comprised of Board saw new technologies launched includes Seaboard, whose product 13 buildings totaling over 500,000 throughout the year including SPM portfolio contains wellheads and frack square feet including manufacturing QEM3000 and TWS 2250 hydraulic stacks used in hydraulic fracturing.
for well service pumps and flow control fracturing pumps, SPM 2.0 valve and The Pressure Control management team equipment, functional offices, research seat and RFID tags which help customers presented their strategy road map which and development, a service centre and manage asset maintenance lifecycle.
was followed by a tour of the facility.
During their visit to Fort This location has enhanced its lean Worth the Board also held the scheduled manufacturing capabilities by introducing October Board meeting and heard from one piece flow which has reduced the Pressure Pumping management about time to complete a wellhead by as much the business strategy.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 71 s l o r t n s l o o r c t n e o c n t n e t i s h m l e n i g o t t r i i i v s v i n n t r e c e o l a a v r e r Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued A CCO U N T A B I L I T Y The Audit Committee and Auditors Details on the roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee, and its members can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 79 to 85.
Information on the Companys external auditors is contained within the Audit Committee Report.
Internal Control and Risk Management In accordance with the Code and the accompanying Guidance on Risk Management and Internal Controls, the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks through an internal control framework.
This process has been in place throughout 2016.
More information on how the Group seeks to manage risk can be found on pages 36 to 46.
The Board, in seeking to achieve the Groups business objectives, cannot offer an absolute guarantee that the application of a risk management process will overcome, eliminate or mitigate all significant risks.
However, by further developing and operating an annual and ongoing risk management process to identify, report and manage significant risks the Board seeks to provide a reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during 2016, as detailed on page 83.
Notwithstanding these procedures a number of warranty, associated inventory and contract liabilities and other unprovided liabilities were identified in the China business during the period.
This followed an internal audit report in October 2016 and local management structure reorganisation and changes also in October 2016.
A subsequent detailed review has concluded that these liabilities primarily relate to Trio, which was acquired for $220m in 2014, and include pre and post-acquisition liabilities.
The identified liabilities, totalling 17m, result from poor product performance and inventory management over the periods before and after acquisition.
This charge has been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an exceptional item in 2016 refer to note 5.
Local management changes and engineering enhancements to legacy products have been completed and the business remains an important part of the Minerals strategy going forward.
Our internal control framework has four key layers: Risks Functional and Front Line Controls This includes a wide spectrum of controls as seen in most organisations, including, for example, standard operating procedures and policies: a comprehensive financial planning and reporting system, including quarterly forecasting: regular performance appraisals and training for employees: restricted access to financial systems and data: delegated authority matrices for review and approval of key transactions: protective clothing and equipment to protect our people from harm: IT and data security controls: business continuity planning: and assessment procedures for potential new recruits.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 72 u o t c l n f u d c a r d n d u n a a s n l s a g A c a i n h i t E r l o a t i n n o o M i t c n u F Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance A CCO U N T A B I L I T Y Monitoring and Oversight Controls There is a clearly defined organisational structure within which roles and responsibilities are articulated.
There are monitoring controls at operating company, regional, divisional and Group level, including standard key performance indicators, with action plans to address underperforming areas.
A compliance scorecard self-assessment is completed and reported by all operating companies twice per annum.
The scorecard assesses compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Financial monitoring includes comparing actual results with the forecast and prior year position on a monthly and year-to-date basis.
Significant variances are highlighted to Directors on a timely basis, allowing appropriate action to be taken.
Assurance Activities We obtain a wide range of assurance to provide comfort to management and the Board that our controls are providing adequate protection from risk and are operating as we would expect.
Following the Board and Committee structure set out on page 66, various internal and external sources of assurance report to the Board and management.
These are principally external audit, internal audit, SHE audits, intellectual property audits, engineering audits, procurement audits, IT audits, legal audits and production system lean audits.
The various audit teams plan their activities on a risk basis, ensuring resources are directed at the areas of greatest need.
Issues and recommendations to enhance controls are reported to management to ensure timely action can be taken, with oversight provided from the relevant governance committees, including the Audit Committee and the Excellence Committees.
Ethical and Cultural Environment We are committed to doing business at all times in an ethical and transparent manner.
This is supported by the Weir values which are the core behaviours we expect our people to live by in their working lives.
The Weir Code of Conduct also contributes to our culture, providing a high benchmark by which we expect our business to be conducted.
Any examples of unethical behaviour are dealt with robustly and promptly.
The Ethics section within the Sustainability Review on page 49 provides more details on the Groups activities to promote ethical behaviour.
The Groups internal control procedures described on page 83 of the Audit Committee Report do not cover joint venture interests.
We have Board representation on each of our joint venture companies where separate, albeit similar, internal control frameworks have been adopted.
R E M UNE R A T I O N The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policy for the Board of Directors and the Group Executive.
Full details of the Committees roles, responsibilities and members are contained within the Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 109.
The Remuneration Report also details the Companys remuneration policy and the remuneration received by Directors in 2016.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 73 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued R EL AT IO N S W I T H S H A R EHOLDER S The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining good relationships with all of the Companys shareholders.
The Companys investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results and meetings with individual investors.
Through this programme, the Company has directly engaged with 319 investors in 2016 either face-to-face or via telephone or video-conferencing.
Other areas where the Company engages with shareholders include attendance at investor conferences held by the financial community and roadshows and investor relations events held by the Company, of which there were 22 during the year held in Canada, France, Germany, the UK and the USA.
During the period under review, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman have met or had contact with analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them informed of significant developments and report to the Board accordingly on the views of these stakeholders.
Each of the other Non-Executive Directors is also offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and would do so if requested by any major shareholder.
Our brokers, Goldman Sachs International and UBS, and public relation advisers undertake investor roadshow feedback which is shared with the Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders.
The primary means of communicating with the Companys shareholders are the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Interim Report.
Both are available on the Companys website and the Annual Report is posted out to all shareholders who elect to receive it in hard copy.
Copies are available upon request to the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from the website.
The Board also recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and a new updated Group website was successfully launched in 2016, to better facilitate communications with all of our stakeholders.
As well as the Interim and Annual Reports, the website contains information on the business of the Company and corporate governance, all Group press releases and Company news, key dates in the financial calendar and other important shareholder information.
The Board is committed to the constructive use of the Annual General Meeting as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear their views and answer their questions about the Group and its business.
The 2017 AGM is to be held on 27 April 2017.
Together with the rest of the Board, the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees will be available to answer questions relevant to the work of the Board and the Committees.
Engagement With Stakeholders During 2016 We recognise the value of engaging our stakeholders their opinion and perspective enhances our approach to both managing risk and identifying opportunities for business growth.
Engaging with stakeholders Government Employees Investors Communities Suppliers and customers and regulators Code of Conduct Calls and face-to-face meetings Fundraising events Face-to-face meetings Consultation responses Global intranet AGM Sponsorship Weir customer experience Commissioning of reports programme Formalised staff meetings Reports and announcements Partnerships with educational Face-to-face meetings Town Halls institutes Global supplier scorecard for Website Visits to sites strategic suppliers Net Promoter surveys Trainee and mentorship Roadshows Briefing papers programmes Code of Conduct Personal Development Plans Capital Markets Day Industry events Volunteering ISO 14001 certification Training programmes Investor Relations app Armed Forces Covenant Trade shows and industry events Weir University for mobile devices e-learning facility Social media Social media Social media Social media The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 74
