Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Technology Our technology innovation focuses on In the Flow Control division, 2016 The Strategic Report, covering pages 1 producing equipment and services for was characterised by rapid progress to 57 of the Annual Report and Financial our customers that improve efficiency in technology and digital innovation.
Statements 2016, has been approved by and emissions performance, contribute Innovative new valve and pump products the Board of Directors in accordance with positively to workplace safety and were introduced to the market including The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report enable lower overall operating costs.
the Roto-Jet RO-FT API610 Pump and and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Our product development and Hopkinsons Forged Gate Valve.
The sustainability goals are closely aligned, accelerated commercial introduction of On behalf of the Board of Directors with new products designed to operate additive manufacturing continued.
It has the safely and with greater efficiency.
potential to substantially reduce lead times and lower costs of valve and pump spares.
Innovation Key customers helped Flow Controls Lens In 2016, the Group maintained investment and Elland facilities successfully deploy a in research and development at 1.5% secure e-commerce concept for ordering of sales.
Weir continues to invest in spares associated with installed control, Christopher Morgan fundamental research and development isolation and safety valves.
Company Secretary and General Counsel in line with technologys core position in 22 February 2017 the Groups strategy.
Focus continues Research and development to be on fast-moving data acquisition, The Weir Advanced Research Centre storage and analysis, as this activity WARC, Weirs central research and is critical in continuing to improve the development hub is co-ordinating the product operating performance, reducing fundamental research undertaken around environmental impact and lowering our the world on behalf of the Group.
A customers total cost of ownership.
two-tier approach for the relationships with universities has been established Tier 1 The Group has made progress in improving is for long-term strategic partnerships and customer digital experience to further Tier 2 for shorter-term projects where we enhance the support and maintenance need access to specific areas of expertise services we provide, as well as simplifying within a university.
Only a few Tier 1 access to spares.
Our Synertrex Internet of relationships will be set up due to the Things IoT solution is under development levels of commitment needed to gain the and has the potential to further optimise optimum benefit from the relationship.
At the operation of our equipment in the present we have two such arrangements field, both in terms of performance and with the University of Strathclyde and dependability, to make our customers Imperial College London.
A third partner operations more efficient.
will be added in due course.
Product and technology development Technology Advisory Board In 2016, our pressure pumping team The Weir Technology Advisory Board achieved a significant milestone with brings together experts from a diverse the successful completion of the SPM range of backgrounds to inform the Groups QEM 3000 field trials.
The results further technology agenda.
Its aim is to ensure confirm significant reductions of circa Weir looks beyond our own markets and 17% in customers total cost of ownership.
is able to benefit from complementary Minerals also developed new highinnovations in other sectors.
During horsepower crushers for comminution 2016, the Board provided advice on and markets that lower energy consumption influenced the Groups digital capability compared to legacy products.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 57
