fdfdfds STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy Principal risks and uncertainties The Companys strategy is to acquire freehold and facing the Company leasehold buildings and to obtain the necessary In the course of normal business, the Company permissions to convert them into Wetherspoon pubs.
continually assesses significant risks faced and takes The buildings are normally in or near town centres or in action to mitigate their potential impact.
Our aim is to increase like-for-like sales, profits and earnings per share.
The following risks, while not intended to be a comprehensive analysis, constitute in the opinion of Our strategy is to seek a return on capital in excess of the board the principal risks and uncertainties currently the cost of the capital which will provide profit for new facing the Company: pub developments, dividends and funds for reinvestment in the existing business.
Strategic risks Business model Economic outlook Wetherspoon owns and operates pubs throughout the The Company aims to improve its customer offering UK and Ireland and aims to sell high-quality products, continually, so that it remains competitively placed in at reasonable prices, in attractive and well-maintained the market in which it operates.
The Company aims to make lots of small conditions can theoretically have an effect on the improvements to its pubs, once they are open, so that Companys performance, although, historically, these sales and profit are maintained or improved.
The Company aims to recruit and retain a high Regulation of the sale of alcohol standard of employee, partly by allocating a The pub business is highly regulated, with frequent considerable percentage of profit as bonuses to pub increases in alcohol duty and other taxes a feature of employees and partly through a number of training the industry for many decades.
programmes which help to achieve these objectives.
Succession-planning Business review and future trends The Company is reliant on the knowledge and A review of the Companys business and the experience of its executive management team.
The key measures of its performance, sometimes called Company involves the broader senior management key performance indicators KPIs, can be found in the team in decision-making to provide it with chairmans statement under the financial performance sufficient exposure, so that, if the need to replace a section.
The chairmans statement also discusses member of the executive management team trends and factors likely to affect the were to arise there are well-qualified internal future development, performance and position candidates.
Commercial risks Environment and human rights As regards human rights, our policy is to observe a Cost increases wide range of legislation, designed to encourage and Inflationary pressures on the Companys costs promote equal opportunities and protect human rights.
pose a risk to profits, although the Company has been Wetherspoons main contribution in this area relates to able to achieve satisfactory arrangements with its creating jobs for large numbers of people, paying a suppliers, up until now, in both good and difficult reasonable percentage of its profits as bonus for those economic conditions.
working in our pubs and head office, training large numbers of staff and paying a significant percentage of Operational risks our sales as taxes to the government.
All of these factors help to create income for employees and Health and safety the government, contributing directly and indirectly The Company endeavours to ensure that to the promotion of human rights.
all reasonable standards of health and safety are met, by trying to identify risks and taking action to Further information about the Companys avert problems.
environmental, employee and social policies is published on the Companys website: Supply chain risks www.
com It is fundamental to our operations that we should be able to supply our pubs with the required goods Employee diversity and services.
The table below shows the breakdown of directors, senior managers and employees.
It is important that we understand our supply chain Male Female and have accurate information relating to provenance, Directors 5 3 ingredients and ethical practices.
Senior managers 782 502 All employees 17,819 18,884 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 43 STRATEGIC REPORT We work closely with our suppliers and central Sales, profitability, debt requirements and distribution partners, in order to maintain availability cash flow are reviewed weekly by a team which of products, at all times.
includes the chairman, chief executive, finance director and senior finance managers.
The Company conducts audits of its supply chain and standards are assessed in accordance with Interest-rate risk our Supplier Charter.
The Company has dealt with the risks of an increase in interest rates by swapping the majority of its floatingFood hygiene rate borrowings into fixed rates which expire in 2023 Achieving and maintaining food hygiene standards see note 23. are critical to any organisation which prepares food for public consumption.
Ensuring the safety of our During the 52 weeks ended 24 July 2016, if the interest customers and employees is a priority for the rates on UK-denominated borrowings had been 1% Company.
The Company takes food hygiene very higher, with all other variables constant, pre-tax profit seriously: extensive operational procedures have for the year would have been reduced by 3,031,000 been implemented to embed best practice in our pubs.
The movement The Company monitors the results of food hygiene in equity arises from a change in the mark to market audits and provides its pubs with the necessary valuation of the interest-rate swaps into which the resources and support to ensure that standards are Company has entered, calculated by a 1% shift of the met at all times.
The Company considers that a 1% movement in interest rates represents a reasonable Head office and national distribution centre sensitivity to potential changes.
However, this analysis Any disasters at the Companys head office is for illustrative purposes only.
in Watford or its national distribution centre in Daventry could seriously disrupt its daily Credit risk operations.
Various measures have been undertaken The Company does not have a significant by the Company, including a comprehensive  of credit risk, as the majority of its recovery plan, seeking to minimise the impact of any revenue is in cash.
At the balance sheet date, such incidents.
the Company was exposed to a maximum credit risk of 0.9m, of which 0.1m was overdue.
Information technology The Companys daily operations are increasingly reliant Cash deposits with financial institutions and derivative on its information technology systems.
Any prolonged transactions are permitted with investment-grade or significant failure of these systems could pose a risk financial institutions only.
The Company receives a to trading.
The Company seeks to minimise this risk by small amount of income from properties which it has ensuring that there are technologies, policies and sublet to third parties, but the sums involved from any procedures to ensure protection of hardware, software one letting are immaterial.
and information by various means, including a disaster-recovery plan, a system of backups and Liquidity risk external hardware and software.
The Company regularly monitors cash flow forecasts and endeavours to ensure that there are enough funds, The Company recognises that cyber threats pose including committed bank and finance lease facilities, a significant risk to the hospitality industry.
to meet its business requirements and comply with The Company continually assesses the risks posed by banking covenants.
cyber threats and makes changes to its technologies, policies and procedures to mitigate identified risks.
The risks in this area relate to miscalculating cash flow requirements, being unable to renew credit facilities or Reputational risk a substantial fall in sales and profits.
The Company is aware that, in operating in a consumer-facing business, its business reputation, Foreign currency built over many years, can be damaged in a Foreign exchange exposure is currently not significant significantly shorter timeframe.
The Company, to the Company.
The Company monitors the growth therefore, in its daily business, maintains substantial and risks associated with its overseas operations efforts in this area to improve operational controls.
and will undertake hedging activities as and when they are required.
Financial risks By order of the board Capital risk management The Company aims to maintain reasonable levels of capital and debt.
Debt always involves risk, although the Company has always been able to fulfil its Nigel Connor obligations under its loan agreements.
Company Secretary 8 September 2016 44 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
