10 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategy update Building on the good work alreadyunderway Philip Bowcock 2016: good progress in Interim Chief adifficult year Executive Officer Onlines performance was the focus of much attention during the year.
With a rigorous focus on the customer experience, we have delivered rapid and meaningful improvements to our digital offering.
In June, we launched our redesigned Sportsbook app and consequently saw UK wagering levels move from a decline in H1 to 5% growth in H2.
Gaming upgrades were started in the second half and led to increases in the number of actives and level of cross sell as we progressed through the half.
By optimising the user experience, we have improved conversion rates on key customer journeys, such as registration, and we have enhanced customer Though 2016 was a difficult year, we have acquisition, increasing the value of new accounts and retention rates.
madepositive progress in our four focus We made good progress in reviewing areas.
Looking ahead, we want to accelerate Online and the Group functions to identify ways to increase efficiency.
We are the momentum we are starting to see targeting at least 40m of annualised cost inthebusiness.
efficiencies that we can deliver before the end of 2017.
These will be reinvested in product, marketing and technology to further accelerate growth in the business.
Our four focus areas in 2016 In addition to enabling the rapid delivery of Onlines product improvements, our new front-end platform enabled the creation of our proprietary SSBTs for the betting 01 02 shops and we rolled out 2,000 during 2016.
We expanded our product development Maintain the pace of Drive increased capability and capacity by acquiring the Onlines turnaround efficiencies across Grand Parade team, who have been theGroup successfully integrated and who are delivering high-quality output, including our new Vegas iOS app.
Our international operations all performed well.
In Australia, we migrated customers to the William Hill brand and launched product innovations to differentiate us 03 04 in a crowded marketplace.
In the US, we continued to grow market share by Deliver the Refocus the expanding our Nevada footprint and technology roadmap international growth launching a new mobile app.
Italy and and expansion Spain also grew, benefiting from further product enhancements.
11 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements We have extensively reviewed our Transformation and Strategic priorities going marketing effectiveness and have technologyprojects forward implemented a number of changes to Enabling this strategy are two key projects: Looking ahead, we are focused on further digital marketing.
With this in place, and a transformation programme to increase improving the customer experience by with a clear pipeline of product innovations efficiencies and deliver 40m of annualised making it both fast and easy as well as ahead, we are increasing our marketing savings to support our higher investment: enjoyable and personal to bet with William investment in the UK by c20%.
and a three-year programme to deliver a Hill.
To do this, we are expanding our global technology platform for the whole product range, increasing our marketing Continued international William Hill Group.
investment and using our technology for revenuegrowth continuous improvement.
The transformation programme is now We will continue to grow internationally, moving into the implementation phase.
capitalising on good growth in digital The review is focused primarily on Online Grow UK market share markets and diversifying our sources and Group functions, which have grown The UK remains our near-term priority.
rapidly over the last eight years without not only our largest market, it is also the having been reviewed.
Other areas to In Australia, recent improvement in worlds largest regulated online gambling be addressed include external spend, IT, performance has given us the confidence market, four times bigger than Italy or customer service and organisation.
to consolidate our challenger position with Australia.
Our brand, extensive high-street more marketing investment.
As one of the footprint, product range, user experience The transformation programme is largest digital gambling markets outside and large-scale marketing investment expected to incur one-off operating costs the UK, this remains an attractive market remain powerful drivers in this market and additional capital expenditure over but it is intensely competitive and we want and we are confident we can further grow 2017, 2018 and 2019 to achieve the targeted to capitalise on our position as one of the market share.
This is currently expected to leading operators.
To achieve this, we aim to: In the US, we are building optionality For the UK, we now have in place the continue to deliver an extensive product ahead of potential regulatory change.
major technology components we need pipeline to make William Hill an exciting We are extending our footprint digital to deliver our current product pipeline.
destination for customers: and physical wherever we can, including Having benefited from the increased adding sports books in Nevada, mobile establish a market-leading omni-channel capacity added by the Grand Parade team, in Delaware and a new race book in Iowa.
offering to improve brand loyalty and we are investing to further expand our We are also supporting efforts either broaden the customer experience for product development team by increasing to challenge the legality of the PASPA Retail customers: and headcount in the coming months.
federal ban on sports betting or to achieve reassert William Hills position as a legislative change.
We are also investing over the next leading brand by targeted increases in three years in our next-generation marketing spend.
In Italy and Spain we will continue to invest technology platform alongside OpenBet.
in marketing to capitalise on continued In product terms, in 2017 we have already This will enable us to improve the customer market growth.
In other markets, the global launched #YourOdds, a social mediaexperience even further in the UK.
technology platform we are developing based personalised odds offering, and It will also support lower cost entry into will provide an efficient market entry we have extended our High 5 horseracing new markets and increase the Groups in due course.
Ahead of that, we will be promotion, which is our first ever omniefficiency by moving all divisions onto opportunistic as key markets open up, channel offer, given its popularity.
a single platform, enabling sharing of using existing and or third-party systems innovations in all markets.
For omni-channel, we are extending the to make it economic to enter new markets.
product range on our proprietary SSBTs and also trialling a new smaller version of our SSBT.
We have developed an app that enhances the post-bet experience for customers without an account and will launch an omni-wallet to enable customers to use the funds in their Online account in shops.
