Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Group HR Directors report In addition, we are working to continually Whitbreads talented people improve our employees working experience and our winning teams mentality with technology enhancements: for are the foundation for our example we have implemented a new labour scheduling tool in our Restaurants business growth.
Our continued efforts which allows line managers to better plan to grow our talent, develop our and forecast, and critically allows team future pipeline of leaders and members to swap shifts more easily.
This will be rolled out to all brands over deliver high standards for our the next 24 months.
customers every day is at the heart of our strategy.
Developing leadership Louise Smalley We continue to focus on bringing through Group HR Director 2015 16 has been another year of high the best talent into leadership roles, and performance from Whitbreads 50,000 recruit where necessary to build a high employees.
We are pleased to report again quality leadership pipeline for the future.
that our people strategy rests on excellent We have made a number of broadening engagement levels in all brands, with our moves to provide lateral stretch for our engagement rising 2% pts to 78% across leaders and invested in critical skills in the Whitbread.
To ensure this continues, we UK and internationally.
Our apprenticeship remain focused on three core strategies schemes and graduate programmes continue which underpin our business plan: to grow in size and strength, and we are particularly proud to report that we have retaining Winning Teams: hired a series of high quality global leaders developing leadership: and in Germany, China, Poland and Dubai to drive our international growth.
a no barriers to entry, no limits to ambition environment.
To meet the needs of our growing business Retaining Winning Teams we have also introduced a new potential This year we have continued to challenge model, rolled out across Whitbread through ourselves to outperform relative to our over 128 workshops designed to support industry in reducing turnover, particularly in employees and managers to have a critical customerfacing roles, and have meaningful conversation about the markers invested consciously to achieve this.
We know of ones potential, backed by a consistent that the chance to develop a career is at the record of performance.
We also continue to heart of employee retention and are proud invest heavily to help our first line managers of our ability to create real jobs for people in our operations, with site level workshops on leadership behaviours in Costa, Premier of every background, giving profit and Inn and Restaurants, ongoing development loss P&L accountability to thousands of in coaching and management skills, and people within an accelerated timeframe.
targeted interventions to support In 2015 16 we offered 565 team members development into specific roles.
the opportunity to become a site manager and run their own P&L.
In addition we have recognised the growing To cement our winning teams ambition development needs of our support centre, into our reward strategy, we have with a suite of new programmes to support implemented a new pay strategy linked to general management and functional skills individual development progression, which development.
We have just completed guarantees salary increases on completion the first cohort of our new executive of key developmental milestones.
This work development SPRINT programme for our has been combined with material investments top talent, a tailormade experience to in the base salary for our site teams, accelerate the development and network introducing Living Wage in Costa and of executives across the company, and Premier Inn and Pay For Progression in in addition have launched a Digital Boot Restaurants.
With the combination of these Camp for developers and a brand investments we are hopeful that our turnover Digital Academy in both Premier Inn will continue to reduce, despite a challenging and Costa.
Whitbread Group HR Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Directors report 60 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 T he strategic report on pages 4 to 61 was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Chris Vaughan, General Counsel and Company Secretary on 25 April 2016.
No barriers to entry, no limits Finally, we are continuing to invest in ensuring Whitbread is an inclusive environment to ambition environment supporting the wellbeing of our employees In 2015 16 we have broadened the reach and their families.
In March, we rolled out and impact of our Diversity and Inclusion enhanced shared parental leave to all efforts by building it into all our programmes, employees, and have been investing in including a new focus on the importance of encouraging and developing new affinity diversity for successful innovation.
We have groups to support our diversity and inclusion made progress towards our internal targets efforts.
We have a thriving networking group on nationality mix, gender and minority for Women in Finance and are in the process ethnic representation at all levels.
of launching our GLOW network Gay & Lesbian Out at Whitbread, which will be On gender, we have conducted an equal present at Pride in 2016. pay audit to support our work on equal representation.
Initial results reveal that Internal policies greater representation of female leaders We know that the culture within Whitbread, in our top 250 roles remains our priority.
and the way we work, is just as important as what we do.
We take our values very To help support transition through the seriously, and operate a compliance organisation we have also continued to programme to ensure that our values make sure our most senior leaders are and our Code of Conduct are properly actively mentoring our up and coming embedded throughout the organisation.
diverse leaders and we are consciously making progress in using external recruitment We have a range of other policies and as a lever to bring in exceptional talent whilst programmes which are regularly reviewed shifting representation.
We are proud that and communicated to employees through 45% of external hires we have made into various training modules.
These include our our top 250 roles have been female and human rights, antibribery, hospitality and we have become the 6th FTSE 100 company gifts, and antifraud and theft policies.
to be led by a female Chief Executive.
A breakdown of the directors of the Company, senior managers defined as those in the Directors Forum and all Whitbread employees, split by gender, Louise Smalley as at 3 March 2016 is set out below.
Group HR Director 25 April 2016 1 Directors Senior managers All Whitbread employees Male Female Male Female Male Female 1 Data taken from our core HR database.
Whitbread Group HR Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Directors report 61
