WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 25 report governance statements information Other disclosures Corporate responsibility programme Ethical trading and human rights We continue to operate a robust corporate responsibility CR We are committed to good labour standards and respecting programme that is closely aligned to the Groups strategy.
the environment in our supply chain.
Our Ethical Trading Code Our CR programme is divided into four key areas: Marketplace, of Conduct and Human Rights Policy outlines our expectations Environment, Workplace and Community.
Our CR strategy is based on ensuring that we effectively manage The in-house supplier audit team based in our Far East sourcing the environmental and social issues which are material to the office undertakes a regular programme of supplier audits to Group and to each business.
Our approach is shaped by the monitor labour standards.
They visit each new direct-source views and expectations of our stakeholders with whom we are in supplier factory to assess its performance, ensure that minimum regular dialogue.
standards are met and, where necessary, agree an action plan to ensure that the factory is improving its performance.
We provide The management of social and environmental matters is support as suppliers make these improvements, and aim to embedded into day-to-day operations across the business.
ensure that all direct source suppliers and Asia-based suppliers The Board carry out annual reviews to ensure the successful of UK agents are audited at least every two years.
implementation of the CR strategy and to approve our targets for the years ahead.
The following pages provide an introduction to WHSmith is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, an our CR work during the year.
More detailed information, including alliance of companies, trade unions and NGOs that promote performance data and future targets, is available in our full CR respect for workers rights around the world.
In order to encourage improvements in labour standards, we focus on a number of key issues which we know are common Customers challenges facing many of our suppliers.
One such issue has been We are committed to maintaining high customer service health and safety, which continues to be a key area of focus during standards across the Group.
In our Travel business, we have our factory audits.
We are working with a number of our key developed an initiative called Customer First to drive a culture of suppliers to help strengthen their health and safety procedures.
excellent customer service standards throughout the business.
We are providing training for the factories on best practice in To ensure that these standards have been fully embedded within health and safety management, and supporting them as they the business, members of our senior management team visited conduct risk assessments of their own sites and identify required every store to check that they are Customer Ready with stores improvements.
The changes made should result in a direct scored on a set criteria specifically focusing on service and store benefit for workers through reduced risk of accidents and also standards.
In High Street, our independently conducted Customer reduced downtime.
Satisfaction Monitor assesses performance in areas such as We have undertaken a large programme of work looking at friendliness and helpfulness of staff, time spent queuing as well modern slavery risks within our business and supply chain and as store cleanliness and tidiness.
Our High Street stores continue updating policies and procedures to ensure we have the right level to achieve high overall customer satisfaction scores of 8.3 out of focus on this issue.
We have reported on this area in detail in of 10. a separate Board-approved Modern Slavery Statement.
This is We take seriously the responsibility for the products we sell, available at www.
and we are committed to listening to our customers feedback.
A copy of our Ethical Trading Code of Conduct and Human Our Marketing Code of Practice sets out the standards we follow Rights Policy is available at www.
co. uk corporate in our promotional activity, marketing and advertising and seeks responsibility our policies.
to ensure that the products we sell are safe, fit for purpose, meet legal standards and are not described in a misleading manner, particularly when marketing to children.
We are continuing to take further steps to extend our healthy eating range.
WHSmith is an active member of the NHS Healthy Eating forum and we have been working to improve our healthy eating offer in our hospital stores by rapidly increasing our ranges of healthy products to our customers.
We are currently working with NHS Scotland in order to help deliver the new Healthcare Retail Standard HRS and with the Royal Free Hospital in London, taking a proactive approach, as a pioneer of the UK governments Healthy Living Award legislation.
WH Smith PLC 26 Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Other disclosures continued Environment We recognise that good environmental management also makes good business sense.
We are committed to reducing We recognise that good the environmental impact of our business, and measure our performance each year.
A copy of our Environmental Policy is environmental management also available at www.
co. uk corporate responsibility our policies.
Greenhouse gas emissions We are committed to reducing Good energy management is an established part of the business culture, especially amongst our store teams.
We have made good the environmental impact of progress in recent years, achieving a reduction in CO e emissions 2 our business and measure our per square foot from stores and distribution centres of over 49 per cent since 2007. performance each year.
We have achieved this energy performance through close realtime monitoring of energy consumption, with our managers Forest sourcing having direct accountability for energy costs.
We have successfully rolled out more efficient LED lighting across the majority of our We are committed to minimising the environmental impact of the stores, distribution centres and in back of house areas, such as paper used in own-brand products, and we work to a continuing stockrooms and offices, delivering significant savings in energy objective that all virgin i. e. non-recycled material used in our consumption.
This year, we have also continued our programme products is from known, legal, well-managed and credibly to reduce energy wastage from our drinks and food chillers, with certified forests.
the greatest opportunity being in our Travel stores.
As part of this work, we have installed more time clocks installed that turn off We carry out an in-depth and rigorous assessment of supplier fridges containing non-perishable products out of hours.
In the forest sourcing systems.
Our sourcing teams both in the UK and year ahead, we are rolling out a suite of energy efficiency best the Far East work with our suppliers to help them understand our practice measures to ensure that stores are working towards requirements.
By 2020, our aim is that 95 per cent of own-brand the best achievable performance in terms of energy use.
We are stationery units will come from sustainable certified or recycled targeting savings of around five per cent for the stores involved in sources.
We have made good progress in the year, with 85 per the project.
cent of own-brand stationery units now from certified sources, upfrom 69 per cent in 2015 16.
This performance is due to several We continue to work hard to maximise the efficiency of our fleet key product lines being confirmed as FSC-sourced, for example wherever we can, not only helping to reduce our carbon footprint, boxed Christmas cards.
We are already working with suppliers but also reducing fuel costs for the business.
Since 2007, we on lines for 2016 17 and would expect to be able to deliver have achieved a reduction in CO e emissions per pallet of over 2 further improvements in the year ahead.
A copy of our Forest 25per cent.
Sourcing Policy is available at www.
Regular and in-depth reviews of our transport operations enable us to optimise routing and delivery frequency.
In addition, our transport management system provides real-time data to monitor driver behaviour.
During 2015 16, we have delivered a project to relocate Travel and High Street product within WHSmiths distribution network, with product located closer to the key hubs for each business.
This has been a complex process, but it is one which we believe will deliver ongoing savings in terms of mileage, fuel and emissions by ensuring that our transport network can be used more efficiently.
WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 27 report governance statements information Global greenhouse gas emissions data for period Waste management 1 September 2015 to 31 August 2016 in tonnes of CO e Waste created by inefficient use of resources and rising landfill 2 tax represents a significant cost to the business.
In High Street, Percentage we operate a dry mix recycling system which can accept most of carbon forms of waste, including plastics and metals.
This year, we 2015 2016 footprint 2014 2015 achieved a reduction in overall waste volumes of 10 per cent year Scope 1 emissions on year.
In our Travel business, we are working hard to minimise Combustion of fuel for 8,320 23.5% 8,700 food waste.
This is however a complex area.
Our focus has been the transport of WHSmith on improving our forecasting to ensure that we only stock the products from distribution chilled food that we expect to sell.
For unsold ambient food, we are centre to store using conducting a trial in our M&S Simply Food units, working with the vehicles owned by third social network, Neighbourly, to make links to local charities and parties.
Also combustion community organisations who can make use of this unsold food.
of gas to heat and cool If this trial is successful, we would hope to roll this out to a wider WHSmith stores, offices range of stores.
and distribution centres Reducing the number of single-use plastic carrier bags we hand Scope 2 emissions out has been a focus for many years, with our staff habitually Electricity purchased 25,582 72.5% 30,544 asking customers whether they need a carrier bag and promoting forWHSmiths own use the use of re-usable bags.
In October 2015, a new 5p carrier bag used to power, light and levy was introduced in England, which means that there are now heat stores, offices or 5p levies for carrier bags in place across the UK.
Since the carrier distributioncentres bag levies have been in place, we have seen a drop in the number Scope 3 emissions of bags we are giving out by approximately 30 per cent.
WHSmith employee 1,374 4 % 882 business travel by air, rail For the bags we do use, we donate the proceeds from the levy and owned and non-owned to good causes.
During the year, we have donated over 390,000 motor vehicles to our charity partners.
In our Travel business, this money goes Total 35,276 100% 40,126 to the homelessness charity, Shelter, and in our High Street business, 25 per cent of the carrier bag levy proceeds go to the Intensity measurement Woodland Trust to fund their tree planting projects.
The other Total emissions 8.03 9.16 75 per cent of the High Street carrier bag levy goes to the new Scopes1,2and 3 reported WHSmith Community Fund, which makes grants to hundreds above normalised per 1,000 ofcustomer-nominated schools and charities across the UK.
squarefeet Health and safety Scope and methodology We are committed to maintaining high standards of health In the above table we have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and and safety.
The management team, supported by professional safety advisers, monitors key safety performance indicators Directors report Regulations 2013, as well as Scope 3 emissions, which are reported on a voluntary basis.
These sources fall and an annual report detailing trends, performance and recommendations is presented to the Board.
The business also within our consolidated financial statements.
This data covers the continuing activities undertaken by our retailing operation in the has a Health and Safety Committee that comprises employee representatives and professional health and safety advisers.
The impacts resulting from franchise operations are excluded from this report as we are not responsible for The Group Safety team continue to provide an ongoing training programme for staff in stores, consisting of modular courses the operations of these stores.
The impacts resulting from international stores are also excluded from this report because focusing on key issues such as fire safety, manual handling and slips, trips and falls.
A copy of our Health and Safety at Work Policy it is not possible to collect the base emissions data at the current time.
We have used data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the GHG Protocol, and recommended DEFRA conversion factors.
We do not believe there are any material omissions.
WH Smith PLC 28 Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Other disclosures continued WHSmiths High Street stores are committed to building strong Social and community matters relationships with local schools.
We work in partnership with As a leading bookseller and stationer we focus our community the WHSmith Trust to make donations to local schools which investment on supporting education and life-long learning.
help them improve their library resources, as well as running Over the year we invested a total of 1,602,675 into local fun activities in our stores to help promote the joy of reading.
Included in this figure are cash During 2015 16, we supported 150 schools across the UK.
donations, staff time and gifts in kind.
The full extent of our We have continued to increase our Christmas charity ranges.
community investment activity, measured according to the London Over the last three years, we have seen total charity donations Benchmarking Group model, is outlined in the Groups CR report, from these ranges almost double.
For Christmas 2016, we available at www.
plan to increase these ranges further with a higher profile The WHSmith Group Charitable Trust, an independent registered presence in store for our key charity partner, Save the Children.
charity, actively supports employees that are involved with We also encourage charity fundraising by staff and customers.
charitable organisations in their local communities, as well as In September 2016, six WHSmith teams took part in the national working in partnership with the Group to support literacy projects.
Three Peaks Challenge, raising 71,000 for the WHSmith Trust and Save the Children.
A copy of our Community Engagement Our store teams are active members in their communities, with Policy is available at www.
co. uk corporate many store managers and staff giving their time to promote a responsibility our policies.
positive business environment on their high streets.
As part of this, we continue to support Business in the Communitys High Street Champions programme, which is working to encourage high street regeneration in 33 towns.
The annual WHSmith Community Awards help to share good practice and encourage more stores to engage in their local community.
This year, we Promoting literacy is a priority for launched the WHSmith Community Fund which distributes the proceeds of the carrier bag levy to customer-nominated charities, us as a business and at the heart schools and community organisations.
The levy collected during 2015 16, will enable us to make over 500 grants to a wide range of our community engagement ofcommunity groups spread across the UK.
This year saw the Promoting literacy is a priority for us as a business and at the heart of our community engagement programme.
This year saw completion of our latest literacy the completion of our latest literacy project with our long-term project with our long-term charity charity partner, the National Literacy Trust.
In the last three years, with the support of the WHSmith Trust and WHSmith partner, the National Literacy Trust.
store teams across the country, around 7,500 children aged six to nine have taken part in the National Literacy Trusts Young Readers Programme, giving children the opportunity to discover the pleasure of reading.
We have been pleased to see that the project has had a measurable impact on childrens attitudes to reading, with 80 per cent of all participating children reading more frequently and 100 per cent of teachers observing better overall reading attainment against expected levels for participating children.
