WH Smith PLC 4 Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Business model and strategy Our business model explains what we do and how we deliver our primary purpose of creating value for our shareholders.
We aim to do this through improving our profitability and cash flow, and delivering sustainable returns.
WHSmith is one of the UKs leading retailers with two distinct businesses Travel and High Street.
At the heart of both our businesses are our people and our customers.
Delivering Shareholder Returns Travel High Street The leading retailer in Britains most popular high convenience, books and news for streetstationer, bookseller the worlds travelling customer andnewsagent 1 2 3 Develop new Managing our offer Maximising formats and to reflectthe needs returns channels in the UK and of our customers from our space internationally 4 5 6 7 Optimising Focused use The right people Operating efficiency of cash and skills responsibly Our two businesses have distinct goals and strategies with some common elements, for example, the WHSmith brand and some shared services.
Travel and High Street are run by separate management teams reflecting the different customers, strategies, operating models and cost structures.
Our goals Travel Our goal is to be the leading retailer in convenience, books and news for the worlds travelling customer.
High Street Our goal is to be Britains most popular high street stationer, bookseller and newsagent.
We aim to deliver our goals through our strategic priorities and initiatives.
These are detailed on the following page.
WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 5 report governance statements information Develop new formats and channels 3 1 Maximising returns from our space in the UK andinternationally For Travel and High Street this means: For Travel this means: e focusing on the return from space in each store taking into e working closely with our landlords, franchise and joint account all product and operating costs to ensure we are able to venture partners: maximise the net profit from each store: e renewing existing contracts and concessions: e using our space and product profitability data to drive our e identifying new locations, building on the strength of the decision-making: and WHSmith brand: e focusing on efficient and low cost operating models in our e developing new formats: and stores whilst maintaining high levels of customer service and availability.
e continuing to grow our international business through different operating models: directly-run, joint venture and franchise.
4 Optimising efficiency For High Street this means: e focusing on prime shopping locations in the UK where we In both Travel and High Street we have a strong track record benefit from significant levels of footfall: of optimising efficiency and continue to focus on delivering cost e working with landlords to manage our space needs: savings from across the businesses by: e developing new formats, for example, WHSmith LOCAL: and e identifying efficiencies and productivity improvements in our store operating models, distribution centres and supply chain: e developing our online channels whsmith.
e utilising technology: and e ongoing cost reduction programmes including occupancy costs.
Managing our offer to reflect theneeds 2 ofour customers 5 Focused use of cash For Travel this means: Both Travel and High Street are cash generative and the focused e ensuring our offer reflects the needs of our customers in use of cash is a key part of our strategy.
We see three uses different locations and channels, providing a compelling choice for cash: of products, available for them where and when they need them: e investing in the business where we believe we can achieve a e identifying changes in trends in our markets and channels rate of return on investments greater than our cost of capital: and managing our space accordingly: e making value accretive acquisitions: and e working with landlords to manage the product ranges in each e returning surplus cash beyond that required to fund organic location: and growth and minor acquisitions to shareholders through a e using our own label and private labels, such as Gadgetshop, progressive dividend policy and share buybacks.
to develop product ranges appropriate for the travelling customer: and to wholesale to our international partners.
6 The right people and skills For High Street this means: Our ability to deliver our business model is underpinned by our e continuing to manage the space in our stores to reflect the 14,000 colleagues primarily in the UK but also in Australia, Asia, characteristics of each location in terms of competition, the Middle East and Europe who serve our customers every day.
affluence, and store size and layout: We are committed to promoting a culture of equality and diversity e identifying changes in trends in our markets and managing through our policies, practices and procedures and provide ourspace accordingly: ongoing training and development for our employees.
Our core e developing new products and ranges including building on values of customer focus, value our people, accountability and our strong heritage in own-brand education and stationery: drive for results are key to our performance.
e developing other private labels such as Gadgetshop where we can benefit from lower costs: and 7 Operating responsibly e providing additional services for our customers, for example, Post Offices.
For Travel and High Street this means acting responsibly to all ourstakeholders including customers, suppliers, business partners, employees and the communities in which we operate.
You can read more about our approach to corporate responsibility in the Other disclosures section of the Strategic report on pages 25 to 28. Review of operations You can read more about our progress in all areas of the strategic priorities in the respective reviews of operations for Travel and High Street on pages 10 to 13.
There are areas of risk and uncertainty associated with our strategy which you can read about in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 20 to 24.
