Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Hotels & Restaurants The Business Model in action Cust C Custo omer mer r Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Winning Teams Customer Heartbeat Our approach Our approach We recruit, reward, train and develop Premier Inn offers customers the At every Premier Inn we serve our 35,000 team members to build greatest choice of locations.
highly engaged teams who deliver Premier Inn offers a consistently Over half of our Premier Inns great customer service and make high quality product supported have a Whitbread branded everyday experiences special.
by our Good Night Guarantee.
We offer jobs and an industryleading Our dynamic pricing system means Our restaurants have distinctive apprenticeship programme to grow we can offer customers the best brand propositions and serve talented leaders.
value and deliver occupancy targets.
great quality value food appealing to a local customer base and We are a leading online retailer our hotel guests.
four out of every five bookings is made at www.
We continually refurbish our estate to maintain its quality.
We build brand awareness and loyalty through targeted marketing We innovate to meet customer and sales.
Business Model in action Business Model in action Creating employment opportunities Making everyday experiences special Convenient and accessible locations Our active talent pool contains We now have luxurious and With over 730 hotels across the UK, the details of nearly 30,000 people comfortable Hypnos beds in every our customers can be confident of who have expressed an interest single Premier Inn room, ensuring finding a Premier Inn near to where in a career with us.
that our guests wake up feeling they want to be.
60% of our new recruits are aged Almost all of our 409 restaurants between 16 and 24.
Our restaurants aim to serve up are located alongside a Premier great memories and 77.1% of Inn, making them convenient for We created over 2,500 work, or work guests score us nine or ten out Premier Inn guests and local experience, placements in the year, of ten, up 3.1% pts on the prior year.
providing opportunities for young and unemployed people.
Product innovation and continuous Marketleading brands improvement Premier Inn was named the UKs top Building strong leadership hub by Premier Inn, our new rated hotel chain in the 2015 Which?
645 delegates took part in our compact city centre hotel brand, Hotel Report and achieved the Shooting Stars management has opened three new locations TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence development course in the year.
in the year, bringing the total in over 80% of its hotels.
32% of apprentices progress to to four, with 12 more in the pipeline.
management roles within two years.
Brand preference and loyalty Premier Inn launched a new 95% of Premier Inn guests rate breakfast menu, including 16 tasty Investment in our people our team members positively for new products, including bubble and WISE is a groundbreaking friendliness and helpfulness.
squeak and American style pancakes.
programme that educates, engages We now have 1.7 million members and employs young people and Brewers Fayres new Dennis The across our Restaurants loyalty supports them into the world of work.
Menace themed play areas have schemes.
7,385 people participated in 638 classroombased courses during the year.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 The Business Model in action 12 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Cust C Custo omer mer r Cust C Custo omer me er r Winning Teams profitable Growth Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Heartbea H H He eartbea at t t t Winning Teams Customer Heartbeat Profitable Growth Good Together Our approach Our approach Our approach Our approach We recruit, reward, train and develop Premier Inn offers customers the At every Premier Inn we serve We invest in high returning, We are entering into selected We are raising 7.5 million towards our 35,000 team members to build greatest choice of locations.
consistently profitable sites and international markets with the The Premier Inn Clinical Building highly engaged teams who deliver are increasing our share of the Premier Inn brand.
at Great Ormond Street Childrens Premier Inn offers a consistently Over half of our Premier Inns great customer service and make UK market with rapid expansion Hospital.
high quality product supported have a Whitbread branded We maximise synergies and everyday experiences special.
of Premier Inn, especially by our Good Night Guarantee.
efficiencies with our joint site We are creating around 1,500 in London.
We offer jobs and an industryleading restaurants.
job opportunities every year with Our dynamic pricing system means Our restaurants have distinctive We innovate with new formats apprenticeship programme to grow a focus on 16 to 24 year olds and we can offer customers the best brand propositions and serve Our joint site model creates to provide further growth talented leaders.
great quality value food appealing incremental returns.
to a local customer base and We are committed to sustainable We are a leading online retailer our hotel guests.
We continually refurbish our We seek to minimise our carbon, estate to maintain its quality.
waste and water usage often We build brand awareness and using innovative technology and loyalty through targeted marketing We innovate to meet customer construction methods.
Business Model in action Business Model in action Business Model in action Business Model in action Creating employment opportunities Making everyday experiences special Convenient and accessible locations Winning market share, growing Expansion in the UK and in selected Team and Community Our active talent pool contains We now have luxurious and With over 730 hotels across the UK, sales and driving efficiencies international markets We have now raised over 6 million the details of nearly 30,000 people comfortable Hypnos beds in every our customers can be confident of Premier Inn grew total sales by During the year we opened 5,461 for Great Ormond Street Hospital who have expressed an interest single Premier Inn room, ensuring finding a Premier Inn near to where 12.9% to 1,260.1 million, with rooms and 40 new hotels in the Childrens Charity.
like for like sales growth of 4.2%.
UK, taking our total number of UK There are over 930 apprentices 1 wonderful!
60% of our new recruits are aged Almost all of our 409 restaurants Restaurants grew total sales by in learning.
Our restaurants aim to serve up are located alongside a Premier 3.5% to 561.9 million, with like The London hotel market remains great memories and 77.1% of Inn, making them convenient for for like sales growth of 0.8%.
a key growth opportunity and, by Customer Wellbeing We created over 2,500 work, or work guests score us nine or ten out Premier Inn guests and local 2020, we plan to have 1820,000 We are reformulating dishes to experience, placements in the year, of ten, up 3.1% pts on the prior year.
Strong cash flow and balance sheet rooms in London, including hub ensure they are healthier, without providing opportunities for young Our strong EBITDA growth provides by Premier Inn rooms.
compromising on product safety, and unemployed people.
Product innovation and continuous Marketleading brands cash generation to support our quality or taste.
By 2020 we intend to have around improvement Premier Inn was named the UKs top capital investment programme Building strong leadership six to eight hotels in Germany, hub by Premier Inn, our new rated hotel chain in the 2015 Which?
we invested c. 622 million cash Environment 645 delegates took part in our leveraging our UK capabilities as compact city centre hotel brand, Hotel Report and achieved the capital in growing and improving We now have solar panels on over Shooting Stars management we extend into this market.
has opened three new locations TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence our estate during the year.
12% of our hotel estate, reducing development course in the year.
our carbon footprint by over 32% of apprentices progress to to four, with 12 more in the pipeline.
Strong returns on capital 6,000 tonnes CO e per annum.
2 management roles within two years.
Brand preference and loyalty We maintained a strong return Premier Inn launched a new The direct operations recycling 95% of Premier Inn guests rate on capital of 12.9%.
This includes breakfast menu, including 16 tasty rate in the year was 69.2%.
Investment in our people our team members positively for investment in future hotel openings.
new products, including bubble and WISE is a groundbreaking friendliness and helpfulness.
Excluding this investment return 14 grey water recycling schemes squeak and American style pancakes.
programme that educates, engages on capital would have been 14.4%.
We now have 1.7 million members and employs young people and Brewers Fayres new Dennis The across our Restaurants loyalty supports them into the world of work.
1 Includes one hotel in Ireland.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 The Business Model in action 13 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Hotels & Restaurants Winning Teams Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Listening and taking action Both Premier Inn and Restaurants In October our team members participated in our annual have a clear purpose and employee employee engagement survey, Your Say.
Building on the value propositions that underpin the improvements we made to the survey last year, we further strengthened the insight and made the results easier to Whitbread vision.
understand and to take action on.
We also introduced an improved framework to Your Say, which provides insightful Our promise to our Winning Teams analysis around employee engagement and enablement.
Our restaurant team members are passionate about delivering great customer experiences to our guests and Our engagement results outperform the external benchmark our purpose, Serving up Great Memories, lives right at scores for Leisure and Hospitality as quoted by our survey the heart of our business.
Our great people are our Main provider Korn Ferry | Hay Group.
Ingredient, making sure we continue to serve up these great memories.
Team engagement survey: Your Say Engagement Engagement Response Response score score rate rate Oct 2015 Oct 2014 Oct 2015 Oct 2014 Premier Inn is a place made by you with opportunities to grow develop Hotels & Restaurants 78% 78% 83% 85% and achieve your dreams too A place where you belong where your future Overall engagement levels remained strong and our scores will unfold around intention to stay increased significantly this year.
This was driven in particular by 16 to 24 year olds in entry level roles, which we believe is due to the career prospects we offer and the introduction of our pay for progression scheme.
At Premier Inn, our ambition is to become the most loved hotel brand in the world, which we will achieve by helping our guests feel brilliant.
This is supported by our promise to team members that Premier Inn is A place made by you.
Our promise to hub by Premier Inn team members, Shaping your future and ours, reflects our innovative, technologycentric culture.
We are committed to making all our team members feel valued, nurtured, recognised and invested in, and this is incorporated into every activity we undertake.
Shaping your future and ours Connected and always on the pulse your passion for interaction will give our guests a new kind of hotel experience We have made a significant additional investment in our teams through the introduction of our pay for progression scheme this year.
Team turnover We also ran Pulse surveys across the business in April, We set stretching targets for a reduction in annual team allowing us to delve deeper into key areas of the 2014 survey turnover during the year in both Premier Inn and Restaurants.
results and enabling us to take more focused action.
For A number of initiatives to support the achievement of these example, further analysis of the Fair Deal dimension of the goals only started to make a sustainable impact half way annual survey helped us build a strong business case to through the year.
Although we did not achieve our targets, introduce pay for progression for hourly paid team members.
the business exited the year with positive momentum.
Investing in our Winning Teams Across Premier Inn and Restaurants we have made a significant additional investment in our teams through the introduction of our pay for progression scheme this year.
All team members now have clear pathways for ongoing development.
Each progression step is supported by a proficiency curriculum relevant to the role, with corresponding progressions in pay.
We remain committed to providing our teams with opportunities to develop their skills, rewarded with competitive pay.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Winning Teams 14 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 In our restaurants, we ensure every team member who joins Attracting winning team members our business has a brilliant experience from the start through In the last year we have invested heavily in the tools that our Best Welcome programme.
We are also continuing our we use to attract great talent to our organisation.
We have core development by giving opportunities for our teams to designed a new technology platform for our external progress their careers into other roles, including into kitchen careers websites across all our brands to improve the and general management.
experience potential employees have with us, from their very first interaction.
Our new careers websites bring to Worldclass training life the spirit of our brands and have been designed to be more informative, interactive and easier to use across all Shooting Stars Management 645 delegates in 193 sessions Development courses across Hotels & Restaurants digital platforms.
eLearning courses 270 available c. 240,000 course completions To complement these new portals, we have also invested Training courses Classroombased 7,385 people participated in a new inhouse recruitment system.
This enables our in 638 courses run this year managers to find great team members more effectively from an active talent pool that contains the details Supporting young people of nearly 30,000 people who have already expressed Jobs in hospitality are often a first step for young people an interest in embarking on a new career within our entering the workforce.
In Hotels & Restaurants we have a businesses.
The system has been designed to offer young population, with people aged 16 to 24 making up 39% potential employees greater clarity around the choice of our current workforce and 60% of our annual recruits.
Since of possible careers across Whitbread.
we recruit for attitude and potential rather than academic achievement, we are able to bring many young people into Career development our business who are not in employment, education or Providing attractive career opportunities is a key driver training.
We invest in developing our teams to ensure they of engagement for our teams.
Likewise, our team members have the necessary training, skills, and confidence to progress feel more enabled when they have opportunities for learning their careers.
Across Hotels & Restaurants, we are strengthening our leadership pipeline through proactive Whitbreads 2015 OFSTED report commended our support talent management.
of young people, saying, Recruiting high numbers of young people who have little or no experience of work after leaving This year has seen the roll out of a new, bespoke potential school, Whitbread makes a significant difference to the model across Whitbread.
It will enable us to understand local and national economy, raising aspirations by giving the pipeline of talent we have throughout the business employment and wellstructured training that leads to long and identify opportunities, maximise potential and rewarding careers.
We are recording improved wellbeing, accelerate development and progression for individuals selfesteem, confidence and employability of young people with exceptional potential.
many of whom were not previously in education, employment or training.
We have also simplified our approach to performance management to focus on and develop individuals strengths.
WISE investments in our people In our hotels, this is underpinned by regular coaching Our WISE programme Whitbread Investing in Skills and conversations with line managers.
Employment, now entering its fourth year, uses an innovative inhouse, employerdesigned qualification system which In addition to the refreshed skills curriculum aligned to the complies with national accreditation standards.
WISE is a pay for progression scheme, we are updating our internal groundbreaking programme that educates, engages and leadership development programmes and creating a new, employs young people who are often facing difficult crossfunctional Future Leaders programme for our challenges and supports them into the world of work.
WISE offers: In Premier Inn, we have also created a leadership work experience placements and school and college visits development programme specifically tailored to our teams for 11 to 18 year olds: from digital, strategy, finance and revenue management.
employment placements for people of all ages who are This will enable us to attract and develop exceptional new not in education, employment or training: talent across our evergrowing commercial functions.
apprenticeships and functional skills for team members who want to gain nationally recognised qualifications, from preemployment at level 1 to multisite management at level 7: and support for our suppliers to invest in developing the skills of their own workforces.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Winning Teams 15 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Hotels & Restaurants Winning Teams continued Engaging conversations Whitbreads 2015 OFSTED report confirms that WISE A key action Premier Inn took from Your Say in 2014 was to is wellembedded and has seniorlevel commitment.
improve twoway communication across the business.
We Senior leaders have a very clear strategic vision for the completed a review of our internal communications and found company and unwavering belief that their employees that our team members and managers were hungry for more are the key to future success.
Whitbread achieved communication with our executive team and for better tools a Good rating across all measures.
to engage with others around the business.
WISE is built into business development conversations To address this, we developed a bespoke digital to leverage better business to business contracts.
A new communications app called InTouch which all team members national business contract with Manpower Group in 2016 can access on a smartphone, tablet or desktop computer.
The company said, We initially met The app enables us not only to share good news stories Whitbread through membership of the Movement to Work from around the business, but also gives our executive team campaign and were very impressed by their commitment a channel to talk directly to team members in all our sites.
to providing skills and opportunities to young people.
Team members can upload pictures to the Photo Wall to As a result of our shared values and beliefs, coupled with the share what is happening around our sites, and they can voice quality of the Premier Inn product, we decided to appoint their views on hot topics on the Question of the Week.
We Premier Inn as one of Manpower Groups key hotel providers.
launched InTouch in October 2015, and within four months 10% of team members have installed and are accessing the Work placements app regularly.
We have created over 2,500 work, or work experience, placements this year, providing opportunities for young Restaurants team members continue to engage with our and unemployed people who may struggle with access to internal communications and social media channels, including employment.
We have empowered our managers to make our Facebook page and our monthly interactive newsletter, meaningful links with schools, colleges and the Jobcentre Cover Stories.
Recognition Apprenticeships Recognising our Winning Teams remains at the heart of Whitbread currently has more than 900 apprentices in our My Rewards programme, whereby team members are learning and we are proud of the impact our apprenticeships rewarded for their commitment to guests through incentive are making.
We offer Intermediate, Advanced and Higher payments made to a Visa debit card.
During the year we paid Apprenticeships in Hospitality.
Our apprentices are learning out 1.17 million to our teams through My Rewards.
79% of on and off the job, increasing their wider industry knowledge and stretching their capabilities to help progress to the next team members are engaging with this platform across Hotels job level.
We have also launched an Advanced Apprenticeship & Restaurants.
in Business Administration and we have welcomed our first Digital Marketing Apprentice in our growing Digital team.
During 2015, we have continued to acknowledge our Winning Teams through our All Green performance Our apprenticeship graduates are very successful at Whitbread.
Our kitchens were put through their paces this 32% of apprentices progress to management within two years year with a dedicated kitchen WINcard to help our teams compared to 20% for nonapprenticeship team members.
meet standards of excellence across a number of measures.
OFSTED 2015 commented, Apprentices know about the They were challenged to achieve these and gain All Green range of team leader and management positions available status over four quarters with a chance to win a highly within Premier Inn, and talk confidently about what they coveted plaque and recognition.
This culminates in the top need to do in order to take steps towards promotion.
kitchen teams winning 1,000 and the honour of taking part in the final stages of the Kitchens of Excellence competition, with a live finale coinciding with our annual awards ceremony.
Premier Inn team members have the potential to earn an extra weeks salary when they achieve an All Green WINcard, hitting all their key performance metrics.
Additionally, this year we launched an incentive across our hotels to acknowledge the hard work of our Head Housekeepers and the key role they play both in making our guests feel brilliant and in ensuring that their teams feel engaged and valued.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Winning Teams 16
