04 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Looking ahead 1 Technology is changing our world Technology has helped us massively expand ourproduct.
Its given customers access whereverand whenever they want to bet.
Anditshelping us to understand our customers better than ever before.
05 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements Technology is changing gambling.
Before, the betting experience stopped when the game kicked off.
Now, the thrill of the ride continues with the first whistle.
With 200 different ways to bet while you cheer on your football team.
Point-by-point betting on a tennis match.
Scoreboards to follow the game in real-time.
Live streaming to watch on the move.
Enhanced bets that change with the ebb and flow of the game.
And the chance to cash in some or all of your bet when you think you have an edge.
Thats the journey William Hill has been on for the last decade.
Bringing customers more ideas to bet on and more ways to engage with the game.
Making it accessible wherever and whenever they want to bet.
And, right now, making the experience as quick and easy as we possibly can.
Today, we have a massive product range.
The next goal is to join those up.
Its been the talk of the industry for years.
But no-one has delivered it.
The technology is in place.
We can create and deliver a great product, fast.
And we have the data to understand whats relevant to each and every individual customer.
Find out more: Page 10 06 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Looking ahead 2 Our home advantage in the UK Its a market thats still growing.
Thats 10% higher than it was two years ago.
Its driven by mobile making it easier and more fun toget a bet on than ever before.
07 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements Digital has just become the biggest Weve lost a bit of ground in the The UK is still our part of the UK market.
But we know what it number one priority.
CAGR between 2012 and 2015. takes to become the customers favourite again.
But, in the same period, betting shop revenues remained very steady.
Being a market leader in the UK gives Customers still love walking into their us a great platform for international betting shop.
And more of them are expansion too.
Because the UK is one choosing to use both shops and online of the toughest markets in the world.
26% of them eachmonth, in fact.
Were highly regulated, which means other governments trust us.
Were In this market, were big.
We have intensely competitive, which has 27% of the betting shops and around driven incredible innovation.
And our 11% of the digital betting and gaming scale means investing here can drive market.
Find out more: Page 10 08 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Looking ahead 3 Expanding internationally Technology hasnt just given us in-play betting andmobile apps.
It has taken down borders.
Before digital, gambling companies were land-locked.
Now, Online is giving us access to millionsmore customers.
And the UKs biggest companies are leading the way.
09 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements The UK is the worlds largest regulated digital gambling market, four times bigger than the next largest market.
Its regulatory regime is both liberal and responsible.
That has encouraged existing and new gambling companies to invest in that market.
Sports is the most popular digital gambling product 54% of the gross gaming yield worldwide.
Its a key product for acquiring new customers.
It requires deep data, odds-setting expertise and risk management capabilities.
And technology to support real-time price changes on millions of bet types.
Its hard to replicate and expensive to build from scratch.
In short, a high barrier to entry.
As a result, its the UKs most successful sports betting companies who are leading the way internationally.
And were just at the start of this change.
So far, only 15 governments have updated their gambling legislation to put in place online regulations.
This is out of 150 possible countries.
More are getting ready to follow.
The prize is big but it wont be an easy ride.
Regulation is only going to become tougher.
Costs are increasing both gambling taxes and compliance with those regulations.
Deep pockets are needed to build the brand, from scratch if necessary.
And to ride out the impact of regulatory change.
Thanks to our scale in the UK, we have the capital toinvest in technology to differentiate us and in marketing to raise our profile.
International expansion means we can leverage what weve already built across a much wider customer base.
And our heritagein regulated markets and sports puts us right in thesweet spot.
