Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Board of Directors Richard Baker Alison Brittain Chairman Chief Executive Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: September 2009 September 2015 Date of appointment as Chairman: Age: 51 September 2014 Experience: Age: 53 Alison joined Whitbread from Lloyds Banking Group, where she Experience: was Group Director of their Retail Richard previously served as Division, with responsibility for Chairman of Virgin Active Group, the Lloyds, Halifax and Bank of Chief Executive of Alliance Boots Scotland retail branch networks, Group plc and Chief Operating remote and intermediary channels Officer at Asda Group plc.
and products, along with the External appointments: Retail Business Banking and the Adviser to Aimia wealth businesses.
Prior to joining DFS Furniture Plc Chairman Lloyds Bank, Alison was Executive British Retail Consortium Non Director for Retail Distribution and executive director Board Director at Santander UK Advent International Plc PLC.
She previously held senior Operating Partner roles at Barclays Bank.
Lawn Tennis Association External appointments: Nonexecutive director Marks and Spencer Group PLC AELTC Grounds plc Nonexecutive director Nonexecutive director Member of Prime Ministers Committee membership: Business Advisory Group Nomination Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Nicholas Cadbury Louise Smalley Group Finance Director Group HR Director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: November 2012 November 2012 Age: 50 Age: 48 Experience: Experience: Nicholas joined Whitbread in Louise joined Whitbread in November 2012 as Group Finance 1995 and has held the position Director.
He previously worked at of Group HR Director since 2007.
Dixons Retail PLC, in a variety of During her time at Whitbread, management roles, including Chief Louise has held a variety of Financial Officer from 20082011.
HR roles across the Whitbread Nicholas also held the position of businesses, including HR Director Chief Financial Officer of Premier of David Lloyd Leisure and Farnell PLC, which he joined in 2011.
Nicholas originally qualified as an She previously worked in the accountant with Price Waterhouse.
oil industry, with BP and Esso Petroleum.
External appointments: DS Smith Plc Nonexecutive director Whitbread Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Board of Directors 64 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Sir Ian Cheshire Wendy Becker Chris Kennedy Senior Independent Independent Independent Director nonexecutive director nonexecutive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: February 2011 January 2008 March 2016 Age: 56 Age: 50 Age: 52 Experience: Experience: Experience: Sir Ian was Group Chief Executive Wendy has been Chief Executive Chris is Chief Financial Officer of Kingfisher plc until the end of of Jack Wills Limited, Group Chief of ARM Holdings plc, which he January 2015, and was also a Marketing Officer for Vodafone, joined in September 2015.
Prior former Chair of the British Retail Managing Director of TalkTalk and a to that, Chris was Group Finance Consortium.
Director of easyJet plc for five years, having previously spent External appointments: External appointments: 17 years in a variety of senior Debenhams plc Cancer Research UK roles at EMI.
Chairman from 7 April 2016 Deputy Chairman Government lead nonexecutive Princes Trust Trustee External appointments: director The Design Museum Trustee ARM Holdings plc Business in the Community NHS England Nonexecutive Chief Financial Officer Trustee Director director Committee membership: Menhaden Capital PLC Committee membership: Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee MediCinema Trustee Chair Nomination Committee Cambridge Programme for Remuneration Committee Sustainability Leadership Chairman of Advisory Board Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Simon Melliss Susan Taylor Martin Stephen Williams Independent Independent Independent nonexecutive director nonexecutive director nonexecutive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: April 2007 due to step down at the January 2012 April 2008 end of September 2016 Age: 52 Age: 68 Age: 63 Experience: Experience: Experience: Susan has held a number of roles Stephen retired as General Counsel Simon, a chartered accountant, at Thomson Reuters, including and Chief Legal Officer of Unilever was Chief Financial Officer of President, Thomson Reuters during 2010, having originally joined Hammerson plc from 1995 to Media, President of Global in that position in 1986.
Prior to that, 2011, having originally joined the Investment Focus Accounts and Stephen spent 11 years at Imperial company in 1991 as Group Financial Managing Director of Legal in the UK Chemical Industries plc.
Prior to that he served and Ireland.
Prior to this she was to 2004 he was a nonexecutive as the Group Financial Controller Global Head, Corporate Strategy for director of Bunzl plc and from 2004 of Sketchley PLC and held senior Reuters, which she joined in 1993. to 2010 he was Senior Independent finance positions with Reed Director of Arriva plc.
Simon also previously Thomson Reuters External appointments: held a nonexecutive directorship President, Legal Croda International Plc at Associated British Ports Thomson Reuters Foundation Nonexecutive director Holdings plc.
Trustee Eversheds LLP External appointments: Nonexecutive director Committee membership: Hermes Property Unit Trust Spencer Stuart LLP Audit Committee Chairman Senior Advisor University College London Moorfields Eye Hospital Treasurer and member NHS Trust Trustee of the Council fide La Warr Pavilion Trust Deputy Chairman Committee membership: Amicus Curiae Limited Director Audit Committee Chairman Leverhulme Trust Nomination Committee Board member Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Chairman Nomination Committee Whitbread Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Board of Directors 65 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Corporate governance continued Board activities during the year Board processes and topics to be discussed are continually In advance of each Board meeting, a set of Board papers, reviewed to ensure that the correct focus is given to the including monthly financial and trading reports, is circulated key issues highlighted at the strategy days.
so that directors have sufficient time to review them and arrive at the meeting fully prepared.
The Chairman meets with the nonexecutive directors without the executives present after Board meetings.
The Board has a rolling agenda which sets matters to be considered throughout the year.
Two strategy days are held There is a schedule of matters reserved exclusively to the one to consider the longterm strategy, and the other to Board: all other decisions are delegated to management.
Following these sessions, the Those matters reserved exclusively to the Board include Board agrees the significant topics to be discussed at the approval of Group financial statements and the preliminary Board meetings during the year.
The rolling agenda is then announcement of half and fullyear results: changes relating scheduled to ensure that there is a structured approach to the to the Groups capital structure: the annual budget and the consideration of topics and recurring issues are evenly spread Groups business plan: approving capital projects, acquisitions across the calendar.
The Board gives its attention to each area and disposals valued at over 12 million: interim dividends of the business in turn so that a strong understanding of the and recommendation of final dividends: and establishment entire Company is maintained.
The rolling agenda is regularly of Board committees.
The schedule of matters reserved reviewed and updated and is circulated as part of the General was reviewed at the February 2016 Board meeting and Counsels report before each meeting.
is available on our website.
The agenda for each individual Board meetings is agreed Board meetings and attendance with the Chairman and the Chief Executive on a monthly basis The Board generally holds meetings at monthly intervals so that current events and potential future issues can be during the year and on an ad hoc basis as and when required.
discussed alongside the regular reports.
Standard items for each Eleven meetings were held during the year and attendance meeting are a review of progress on action points, reports from at meetings by directors is set out below: the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Managing Audit Nomination Remuneration Directors of Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants and Costa and the Board Committee Committee Committee General Counsels report.
The General Counsel keeps minutes Richard Baker 11 11 4 4 5 5 of the meetings and produces a list of agreed actions for each meeting, to ensure follow up of Board decisions and requests.
1 Alison Brittain 6 6 2 Andy Harrison 8 8 At the meetings during the year, the Board discharged its responsibilities and considered a range of matters: Nicholas Cadbury 11 11 Christopher Rogers 11 11 Board agenda 2015 16 Louise Smalley 11 11 Standing agenda items Wendy Becker 11 11 4 4 4 4 5 5 Chief Executives report Health and Safety report quarterly 3 Finance Directors report Sir Ian Cheshire 8 11 2 4 3 5 General Counsels report Simon Melliss 11 11 4 4 4 4 Q1 Q2 Susan Taylor Martin 11 11 4 4 Approval of yearend hub by Premier Inn Stephen Williams 11 11 4 4 5 5 documentation and final Premier Inn Germany dividend Members of the executive team attended committee meetings as Premier Inn strategy Costa UK appropriate.
Chris Kennedy was appointed as an independent non Team retention executive director on 1 March 2016 and was therefore not eligible to attend Information Technology update any Board meetings during the year.
Longterm strategy 1 A lison Brittain was appointed to the Board in September 2015 and Corporate Responsibility was therefore only eligible to attend six Board meetings.
activity 2 Andy Harrison stepped down from the Board in December 2015 and was therefore only eligible to attend eight Board meetings.
Q3 Q4 3 Due to prior commitments, Sir Ian Cheshire was unable to attend three Costa International 2016 17 budget Board meetings.
Sir Ian received the papers and provided feedback Whitbread Hotels & Leadership and talent for the relevant meetings.
Restaurants International Strategy finalisation Interim results and dividend Information Technology Information Technology update strategy and cyber security Costa China Board performance Risk Management Strategy Day Restaurants strategy Corporate Governance review Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 governance 66 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Training and development Insurance cover On appointment, all directors receive a full and formal The Company has appropriate directors and officers liability induction that is tailored to their specific needs.
In addition to this, the Company provides an details can be found below, where we have outlined the indemnity for directors against the costs of defending certain induction process for our new Chief Executive and non legal proceedings and generating claims over and above those executive director.
Induction process Effectiveness The effectiveness of the Board, committees and individual In September 2015, Alison Brittain joined Whitbread as Chief Executive directors is reviewed annually in accordance with the Code Designate before taking over as Chief Executive in December.
and this year, an external evaluation was completed.
In order to ensure a smooth transition, a full, formal and tailored induction process was put in place for Alison, focusing on Whitbreads Composition of the Board businesses.
Initial meetings were held with the Chairman, Group Finance Director, Group HR Director, all executive and nonexecutive directors It is believed that the Board and its committees have the and the General Counsel.
This was followed by time with: appropriate balance of skills, experience, diversity, business leaders and their teams: independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The Board the Head of Investor Relations: has a majority of independent nonexecutive directors.
the Group Communications Director: After assessing independence against the Code, the Board the Chief Information Officer: considers all nonexecutive directors to be independent in the Pensions Director: and judgement and character, and also considered the Chairman the Group Reward Director.
to be independent on appointment.
Simon Mellisss nine year term expired in April 2016.
Notwithstanding this, the Board Alison met with a number of major investors and sell side analysts has determined that Simon remains independent in character of the Company.
Meetings were also held with the Groups bankers, and judgement and he continues to be a key contributor brokers, auditors, lawyers and advisers.
Alison was provided with a detailed review of all our businesses and went on several visits to to challenging debates.
Simon will be stepping down from different Premier Inn, restaurant and Costa sites in the UK, as well the Board at the end of September 2016. as visiting various international markets, including China, Germany, Poland, and the United Arab Emirates.
These visits provided During the year, Alison Brittain was appointed Chief Executive valuable insight into the Company and allowed Alison to develop her understanding of each business before taking over from and Andy Harrison stepped down from the Board in Andy Harrison in December 2015.
In addition, Chris Kennedy was appointed as a nonexecutive director from 1 March 2016.
It is intended In March 2016, Chris Kennedy was appointed as a nonexecutive that Chris will take over from Simon Melliss as Chairman director.
A similar induction process was put in place for Chris, and included meetings with the Chairman, Chief Executive, the Group of the Audit Committee from 1 October 2016.
Details of the HR Director, the Finance Director and the General Counsel.
This was appointment procedures can be found in the report of the followed by time with the Managing Director of Hotels & Restaurants Nomination Committee on pages 74 and 75. and the Managing Director of Costa, and included various visits to Premier Inn, restaurant and Costa sites.
External directorships Nonexecutive directors may serve on other boards provided Training and development continues beyond the induction they continue to demonstrate the required commitment to process and is an ongoing process for all Board members.
The Nomination Committee The Chairman reviews and agrees the training and has reviewed the extent of other interests of the nonexecutive development needs with each director on an annual basis.
directors and the Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the nonexecutive directors commit sufficient time Directors attend external training events to update their skills to their duties and fulfil their obligations to the Company.
Training events were attended by Board members during the year on a range of issues including, No executive director has taken on more than one cyber security, strategic risk management, bribery, nonexecutive directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
Investor relations and market updates were also presented to the Board and regular updates from each of the brands are made to the Board.
Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 governance 67 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 This is a collegiate, supportive but challenging Corporate and disciplined Board with a high degree governance of mutual trust, respect and integrity.
continued All directors have access to independent professional advice at Suggestions for improvement following both the internal the Companys expense.
Directors serving on the Board and external review included: committees confirmed that they are satisfied that they received further clarity on the international strategies for both Premier sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties Inn and Costa: effectively.
Each director has access to the General Counsel for advice on governance.
more structured and regular focus on risk management and risk appetite: and The General Counsel prepares a monthly report that includes greater discussion on certain aspects of talent management updates on secretariat and legal matters, governance, and succession planning, at middle management level as compliance and insurance updates.
This report is presented well as Board level.
and discussed at each Board meeting.
Work is already underway to focus attention on these areas Evaluation with the key risks highlighted on pages 48 and 49 being An evaluation of the Board, its committees, individual directors scheduled to be discussed at the Board as part of the rolling and the Chairman is carried out each year.
Board and committees In response to last years internal evaluation, the monthly Board As disclosed last year, the external evaluation of the Board due papers now include a detailed KPI pack in an agreed format, to take place in January 2015 was postponed in view and there has been greater focus and detail provided on of the Chairmans succession process that took place investor perception and feedback.
Further clarity has been during 2014 15.
The externally facilitated evaluation of the provided on the strategy for Costa China and international effectiveness of the Board therefore took place this year.
There strategies more broadly will be considered by the Board during were three aspects to this years evaluation process 2016 17. of the Board and all of the committees: as in previous years, each director completed a formal Individual directors questionnaire on the performance of the Board and each The Chairman has onetoone meetings with all directors of the Board committees, considering the balance of skills, to discuss their performance and to identify whether diversity, independence and knowledge of the Company they continue to contribute effectively to the Board and on the Board, how the Board works together, and other demonstrate commitment to the role.
factors relevant to its effectiveness: Chairman the Chairman also met or spoke to all directors on a The Senior Independent Director meets with the nonexecutive onetoone basis: and directors without the Chairman present to discuss the the external evaluation of the Board was facilitated by Lorna performance of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Parker, an independent consultant and former Managing Director also speaks with the executive directors to gain Director and Partner of Spencer Stuart.
As part of this their views before discussing the results with the Chairman.
review, Lorna had access to Board and Committee papers and met each of the directors and the General Counsel to Conflicts of interest discuss the effectiveness of the Board and its processes.
Directors are required to disclose any conflicts of interest immediately as and when they arise throughout the year.
The outcome of the review was discussed with the Chairman In addition, a formal process is undertaken in February and General Counsel and was then included as an agenda item each year when all directors confirm to the Board details at the Board meeting in March 2016, which was attended by of their external interests including any other directorships Lorna Parker.
The review concluded that the Board is which they hold.
functioning well and the Board dynamics are excellent, with committed and engaged nonexecutive directors with These are assessed by the Board to determine whether the directors ability to act in the best interests of the Company a diverse mix of and relevant skills and experiences.
There is could be compromised.
If there are no such potential or actual clarity and alignment on the role of the Board and, broadly, conflicts, the external interests are authorised by the Board.
All on strategic priorities, key risks and challenges.
The selection authorisations are for a period of 12 months.
No director and transition of the Chairman and Chief Executive had been is counted as part of a quorum in respect of the authorisation successfully managed and the Boardroom atmosphere is of his or her own conflict.
It is recognised that all organisations are potential customers of Whitbread and, in view of this, the Board has authorised all directors current external directorships.
Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 governance 68 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Shareholder relations As in previous years, all voting by shareholders at this years In accordance with the Code, the Board recognises that AGM will be by poll using electronic handsets.
The voting it has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue results, including proxy votes received, will be displayed on with shareholders takes place and any major shareholders a screen at the end of the meeting.
In addition, the audited issues and concerns are communicated to the Board through poll results will be disclosed on the Companys website the Chairman.
following the meeting, and announced through the regulatory news service.
The Company communicates with both the institutional and private shareholders through the following means: Share capital The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6 relating to Interaction with all shareholders the share capital of the Company can be found within the The Companys website www.
co. uk, where directors report on pages 93 and 94. information and news is regularly updated.
Accountability and internal control The Annual Report, which sets out details of the Companys strategy, Business Model and performance over the past Internal control and risk management financial year and plans for future growth.
The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal The Annual General Meeting, where all shareholders control and risk management, and for reviewing their have the opportunity to vote on the resolutions proposed effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage rather and to put questions to the Board and executive team.
than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, Presentations of fullyear and interim results to analysts assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and shareholders, which are also available on the Companys website.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks.
This Interaction with institutional shareholders process was in place throughout the 2015 16 financial year The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director and up to the date of this Report.
The process is reviewed of Investor Relations hold meetings with institutional by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance investors following the fullyear and interim results.
for directors in the Code.
A report of the key risks, together with the viability statement, can be found on pages 46 to 49.
The Chairman meets with institutional shareholders on request.
Risk analysis The Board receives updates on the views of major The Board identifies the principal risks of the Company shareholders from the Companys brokers.
on a regular basis and throughout the year it reviews the actions in place to mitigate the risks together with Interaction with private shareholders assurance and monitoring activity.
The analysis covers Live webcast presentations of the fullyear and business and operational risks, health and safety, financial, interim results.
market, operational and reputational risks which the Electronic communications with shareholders including Company may face as well as specific areas identified use of the online share portal.
in the business plan and budget process.
Each of the businesses also carries out its own risk The Annual General Meeting analysis together with the Director of Internal Audit and The Annual General Meeting AGM provides all shareholders this is reviewed regularly by the Hotels & Restaurants and with the opportunity to communicate directly with the Costa executive committees.
Board which encourages their participation at the meeting.
All major capital and revenue projects, together with In accordance with the Code, the Notice of AGM and related significant change programmes, include the consideration papers are sent to the shareholders at least 20 working of the risks involved and an appropriate action plan.
The Company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue including a specific resolution to approve the Report and Accounts.
For each resolution, proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the option to vote in advance of the AGM if they are unable to attend in person.
All valid proxy votes received for the AGM are properly recorded and counted by Whitbreads registrars.
Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 governance 69 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Corporate governance continued Controls An internal control evaluation process is overseen by the The Company reviews and confirms its level of compliance management team which assesses the level of compliance with the Corporate Governance Code on an annual basis.
with the controls, policies and processes and the results are reviewed and tested on a sample basis by the internal The matters reserved to the Board require that major audit team.
projects and programmes must have specific Board approval.
Post completion reviews of major projects and investments are carried out and reported on to the Board.
Limits of delegation and authority are prescribed to ensure that the appropriate approvals are obtained if Board Statement of the directors in respect of the Annual Report authority is not required to ensure appropriate segregation and Accounts of tasks.
As required by the Code, the directors confirm their Group financial policies, controls and procedures are in responsibility for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts place and are regularly reviewed and updated.
and consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information The Whitbread Code of Conduct, setting out required levels necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position of ethics and behaviour, is communicated to employees and and performance, Business Model and strategy.
Further detail training is provided.
on how this conclusion was reached can be found in the The Code of Conduct makes reference to specific policies report of the Audit Committee on page 72. and procedures which have to be followed.
Statements by the auditor in respect of its reporting Management is responsible for ensuring the appropriate responsibilities maintenance of financial records and processes that ensure Statements by the auditor about its reporting responsibilities that financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance can be found in the auditors report on pages 99 to 101. with applicable laws and regulations and is distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
Going concern A review of the financial statements is completed by The directors going concern statement can be found in the management to ensure that the financial position and directors report on page 96. results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
Viability statement All financial information published by the Group is subject The viability statement can be found on page 46. to the approval of the Audit Committee and the Board.
An annual review of internal controls is undertaken by Business Model and strategy the Board with the assistance of the Audit Committee.
Information on the Groups Business Model and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company can be found Assurance on pages 4 to 61.
The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, approves an audit programme which ensures that the Board committees significant areas of risk identified are independently The Board is supported by three committees: the Audit reviewed within at least a threeyear period.
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Their terms of reference are reviewed annually The programme and the results of the audits are regularly and updated in line with best practice.
They have been assessed during the year.
reviewed in 2016 and approved by each of the committees.
The Audit Committee reviews the major findings from They are available in full on the Companys website.
both internal and external audits.
A detailed report from the Chairman of the Remuneration Internal audits are carried out under the control of the Committee is set out on pages 76 to 91.
Reports for the Audit Director of Internal Audit.
The reports are reviewed by the and Nomination Committees can be found on pages 71 to 75.
Audit Committee and, on a monthly basis, by the Executive Committee to ensure that the actions required to address issues identified are implemented.
The Director of Internal Audit reports annually to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of operational and financial controls across the Group.
Deloitte reviews and reports on the significant issues identified in its audit report.
Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 governance 70
