Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Before joining Premier Inn, Paige was J oining Premier Inn really turned my life around A WISE unemployed and not in education.
She found and Id recommend the apprenticeship scheme it difficult to know where to start when trying to anyone.
The support I received from my move to figure out what she wanted to do as a career.
managers and my colleagues was invaluable and She attended a job fair in Leeds, where she met set me up to succeed in my role from day one.
some of the Premier Inn team, and decided to take up the opportunity as a receptionist.
Paige Ive completed my Level 3 Apprenticeship and soon signed up for the Level 3 Apprenticeship am now a fully trained host at Premier Inn.
In five and is now a fully trained Host at Premier Inn years time, I want to be running my own hotel for Leeds Arena.
She is determined to continue her Premier Inn and Im certain that with the training career with Premier Inn and aims to be running I will continue to receive, this will be possible.
her own hotel in five years time.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Winning Teams 17 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Hotels & Restaurants Customer Heartbeat Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t profitable Growth A great quality product We want every single one of our millions At Premier Inn we offer customers a Good Night Guarantee of guests to Wake Up Wonderful after and receive invocations from less than 0.9% of customers.
having a great nights sleep and this We believe that for a great night's sleep you need a truly great bed, which is why this year we replaced a further year weve seen increased investment 23,500 mattresses and now have luxurious and comfortable in our product, our people and our sites Hypnos beds in every single one of our 60,000 bedrooms, to ensure we deliver on this promise.
ensuring that anyone staying with us wakes up feeling wonderful!
In 2015 16 we also refurbished over 13,000 rooms across the estate and installed air conditioning into We were especially thrilled to be named the UKs top rated another c. 2,000 rooms.
members and the public and looked at key factors including value for money, customer satisfaction, cleanliness and bed comfort.
Premier Inn scored an impressive 83%, 8% pts higher than our nearest competitor.
This was echoed by TripAdvisor ratings for the year with over 80% of Premier Inns achieving of a TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence.
Our Premier Inn teams continue to deliver exceptionally high standards to our guests.
Recent figures from our guest satisfaction survey show that 95% of guests rate our teams As a bike friendly hotel chain we welcome thousands of customers positively for friendliness and helpfulness.
Additionally, nine who look forward to a nice comfy bed after a days cycling!
out of ten guests say they will or definitely will consider staying at a Premier Inn again.
This year Premier Inn were proud sponsors of the Womens Best British rider in the Aviva Tour of Britain, the UKs largest 1 Premier Inn continues to lead the YouGov Hotel Brand Index cycling event.
As a bike friendly hotel chain we are more and has retained its title as Best Value Hotel in the Index for than happy for guests to take clean bikes into their rooms the sixth year running.
so sponsoring the Womens race was the perfect vehicle to link the Premier Inn brand with the UKs fastest growing YouGov value measure participation sport and provided excellent branding and merchandising opportunities.
It was also a great way of engaging our local site teams who came out in their hundreds along the route to cheer on the cyclists as they flew past.
This year, Premier Inn conducted its first annual independent business travel survey to understand the latest trends amongst 1,000 UK business travellers staying in a range of hotels: from budget to full service.
We asked business people what they missed most when working away from home and 50% named their beds.
Unsurprisingly, the highest scoring factor for selecting a hotel was a comfy bed and pillows followed closely by price.
January January January January January January Key Premier Inn Holiday Inn Marriott Travelodge Ibis Hilton 1 Source: YouGov Brand Index.
Score equals the percentage of positives minus the percentage of negatives.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Customer Heartbeat 18 !
"""#$#% Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Brand new breakfast Our hub by Premier Inn brand is at the forefront of hotel The Premier Inn breakfast is a major selling point and we technology trends and has a great contemporary design serve an incredible c. 17 million breakfasts a year."
In November making it the UKs most spaceefficient, digitallyadvanced we launched our new Premier Inn Breakfast Menu having hotel brand.
With four hub by Premier Inn hotels now open, asked our guests what they want for breakfast so they Wake with three in London and one in Edinburgh, guests can up wonderful.
The menu now includes 16 tasty new products experience interactive technology throughout their hotel stay.
including bubble and squeak, American style pancakes, The experience includes fast checkin at our interactive sourdough crumpets and smoothies.
reception kiosks and an interactive TV screen in their bedroom that enables them to explore whats on in the local area.
This year hub by Premier Inn created a world first, partnering with Apple to offer our guests the ability to control various features in their room via their Apple Watch.
We also launched a new hub by Premier Inn website which is our first fully responsive website, built by our own inhouse design and development team.
Premier Inns presence on social media continues to grow with over 150,000 followers on Facebook, the launch of our Instagram page, and over six million organic tweet impressions on Twitter.
Fun for all the family We welcome hundreds of thousands of families every year and our teams love looking after children and making sure they not only have a great nights sleep but also a memorable Our new Premier Inn breakfast is proving very popular with guests.
This year we ran a Countdown to Christmas prize draw campaign on our website in conjunction with BBC Christmas special, Shaun the Sheep: The Farmers Llamas.
As well as improving our breakfast offer we conducted Alongside this, our hotel teams gave out over 11,000 build research to find out what our guests wanted from us in terms your own Shaun the Sheep plasticine modelling kits to of a dinner offer.
We found that a sizable proportion of our children that stayed with us on Christmas Day, to help spread guests dont want to eat dinner in a restaurant setting, either some festive cheer.
because they are dining alone and dont feel comfortable, or they want to work in their room or enjoy the atmosphere We also partnered with the DVD launch of the international in the bar area.
This insight led us to launch a new Thyme Bar blockbuster Minions to create a great kids menu in our Menu which offers a great range of finger food, all served Thyme restaurants and create online content to help keep in takeaway packaging so it can be enjoyed in the bar or kids amused, entertained and engaged over dinner.
In the back in the guests room.
summer holidays we gave out fantastic Thyme Wild Summer kids activity packs packed full of activity sheets, masks, Growing our digital expertise and presence crayons, stickers and great family day out offers.
With around 80% of all our bookings made directly via Premier Inns own digital channels it is crucial that our customers have a great experience on our website and this year we launched a brand new premierinn.
The dynamic and modern design is based on insight from hundreds of hours of customer research and the site is built on a completely new technology platform making it a much faster better experience for the user.
The new website is also mobile friendly as 14% of all bookings and 27% of visits to the website are made from mobile devices.
Bernard Bear is on sale in every hotel with profits going Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity.
Follow Bernards adventures on Twitter @MrBernardBear.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Customer Heartbeat 19 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Hotels & Restaurants Customer Heartbeat continued Of course, a restaurant business is all about great food as well Say hello to our new Premier Inn identity as great service and this year we introduced some traditional In the year we revitalised our brand identity and made some old favourites to our menus like beef stew and horseradish enhancements to the logo and the way it is used in our point dumplings along with some new dishes like seabass of sale and marketing collateral.
We have kept our highly en papillotte.
In Beefeater we have dialled up our focus on recognisable moon and stars motif but modernised it to steak and retrained our teams to ensure were known for make it more user friendly for digital devices.
our steak expertise in the marketplace.
Our expert steak chef and his team have redesigned the Beefeater menu to include new dishes which are updated seasonally, highlighting the importance of our steak credentials.
To support the new identity we launched a marketing campaign, based on the promise that Premier Inn guests New iconographic imagery can be seen throughout our restaurants.
can Wake Up Wonderful following a great nights sleep.
We created a new TV advert, featuring Lenny Henry, which showcases a number of great Premier Inn locations across the Family appeal UK where you can Wake Up Wonderful.
The advert features We served up a total of 4.7 million childrens meals last year the sound track Wonderful Life sung by Katie Melua, which and make sure we provide a wide range of dishes to suit all we released as a single, the proceeds of which are shared tastes.
We are proactively looking at ways to improve the between Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity nutritional content of our menus including adding hidden and Sheffield Childrens Hospital Charity.
This multichannel vegetables to some childrens dishes and we have reduced marketing campaign ran across outdoor, radio and CRM the content of added sugar in our vanilla ice cream by 15%.
channels as well as PR and social media activity and our biggest ever investment in digital marketing.
Brewers Fayre, our family value brand has seen strong growth of its newly converted childrens play areas which Restaurants have been specially designed around a Dennis the Menace In Whitbread we operate a unique joint site model where theme.
Whilst in our Table Table brand our family tasting almost all of our 400 plus restaurants are all located next panel and Grandparent of the Year campaigns highlight how door to a Premier Inn hotel.
This gives us a distinct advantage important the opinions of our customers, big and small, are in the market, driving customer satisfaction and sales across in making sure we serve up great memories.
our Premier Inn and Restaurants businesses.
We reviewed our various brand loyalty schemes this year and Across our restaurant brands Beefeater, Brewers Fayre, launched a new 12 month scheme to enable us to better tailor Table Table and Whitbread Inns we have 14,500 restaurant promotional and reward messages to our customers.
We now team members who are passionate about delivering great have 1.7 million members across our Beefeater Grill Reward customer experiences to our 49 million guests every year.
Club, Brewers Fayre Bonus Club and The Tasty Rewards Everyone understands our purpose which we call Serving up loyalty programmes.
Great Memories and it lives right at the heart of our business.
Our teams are The Main Ingredient and we invest heavily in The presence of our restaurant brands on social media their induction, skills training and progression opportunities.
On Facebook we have 644,500 fans, We are delighted that in the year we have seen record guest 28,000 Twitter followers and have launched an Instagram scores, with the overall net guest score at 69.3% and 77.1% of page for our Whitbread Inns brand.
respondents scoring us nine or ten out of ten.
However 6.3% of Premier Inn guests scored their breakfast or dinner at one or two out of five on the Premier Inn guest survey and this was higher than the target we set, resulting in a red score on the WINcard.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Customer Heartbeat 20 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Launched in November 2014 hub by Premier Innovations Inn broke the mould creating a new generation of compact city centre hotels that deliver at hub by exceptional value with highly efficient, contemporary room design and offer guests Premier Inn a bespoke app so they can control their whole hotel experience.
A year on and hub by Premier Inn on St. Martins Lane is full nearly every night.
Three more hub hotels have opened at Tower Bridge and Spitalfields in London and on Edinburghs Royal Mile.
There are a further 12 sites in the pipeline.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Customer Heartbeat 21 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Hotels & Restaurants Profitable Growth Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t 13,014 rooms, the roll out of 23,500 new beds, and the During 2015 16 our Hotels & Restaurants installation of air conditioning in around 2,000 rooms.
Total sales grew Our focus on delivering great customer satisfaction through by 9.8%, a good performance that reflects the quality and consistency of both our product and service drives customer loyalty and enables us to have a RevPAR like for like sales growth of 3.1% and total premium to our direct competitors.
Underlying profit rose by 11.3% to 446.9 million and Value for money we maintained a strong return on capital Our consistently high YouGov scores shown on page 18 highlight the great value for money we provide for our guests of 12.9%.
in both absolute terms, and relative to our peers.
This is underpinned by our relentless drive to prioritise occupancy Driving profitable growth and returns and value for money to build longterm loyalty.
Hotels & Restaurants performed well over the period: Winning market share revenue increasing by 9.8% to 1,822.0 million: As the UKs leading hotel chain, Premier Inn continues to win Premier Inn grew total sales by 12.9% to 1,260.1 million market share through organic growth.
By focusing on building like for like sales growth of 4.2% : occupancy, providing good value for money and by growing capacity, including through extensions, this has contributed 5,461 new UK room openings: to Premier Inns like for like RevPAR growth of 2.6% being Restaurants grew total sales by 3.5% to 561.9 million lower than that of the midscale and economy market at 5.6%.
like for like sales growth of 0.8% : and As explained on page 52 this resulted in a red score on the opening of four net new restaurants, including WINcard for market performance.
During 2015 16 we opened Beefeater Bar Block.
5,461 new rooms 40 new hotels taking our total number of hotels to 737.
Our committed pipeline continues to grow.
With Our strong EBITDA growth provides cash generation to nearly 65,000 rooms today, and a net committed pipeline of support our capital investment programme, with the dual aim around 12,700 rooms, we are making good progress towards to maintain our market leading position through reinvestment, achieving our 2020 ambition for c. 85,000 UK rooms.
and deliver organic growth to reach our ambitious targets.
We invested c. 622 million cash capital in growing and 2020 Growth milestones c. 85,000 UK rooms improving our hotel and restaurant estate during the period UK rooms while at the same time maintaining strong returns of 12.9% as Including one hotel in Ireland with rooms we continued to focus on growing profits and creating long term sustainable shareholder value.
The return on capital c c c includes investment in future hotel openings.
Excluding this investment returns would have been 1.5% pts higher at 14.4%.
Grow and innovate in our core UK businesses Premier Inn continues to deliver a marketleading customer experience by focusing on the quality and consistency of our product and service, the best choice of locations and great c value for money.
UK network strength 1 Through our UK network of 737 hotels 64,599 rooms, Premier Inn offers consumers the widest choice of locations, 42% more than our nearest competitor.
This means guests are more likely to be able to stay closer to their destination, which is important to both our business and leisure customers.
Pipeline net Open and To nd awaiting open of disposals pipeline exchange milestone Consistent quality Ke Key y We continue to invest in our brands to further reinforce Freehold Short leasehold Extensions Disposals our competitive position, spending around 165 million long leasehold on refurbishment and maintenance of our Premier Inn and restaurants estate in 2015 16, up from 150 million the previous year.
This included the refurbishment of 1 Includes one hotel in Ireland.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Profitable Growth 22 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Our strong market position is underpinned by high occupancy Enhancing our digital capabilities includes the evolution of 80.9% in our current estate, as well as future growth of our dynamic pricing system which aims to provide opportunities in both London and the regions.
hub by efficient pricing for all our hotels through a combination Premier Inn facilitates our London growth by providing of high occupancy and great value for money, whilst access to Central London locations whilst regional delivering a good return on capital.
During 2015 16 we opportunities include room extensions to existing hotels, integrated realtime customer data for the first time, as well as entering into new catchments.
as well as automated event pricing, and continue to refine our forecasting methodologies.
Although we focus on delivering our organic growth strategy, it is also important that we continue to deliver good like Joint site model for like growth.
Our focus on the quality and consistency Restaurants made good progress in the year, with total of our product, combined with the key levers of dynamic sales growth of 3.5% and like for like sales growth of 0.8% in pricing, digital, network strength and reinvestment in our a competitive market, outperforming the Coffer Peach Pub estate, improved like for like sales by 4.2% for Premier Inn Restaurants outside the M25 competitor set.
Guest experience continues to improve with our Guest Net Recommend scores rising 3.8% pts to 69.3%.
Digital strength We continue to invest in our direct digital distribution Breakfast and dinner form a key part of our customer offering.
com, with direct digital being our Through our unique joint site model we are able to guarantee customers preferred booking channel, comprising 86% the consistency of our product and service, which drives of bookings, up from 77% in 2013 14.
This represents a higher RevPAR, profitability and guest scores especially significant competitive advantage for Premier Inn, providing when compared to a colocation site where a thirdparty us with the lowest cost booking route, enhanced customer delivers the F&B.
This, combined with better operating and insights, and superior customer service through price, capital efficiencies, means our joint site model delivers content and relevant offers.
better returns than both our colocated and solus sites.
Volume of reservations by channel We continue to make good progress in rejuvenating our brands and have now converted 62 Beefeaters to the new brand proposition.
Furthermore, we launched a new contemporary Beefeater in Birmingham in March this year, Beefeater Bar Block, serving all day breakfast, lunch and dinner.
This small format, new joint site model is designed to improve returns versus those of our solus sites and although early days, has already received great customer feedback.
hub by Premier Inn The London hotel market remains a key growth opportunity for us.
hub by Premier Inn is a new generation of compact, contemporary, city centre hotel which offers guests excellent connectivity and good value for money, appealing to customers who value price, location and design over space.
Its smaller room design allows us to grow profitably in city centre locations with high property costs and deliver a good return on capital.
Key We now have four hotels open: St. Martins Lane November Premier Inn digital 2014, Tower Bridge November 2015, Brick Lane and Premier Inn other Edinburgh Rose Street February 2016.
Our hub hotel in Indirect channels St. Martins Lane has now been open for over a year and guest feedback has been extremely positive with a TripAdvisor Including reservations from GDS and score of 4.5 and high occupancy.
Although its early days, agents of the remaining three have begun on a similarly positive note.
We have 12 hub by Premier Inn hotels 2,270 rooms in the committed pipeline, including locations in both London and Edinburgh.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Profitable Growth 23 OLD Key Premier Inn digital direct Premier Inn Nonautomated Indirect channels Percentage of reservations booked through di erent channels Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Hotels & Restaurants Profitable Growth continued Focus on our strengths to grow internationally Build the capability and platform to support future growth Premier Inn Germany We believe Germany provides an exciting growth opportunity Winning Teams for Premier Inn with a hotel market that is nearly a third larger We need to continue to differentiate our proposition through than the UK.
It has a fragmented competitor set and a high our Winning Teams in a tightening labour market, by ensuring percentage of independents, which are in gradual decline.
we employ and retain the best teams and provide them with the technology to do their job effectively.
For example, Our first hotel opened in Frankfurt, in February this year, we have introduced tools to provide work shift flexibility and the feedback has been excellent.
We currently have and improved communication via Whitbread social media.
a committed pipeline of three more hotels with the aim of having six to eight hotels open by 2020.
Systems We are still using the same core systems we had when we We are looking to commit capital of some 60100 million had significantly less rooms, in a world where technology has per annum over the next three years, to gather pace in what evolved digitally and into the cloud, where understanding of we perceive as an attractive market for Premier Inn, and will relevant data is paramount and where legacy systems become continue to look for further opportunities to test the market increasingly expensive to run.
Over the next three to four more quickly.
years it is logical that we need to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to cope with the greater demand the business Premier Inn International will impose on them.
In the Middle East we continue to see longterm growth through our successful, profitable joint venture.
In India Productivity and efficiency and South East Asia, although there is opportunity for It is important that we move productivity and efficiency growth, the market remains operationally challenging and up our agenda and invest in our infrastructure and systems we will assess the opportunities over the coming year.
to give Premier Inn a better platform for future growth.
Investment To help us achieve our future ambitions for the business there will be an additional 9 million P&L investment in 2016 17 net of cost savings.
The new Premier Inn bedrooms at our Aldgate, London, Premier Inn.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Profitable Growth 24 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 In July we reached a significant landmark with The 700th the opening of our 700th hotel in Kingston upon Thames, well on our way to achieving our UK Premier Inn ambitious milestone of 85,000 rooms by 2020.
With more locations than any other hotel chain in the UK, our customers are never far from a great nights sleep.
Like all our new openings the Kingston upon Thames Premier Inn created dozens of jobs within the local community many of which went to young people who were previously not in education, training or employment.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Profitable Growth 25
