WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 39 report governance statements information Directors biographies 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 5 Henry Staunton joined the Board of WHSmith in September Annemarie Durbin is a non-executive director and joined the 2010 and became Chairman on 1 September 2013.
He is also Board of WHSmith in December 2012.
She is a non-executive Chair of the Nominations Committee.
He has extensive finance, director of Santander UK plc and serves on its Audit, Risk and media and retail expertise and is Chairman of BrightHouse Group Remuneration Committees.
She has 25 years international PLC and Phoenix Group Holdings and a non-executive director banking experience particularly across Asia, Africa and the Middle of Capital and Counties Properties plc.
He was previously the East operating at Board and Executive Committee level.
She is Finance Director of Granada and ITV, Chairman of Ashtead Group also Chair of the Listing Authority Advisory Panel.
In addition to and Vice Chairman of Legal and General PLC.
her directorships, Annemarie is an executive coach, a conflict mediator and provides Board governance consultancy services.
2 Stephen Clarke is Group Chief Executive and joined the Board of WHSmith in June 2012, becoming Group Chief Executive on 6 Drummond Hall is a non-executive director and joined 1 July 2013.
He joined WHSmith in August 2004 as Marketing the Board of WHSmith in September 2008.
He is the Senior Director for WHSmith High Street.
In 2006 he was appointed Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Commercial and Marketing Director and in 2008 became He is a non-executive director and Chair of the Remuneration Managing Director of WHSmith High Street.
He began his career Committee of The Sage Group plc and is the Senior Independent at the Dixons Group where he carried out a number of store, Director of First Group plc.
He spent the early part of his career product and marketing roles.
with Procter & Gamble, Mars and PepsiCo Inc, and from 2002 to 2006 was Chief Executive of Dairy Crest PLC.
3 Robert Moorhead is Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer CFO COO and joined the Board of WHSmith in December Ian Houghton is Company Secretary and Legal Director and was 2008.
He is a Chartered Accountant and joined WHSmith in 2004 appointed in September 1998. as Retail Finance Director.
Previously, he was Group Finance Board Committees Director at Specsavers Optical Group and Finance and IT Director of World Duty Free Europe.
He also held a number of roles at B&Q Audit Committee and Kingfisher Group.
He started his career at Price Waterhouse.
Suzanne Baxter Chair 4 Suzanne Baxter is a non-executive director and joined the Annemarie Durbin Board of WHSmith in February 2013.
She is Chair of the Audit Drummond Hall Committee.
She was appointed as Group Finance Director of Mitie Nominations Committee Group Plc in April 2006.
Following her qualification as a Chartered Henry Staunton Chair Accountant with Price Waterhouse, her career has been divided Suzanne Baxter between advisory roles in corporate finance with Deloitte and Stephen Clarke a range of finance, commercial, operational and business Annemarie Durbin development roles in support of both public and private sector Drummond Hall clients, firstly with Serco and now with Mitie.
She is Chair of the Business in the Community BITC South West Strategic Advisory Remuneration Committee Board, a business to community outreach charity promoting Drummond Hall Chair responsible business practice, and is Chair of the Council of the Suzanne Baxter Business Services Association BSA, a policy and research centre Annemarie Durbin of excellence for the support services industry.
