Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Key Performance Indicators Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Whitbreads Business Model, which can be found Winning Teams Customer Heartbeat on page 4 shows how we create value for our stakeholders.
The Models foundation is the Team turnover Health and safety Brand performance Family measures Customer Heartbeat schematic Winning Teams, We measure the percentage Nothing could be more important With our aim to make everyday Hotels & Restaurants Customer Heartbeat, Profitable Growth and Good of our team members who leave than the safety of our teams and experiences special it is vital The provision of a quality restaurant Together.
Behind each of these headings are clear the business during the year.
Independent audits that we have a robust way of is important to our Premier Inn and measurable targets which together make up For example, if we had team are carried out throughout the measuring how our customers guests and our jointsite model our balanced scorecard or WINcard as we call it turnover of 50% that would mean year to check that standards are rate our performance in terms provides us with good synergies.
It is used throughout the that a number equivalent to half being maintained with certain of recommendations and Company.
Every hotel, restaurant and coffee shop of our team members had key areas resulting in automatic preference over other brands.
All support centres, each left during the year and had failure if they are not met.
business and the Group as a whole have their own to be replaced.
Every month the results are published throughout the Group so that everyone knows Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important exactly how they are doing against the key targets, We aim to keep team turnover Our people have a right to work Without this information we would Measures have been developed both financial and nonfinancial, for the year.
as low as possible as this means in a safe environment and our not be able to measure and improve to make sure that our Premier Inn we have more settled and consistent customers rightly expect us to our customers experience or and Restaurants teams work well As these are key strategic measures a number teams who will do a better job of look after them when they choose compare the experience we provide together for the benefit of guests.
of them form an important part of the incentive making everyday experiences special to sleep, eat or drink with us.
to that provided by our competitors.
For Premier Inn, we measure the schemes for our teams.
Details of how the executive for our customers.
We also save A significant health and safety proportion of guests that have directors are rewarded for their WINcard money on recruitment and training failure would also affect confidence breakfast in the restaurant.
performance are described in the remuneration if we can retain team members.
We audit breakfast standards report on pages 76 to 91. for Restaurants.
The Group, Hotels & Restaurants and Costa WINcard How we have done in 2015 16 How we have done in 2015 16 How we have done in 2015 16 How we have done in 2015 16 targets are set at the beginning of each year and The team turnover results are as follows We strengthened the targets Premier Inns target was to reduce Premier Inns target was to achieve agreed with the Remuneration Committee.
They are with the targets shown in brackets : in 2015 16 and also increased the the percentage of guests scoring a 2.0% like for like increase in food usually set above the level achieved in the previous 1 Group : 43.9% 42.8% proportion of sites required to zero to six out of ten to below 10.1%.
and beverage sales to hotel guests year to target improved performance.
In general, Premier Inn: 40.3% 37.1% pass the audit for each business to The result was 10.6%, which did in joint site restaurants.
The increase a green WINcard is achieved where the performance is better than both previous year and target.
Both Costa not meet the stretching target.
Restaurants had 2 An amber score is for performance which is better Costa : 39.6% 43.4% and Hotels & Restaurants exceeded Costas target was to increase its a target to reduce the proportion than the prior year but below target and a red the tougher targets set.
of Premier Inn guests giving a score score is for a result below the previous year.
Although we did not meet our The result was 54.6%, which was of one or two out of five for breakfast stretching targets in all parts lower than the prior year.
The result of the Group, we did see positive for the year was 6.3%.
movement in the last quarter.
WINcard results WINcard results WINcard results WINcard results Group Group Group Premier Inn Hotels & Restaurants Hotels & Restaurants Hotels & Restaurants Restaurants Costa Costa Costa Our goals for 2016 17 Our goals for 2016 17 Our goals for 2016 17 Our goals for 2016 17 The team turnover targets are as follows: The targets for the year ahead have Premier Inns target is to achieve These measures will no longer be 1 Group : 42.65% been further strengthened.
More a net recommend score of 53.6% pts included on the WINcard in 2016 17.
Premier Inn: 40.3% audits will take place and additional and Restaurants have a target net Restaurants: 52.3% food hygiene questions have been recommend score of 43.0% pts.
2 Costa : 40.0% added to the audit process.
Costas target is to reduce detractors to 15% or below.
Costa will have additional brand standards and 1 Excludes support centre.
2 The Costa targets and results shown above are for Costa UK.
The full Costa WINcard targets are based on a matrix including Costa China and Costa Express.
Whitbread Key Performance Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Indicators 50 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Winning Teams Customer Heartbeat Team turnover Health and safety Brand performance Family measures We measure the percentage Nothing could be more important With our aim to make everyday Hotels & Restaurants of our team members who leave than the safety of our teams and experiences special it is vital The provision of a quality restaurant the business during the year.
Independent audits that we have a robust way of is important to our Premier Inn For example, if we had team are carried out throughout the measuring how our customers guests and our jointsite model turnover of 50% that would mean year to check that standards are rate our performance in terms provides us with good synergies.
that a number equivalent to half being maintained with certain of recommendations and of our team members had key areas resulting in automatic preference over other brands.
left during the year and had failure if they are not met.
Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important We aim to keep team turnover Our people have a right to work Without this information we would Measures have been developed as low as possible as this means in a safe environment and our not be able to measure and improve to make sure that our Premier Inn we have more settled and consistent customers rightly expect us to our customers experience or and Restaurants teams work well teams who will do a better job of look after them when they choose compare the experience we provide together for the benefit of guests.
making everyday experiences special to sleep, eat or drink with us.
For Premier Inn, we measure the for our customers.
We also save A significant health and safety proportion of guests that have money on recruitment and training failure would also affect confidence breakfast in the restaurant.
if we can retain team members.
We audit breakfast standards for Restaurants.
How we have done in 2015 16 How we have done in 2015 16 How we have done in 2015 16 How we have done in 2015 16 The team turnover results are as follows We strengthened the targets Premier Inns target was to reduce Premier Inns target was to achieve with the targets shown in brackets : in 2015 16 and also increased the the percentage of guests scoring a 2.0% like for like increase in food 1 Group : 43.9% 42.8% proportion of sites required to zero to six out of ten to below 10.1%.
and beverage sales to hotel guests Premier Inn: 40.3% 37.1% pass the audit for each business to The result was 10.6%, which did in joint site restaurants.
The increase Restaurants: 52.9% 49.9% achieve a green score.
Restaurants had 2 Costa : 39.6% 43.4% and Hotels & Restaurants exceeded Costas target was to increase its a target to reduce the proportion the tougher targets set.
of Premier Inn guests giving a score Although we did not meet our The result was 54.6%, which was of one or two out of five for breakfast stretching targets in all parts lower than the prior year.
Costa will have additional brand standards and innovation objectives.
Whitbread Key Performance Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Indicators 51 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Key Performance Indicators continued Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Profitable Growth Good Together Profit Like for like sales total system Market performance Brand expansion Returns on investment Carbon consumption As with all businesses we measure sales growth We measure our performance Our strategy is based on the A crucial factor in measuring our community engagement our financial success by the profits We closely follow the sales versus our competitors in terms profitable growth of our performance is how well we have Our corporate responsibility we make through growing our growth performance of of our sales growth per available Premier Inn and Costa brands.
programme covers a number brands and operating our businesses our hotels, restaurants and room in Premier Inn and the We calculate this by dividing of areas against which we measure efficiently.
A budget is agreed coffee shops.
brand preference score in Costa.
the underlying profit of an asset ourselves.
Hotels & Restaurants with the Board each year which or business by the capital value has a carbon reduction target sets a target profit level.
of the asset or business it has been and Costa has a target for the invested in.
number of stores participating in volunteering or fundraising.
Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Recognising that our shareholders While we are investing so much in the We need to be able to understand We have shown that we are able Our investors want to be able to Companies have a responsibility have a choice in investing their money, organic growth of Hotels & Restaurants how we are performing on to create significant shareholder judge how well we are using their to reduce their impact on the we need to be able to demonstrate we need to keep a close eye on how a consistent basis against the value by growing our successful money in comparison to other environment which we fully endorse.
that our businesses can produce the mature parts of the business are rest of the market and to develop brands.
It is important that we investments that they could make.
There are also clear economic sustainable profit growth.
This enables us to make our strategy accordingly.
measure our progress towards We also want to be able to compare benefits in reducing carbon mean that the underlying value of the better investment decisions.
The meeting our growth milestones.
the performance of different types consumption primarily through Company will increase and dividends expansion of the Costa brand is a key of businesses and assets to focus reduced energy bills.
Being a force can be paid in line with that growth.
our own plans, and measuring for good in our local communities is returns helps us to do so.
important to us and our stakeholders.
How we have done in 2015 16 How we have done in 2015 16 How we have done in 2015 16 How we have done in 2015 16 How we have done in 2015 16 How we have done in 2015 16 We grew our Group underlying profit Hotels & Restaurants achieved like Costa achieved a brand preference Premier Inn opened a record 5,461 Group return on capital fell from 15.7% 80.2% of Costa stores participated before tax by 11.9% last year and for like sales of 3.1%, which was ahead score of 36.5% during the year, new rooms in the year achieving to 15.3%, but still delivered a good in volunteering or fundraising activity, grew our underlying basic earnings of last year but did not meet our which although 23% pts better than its target.
Costa opened 114 net premium to the cost of capital.
Hotels & which is in excess of the 60.0% target.
per share by 11.7%, with Hotels & stretching target.
Costa achieved Starbucks, did not meet the target.
new equity stores versus a stretching Restaurants return on capital declined Hotels & Restaurants achieved a Restaurants growing its underlying strong total system sales which was target of 121. from 13.5% to 12.9% and Costa grew 4.7% reduction in like for like carbon operating profits by 11.3% and ahead of its target.
Like for like sales We grew market share in Premier Inn, returns from 46.3% to 49.9%.
Returns consumption versus a target of 3.0%.
for the Group were 3.0% 2014 15: with 2.6% like for like RevPAR growth.
in Hotels & Restaurants declined due 3 6.5% which was a good performance The midscale and economy market to the increased investment in freehold in a difficult economic climate, grew RevPAR by 5.6% from a low developments for future hotel openings but was lower than the prior year.
base and by implementing price in the UK and Germany.
Excluding increases that we chose not to follow.
this, investment returns in Hotels & Restaurants would have been 1.5% pts higher at 14.4%.
WINcard results WINcard results Profit is not a WINcard measure, WINcard results WINcard results Return on capital is an important but is a target under the Annual indicator used when considering Group Group Group Group Incentive Scheme as described all investment decisions and on pages 82 and 90. is a key measure for the Groups Hotels & Restaurants Hotels & Restaurants Hotels & Restaurants Hotels & Restaurants Long Term Incentive Plan, but Costa Costa Costa Costa is not on the WINcard.
Our goals for 2016 17 Our goals for 2016 17 Our goals for 2016 17 Our goals for 2016 17 Our goals for 2016 17 Our goals for 2016 17 Our profit targets are commercially Our like for like sales and total system This will no longer be a WINcard These targets are commercially To continue to make a good return Group and Hotels & Restaurants sensitive, although they will be sales targets are commercially sensitive, target for 2016 17, although we will sensitive, but are set in the context on capital.
have a target to reduce electricity disclosed retrospectively in the but are set in the budget process continue to closely monitor our of Whitbreads growth milestones.
They will against a realistic but stretching view performance versus competitors.
In addition to these targets there will is for 85.2% of stores to participate remain stretching, but achievable.
of the markets in the coming year.
be new targets for net Costa Express in volunteering or fundraising.
machine installations and total occupancy for Premier Inn.
3 Hotel market performance data collected by STR Global.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Page title 52 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Cust C Custo omer me er r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H He eartbea at t t t Profitable Growth Good Together Profit Like for like sales total system Market performance Brand expansion Returns on investment Carbon consumption As with all businesses we measure sales growth We measure our performance Our strategy is based on the A crucial factor in measuring our community engagement our financial success by the profits We closely follow the sales versus our competitors in terms profitable growth of our performance is how well we have Our corporate responsibility we make through growing our growth performance of of our sales growth per available Premier Inn and Costa brands.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Page title 53
