20 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our marketplace Our core markets William Hills core strategy is to invest in regulated markets where we can take a licence and operate profitably.
Approximately 96% ofthe Groups revenues are generated from these markets.
As the legal picture continues to evolve, we have formed a risk-assessed legal view on each market from which we generate, or consider generating, revenues.
The regulatory environment for LBOs UK market share by number of LBOs last changed significantly with the 2005 The UK % Gambling Act and the regulation of gaming machines.
We pay 15% gross profits UK retail tax on sports betting both OTC and LBOs were first legalised in 1961 when the SSBT and, since April 2015, 25% gross Government recognised that significant profits tax Machine Games Duty on levels of gambling were happening outside gaming machines.
They decided to tax, regulate The LBO industry is a key contributor to and control the industry through licensing.
We directly support The number of betting shops has stayed around 43,000 full-time equivalent jobs.
relatively stable for some years, having With a number of industries reliant on ours, peaked at c16,000 in the 1970s.
It declined notably UK horseracing and greyhound by c150 around 2015 to the current level racing, our total economic footprint is more Ladbrokes Coral 41% of c8,700 after a number of operators, than 100,000 FTE jobs and 3.2bn towards William Hill 27% including William Hill, closed shops in GDP, including contributing around 1bn response to the Government increasing a year to Treasury through direct, indirect Betfred 19% 1 gambling duties.
Other 13% The market continues to consolidate, with The industry makes a positive contribution three major operators accounting for 87% to local economies, paying business rates, of the market.
William Hill is the second offering flexible working arrangements and largest operator with 27% of the LBOs, but providing a meeting place for people in local the leading individual brand.
communities to take part in an enjoyable pastime, enjoyed by millions of people The customer experience is a critical driver throughout the UK.
of continued LBO popularity, with shops providing a social environment and many As a well-regulated industry, we also being a hub within their local community.
provide a safe environment for gambling activities, with shop colleagues trained to identify potential harmful gambling behaviour and to engage with customers to encourage responsible gambling.
1 Source: Association of British Bookmakers.
21 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements 11% William Hill's online market share ofsports betting and gaming 1 intheUKby revenues 27% of LBOs are William Hill, making usthesecond largest operator We continue to have an active dialogue William Hill has an estimated 11% market UK Online sports betting market share with the UK Government to encourage and share of online sports betting and gaming % support evidence-based decision making in in the UK by revenues.
Currently, the relation to our industry, given the social and market is relatively fragmented, more so economic contribution we make to the UK.
than in other taxed and regulated online gambling markets across the world, though consolidation has been evident in the UK online last year.
Online, including mobile, is thefastest In our view, sports betting the single growing segment of the UK gambling largest product has a high barrier to industry.
The most successful operators First established in 1998, in the early years like William Hill benefit from largethe market was led by the major landscale specialist teams who produce based brands such as William Hill as the increasing volumes of innovative betting Paddy Power Betfair 27% most recognised and trusted operators.
opportunities, including using proprietary The entrance of more technology-led and Bet365 23% algorithms to derive pricing for new specialist online operators eroded the markets, such as in-play.
William Hill 15% leaders market share.
However, between Sports betting is a key product for driving Sky Bet 10% 2008 and 2015 William Hill grew rapidly customer acquisition, with a relatively and grew market share by enhancing its Ladbrokes Coral 9% lower cost per acquisition, higher customer product range and mobile experience.
Others 16% lifespans and good cross-selling potential Online was regulated by the Gambling as well as the greatest opportunity for Commission on a point of transaction product differentiation.
Source: Gambling Compliance, UK Online basis from 2007.
In November 2014, the Gambling: Data Forecasting & Market Shares, Technology is also a barrier to entry with basis of regulation changed to a point of October 2016. significant investment required to support consumption basis and, from December delivery of a high-quality, seamless and 2014, all licensed operators have been differentiated user experience across taxed on that same basis at 15% gross multiple access channels.
1 Source: Gambling Compliance, UK Online Gambling: Data Forecasting & Market Shares, October 2016.
22 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our marketplace continued Italy and Spain A number of European countries have followed the UK in amending or establishing licensing regimes for online gambling.
William Hill has been awarded licences to operate in Italy, Spain and Ireland.
Italy is the largest of the mainland European gambling markets.
Spend per capita on gambling is the second highest among the major regulated markets, after Australia.
The online market was initially dominated by the land-based incumbents and is still dominated by casino as the primary revenue driver.
However, sports betting took an increasingly strong position as the regulatory framework widened and new developments such as Cash In For many years, the market was were permitted.
dominated by land-based, pari mutuel, Australia William Hill was the first major brand to state monopolies.
Since 2006, online has Australia is one of the most attractive offer online casino in 2011 and it still holds grown from c9% of the market to half the gambling markets, having the highest the number one spot for brand awareness market today, with advertising allowed spend per capita among the ten largest in the market.
The online sports betting since 2008.
As in the UK, mobile has been gambling countries.
and gaming markets in Italy are predicted a driver of growth, as has customers to grow at double-digit rates for the next increasing preference for sports betting, Betting or wagering as it is known four years.
though betting continues to be dominated locally now accounts for 18% of the by racing.
Australian gambling market at A$27bn of In Spain, sports betting features more turnover and A$4.1bn of gross gambling strongly in the online market, representing Australias online betting market is already yield a year.
Between 2012 and 2016, just under half of the gross gaming yield.
much more consolidated than in the total betting has grown at around 5% per In 2015, Spain regulated online slots games UK, with the top five leading operators annum, within which online has grown at 2 for the first time.
With no prominent accounting for over 80% of the market.
Online is projected to grow between land-based sports betting incumbent, A number of European operators have 6-10% per annum in 2017-2020 given the market is led by the major European moved into the market in recent years, the shift to mobile and high smartphone operators.
The online sports betting and 1 including William Hill, Paddy Power, penetrationrates.
casino markets are expected to double Ladbrokes and Bet365.
Local brands, over the next four years.
Pre-match betting is regulated but the notably Crown, have also sought to gain Interactive Gambling Act 2001 prohibits William Hill is still one of the most market share.
However, unlike William in-play betting and gaming online.
recognised and respected brands in Hill, most are not yet profitable.
This is in the face of stiff compounded by increasing costs in the competition, with more than 10 new market, with significant increases in betting licences appearing in the market in the last taxes and levies in recent years.
23 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements Other non-core markets William Hill also generates revenues in other countries outside of our core five markets by providing online sports betting and gaming activities.
There are more than 100 countries within this category.
These markets make up c4% of Group revenue.
We take regular legal assessments of whether existing regulations allow us to provide these services.
We have processes in place to monitor regulatory change and respond on an operational level accordingly.
Regulation in Europe continued to expand in 2016 with the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary regulating their markets.
Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and Russia are the next big markets that are expected to materially change from a regulatory perspective over the course of In Delaware, sports betting is run by the 2017 and 2018.
Delaware State Lottery and William Hill US US is the exclusive bookmaker for that service.
The US market is dominated by land-based A number of states are exploring ways to casinos and lotteries.
Online gaming is challenge PASPA and enable land-based or largely illegal with only Delaware, New intra-state mobile sports betting.
There has Jersey and Nevada having licensed been increased focus on the sports betting operators to provide certain gaming legalisation debate, prompted in part by products.
Online sports betting is illegal the increasing popularity of Daily Fantasy under the Interstate Wire Act 1961.
sponsored land-based sports betting is banned under the Professional and William Hill has an agreement in place with Amateur Sports Protection Act 1992 Monmouth Park in the event that sports PASPA in all but four states Nevada, betting is permitted in New Jersey.
We are Delaware, Montana and Oregon.
also establishing a racebook in Iowa for Caesars Entertainment.
In Nevada, sports books have to be sited within casinos and typically are either run by the casino operator or outsourced to a specialist operator.
William Hill US is the largest such operator and was created through the acquisition and consolidation of three small operators.
Nevada also permits mobile betting for customers who create their accounts through landbased outlets.
