Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Chief Executives review I am pleased to report an 11.9% growth in our I am delighted to have been underlying pretax profit to 546.3 million appointed as Whitbreads Chief and an 11.7% growth in our underlying basic Executive.
In Costa and Premier earnings per share.
This growth in profit has produced a strong operating cash flow, Inn we have the nations most increasing by 9.5% to 782.2 million, which loved coffee shop and hotel in turn has supported capital investment in brands.
It is the strength of these the business of 724.9 million.
The Board has proposed an 8.6% increase in the final two leading brands, along with dividend, which would increase the full year our fantastic teams who deliver dividend by 10.0% to 90.35 pence per share.
great service every day, that Alison Brittain Hotels & Restaurants underlying operating Chief Executive underpins Whitbreads success profit was up 11.3% to 446.9 million.
Premier and our future growth.
Inn grew total sales by 12.9%, like for like sales by 4.2%, total RevPAR by 3.1% and the number of rooms available by 9.8%, with I am excited by the prospect of leading the a record 5,461 new UK rooms opened in the next phase of Whitbreads growth, building year.
Total occupancy remained high as on our strong fundamentals of brand strength we finished the year at 80.9%.
Restaurants and sound capital and financial discipline.
grew total sales by 3.5%, like for like sales We will also add new capabilities to create a by 0.8%, ahead of its competitors, and stronger business that continues to deliver for opened four net new sites.
our customers, shareholders, colleagues and communities.
Costas underlying operating profit was up 15.8% to 153.5 million, with total sales Another year of strong sales and growth of 15.9%.
This was driven by UK profit growth like for like sales growth of 2.9%, 197 net This was another good year for Whitbread, new stores worldwide and 924 net new with record levels of employee engagement, Costa Express machines.
Further customer satisfaction and new openings.
information on the performance of Costa These have helped us to deliver good like and the Hotels & Restaurants business for like and total sales growth, leading to can be found later in this strategic report.
a strong rise in profits and strong returns for our shareholders.
Whilst it is only six weeks into our new financial year, we remain confident of T his was another good In the year, our growth generated a further making good progress this year.
We now employ year for Whitbread almost 50,000 people, working across our with record levels of A longterm structural growth story 2,300 hotels, restaurants and coffee shops employee engagement, The success of Premier Inn and Costa in the UK.
I would like to thank each and customer satisfaction has been built on a strategy of capitalising every one of our team members for their and new site openings.
on significant market opportunities by hard work, passion and commitment, developing brand and network strength, which are what make Whitbread the great excellent operational delivery by our teams, company it is today.
and applying strong capital discipline.
These together have enabled the In 2015 16, we grew like for like sales achievement of marketleading positions by 3.0% and total sales by 12.0% to and profitable growth.
This growth in total sales of this strategy will not change and we was a combination of the increase in like will continue to be ambitious in our 2020 for like sales and the continuing expansion growth aspirations of 85,000 UK hotel of our network.
We opened 44 new hotels, rooms and 2.5 billion system sales in Costa.
with a total of 4,628 new rooms, a further This growth, together with strong financial 1,495 room extensions, six joint site and capital discipline, will deliver good restaurants and 197 net new Costa stores longterm sustainable returns.
Whitbread Chief Executives Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 review 8 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 To get bigger, we must get better There is continuing growth of the budget In the next few years, as we build and grow, hotel market as the independent sector we must retain our core strengths, but at continues to decline.
At Premier Inn, we the same time sharpen our customer focus deliver a marketleading experience for both to ensure our leading brands remain fresh corporate and leisure customers.
With over in the eyes of our customers.
In addition 730 hotels we offer the widest choice we must develop new capabilities and of locations, the best value for money and, infrastructure that will support productive The expectations through investment in our sites and teams, and efficient growth.
This will allow us to a great product in the marketplace.
All this of Costas customers, achieve our significant growth ambitions drives tremendous loyalty and high occupancy like those of Premier and continue to deliver longterm sustainable of over 80%.
This year we invested over Inn, are rising and value for our shareholders.
165 million on refurbishments and hotel we need to ensure enhancements, as well as upgrading the we meet them.
To do this I have identified three key customers digital experience.
Our website, strategic themes to ensure that our brands premierinn.
com, welcomes 80% of our get not only bigger, but also better.
customers who choose to book direct, giving us a significant competitive advantage.
1 Grow and innovate in our core UK businesses I have identified three The coffee shop market has seen As we grow the number of our hotels and unprecedented growth in the past two key strategic themes coffee shops we need to develop our decades and the coffee shop has fast to ensure that our marketleading customer propositions with become the place of choice for people to brands get not only further product innovation and the consistent meet and work.
There is a growing demand bigger, but also better.
delivery of quality service and value.
This is for great quality coffee and consumers are the way to stay the number one choice and drinking more coffee than ever before.
at the forefront of our customers minds.
However, this trend has room to continue as Innovation is vital to our future success and coffee consumption per capita in the UK is we have launched a number of exciting new still relatively low in comparison to many other countries.
As the UKs favourite coffee concepts including hub by Premier Inn shop, with a network of over 2,000 stores, which breaks the mould in hotel design and Costa is well placed to capitalise on future technology, as well as two new Costa store market growth, but we cannot be formats Costa Fresco and Costa Pronto complacent.
The expectations of Costas addressing consumer demands for faster customers, like those of Premier Inns, are service, fresher food and a finer coffee rising and we need to ensure we meet them.
We are also improving our Fresher and healthier food, faster service, digital capabilities to ensure we stay ahead better loyalty schemes and a greater digital in this rapidly changing space.
experience are all becoming increasingly important to drive customer satisfaction 2 Focus on our strengths to grow and grow sales.
internationally It is clear that there are exciting market With such positive foundations there is opportunities for Costa Retail and Costa much to be optimistic about.
However, the Express and for establishing the Premier Inn environment in which we operate is evolving.
With the international Competitor dynamics are changing through business at an early stage of development both traditional and disruptor channels: we need to make sure we focus our efforts customers are demanding more value and and capital on the very best opportunities, greater quality: technology is developing that will produce the highest returns.
We will at pace, especially digitally and, with cost continue to review our international strategy structures under pressure, there is a growing over the coming year.
need to focus on productivity and efficiency.
In order to continue to be successful in the future, we will need to invest to extend our current capabilities and also to build new ones.
Whitbread Chief Executives Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 review 9 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Chief Executives review continued In April 2015 we set out ambitious 2020 3 Build the capability and platform targets for our Good Together programme to support future growth and I am delighted to say we are making To deliver long term sustainable returns good progress towards achieving them.
we need to ensure we are investing for the Our teams are doing an amazing job raising long term in the infrastructure to allow us millions of pounds for our chosen charities to grow efficiently.
As you might expect, for of Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens a company that has grown so rapidly over the Charity and the Costa Foundation helping last few years, we need to do more to ensure improve the lives of children in the UK and we have the skills and platforms to keep our Our first hub by Premier Inn coffeegrowing communities around the hotel is already gaining great products relevant, to become more agile in reviews.
We are also leading the hospitality our digital capabilities and to build a robust industry in our innovative work to build infrastructure to provide efficiency.
These sustainable buildings so that, as we grow, investments will, in turn, provide the platform we manage our environmental footprint.
to deliver our growth plans, provide a better A good example is Costas new Eco Pod customer experience and, importantly, drive store in Telford, which is the UKs first zero longterm productivity and efficiency that energy coffee shop.
is right for the size of the business which we will become.
Delivering our exciting future I am tremendously excited by the future As one of the UKs Brands are built on customer trust and I am looking forward to working At Whitbread we have some of the UKs largest companies with the team to build upon the strong favourite and most trusted hospitality brands.
we have the foundations of the business and create Keeping abreast of, or indeed ahead of, the responsibility and an even stronger Whitbread.
By growing trends and concerns which are important the opportunity and innovating in the UK, focusing on our to our customers and communities is vital, to act as a force strengths in our international business and whether that be how we look after our for good.
building the capabilities and platform to colleagues, how we protect the environment support future growth, we will ensure that, or how we support our communities.
As one of the UKs largest companies we have the as we get bigger, we also get better.
Our responsibility and the opportunity to act as a bigger and better Whitbread will deliver force for good.
This is not just the right thing great outcomes for our customers, to do, it is vital if we are to build a sustainable shareholders, colleagues and communities.
business for shareholders in the long term.
We are committed to creating a great place to work and ensuring our 50,000 team members have development opportunities Alison Brittain that will help them realise their potential.
Chief Executive We invest around 12 million annually in skills 25 April 2016 and development programmes including our WISE programme Whitbread Investing in Skills and Employment which is focused on supporting young people and those not in education, employment or training into work.
Our best ever bed provides We welcome the introduction of the new our customers, young and old, with a great nights sleep.
National Living Wage, indeed in Costa we implemented it six months in advance of the Governments launch date.
In Costa and Premier Inn we have taken the decision to pay the new wage to all employees including apprentices, regardless of whether they are over or under 25 years old.
Whitbread Chief Executives Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 review 10
