14 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marketplace Key trends in the market 01 02 Global regulation Macro-economic changes Around the world, governments are updating their existing Following the UKs decision to exit the European Union and gambling legislation to take account of digital gambling.
This is the subsequent weakening of sterling, many experts believe creating opportunities for William Hill.
Having built a highly consumer spending will be squeezed in 2017 by cost inflation.
competitive digital offering in the UK, one of the most advanced As a low ticket leisure activity, gambling has proved relatively and innovative markets globally, we compete strongly in new resilient in previous economic downturns but is not recession international markets and thereby diversify our business.
However, structural growth in online gambling may offset such weakness.
Find out more: Find out more: Page 20 Page 20 03 04 Tax on gambling Consolidation and scale When governments regulate they also tax licensed Scale is becoming increasingly important, with gamblingcompanies.
This is increasing the importance of scale companiesinvesting millions in marketing and technology as the larger operators can continue to invest while bearing as well as paying gambling duties.
This, combined with the this tax cost.
In the UK, the Point of Consumption Tax was potential for substantial cost synergies, is driving sector imposed on online gambling companies in December 2014. consolidation.
William Hill is one of the largest scale operators This additional cost is expected, over time, to drive further and benefits from Retails cash flows when investing in consolidation of the industry.
Find out more: Find out more: Page 21 Page 02 15 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements 05 06 Developments in technology Focus on responsible gambling Over the last decade, much of the gambling industry has We want relationships with our customers to last a lifetime, reliedon third-party software suppliers for core betting which is already what happens in many of our shops.
Increasingly, the small number of in our interest, as well as customers and governments, to companies that can afford to do so like William Hill are enable customers to gamble responsibly.
Wherever possible, controlling more of the technology themselves in order to we aimtoidentify any problems before they develop in bringcustomers adifferentiated offering.
order to encourage customers to use the tools and support availabletostay in control.
Find out more: Find out more: Page 04 Page 33 07 08 Evolving customer expectations Getting closer to the customer How customers bet and what they gamble on is constantly With more extensive product ranges delivered across multiple changing.
Gaming is now half of our revenues.
Football is channels comes the need to make the customer experience now our most popular sports product online.
In-play is now ever more relevant.
Personalisation is a major focus for the more popular than pre-match betting.
The personal experience already exists in shops.
Customers who would never naturally Taking it online is all about data: managing and translating vast have walked into a betting shop have signed up as online volumes of data into ways of anticipating exactly what our customers.
Mobile is now 70% of Onlines Sportsbook revenues.
We continually evolve and innovate to bring our customers thebest experience.
Find out more: Find out more: Page 04 Page 05
