WH Smith PLC 6 Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Our markets Travel High Street Travel stores sell a range of products to cater for people on the High Street sells a wide range of products in the following move or in need of a convenience offer.
Travels typical customer categories: Stationery including greetings cards, general has less time to browse and is more interested in purchasing stationery, art and craft, and gifting, News and Impulse including food, drink and confectionery, impulse, travel accessories newspapers, magazines, confectionery and drinks and Books.
and souvenirs, as well as reading materials for a journey.
High Streets trading is seasonal, peaking at Christmas and in Consequently, there is a limited demand for stationery product August September for the back to school period.
and the stock and layout of each Travel store reflects this.
The High Street business operates 612 stores with an extensive Travel stores are typically located in higher footfall locations than reach across the UK and a presence on nearly every significant High Street stores, with higher operating costs and rents paid as UKhigh street with high levels of customer footfall.
a percentage of sales subject to minimum guarantees.
Travel is For reporting purposes, the digital retail business is included in less affected by the Christmas trading period than high street High Street and sells a range of Stationery, Books, Magazines and retailers.
Increased passenger traffic during the summer holiday Gifts at www.
We participate in the personalised season, particularly in airports, contributes to a summer peak greetings cards and gifts market through www.
Travel is impacted by macroeconomic trends including any High Streets performance is dependent upon overall growth impacts arising from the process of exiting the European Union in consumer spending including any impacts arising from the and other factors which influence the number of travelling process of exiting the European Union, growth in the noncustomers.
These include levels of employment and investment, food, non-clothing sector, its ability to take share in its product as well as specific category trends such as the impact of markets as well as specific category trends such as the impact of digitalisation on printed products.
Where we have reliable data digitalisation on printed products.
Additionally, trends in the book on passenger trends, we see a correlation between changes in market are impacted by the strength and quality of publishing in passenger numbers and our sales.
Travel faces competition in any year.
High Streets competition comes primarily from other its product categories primarily from other retailers in air, rail, high street specialists, discounters, supermarkets and internet motorways and hospitals.
The growth of these retailers may take retailers.
Other online retailers offer customers access to, and market share from Travel.
digital versions of, our product categories via their computers and mobile devices, while supermarkets give customers access to our product categories as they carry out their regular food shopping.
The growth of these formats may take market share away from the High Street business.
