WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 53 report governance statements information Directors report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 August 2016.
The Company is the ultimate parent company of the WH Smith group of companies the Group.
WH Smith PLC is registered in England and Wales Number 5202036 and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Company has chosen, in accordance with Section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, to include certain information in the Strategic report that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in this Directors report, as follows: Information Page number Likely future developments in the business 8 to 17 Branches outside the UK 13 Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions 26 to 27 Employment of disabled persons 29 Employee involvement 29 Other information, which forms part of this Directors report, can be found in the following sections of the Annual report: Section Page number Corporate governance report 30 Directors biographies 39 Statement of directors responsibilities 57 Information on use of financial instruments 89 This Directors report including information specified above as forming part of this report fulfils the requirements of the Corporate governance statement for the purposes of DTR 7.2.
The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is disclosed on the following pages of this Annual report: Subject matter Page number Allotment of shares for cash pursuant to the WH Smith 52 Directors remuneration report Note 24 on page 92 employeeshare incentive plans tothefinancial statements Arrangement under which the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust 49 Directors remuneration report haswaived or agreed to waive dividends future dividends WH Smith PLC 54 Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance Directors report continued Profit and dividends The Group profit before taxation for the financial year ended 31 August 2016 was 131m 2015: 121m.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year of 30.5p per ordinary share on 2 February 2017 to members on the Register at the close of business on 13 January 2017.
This final dividend and the interim dividend of 13.4p per ordinary share paid on 4 August 2016 make a total dividend of 43.9p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 August 2016 2015: 39.4p.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Company, together with details of shares issued during the year, is shown in Note 24 to the financial statements on page 92.
6 The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 August 2016 was 112,959,195 ordinary shares of 22 67p each.
These shares are listed onthe London Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading laws and market requirements relating to closed periods, including the requirements of the EU Market Abuse Regulation and the Listing Rules, and also the Companys Share Dealing Code whereby directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be obtained from the Companys website, www.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights, and to receive a dividend, if declared, subject to the deduction of any sums due from the holder of ordinary shares to the Company on account of calls or otherwise.
Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be approved by special resolution of the Company.
The Trustee of the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust holds ordinary shares in the Company on behalf of the beneficiaries of the Trust, who are the employees and former employees of the Group.
If any offer is made to the holders of ordinary shares to acquire their shares, the Trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to subsisting options, but will have regard to the interests of the option holders and can consult them to obtain their views on the offer, and subject to the foregoing, the Trustee will take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
Purchase of own shares 6 At the 2016 AGM, authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 11,477,980 ordinary shares of 22 67p each, renewing the authority granted at the 2015 AGM.
The Company used this authority to facilitate its ongoing strategy of returning surplus cash to shareholders by way of dividends and share buy backs thereby increasing total shareholder returns and the net asset value per share.
The directors will only exercise the authority when satisfied that it is in the best interests of shareholders generally and that it would result in an increase in earnings per share.
The Company purchased and subsequently cancelled 2,884,833 of its own shares during the financial year, representing 2.6 per cent of the issued share capital as at 31 August 2016, at an average price of 16.38.
The aggregate amount of consideration including costs paid by the Company for the purchases during the financial year was 47m.
This authority is renewable annually and approval will be sought from shareholders at the AGM in 2016 to renew the authority for a further year.
Issue of new ordinary shares During the financial year ended 31 August 2016, 162,917 ordinary shares of the Company were issued under the Sharesave Scheme at prices between 400.40p and 1147.20p.
The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the Board may, subject to the prior approval of the members of the Company, be granted authority to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares, including new ordinary shares.
Significant agreements change of control A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its trading subsidiaries, WH Smith High Street Limited and WH Smith Travel Limited, is party, such as commercial trading contracts, banking arrangements, property leases, licence and concession agreements to take effect, alter or terminate.
In addition, the service agreements of some senior executives and employee share plans would be similarly affected on a change of control, including, in the case of some employees, in relation to compensation for loss of office.
WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 55 report governance statements information Directors conflicts The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors must act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Any Situational Conflicts considered by the Board, and any authorisations given, are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of conflicts which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
Directors indemnities The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
The Company has provided and continues to provide an indemnity for its directors, which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Companys shareholders Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 31 August 2016, the following information had been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital.
It should be noted that these holdings may have changed since notified to the Company.
However, notification of any change is not required until the next applicable threshold is crossed.
% as at date of Nature of Holder Number notification holding Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 5,608,298 4.95 Indirect Marathon Asset Management LLP 6,097,207 5.38 Indirect On 28 September 2016 BlackRock, Inc. notified the Company of a holding of 5,728,975 shares 5.07 per cent, broken down as follows: Indirect 2.33 per cent: Securities Lending 1.16 per cent: and CFD 1.57 per cent.
The Company received no other notifications in the period between 31 August 2016 and the date of this report.
Relations with shareholders The Boards primary role is to promote the success of the Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group.
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance are understood.
This is achieved principally through the Annual report and accounts and the AGM.
In addition, a range of corporate information, including all Company announcements and presentations, is available to investors on the Companys website, www.
Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders following the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All directors normally attend the AGM and are available to answer questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is made available to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Those shareholders who have elected to receive electronic communications receive notice of the availability of the Annual report on the Companys website.
The deadline for appointing a proxy is 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting although, in calculating this period, no account istaken of any non-working days.
In accordance with best practice all resolutions at the 2017 AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This enables the Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for every share he or she holds.
The results of the poll vote on the resolutions put to the meeting will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange following the end of the meeting and will also be published on the Companys website.
The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and concerns of major shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and CFO COO update the Board following meetings with major shareholders and analysts briefings are circulated to the Board.
The Head of Investor Relations also carries out a regular programme of work and reports to the Board the views and information needs of institutional and major investors.
This is part of the regular contact that the Group maintains with its institutional shareholders.
When requested to do so, the Chairman and non-executive directors attend meetings with major shareholders.
WH Smith PLC 56 Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance Directors report continued Political donations It is the Companys policy not to make political donations and no political donations, contributions or EU political expenditure were made in the year 2015: nil.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors that are likely to affect its future developments, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 29.
The Financial review on pages 14 to 17 of the Strategic report also describes the Groups financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities, further information on which is detailed in Notes 20 to 23 of the financial statements on pages 88 to 91.
In addition, Note 23 of the financial statements on page 89 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Strategic report on pages 20 to 24 also highlights the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The directors report that they have reviewed current performance and forecasts, combined with expenditure commitments, including capital expenditure, proposed dividends and share buybacks, and borrowing facilities.
The directors have also carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue its current operations, including contractual and commercial commitments for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have also assessed the prospects of the Company over a three-year period.
The longer term viability statement is in the Strategic report on page 24.
Independent auditors PwC has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company.
A resolution to re-appoint PwC as auditors to the Company and a resolution to authorise the Audit Committee to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditors Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each of the directors has taken all steps he or she should have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual general meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD on 25 January 2017 at 11.30am.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
This report was approved by the Board on 13 October 2016.
By order of the Board Ian Houghton Company Secretary 13 October 2016
