Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Good Together Customer Wellbeing Our commitment to doing The Customer Heartbeat is at the centre business responsibly is a thread of our business model and our Customer which runs through the entire Wellbeing pillar ensures our customers can have confidence in the integrity of our organisation.
We have now set added sugar reduction targets for 2020 within Costa and Our Good Together programme is at the continue to work on our menus to provide heart of our business philosophy and is a wider range of choice.
We have also broken down into three pillars Team increased activity to strengthen our health and Community, Customer Wellbeing and and safety and food hygiene record Environment.
We have developed ambitious in both Hotels & Restaurants and Costa.
Chris Vaughan targets for 2020, which are designed to General Counsel measure the impact we are having and We welcome the introduction of the Modern during the past six years, the programme Slavery Act and are pleased to see that has delivered tangible improvements across companies will be held to account for the our business and has contributed towards standards and practice of their supply chain.
At creating a more sustainable business.
Whitbread, we have been undertaking work for Cust C Custo omer me er r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H He eartbea at t t t a few years now to ensure robust social, ethical Team and Community and environmental standards are upheld in our We employ around 50,000 people and operations and throughout our supply chain, take our responsibilities to them and those but there is more to do, particularly in relation living in the communities where we operate to the sourcing of materials in the supply chain.
Our WISE programme Whitbread We aim to have 100% accredited supply for our Investing in Skills and Employment has now critical commodities by 2020, and have recently been launched in Costa following its success been accepted as a foundation member of within Hotels & Restaurants.
This year alone the Ethical Trading Initiative and have begun we invested over 3 million in WISE to give working with Stop The Traffik, a leading human team members the opportunity to build their trafficking prevention charity.
We look forward skills and progress in their roles to ensure we to reporting on the outputs of these initiatives have capable, confident and engaged teams.
in the 2016 17 Annual Report, in line with the timeframes laid out by the government.
Currently, we have over 1,000 apprentices in learning at Whitbread however the important Environment framework required to accelerate the As we continue to expand, we must be programme across all of our brands has taken sensitive to the impact we have on the longer to establish than predicted.
We must ensure that we manage committed to our apprenticeship programme, our environmental impact by reducing and are investing substantially in it.
We are carbon emissions, being as energy efficient as focused on delivering quality apprenticeships possible, minimising water consumption and ranging from level 2 to level 7, rather than diverting waste from landfill.
We have invested an overreliance on entrylevel qualifications.
in innovative technologies and new ways of We have therefore taken the decision to working to reduce our water consumption and reduce our 2020 target to 5,000 from 6,000. carbon footprint.
During the year, Costa have opened the first zero energy coffee shop Our teams do a tremendous amount of in the UK, and Premier Inn have more than work in the community, and are passionate doubled the size of Solar Photo Voltaic PV about supporting our chosen charities, Great generation capacity.
Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity GOSHCC, and the Costa Foundation.
We aim to be a leader in developing We have already raised over 6 million for sustainable business practices within our GOSHCC, and almost 10 million for the sectors and continue to work towards our Costa Foundation, which builds school 2020 Good Together targets.
In the following projects in coffeegrowing regions around pages we have included more detail on the the world.
work of both Hotels & Restaurants and Costa in achieving these targets and the work being undertaken in each of the Good Together pillars.
Further information on all aspects of our programme can be found in the Corporate Responsibility report on our website, www.
co. uk Whitbread Good Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Together 40 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Good Together Team and community Team and community Hotels & Restaurants to have raised 10 million Costa to have raised 15 million in total for 2020 targets in total for charity including 7.5 million for Costa Foundation, funding 100 schools projects.
Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity.
10m 15m Team and community Team and community Team and community 5,000 apprenticeships.
Team and community Customer Wellbeing Customer Wellbeing 7,500 work experience placements.
100% accredited supply for critical product Costa to deliver a 25% added sugar reduction sourced commodities.
100% Environment Environment Environment 15% carbon reduction from direct operations 20% water consumption reduction Increase direct operations recycling rate to 80%.
15% Whitbread Good Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Together 4 41 1 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Good Together Hotels & Restaurants continued As the owner of the UKs favourite hotel This year, we launched our new measurement chain, Premier Inn, as well as our popular and audit system throughout our supply restaurant brands, it is vital for us to ensure base, to implement the responsible sourcing that every team member and customer is policies related to our high risk commodities.
invested in as part of our Good Together Where suppliers do not already comply with programme, and that we effectively manage our standards, we are working with them our environmental impact to ensure we are to identify the root cause of the issue and a force for good.
supporting them in solving it where we can.
In Premier Inn we continue to Team and Community deliver our successful Shooting In order to achieve our 2020 target of 100% Stars programmes.
Raised for Great Ormond Street accreditation of critical commodities, we 2m Hospital Childrens Charity have undertaken a materiality assessment to Apprentices in learning identify what those critical commodities are 938 for our business.
These have been identified Work experience placements as cotton, timber, coffee, meat, fish and palm 1,609 oil.
We have developed our approach for each product area and work has commenced We have already made good progress towards to begin increasing the amount of accredited our 2020 targets and continue to deliver on supply within our business.
job creation, employment placements, and Environment work experience placements.
Carbon reduction from direct 11.2% operations In Premier Inn we continue to deliver our successful Shooting Stars programmes, Direct operations recycling rate 69.2% supporting the progress of high potential team members and managers, and helping Grey water recycling schemes 14 them progress in their careers.
installed We are proud to support Great Ormond The UK electricity grid became more carbon Street Hospital Childrens Charity and during efficient in 2015 16, reducing our emissions by 2015 16 alone we raised over 2 million 4.7%, and our investment in energy efficiency towards the construction and fit out of the and solar generation has reduced our emissions Premier Inn Clinical Building, due to open in by a further 6.5%.
We have also driven water Autumn 2017.
Team members have been consumption reduction through the installation fundraising in a variety of ways to get behind of 14 grey water recycling schemes and our ambitious target and have now raised continuing installations of low flow taps, over 6 million for this charity.
dual flush toilets and low water appliances.
Customer Wellbeing During 2015 16, we invested 4 million We are reformulating dishes 400kcal Premier Inn Lighter Options range of capital in energy reduction initiatives to to ensure they are healthier.
and 600kcal deliver an annual revenue benefit of over Product Reducing salt, added sugar, 1 million.
This programme focused on reformulation saturated fat and total fat short return proven technologies such as Fat reduction Rational ovens, rapeseed oil for low energy lighting and voltage optimisation, initiatives frying and moving from block but also covered longer payback investments butter to Flora Cuisine such as Solar Photo Voltaic PV.
We have doubled the size of our Solar PV generation Where possible, we are reformulating capacity in 2015 16 and now have panels dishes to ensure they are healthier, without on over 12% of our hotel estate, generating compromising on product safety, quality around 1.3 GWh of renewable electricity or taste.
every year, reducing our carbon footprint by over 6,000 tonnes CO e per annum.
2 We are committed to responsibly sourcing products and will only work with suppliers This year we also launched our largest who can meet the quality and quantity of employee engagement programme, designed product we require and who source their to incentivise and empower team members products responsibly according to the to reduce energy consumption through standards we set.
We have seen some excellent examples of best practice, with some sites cutting their electricity bills by more than 14%.
Whitbread Good Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Together 42 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Across the length and breadth of the UK our Great Ormond fantastic hotel and restaurant teams are raising money for our chosen charity partner, Great Street Hospital Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity.
Every year they take part in weird and wonderful Childrens fundraising activities, like the team members Charity in this picture who are from the Gatwick North Terminal Premier Inn.
In 2015 16 our teams raised a staggering 2 million taking us ever closer towards our target of 7.5 million to build and fit out the new Premier Inn Clinical Building which is due to open in Autumn 2017.
Whitbread Good Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Together 43 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Good Together Costa continued Costas growth ambitions means that it is We are committed to improving the nutritional increasingly important to ensure we have balance of our products while maintaining the talented and engaged teams in place to high quality and great taste our customers continue to deliver for our customers and expect.
Our nutritional strategy framework will the communities in which we operate, and support continuous improvement to remove, also to minimise our environmental impact.
reformulate and recommend alternatives for all categories and our range will always include Team and Community free from recipes.
Raised for the Costa Foundation We achieved a 15% reduction 2m in added sugar in the Costa We recognise that we have a responsibility Ice range.
Community initiatives completed to ensure sound social, ethical and 2,000 environmental practices within our Work experience placements, operations, supply chain and in every market 797 employment placements and in which we operate.
The 2020 target to apprenticeships have all critical product commodities to be 100% accredited against robust standards Costa are committed to actively making is underway.
Costa has worked with the a positive difference to communities near Rainforest Alliance since 2008 and is the and far through investing in our people first coffee shop brand to have all coffee, tea and supporting continuous learning and and hot chocolate from Rainforest Alliance education.
This year we launched the Costa WISE Environment programme and have made good progress Carbon reduction from direct 12.9% towards our 2020 targets, delivering 76 operations apprenticeships, 492 work experience 1 Direct operations recycling rate 55.5% placements and 229 employment placements.
The most sustainable roastery ISO building Our Costa Community Programme empowers certifications our teams to support their local communities 1 T his excludes Waste Electrical Equipment data WEE, which is recycled in line with WEE regulations through giving volunteer time, space in stores and funds to support community projects.
The UK electricity grid became more carbon This year, our teams have donated over 10,000 efficient in 2015 16, reducing our emissions volunteer hours and implemented over 2,000 by 6%.
Carbon emissions relating to UK owned local community initiatives.
In 2015 16 over and operated stores reduced by 6.9% in 550 of our stores took part in Keep Britain 2015 16 against a 2014 15 baseline.
This Tidys Big Tidy Up campaign, the largest reduction was driven by continued investment corporate litter pick ever undertaken.
in energy efficient equipment and engaging team members in reducing energy usage Costa continues to support the Costa across the operation.
Foundation, a charity that builds school projects to provide access to quality During the year, we opened our first Eco Pod, education in coffeegrowing communities as shown in the case study opposite the around the world.
Numerous and varied first zero energy coffee shop building in the fundraising events have taken place, ranging UK.
The Eco Pod is packed full of innovative from quiz nights to the Three Peaks energy saving technologies and such a design Challenge, and in 2015 16 over 2 million was has the potential to transform not just how raised for the Costa Foundation.
This takes Almost 10 million has now been we build new stores at Costa, but the industry raised for the Costa Foundation.
the total amount raised to almost 10 million far more widely.
and the delivery of 61 school projects in coffeegrowing communities.
We work to reduce waste and encourage reuse wherever possible.
In 2015 we launched Customer Wellbeing our Ground for Grounds initiative, allowing Reduction in added sugar 15% customers to request used coffee grounds In Costa Ice range from their local Costa store to use in their 150kcal Little Treats range offering gardens as a natural plant fertiliser.
During the range alternative to larger portion year, Costa also became a key signatory of the products Keep Britain Tidy Litter Commitment with a Coeliac Society Savoury and sweet gluten pledge to actively work against the issue of certified free products available litter across our countryside and communities.
Whitbread Good Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Together 44 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 In April 2015, we opened the Costa Eco Pod energysaving features including Solar Photo Costa store in Telford, the UKs first zero energy retail Voltaic Panels on the roof, passive ventilation, building.
Working with landlords, Hammerson, a superinsulated facade, and a greywater Eco Pod we agreed an innovative investment model to recycling system.
deliver a common goal for a low carbon future.
Costa agreed to pay a higher rent to enable I especially enjoy working here because its Hammerson to develop a more sustainable, important to me to know that as a business energysaving building which would reduce we are doing what we can to look after and running costs.
As a result the Eco Pod uses 39% protect the environment.
less energy than a conventional Costa store, off setting the additional rent.
This awardwinning Donna Jackson, Store Manager, Costa Telford building enjoys a number of industryleading Whitbread Good Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Together 45
