24 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Divisional overview Online Online generated 34% of Group net revenue in 2016and employs around 1,800 people inGibraltar, the UK, Israel, Bulgaria, Italy, Spainand the Philippines.
KPIs This KPI gives an indication of how sporting 7.7% Sportsbook 7.5% 7.2% results have affected our performance during margin -0.5 ppts the year.
Our normalised range for Online is 7-8% for gross win.
In 2016, the gross win margin % was 0.5 percentage points lower year-on-year at 7.2%.
This KPI is an industry term and is described in the glossary under 'gross win Note: The Online division now includes Telephone, which was margin' on page 150. previously reported separately.
2014 and 2015 numbers have been re-presented to include Telephone.
This KPI reflects the average revenue generated Revenue 237.8 213.7 from customers who have used our products 204.6 per unique 16% during the year.
This demonstrates our effectiveness in growing thevalue of customers.
active player Total Online net revenue was 3% lowerin 2016, with Sportsbook down 2% and Gaming 2014 2015 2016 down4%.
However, net revenue per unique active player was strongerin 2016 as we enhanced customer acquisition and addressed bonus levels.
This KPI reflects Online's performance excluding Telephone.
This KPI reflects the number of individual 2,692.2 Unique active 2,467.9 customers who have used Onlines products 2,245.9 players -17% during the year.
This demonstrates how successful we have been in recruiting and no.
In 2016, the number of unique active players was down 17% in 2014 2015 2016 2016 as we addressed bonus abuse levels and focused on quality customer acquisition and retention.
25 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements app ahead of EURO 2016 and saw UK Growing UK market share Online net revenue split by product 3 Sportsbook amounts wagered grow 5% % The UK remains a key focus given the in the second half.
We refreshed many growth of the market.
In 2016, following a aspects of the Gaming verticals in H2, period of underperformance, we focused launching new web and mobile versions of on turning around our Online business Casino, Games and Live Casino, followed and returning it to growth.
In 2017, we by a new Vegas iOS app in January.
expect the business to benefit from the Gaming declined in 2016 but has returned turnaround measures undertaken this to growth in the early weeks of 2017. year see 'Performance review' opposite.
Italy and Spain continued to perform well, Specifically, we continued to invest in our benefiting from expanded product ranges, product and user experience to deliver particularly in gaming.
The two markets differentiation, and used our substantial together made an adjusted operating marketing budget to support our 2 profit of 1.8m in the period 2015: 0.4m.
Sportsbook 49% 3 Within the amounts wagered increase, Vegas 31% Maximising the mobile core markets grew 5% with the UK up 2% Casino 15% opportunity and Italy and Spain up 29% up 15% on a local currency basis, and non-core markets Bingo 4% With a broader betting and gaming declined 11%.
Wagering benefited from the product range than ever before, it becomes Poker 1% UEFA EURO 2016 football tournament, ever more critical to make it easy for during which Onlines wagering was 85% customers to bet when they want and higher than for EURO 2012.
Performance review on what they want.
The increasing use of mobile technology has been a key trend Sportsbook fair value adjustments in the Commentary on the divisions performance 3 in the industry in recent years, and mobile period were 0.9% of amounts wagered below reflects adjusted results, since that betting and gaming continues to be a 2015: 1.0%, lower than the 1.1% reported in is the basis on which they are reported major focus for us.
It now accounts for 70% H1 2016 following actions taken to address internally and in our segmental analysis.
of Sportsbook net revenue and 53% of bonus abuse.
An explanation of our adjusted results Gaming net revenue.
is provided in note 3 to the financial Gaming net revenue was 4% lower, with statements and segmental results are core markets down 5% and non-core International expansion shown in note 2 to the financial statements.
These were impacted bythe time-out automatic self-exclusion We are also taking our online offering into After several years of sustained uptake in the first half of the year and a number of other countries, focusing on outperformance and market leadership, less new content being released while markets with a strong gambling culture Online's growth stalled in 2016, with net 1 we implemented the reality checks, and a competitive regulatory and tax revenue down 3% and adjusted operating 2 responsible gambling measures in Q2 framework in which we have the ability to profit down 20%.
We have now returned to our normal offer a broad sports betting product range In January 2016, we changed Online's content release cycle.
We recognised that new Mobile continues to grow as a proportion Approximately 76% of Onlines net customers were generating lower- 1 of the business, increasing to 70% of revenues in 2016 came from the UK, than-expected revenue levels and that Sportsbook net revenue 2015: 64% and with a further 11% from Spain and Italy.
our product range had become less to53% of gaming net revenue 2015: 41%.
The remaining revenues are spread across competitive.
Revenues were also being a large number of other countries, with impacted by responsible gambling Operating costs were 5% higher, none accounting for more than 2% of measures implemented in November 2015. driven by higher staff costs.
Amortisation also continued to increase Improving performance in our core reflecting higher capital expenditure UKmarket, which accounted for 71% 3 in recent years.
Marketing costs were of Sportsbook amounts wagered 1 121.7m 2015: 122.5m equating to 22% and 76% of Onlines total net revenue, ofnet revenue.
We launched a substantially improved Sportsbook As a result of the lower revenues and 2 higher costs, adjusted operating profit was20%lower.
1 Net revenue is an industry term equivalent to revenue as defined in the notes to the financial statements.
2 Adjusted operating profit is defined as profit before interest and tax, excluding exceptional items and Read about the UK online market: other defined adjustments.
We previously referred to this metric as Operating profit and have updated Page 21 its naming to clarify that it is an adjusted measure.
Further detail on adjusted measures is provided in note 3 to the financial statements.
3 Amounts wagered is an industry term as described in the glossary on page 150.
26 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Divisional overview continued Retail Retail is the largest William Hill division, generating 56% of Group net revenue in 2016 and employing around 12,500 people in the UK.
KPIs This KPI gives an indication of how sporting results 18.3% Sportsbook 17.8% 17.6% have affected our performance during the year.
margin -0.2 ppts At 17.6%, the gross win margin was 0.2 percentage points lower than the prior year but within our % normalised range of 17-18%.
This KPI is an industry term and is described in the glossary under 'gross 2014 2015 2016 win margin' on page 150.
This KPI reflects the average profitability of the Average profit 80,301 1 72,548 Retail business.
Retail net revenue was flat with 68,299 per LBO -6% Sportsbook net revenue down 5% and gaming machine net revenue up 6%.
Cost of sales increased by 2%.
Overall, 2 adjusted operating profit was 5% lower at 162.0m.
2014 2015 2016 Average profit per LBO also decreased by 6% to 68,299.
The average number of shops was slightly up at 2,372 2015: 2,363, with 16 new licences opened and 11 shops closed in the period.
This KPI reflects the trends in the underlying 998 Average gross 949 939 1 growth in gaming machine net revenue.
Based on win per machine 5% an average of 9,343 machines, the average gross win per machine per week net of free bets was perweek 5% higher at 998.
A maximum of four machines are allowed per shop.
Gaming machine net revenue 2014 2015 2016 increased 6%, benefitting from the regular release of new slots and casino games content, higher footfall in the shops during the EURO 2016 period and rolling over the implementation of the 50journey in April 2015.
27 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements Retails net revenue was flat year-onGrowing UK market share Retail restructure enabling year.
Overall performance has benefited greater focus on the customer We believe that LBO customers are from net revenue growth in Gaming while looking for an entertaining and engaging In 2016, we reviewed our Retail operating Sportsbook comprising transactions experience, ranking convenience as their structures and announced the first major over-the-counter OTC and on self-service main reason to bet in LBOs per se and organisational change to the business for betting terminals SSBTs was down, with location and customer service as the key over a decade.
This involved modernising gross win margin down 0.2 percentage reasons for choosing a particular LBO.
3 the organisational structure by creating points and amounts wagered down 4%.
We have focused on the quality of our 359 Business Performance Manager roles Sporting results were volatile during the customer service, our product range that now focus on enhancing the customer year, with one of our poorest Cheltenham particularly in football and technology experience.
It is bringing management festivals on record and unusually weak innovations to bring customers an support closer to the shops teams and football results in Q4 but a very positive attractive and differentiated offering.
reduced the number of existing middle EURO 2016 football tournament and a management roles.
These changes were sustained period of good margins from implemented on 1 January 2017, following Our estate Tier 3 horseracing.
Overall, this resulted in a consultation process with colleagues.
We aim to expand Retail organically Sportsbook gross win margin being below One of the further benefits of the through a small number of new shop expectations but still in our normalised restructuring is that it helps to mitigate openings each year.
We continue to exceed range of 17-18% for the year as a whole.
National Living Wage increases we will have our internal hurdle rate for returns on new The Tier 3 horseracing results were a key to absorb in the coming years.
contributor to lower amounts wagered as this product is particularly influenced by Around 90% of our shop estate is leased.
The average remaining lease length, Commentary on the divisions performance including break clauses, is just over three Gaming has seen good growth rates below reflects adjusted results, since years.
The average lease cost per LBO is following the restructuring of the Gaming that is the basis on which they are c22,000 per annum.
Operations team over the last year, with reported internally and in our segmental regular releases of new slots and casino We expect that the implementation of analysis.
An explanation of our adjusted games content.
Within the 6% net revenue IFRS 16 Leases in 2019 will substantially results is provided in note 3 to the growth, the slots content B3 grew 16%.
alter the way that we record and present financial statements and segmental Gaming benefited from higher footfall in property costs in the Retail business, but results are shown in note 2 to the the shops during the EURO 2016 period we are yet to finalise our assessment of the financial statements.
and rolling over the implementation of the likely impact.
This new accounting standard 50 journey in April 2015.
Gross win per is explained in more detail in the notes to Retail net revenue split by product machine per week net of free bets was 5% the financial statements.
We completed installation of our initial Enhancing the omni-channel 2,000 proprietary SSBTs in the period.
experience Through the back end of the year, we It is estimated that more than half of started releasing further content onto the Onlines regular customers also gamble SSBTs, which will continue through 2017. in LBOs and 26% of our regular Retail The average number of shops was slightly customers gamble online.
We are using higher at 2,372 2015: 2,363, with 16 new new technology such as SSBTs to create licences opened and 11 shops closed in a more consistent experience between the period.
In 2016, we rolled out 2,000 of our proprietary SSBTs, supported Cost of sales was 2% higher due to a Gaming machines 54% by Onlines front-end platform, which greater proportion of net revenue coming is bringing more of Onlines extensive Horseracing 18% from machines in the period, which product range to shop customers.
attracts a higher rate of gambling duties.
Football 12% Further innovations are planned in 2017.
Operating costs were 2% higher, primarily Other 9% reflecting increases in employee costs, including National Living Wage increases.
Greyhounds 7% 1 As a result, adjusted operating profit decreased 5%.
1 N et revenue is an industry term equivalent to revenue as defined in the notes to the financial statements 2 Adjusted operating profit is defined as profit before interest and tax, excluding exceptional items and Read about the Retail market: other defined adjustments.
We previously referred to this metric as Operating profit and have updated Page 20 its naming to clarify that it is an adjusted measure.
Further detail on adjusted measures is provided in note3 to the financial statements.
28 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Divisional overview continued Australia William Hill Australia generated 7% of Group net revenuein 2016 and employs around 325people based inSydney, Darwin and Manila.
results are shown in note 2 to the financial statements.
Numbers referenced in the following narrative are presented on a local currency basis.
Our Australian business is now delivering good top-line growth, with amounts 3 wagered up 18%.
This has followed a period of substantial improvement to our product, marketing and operations.
We successfully migrated the tomwaterhouse.
com customers and Centrebet customers to the William Hill brand during the year.
While this is detrimental to the number of active accounts in the short term, the average customers content from a much wider Building a digital business revenue per user is improving as retained range of sports from Europe and the US.
customers enjoy a better product range Since we established William Hill Australia and user experience.
through two acquisitions in 2013, we Improving the customer have focused on building a business New accounts have increased strongly, experience that is highly competitive in the online up 19%, and recognition of the William betting market and focused more on We are focused on expanding the product Hill brand is much higher following mass market customers.
We changed range and continuously improving the user effective advertising campaigns and the management team, restructured experience, making it fast and easy for our unique betting partnership with the the operations, increased marketing customers to bet with us.
effectiveness, improved the customer developments such as Cash Card and Gross win margins were weaker than experience and rebranded the main Quick Bet.
Having previously launched expected as horseracing results impacted businesses as William Hill.
an in-play product, Click to Call, we the whole industry.
revised this following changed licensing Benefiting from proprietary requirements in October 2016, replacing it During the year, we invested in expanding with Quick Call.
Given this constraint, we technology the teams that support our product have increased our focus on horseracing development.
However, we also reduced We have also invested in our IT as a product, including launching our our costs by offshoring back-office operations to benefit from one of our innovative Double Down product ahead activities to our lower-cost centre in Manila, greatest differentiators: our proprietary of the peak Spring Carnival trading period which enabled us to offset this investment.
Without being in October November, providing an Therefore, operating costs were down reliant on the same platforms used by exciting experience for racing customers.
others in the market, we can deliver a differentiated experience by bringing As the weaker-than-expected gross win Performance review new and exciting products to the market margin meant wagering growth did not faster than our competitors.
We have translate into revenue growth, adjusted Commentary on the divisions built an internal IT team to make the operating profit grew just 1%.
performance below reflects adjusted most of this asset and now have c130 results, since that is the basis on which Read about the Australia market: people in Manila working on technology, they are reported internally and in our Page 22 business intelligence and digital design.
An explanation of our Our Global Trading Platform enables us adjusted results is provided in note 3 to to expand our product range and offer the financial statements and segmental 29 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance US Financial statements William Hill US generated 3% of Group net revenue in2016 and employs around 400 people, mainly incasino-based sports books in Nevada.
The American Gaming Association AGA, of which we are a Board member, is working on routes to challenge the federal ban.
The AGA has made this a priority in the near term.
Performance review Commentary on the divisions performance below reflects adjusted results, since that is the basis on which they are reported internally and in our segmental analysis.
An explanation of our adjusted results is provided in note 3 to the financial statements and segmental results are shown in note 2 to the financial statements.
Building the leading Creating optionality William Hill US continues to perform strongly with growth from amounts Nevadabusiness There continues to be a lot of discussion in 3 wagered up 37% local currency: 21%.
the US about the potential for overturning Nevada is one of only four states allowed 1 Net revenue was 31% higher local to license land-based sports betting in the federal ban on land-based sports currency: 16% at 43.7m 2015: 33.3m betting and for licensing online gaming in the US and is the only one that currently with the gross win margin 0.3 percentage operates an open commercial market.
While it is unclear how such points lower at 6.2%.
Operating costs changes may evolve, we want to ensure Sports books can only be operated inside were 20% higher local currency: 5% casinos, though customers using mobile William Hill is well positioned to take 2 and adjusted operating profit was 55% advantage of emerging opportunities.
accounts can deposit via kiosks provided higher local currency: 39% at 14.3m in casino and bar locations.
Through our Nevada operations, we major casinos operating on the Las Vegas are building brand awareness and During the year, we launched a new Strip tend to manage their own sports recognition of our strengths in sports mobile app and another means by which books, the majority of the other casinos betting.
The Company and individual customers can deposit funds into their outsource this specialist capability.
licences awarded by the Nevada Gaming mobile accounts.
We expanded our William Hill is now the preferred Commission bring increased trust, given Nevada footprint by opening a further five outsource supplier, operating 108 of the the high level of probity checks required to sports books and now have 108 of the 192 192 sports books in Nevada.
books in the State of Nevada.
Our market We have successfully grown William Hill share has also grown in revenue terms, We are also prepared to invest in relevant US by expanding the product range, up from 21% of sports gross win in 2015 to opportunities, such as the agreement with including in-play betting, developing the 26% in 2016.
We have also partnered with Monmouth Park racetrack in New Jersey mobile app and redeveloping the sports Caesars Entertainment to run a race book where we have created a William Hill books, which are branded as William Hill.
sports bar that could be converted into a sports book should the law permit it.
We are also the exclusive risk manager for Read about the US market: the State of Delawares sports lottery.
Page 23 1 Net revenue is an industry term equivalent to revenue as defined in the notes to the financial statements.
2 Adjusted operating profit is defined as profit before interest and tax, excluding exceptional items and other defined adjustments.
We previously referred to this metric as Operating profit and have updated its naming to clarify that it is an adjusted measure.
