Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Costa The Business Model in action Cust C Custo omer mer r Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Winning Teams Customer Heartbeat Our approach Our approach We recruit, reward, train and The size of our network and the We design our stores to create develop our team members to number of distribution channels a warm and welcoming experience.
build highly engaged teams who mean you are never far from We use customer insight to build deliver a great coffee experience a cup of Costa coffee.
We serve great quality coffee.
We maintain quality through We develop talented leaders We constantly develop new food ongoing refurbishment.
and offer jobs with opportunities and drink ideas.
and exciting international career We develop new store formats prospects.
We use digital technology to to provide customers with more improve the customer experience.
Business Model in action Business Model in action Creating employment opportunities Making everyday experiences special Convenient and accessible locations Costa created around 2,000 We offer customers convenience, We have continued to grow, both new UK jobs during the year.
choice, warm and welcoming store in the UK and overseas, and have environments and our friendly increased our presence in new 297 people were given the barista service.
channels such as drivethru, so that opportunity to manage one our customers can enjoy a Costa of our coffee shops in 2015 16.
We are enhancing our brand coffee wherever they may be.
proposition to meet customer Since the launch of WISE within demands for a faster, fresher and We now have over 3,200 Costa Costa last summer, 229 people joined finer coffee experience.
stores worldwide together with the adult work placement scheme, over 5,200 Costa Express machines.
with 76 of them already appointed Product innovation and continuous into roles within the business.
improvement Marketleading brands Costa Pronto is a new highspeed For the sixth year running, Costa Building strong leadership coffeeonthego concept, being was voted the UKs Favourite Coffee Over 1,000 store managers were trialled in two London locations.
Shop Chain by Allegra Strategies.
taken out of the business for a twoday training course to enhance Costa Fresco, which is being trialled Brand preference and loyalty their leadership skills.
in Tottenham Court Road, London, The TNS Market Monitor study includes an inhouse bakery and is Almost 200 leaders attended a three showed that, if a Costa, Starbucks designed to meet customer demand day talent camp workshop focused and Caff Nero were next to each for an enhanced food offer.
on recruiting and developing people.
other 36% of respondents would Costa Collect, being trialled in our choose Costa, 13% would choose Investment in our people Eldon Street store in London, allows Starbucks and 12% would choose We launched the Future Star customers to preorder their coffee Caff Nero.
programme in China during the year.
via an app and then collect it with The Costa Coffee Club has over no need to queue.
More than 3,400 people in Costa UK 2.7 million active members.
& Ireland took part in coffeebased training courses during the year.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 The Business Model in action 26 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Cust C Custo omer mer r Cust C Custo omer me er r Winning Teams profitable Growth Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Heartbea H H He eartbea at t t t Winning Teams Customer Heartbeat Profitable Growth Good Together Our approach Our approach Our approach Our approach We recruit, reward, train and The size of our network and the We design our stores to create We invest in our stores to strengthen We use a number of different We raise money for the Costa develop our team members to number of distribution channels a warm and welcoming experience.
our position as UK market leader ownership models including Costa Foundation, which builds school build highly engaged teams who mean you are never far from and expand in selected international owned equity stores, franchise and projects in coffeegrowing We use customer insight to build deliver a great coffee experience a cup of Costa coffee.
markets where we can build joint ventures.
continue to build a strong franchise We serve great quality coffee.
Our teams take pride in supporting We maintain quality through business and are extending our We develop talented leaders Costa Express gives us the their local communities.
We constantly develop new food ongoing refurbishment.
Costaowned equity model into and offer jobs with opportunities opportunity to grow in new and drink ideas.
We are creating around 1,500 and exciting international career We develop new store formats locations, such as petrol new job opportunities on average prospects.
We use digital technology to to provide customers with more stations and offices.
All our coffee is 100% Rainforest Alliance accredited and all our products are sustainably, ethically and, wherever possible, locally sourced.
We are reducing waste to landfill and our carbon footprint in relative terms.
Business Model in action Business Model in action Business Model in action Business Model in action Creating employment opportunities Making everyday experiences special Convenient and accessible locations Winning market share, growing Expansion in the UK and in selected Team and Community Costa created around 2,000 We offer customers convenience, We have continued to grow, both sales and driving efficiencies international markets Over 2 million was raised for the new UK jobs during the year.
choice, warm and welcoming store in the UK and overseas, and have Costas total system sales grew by During the year we opened 103 Costa Foundation, taking the total environments and our friendly increased our presence in new 15.3% to 1,612.8 million in 2015 16. net new UK stores, taking the total amount raised to almost 10 million.
297 people were given the barista service.
channels such as drivethru, so that number to 2,034. opportunity to manage one The UK Retail business delivered The Costa Foundation has now our customers can enjoy a Costa of our coffee shops in 2015 16.
We are enhancing our brand a 15.7% increase in sales, with Costa has a presence in 31 countries supported a total of 61 school coffee wherever they may be.
proposition to meet customer like for like sales up 2.9%.
outside of the UK, with the opening projects, providing access to Since the launch of WISE within demands for a faster, fresher and We now have over 3,200 Costa of 94 net new stores in the year education to thousands of children Costa last summer, 229 people joined finer coffee experience.
stores worldwide together with Strong cash flow and balance sheet taking the total to 1,243. in coffeegrowing communities.
the adult work placement scheme, over 5,200 Costa Express machines.
Costas strong cash flow with 76 of them already appointed 924 net new Costa Express machines Product innovation and continuous generation supports its growth Customer Wellbeing into roles within the business.
were installed as we continued to improvement Marketleading brands plans and the refurbishment We achieved a 15% reduction in expand the business both in the UK Costa Pronto is a new highspeed For the sixth year running, Costa of its estate.
added sugar in our Costa Ice range.
Building strong leadership and overseas.
coffeeonthego concept, being was voted the UKs Favourite Coffee Over 1,000 store managers were We have introduced new savoury trialled in two London locations.
Strong returns on capital taken out of the business for a and sweet gluten free products.
Costa grew returns by 3.6% pts twoday training course to enhance Costa Fresco, which is being trialled Brand preference and loyalty to 49.9%.
in Tottenham Court Road, London, Environment The TNS Market Monitor study includes an inhouse bakery and is Costas Eco Pod, the UKs first Almost 200 leaders attended a three showed that, if a Costa, Starbucks designed to meet customer demand zero energy coffee shop, is packed day talent camp workshop focused and Caff Nero were next to each for an enhanced food offer.
full with innovative energy saving on recruiting and developing people.
other 36% of respondents would technologies.
Costa Collect, being trialled in our choose Costa, 13% would choose Investment in our people Eldon Street store in London, allows Starbucks and 12% would choose Costa became a key signatory of the We launched the Future Star customers to preorder their coffee Caff Nero.
Keep Britain Tidy Litter Commitment.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 The Business Model in action 27 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Costa Winning Teams Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t National Living Wage We believe everyone at Costa brings a In October we took the decision to implement the National unique blend of their own personality, skills Living Wage six months ahead of the Government legislation and ambition and we want them to grow coming into effect in April 2016 and applied it to all team members regardless of age.
This bold step was part of our and celebrate it with us.
We feel this is the pay for progression strategy where we recognise and reward secret ingredient in how we make everyday our people for the skills that they have gained, building experiences feel special for millions engagement through structured pay increases when new of Costa customers around the globe.
learning and skills milestones are achieved.
In addition we moved our UK estate to a regional pay strategy, reflecting different pay zones based on independent market data.
Attracting talent To ensure we attract the right kind of people to our business Celebrating and recognising our teams we have developed our unique Employer Value Proposition The most important ingredient in our coffee is our people EVP.
Our EVP underpins what we stand for as an employer and we are constantly searching for relevant and impactful and what makes all of the incredible people within Costa ways to celebrate and recognise achievement.
Alongside the different from those working in other businesses.
iconic awards we present at our conferences and meetings we have a Gold Bean strategy to recognise the achievements Consideration was given to research consolidated from across and behaviours that drive our business forwards.
Gold Beans the whole business and our EVP was established: Passionate are an iconic form of recognition at Costa they add sparkle about making people smile and determined to impact the and excitement for our teams, and create consistency across world around you.
Together well craft your talent with the the globe through acting as a core expression of our culture.
perfect blend of opportunity and inspiration.
This statement will now act as a vehicle to attract those passionate Barista of the Year 2015 individuals who buy into our values and vision, embrace our We have recently celebrated our tenth year of the global development choices and are inspired by our progression Barista of the Year competition.
Over the years we have opportunities.
seen many fantastic baristas take to the stage to demonstrate their pride, passion and personalities with the ultimate goal Listening to our teams to win the favour of the judges and secure the title Champion Our annual Your Say survey engagement score was 77% and of Champions.
our response rate was 82% which means over 12,000 of our team took the time to complete the survey.
Costa outscored the external benchmark scores in comparison with the UK Retail industry on 18 questions, with only one question below the benchmark.
Customer focus is exceptionally high with a number of scores on this theme achieving in the region of 90% positivity.
People feel enabled to do the job, and they have the training and tools to do their job.
Line managers demonstrate caring behaviours for team members and there has been a significant increase in positivity around getting a fair deal in store.
Team engagement survey: Your Say Engagement Engagement Response Response score score rate rate 1 Oct 2015 Oct 2014 Oct 2015 Oct 2014 Costa 77% 76% 82% 82% Klara Rohel Barista of the Year 2015.
1 Restated to provide a like for like comparison against the 2015 survey result.
To complement the survey, this year, we have also launched our first Barista listening forum across the UK and Ireland.
The purpose of this is to give our front line staff an opportunity to influence senior leaders: add richness and flavour to our insight and inform future projects.
The outputs of the first session were recorded and loaded onto FeelGood our employee reward programme portal, receiving 1,485 hits.
It was also popular on an employee led Facebook forum.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Winning Teams 28 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Work placement and apprenticeship schemes Throughout the year we search the globe to seek out our Last summer, Costa UK and Ireland launched the WISE best baristas.
In 2015, they all came together in London programme Whitbread Investing in Skills and Education.
for the final and competed to be crowned the best in the Since its launch, 229 people embarked on the adult work Costa world.
This twoday competition tested their ability placement scheme nationally.
Each graduate from the to produce a technically perfect cup of handmade coffee: programme receives a level 1 introduction to hospitality, their personality and performance, flair and passion for in addition to gaining credible work experience and a coffee: knowledge and understanding of the industry: reference from Costa.
and their creativity by inventing their own signature drink.
Costa is proud to have appointed 76 of these team members We saw finalists from China, UK and Ireland, the Middle into roles within our business from June 2015 to January 2016 East, Europe and Singapore go head to head in front of as a result of this scheme.
The winning trophy went to Klara Rohel from the Annadale Roadchef store on Junction 16 on the This reinforces how an adult work placement can not only A74 as the winner of our 2015 Barista of the Year Champion make a significant difference to peoples lives in offering long of Champions.
The judges were extremely impressed with term sustainable careers, but provides significant business Klaras showstopping and wellbalanced signature drink benefits relating to employee recruitment and retention.
which was called the Peanut Long Macchiato.
She also wowed the judges by crafting 11 perfect espressos in an In total from last year, Costa enrolled 76 team members exhilarating twominute espresso race against her fellow on a level 2 Apprenticeship in Customer Service & Barista competitors.
As we celebrate ten years of Barista of the Year, Skills.
Later this year Costa will have level 3 and level 4 Klara joins the list of prestigious Barista of the Year winners.
apprenticeships available for our store teams to continue their learning.
Aubrhey Rosales from our MENA region took second place, with Jude Leng from China being awarded third place in the competition.
We also had Pratik Shretha UK and Ireland win the award for Best Speciality Drink with his creation Luxurious Cocoa Sensation, which impressed the judges with the interesting flavour and unique background story.
Alongside the main Barista of the Year event, we also ran the Latte Art Competition for the second time.
Customers and teams all around the globe voted for their favourite design, which had been whittled down from around 600 entries to the final three.
Anthony Dalida from Kuwait won the most votes and was crowned Latte Art Champion 2015 with his adorable Bear creation.
The event was a true celebration of the incredibly talented people that we have within our global business and emphasised the message that people really are the most In 2015 Costa UK & Ireland launched the WISE programme.
important ingredient in our coffee.
Team turnover Reducing team turnover has been a significant area of focus this year for our UK business and we are delighted to report a 5% pts reduction within the year from 45% to 40%.
This has been driven through focus on how we welcome new starters to reduce our 90day turnover, changes in our reward package and significant investment in our Store Manager training programme, Leadership Behaviours.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Winning Teams 29 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Costa Winning Teams continued Operations Graduate Scheme Recognising our need to grow talent to fulfil the businesss growth, in September 2015 we welcomed nine graduates on to the first ever Costa Operations Graduate Scheme for the UK business.
The scheme facilitates the opportunity for our graduates to rotate through different types of role in both store and support centre environments giving them a broad business understanding and a varied experience.
We have now expanded our intake as we will be welcoming nine graduates onto the programme for year two in September 2016. International Outside of the UK and Ireland our international businesses have been similarly focused on taking action based on their Your Say insight and developing our people.
More than 3,400 Costa team members received coffeebased In Costa Poland there has been considerable focus on a training during the year.
programme of activities supporting the coffee craftsmanship in store and building clearer career planning structures to Developing our people help support people develop their careers with our brand.
In 2015 in Costa UK and Ireland, we focused on the Leadership The Coffee Master programme has become the foundation capabilities of our Store Managers as a foundation for our for a nationwide PR campaign showcasing coffee passion future growth.
We invested in a Leadership Behaviours two and craft.
day training programme to take Store Managers out of the business to enhance their leadership skills.
We developed 1,099 Store Managers through the programme.
In addition we gave a further 4,744 people time out of the business to attend other training programmes: 3,457 for coffeebased training, 1,172 for development and 115 senior operators experienced new Operational Food Safety training.
As our business grows so do the number of job opportunities.
During the year, in the UK and Ireland, around 2,000 new jobs were created in the UK.
During the year we provided 297 people with the opportunity to manage a coffee shop in the UK.
In addition, this year we put some considerable focus into developing our support team and senior operational leaders We launched the Future Star programme in China.
in terms of talent strategies for their teams.
We have developed nearly 200 leaders through a three day talent camp workshop, which focuses on recruiting and developing In Costa China there has also been considerable focus on potential in order to support the growth of our business the learning journey from Barista through to Store Manager in the future.
in order to accelerate internal progression rates.
This work is now being expanded to support Store Managers to grow into Area Managers through a range of competency based workshops and rotations through different store formats.
We have also launched the Future Star programme which helps university graduates into store roles.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Winning Teams 30 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 At 16, Matt joined Costa as a barista in the for Devon and Dorset.
He is now Regional Career Basingstoke store, working at weekends Development Manager for the M3 corridor whilst he was at school.
In 2005 he joined the where he oversees 22 stores.
development Southampton store as a barista maestro whilst studying Marketing Management at the University I joined Costa because Ive always loved coffee at Costa of Southampton.
Two years later Matt was made shops.
They are society in a box and I loved the Store Manager at Basingstoke Festival Place, idea of working amongst that.
The characters at the same time as finishing his third year at you meet are amazing, weird and wonderful!
Graduating in 2008 he also won the award for New Store Opening of the Year.
Matt was promoted to Associate Retail Development Manager, followed in 2011 by a promotion to Retail Development Manager Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Winning Teams 31 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Costa Customer Heartbeat Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Quality coffee is at the heart of what we do Serving a great cup of coffee at speed Coffee quality is at the heart of what we do and we are and with a smile is what we do best and passionate about only buying the best beans only 1% of in a fast expanding coffee shop market the worlds beans are good enough and roasting them in our own Roastery in London under strict quality control it is vital that we continuously seek to to create our famous unique Mocha Italia blend.
As the enhance our brand proposition to meet coffee market matures in the UK consumers are becoming customer demands for a faster, fresher increasingly sophisticated when it comes to coffee.
They are enjoying richer more exotic tastes and expecting greater choice.
In response to this trend, two years ago we launched Old Paradise Street, a series of roasts that The Home of Irresistible Coffee change every few months to offer customers a different As the Home of Irresistible Coffee our success comes taste to our iconic Mocha Italia blend and greater variety down to a few simple elements our lovingly hand crafted to coffee lovers.
Since launch there have been five roasts quality coffee: the number of stores, Express machines from the Old Paradise Street limited edition range and and the partners we work with across the UK that means as customers come to experience the varied and delicious we can offer customers convenience and choice: warm new tastes they have gained in popularity with over welcoming store environments: and our friendly expert 6.9 million cups sold in 2015 16. barista service.
We believe that a visit to Costa is a chance for customers to enjoy a moment of happiness.
In our own customer satisfaction surveys our customers tell us that they are very likely to revisit, whilst the quality of our coffee scores consistently high at 60%, along with a strong score on staff friendliness at 58%.
We are delighted that for six years running we have been voted the Nations Favourite Coffee Shop Chain by Allegra and there is clear blue water between us and our nearest competitors when it comes to brand preference as you can see from this brand preference chart.
However despite this significant lead over Costas main competitors, Costa did not achieve its stretching market performance target as explained on page 52.
Brand preference Costa is the UKs favourite Gennaro Pellicia, Master of Coffee at Costa said, Weve been roasting coffee in Lambeth for over 40 years and Old Paradise Street has given our expert team of coffee roasters the chance to experiment with 36% different beans and flavours!
3 % 22% 3% % 2% Key CostaStarbucks Ca Nero Source: 20082014: YouGov Q.
If there were a Costa Coffee, Starbucks and Caff Nero next door to each other, which one would be your FIRST choice to visit?
20152016: TNS One Costa Tracker, Market Monitor, 2,000 Nat Rep respondents per quarter.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Customer Heartbeat 32 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 New store formats improve the customer experience December 2015 saw the launch of our trial Costa Fresco We know that our customers use Costa for a wide variety concept.
The new Fresco store includes an inhouse bakery of needs and occasions.
In the last twelve months we have and selfserve bakery table and offers oven fresh food all acted on our deep customer insights which point to two key day long.
The tempting menu includes handcrafted ciabattas, trends.
The first is an increased demand for on the go coffee, Portuguese tarts Pastel fide Nata, freshly baked cookies served at speed in busy metropolitan areas.
Our new Costa and fresh fruit juices, all using quality ingredients, alongside Pronto concept is a high speed coffee store which has been the irresistible coffee our customers know and love.
trialled in the heart of London at our Moorgate and Holborn locations to great success.
Costa Pronto doesnt feature Costas relaxed seating areas, but instead is focused around the counter, which has been specially designed to enable our baristas to improve the speed of service and avoid lengthy customer queues.
Innovating our food offer The second trend we are seeing is an increased customer demand for an enhanced food offer with a greater choice of fresher, lighter and healthier options such as our mini treats range which have less than 150 calories per cake.
We have introduced a number of exciting new initiatives including a partnership with London based salad brand, Chopd and a new foodled concept store, Costa Fresco, in Londons Tottenham Court Road.
Costa Fresco offers oven fresh food all day long alongside the irresistable coffee our customers know and love.
Costa Fresco is inspired by the Costa brothers Italian passion and respect for tasty handcrafted food.
When Sergio and Bruno opened their first store in London, over forty years ago, they used to offer their customers freshly baked pastries each morning with their famous Mocha Italia blend.
Coffee theatre is at the heart of the store, where there is a separate coffee station away from the till points for customers to see their drinks being made in front of them without congesting the front of the store.
The rest of the store is zoned to cater for different customer needs, so there is a friendly quick service for grab and go customers and a comfortable seating area for those who want to stay and relax for a while.
Following a successful trial Costa rolled out Chopd salads across 25 London stores to offer customers great tasting healthy, fresh food.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Customer Heartbeat 33 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Costa Customer Heartbeat continued Building the brand beyond the UK Digital plays an increasingly important role In order to compete effectively in international markets At Costa we are always looking to find new and innovative Costa has been developing its cold drinks range and created ways to improve the customer experience which is why we a new brand, Frostino.
Available in Costas MENA stores were delighted to link up with Apple to launch Apple Pay Middle East and North Africa Frostino sales increased by in the UK earlier this summer.
Apple Pay is transforming 35% in Summer 2015 and overtook sales of hot coffees in mobile payments with a simple, secure and private way to the Philippines, where it represents almost half of drink sales.
pay that is easy to set up and works with iPhone 6 devices In 2016 we will continue to build on the success of Frostino and the Apple Watch.
Perfect for Costa customers who rolling it out to many more international markets, supported are on the go and want to be served at speed it also makes by an exciting new marketing campaign and launching some it easier for our baristas to manage congestion during very additional delicious Frostino flavours such as Key Lime Pie, busy periods in store.
Another queue buster innovation Caramel Shortbread and Strawberry Cheesecake!
is the Costa Collect trial at our Eldon Street store in Londons City see case study opposite.
Our loyalty programme continues to go from strength to strength with over five million active members, with over 884,000 new registrations this year.
The card is used in around 41% of all transactions in our UK equity stores.
At Costa we are always looking to find new and innovative ways to improve the customer experience.
Costas Frostino range delivers the ultimate in iced indulgent drinks.
We continue to grow our social media presence, with 1.4 million Facebook fans and c. 190,000 Twitter followers, As Costas second largest market with over 380 stores and we enjoy high levels of engagement, particularly when China is Costas second home.
This year saw the redesign we post.
of Costas very first store in China, on Nanjing Road East in Shanghai.
The store has been restyled with Londoninspired artwork that blends beautifully with Chinese motifs.
The new store design will be used as the basis for future new openings in China and for the refurbishment of selected stores.
Costas equity business in Poland, where we have over 100 stores, is also drawing from the brands London roots for its first ever advertising campaign, entitled A Coffeehouse from the heart of London.
Following a successful rebranding in Poland the campaign, which runs across TV, outdoor media and on social media channels such as Facebook, Instagram and YouTube, is aimed at growing brand awareness, encouraging trial and building a loyal customer base in this growing market.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Customer Heartbeat 34 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Costa Collect is an exciting new digital service Costa allowing customers to preorder their coffee and then come to collect it in store.
Currently on trial Collect at the Eldon Street store in the City of London customers can download the iOS Costa Collect app to their phone and place their order via the app.
When they arrive at the store their coffee is ready and waiting for them on the Costa Collect counter with no need to queue.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Customer Heartbeat 35 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Costa Profitable Growth Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t profitable Growth UK Retail Costa had another successful year during During 2015 16 our UK Retail business delivered another 2015 16, with total sales up 15.9% driven strong performance with sales up 15.7% and like for like by both strong growth in UK Retail and sales in our UK equity stores up 2.9%.
During the period we opened Our strong organic growth continues and we extended 197 net new stores worldwide, continued our lead in the UK, opening 103 net new stores in the to diversify our channel mix via drivethrus, year, taking the total to 2,034, over double our nearest retail parks and transport hubs and installed competitor.
Backed by the strength of our brand and the growing consumption of coffee we see further 924 net new Costa Express machines.
opportunity to grow our store base to over 2,500 in 2020.
Driving profitable growth and returns Innovation Underlying operating profit increased by 15.8% to Product innovation underpins our like for like growth.
We are 153.5 million, with our continued disciplined approach pleased with the success of our new range of coffee blends to capital deployment combined with strong cash flow Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts.
Furthermore we continue generation increasing return on capital by 3.6% pts to focus on food innovation and our coffee credentials to 49.9%.
in response to customers evolving needs providing us the opportunity to extend our sales into different day parts.
During 2015 16 we delivered total system sales of 1.6 billion Our new Costa Fresco concept centred on fresh, healthy up 15.3% year on year as we continue to make good progress food has provided a platform for us to broaden our food towards achieving our 2020 milestone of growing system range and quality credentials.
While food capture represents sales to c. 2.5 billion.
Our strong market position combined around 40% of transactions across the estate, our Costa Fresco with the increasing propensity of UK consumers to drink store has a higher food capture rate of c. 60%, highlighting quality coffee, along with our international expansion plans, consumers demand for fresher food and providing us with an underpin our ambition.
opportunity to offer a wider product offering across our estate.
Grow and Innovate in our core UK businesses The UK coffee shop market Coffee consumption has been rising in the UK for the past few years and according to coffee experts Allegra Strategies, UK branded chain outlets have grown at around 6% CAGR over 20082014, with further growth expected over the next few years.
Seven years ago there were fewer than 11,000 outlets in the UK.
Today there are over 20,000 and, in 2020, this is expected to rise to over 27,000.
However, whilst coffee venues continue to act as social and community hubs, customer demands are evolving.
Convenience and coffee quality remains essential but speed of service, fresher food, loyalty schemes and digital are gaining in importance to the Our new limited edition coffee blends.
Created at our London Roastery customer experience.
Our relentless focus on understanding on Old Paradise Street.
the changing needs of our customers combined with our excellent execution has played a major part in our success, differentiating us from the competition within each area In addition to Costa Fresco, we continue to improve our store of our business.
Going forward we will continue to evolve formats and enter new channels.
Our fast format Costa our product offering, store environment and digital Pronto facilitates coffee onthego and is based on our ability capabilities to ensure we remain the UKs favourite to offer fast, friendly service in city locations where speed coffee shop.
Outside of London, we are seeing huge growth potential from drivethrus, travel hubs and retail parks, responding to increasing customer demands for quality coffee anytime, anywhere.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Profitable Growth 36 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Digital and loyalty Focus on our strengths to grow internationally Costa has a very loyal set of customers, with five million active Costa now has stores in 31 countries outside of the UK users of our loyalty card and over 40% of our transactions with a total of 1,243 stores, giving us a good geographical coming from coffee club members.
While 2.5% of transactions mix and revenue diversification.
Our franchise business are currently through the mobile app, there is great potential continues to show strong growth, with a 14.0% increase to increase this, especially via new services such as Costa Pay in sales in 28 countries.
and Costa Collect, which we are trialling in a few of our stores.
Costa EMEI Costa Express Our equity business in Poland has made good progress In 2015 16 Costa Express had an exceptional year, installing following the rebranding of the estate to Costa with the 924 net new units giving a total of 5,216 units at yearend stores delivering positive like for like sales growth.
We and we plan to install a further 1,000 machines in 2016 17. anticipate this business will return to profitability in 2017 18.
This puts us well on track to achieve our target of over It is still early days for Costa France and we continue to 8,000 machines by 2020 as we continue to expand into focus on developing both our equity and franchise stores new growth channels in both the UK and internationally.
Over 900 Costa Express machines were installed during the year.
Our stores in Poland have been rebranded to Costa.
Costa: strength and breadth UK Retail Costa Enterprises Costa EMEI Costa Asia Equity stores Costa Express Europe, Middle East China and Individual franchise Corporate partnerships and India South East Asia System sales System sales System sales System sales million million million million % growth % growth % growth % growth Stores Stores Stores Stores % % % % Machines % At constant FX system sales reported grew  Costa EMEI  Costa Asia 1 At constant FX system sales, reported grew 12.8% Costa EMEI, 15.6% for Costa Asia.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Profitable Growth 37 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Costa Profitable Growth continued Costa Asia Build the capability and platform to support China, where we operate through two joint ventures, remains future growth an exciting opportunity for the Group.
We target around 700 stores by 2020, underpinned by the growing coffee shop Winning Teams culture and status of Western coffee brands as an aspirational We will develop our digital and loyalty skills in the UK and product.
We are making good progress and continue to internationally by building the UK digital team and leveraging focus on disciplined profitable growth across 15 major cities.
off the Hotels & Restaurants business, as well as forming a We have a new experienced management team with a social media partnership team in China.
We will also replicate strong focus on retail and an ambition to enhance our brand our UK property expertise locally in China with a focused awareness through investing in new store formats, offering property acquisition team covering 15 cities.
better food and beverage propositions and also enhancing our digital capability.
During the year we opened 39 net Improving customer engagement new stores in China giving us a total of 383 stores across We plan to improve our customer engagement with: fresher 32 cities.
food capabilities: a smarter refurbishment cycle, to deliver a contemporary atmosphere and a faster speed of service: The economics of Chinese stores remains attractive and, and the development of our digital and loyalty skills in the with the right team and infrastructure in place, along with UK and internationally.
supportive market conditions, we are confident of our future growth trajectory in the region.
Systems We will upgrade our systems and infrastructure to build Costa Express International resilience for 2020 and beyond.
This will include the We now have a total of 492 Costa Express machines in nine development of our loyalty platform and customer different international markets and have recently signed relationship management tools and the replacement a new contract with Shell in Canada, where we plan to of legacy systems such as tills and finance systems.
have 150 Costa Express machines by the end of year one.
Productivity and efficiency We plan to drive productivity and efficiency through better procurement synergies across Whitbread and the use of staff scheduling tools to manage the growth in different day parts.
Investment Investment is a key element of our strategy, with 139 UK equity stores refurbished in 2015 16, as well as investment in our teams and processes.
Our commitment to ongoing investment has helped us build marketleading customer preference, and we will continue to ensure our platforms can deliver our future growth plans.
In 2016 17 we will focus on a new faster till system, new ovens, digital infrastructure, and new formats, along with continued refurbishment of our current estate.
To build a better platform for our future growth will cost an additional 6 million P&L investment net of cost savings.
Costa Express plans to have 150 machines in Canada within a year.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Profitable Growth 38
