Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Directors report the directors may exercise all the powers The directors present their Report and of the Company to borrow money, issue Accounts for the year ended 3 March 2016 shares, appoint and remove directors and Certain information required for disclosure in recommend and declare dividends.
this Report is provided in other appropriate sections of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Appointment and replacement of directors These include the corporate governance and Directors shall be no less than two and remuneration reports and the Group financial no more than 20 in number.
Directors may statements and Notes to those financial be appointed by the Company, by ordinary statements and accordingly these are resolution or by the Board of Directors.
incorporated into the report by reference.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Results and dividends Chris Vaughan Governance Code 2014 all directors will General Counsel Group underlying profit before tax 546.3 million stand for annual reelection at each AGM.
Group profit before tax 487.7 million The Company may, by special resolution, Interim dividend paid on remove any directors before the expiration 18 December 2015 28.50p per share of his her term of office.
Recommended final dividend 61.85p per share Directors automatically stop being directors if: Total dividend for the year 90.35p per share i. they give the Company a written Subject to approval at the Annual General notice of resignation at the date such Meeting AGM, the final dividend will be notice expires : payable on 1 July 2016 to the shareholders ii.
they give the Company a written notice on the register at the close of business on in which they offer to resign and the 27 May 2016. other directors decide to accept the offer: Board of Directors iii.
all of the other directors who must The directors at the date of this Report comprise at least three people pass are listed on pages 64 and 65.
All except a resolution or sign a written notice for Alison Brittain and Chris Kennedy served requiring the director to resign: throughout the year.
they are or have been suffering from the Board on 28 September 2015 and mental or physical ill health and the succeeded Andy Harrison as Chief Executive directors pass a resolution removing on 7 December 2015.
Andy Harrison stepped the director from office: down from the Board on 7 December 2015. v. they have missed directors meetings Chris Kennedy was appointed to the whether or not an alternate director Board on 1 March 2016.
Christopher Rogers appointed attends those meetings served as a director throughout the year, for a continuous period of six months but stepped down from the Board on without permission from the directors 19 April 2016.
Patrick Dempsey stepped down and the directors pass a resolution from the Board on 28 February 2015. removing the director from office: Details of the directors service contracts are vi.
a bankruptcy order is made against given in the remuneration report on page 84. them or they make any arrangement None of the nonexecutive directors has a or composition with their creditors service contract.
they are prohibited from being a director Details of directors training are given in the under any applicable legislation: or corporate governance report on pages 67 and 68. viii.
they cease to be a director under any applicable legislation or are removed Powers of directors from office under the Companys The business of the Company is managed Articles of Association.
by the directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the Directors indemnity Companys Articles of Association, any A qualifying thirdparty indemnity relevant legislation and any directions provision as defined in Section 236 1 given by the Company by passing a special of the Companies Act 2006 is in force resolution at a general meeting.
In particular, for the benefit of the directors.
Whitbread Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 report 92 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Unless the directors decide otherwise, a Compensation for loss of office shareholder cannot attend or vote at any There are no agreements between the general meeting of the Company or at any Company and its directors or employees separate general meeting of the holders of providing for compensation for loss any class of shares in the Company or upon of office or employment that occurs as a poll or exercise any other right conferred by a result of a takeover bid.
membership in relation to general meetings or polls if he or she has not paid all amounts Directors share interests relating to those shares which are due at the Details regarding the share interests of time of the meeting.
the directors in the share capital of the Company, including with respect to options Where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% to acquire ordinary shares, are set out in interest in a class of shares has been served the remuneration report on pages 85 to 88. with a disclosure notice in relation to a particular holding of shares and has failed Share capital to provide the Company with information Details of the issued share capital can be concerning those shares, those shares will found in Note 27 to the accounts.
no longer give that shareholder any right to vote at a shareholders meeting.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Restrictions on transfer of shares Company, to appoint one or more proxies There are the following restrictions on the and, if they are corporations, corporate transfer of shares in the Company: representatives to attend general meetings and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of certain restrictions which may from time ordinary shares may receive a dividend and to time be imposed by laws and regulations on a liquidation, may share in the assets of for example, insider trading laws : the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual pursuant to the Companys share dealing Report and Accounts.
Subject to meeting code, the directors and senior executives certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares of the Company require approval to deal may requisition a general meeting of the in the Companys shares: Company or the proposal of resolutions where a person with at least a 0.25% at AGMs.
interest in a class of shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to Voting rights provide the Company with information On a show of hands at a general meeting of concerning interests in those shares: the Company, every holder of ordinary shares present, in person or by proxy and entitled the subscriber ordinary shares may not to vote, has one vote unless the proxy is be transferred without the prior written appointed by more than one member in consent of the directors: which case the proxy has one vote for and the directors can, without giving any one vote against if the proxy has been reason, refuse to register the transfer instructed by one or more members to vote of any shares which are not fully paid: for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution and transfers cannot be in favour of more on a poll every member present in person or than four joint holders: and by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote the directors can refuse to register the for every ordinary share held.
Voting rights transfer of an uncertificated share in the for any ordinary shares held in treasury are circumstances set out in the uncertificated suspended.
None of the ordinary shares carry securities rules as defined in the any special rights with regard to control of Companys Articles of Association.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must The Company is not aware of any agreements be received by the Companys registrars not between shareholders that may result in later than i 48 hours before a meeting or restrictions on the transfer of shares or on adjourned meeting excluding nonworking voting rights.
days, or ii 24 hours before a poll is taken, if the poll is not taken on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Whitbread Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 report 93 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Directors report continued B shares and C shares The Company was informed on 11 March 2016 Holders of B shares and C shares are that BlackRock Inc. had reduced its holding entitled to receive an annual noncumulative to 9,422,457 shares, representing 5.15% of preferential dividend calculated at a rate the total voting rights.
No other changes to of 75% of six month LIBOR on a value of the above have been disclosed to the 155 pence per B share and 159 pence per C Company in accordance with rule 5 of the share respectively, but are not entitled to any Disclosure and Transparency Rules between further right of participation in the profits the end of the Company.
They are also entitled of the financial year and 25 April 2016. to payment of 155 pence per B share and 159 pence per C share respectively on a return Employment policies of capital on windingup excluding any Whitbread has a range of employment intragroup reorganisation on a solvent basis.
policies covering such issues as diversity, employee wellbeing and equal opportunities.
Except in limited circumstances, the holders of the B shares and C shares are not entitled The Company takes its responsibilities in their capacity as holders of such shares, to to the disabled seriously and seeks not receive notice of any general meeting of the to discriminate under any circumstances Company nor to attend, speak or vote at any including in relation to training, career such general meeting.
development and promotion against current or prospective employees because of any Purchase of own shares disability or for any other reason.
Fair and The Company is authorised to purchase its full consideration is given to applications for own shares in the market.
Approval to renew employment made by disabled persons, this authority will be sought from the having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
Employees who become disabled during their career at Whitbread will be retained in The Company did not purchase any of its own employment wherever possible and given shares during the year.
12.6 million shares are help with rehabilitation and training.
held as treasury shares 26 February 2015: 13.3 million.
During the course of the year, the Employee involvement Company transferred 709,000 shares from The importance of good relations and treasury to the Employee Share Ownership communications with employees is Trust for the future satisfaction of awards fundamental to the continued success of under the Companys share schemes.
Each of the Groups operating businesses maintains employee relations Employee share schemes and consults employees as appropriate Whitbread does not have any employee share to its own particular needs.
In addition, our schemes with shares which have rights with employee opinion survey, Your Say, is regard to the control of the Company that are conducted twice a year to provide insight not exercisable directly by the employees.
into the views of employees.
Major interests Our employees are actively encouraged As at the end of the financial year, the to take part in our Sharesave scheme, which Company had received formal notification, is available to all employees and offers an under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, option price discounted by 20%.
of the following material holdings in its shares the percentages shown are the percentages Regular internal communications are made at the time of the disclosure and have not to all employees to ensure that they are kept been recalculated based on the issued share well informed of the performance of the capital at the yearend : Group and of financial and economic factors that may affect the Companys performance.
Number % of issued ofshares share capital Further information on employee involvement FMR LLC 14,856,619 8.14 can be found in the Winning Teams sections on pages 14 to 17 and 28 to 31.
BlackRock Inc. 9,466,386 5.18 MFS Investment 9,330,908 5.11 Management Whitbread Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 report 94 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Mandatory Greenhouse Gas GHG Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions reporting associated with the generation of the Our environmental reporting complies electricity consumed in our sites.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report When defining the scope of our data we do Regulations 2013. not report on operations under Joint Venture agreements where we do not have We have considered the six main GHGs and operational control such as Costa Beijing and report in CO e for our Scope 1 direct and Premier Inn UAE.
For reasons of materiality, 2 Scope 2 indirect CO emissions.
We have small office operations in panPacific 2 used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting areas have been excluded.
All other sites and Reporting Standard methodology to throughout the world are included.
calculate our emissions and DEFRA GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Where possible we have reported billed or AMR data which now represents 88% of our Scope 1 includes emissions from the fuels we total global emissions.
For those operations use in our hotels, restaurants, offices and which are currently beyond our reporting coffee shops such as natural gas and liquid capabilities, such as Costa Shanghai, we have petroleum gas.
It also includes CO e from used an estimation approach using known 2 owned vehicles which include company cars sales data and local conversion factors.
For but excludes logistics as this is an outsourced further information about our estimation operation.
Refrigerant gas, FGas, losses are techniques and the number and location of captured for UK operations only due to Whitbread sites please view the Corporate reporting capabilities.
Responsibility pages on our website.
Tonnes of Tonnes of Change Source of emissions CO e 2014 15 CO e 2015 16 % 2 2 Direct Scope 1 Natural Gas 52,993 54,105 2.10 emissions Fuel Oil 197 203 3.05 LPG 3,175 3,246 2.24 Fgas 5,033 4,109 18.36 Owned Transport 1,534 3,510 128.81 Indirect Scope 2 Electricity 211,733 209,950 0.84 emissions Gross 274,665 275,122 0.17 emissions Turnover m 2,608.10 2,921.70 12.02 Tonnes carbon per 1 million turnover 105.31 94.17 10.58 Whitbread Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 report 95 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Directors report continued Amendment of the Companys Articles is aware of that information.
The directors are of Association not aware of any relevant audit information Any amendments to the Articles of Association which has not been disclosed to the auditor.
of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act Going concern 2006 by way of special resolution.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future Significant agreements development, performance and position are The Companys facility, bond and private set out in the strategic report on pages 4 placement loan notes agreements, details to 61.
The financial position of the Company, of which can be found in Note 21 to the its cash flows, net debt and borrowing accounts, contain provisions entitling the facilities and the maturity of those facilities counterparties to exercise termination are set out in the Finance Directors review or other rights in the event of a change on pages 54 to 59.
In addition there are of control of the Company.
further details in the financial statements on the Groups financial risk management, Contractual arrangements objectives and policies Note 24 and on The Group has contractual arrangements financial instruments Note 25. with numerous thirdparties in support of its business activities, none of which are A combination of the strong operating cash considered individually to be essential to flows generated by the business and the its business and, accordingly, it has not been significant headroom on its credit facilities considered necessary for an understanding supports the directors view that the Group of the development, performance or has sufficient funds available for it to meet position of the Groups business to disclose its foreseeable working capital requirements.
information about any of those thirdparties.
The directors have concluded that the going concern basis remains appropriate.
Financial instruments Information on the Companys use of financial The viability statement can be found on instruments, financial risk management page 46. objectives and policies and exposure is given in Note 24 and Note 25 to the consolidated Annual General Meeting financial statements.
The AGM will be held at 2pm on 21 June 2016 at Church House Conference Centre, Deans Political donations Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
The Company has not made any political The Notice of Meeting is enclosed with donations during the year and intends to this report for shareholders receiving hard continue its policy of not doing so for the copy documents, and is available at www.
co. uk for those who have elected to receive documents electronically.
At the Auditor 2016 AGM, all voting will be by poll.
Electronic Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness handsets will be utilised and results will be to continue in office as auditor of the displayed on the screen at the meeting.
Company and a resolution proposing its reappointment will be put to shareholders Approved by the Board on 25 April 2016 at the 2016 AGM.
After proper consideration, and signed.
the Audit Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP continues to be objective and independent of the Company.
In coming to this conclusion the Audit Committee gave full consideration to any nonaudit work carried out by Deloitte LLP, and has concluded that Chris Vaughan certain services will not be carried out by General Counsel and Company Secretary Deloitte LLP, as outlined in the Committees terms of reference.
Registered Office: Whitbread Court Disclosure of information to auditor Houghton Hall Business Park The directors have taken all reasonable steps Porz Avenue to make themselves aware of relevant audit Dunstable information and to establish that the auditor Bedfordshire LU5 5XE Whitbread Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 report 96 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 98 D irectors responsibility statement 99 In dependent auditors report 102 C onsolidated income statement 103 Co nsolidated statement of comprehensive income 104 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 105 Consolidated balance sheet 106 C onsolidated cash flow statement 107 N otes to the consolidated financial statements Whitbread Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 accounts 2015 16 97 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Directors responsibility statement Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping adequate The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report accounting records that disclose, with reasonable accuracy and Accounts in accordance with applicable UK laws and at any time, the financial position of the Company and regulations.
UK company law requires the directors to prepare the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with the directors have prepared the Group financial statements in regard to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and of internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Group applicable UK law.
Further, they have elected to prepare the and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps Company financial statements in accordance with Financial to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and applicable UK law.
The directors are responsible for preparing the strategic report including the corporate governance report and the Under company law, the directors must not approve the directors remuneration report and the directors report in financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and regulations, including the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors A copy of the financial statements of the Group is posted are required to: on the Groups website.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report included on select suitable accounting policies in accordance with the website.
Information published on the Groups website is IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Estimates and Errors, and then apply them consistently: Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and present information, including accounting policies, in dissemination of financial statements may differ from a manner which presents relevant, reliable, comparable legislation in other jurisdictions.
and understandable information: Each of the directors, the names and functions of whom provide additional disclosures when compliance with the are set out on pages 64 and 65, confirms that, to the best specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users of their knowledge, they have complied with the above to understand the impact of particular transactions, other requirements in preparing the financial statements in events and conditions on the Groups financial position and accordance with applicable accounting standards and that financial performance: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS, assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the Group.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained In addition, each of the directors confirms that the strategic in the financial statements: report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and and together with a description of the principal risks and prudent: and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the consolidated financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Group will continue in its business.
Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board In preparing the Company financial statements, the directors considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are required to: to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for the shareholders to assess select suitable accounting policies and apply them the Groups and Companys performance, business model consistently: and strategy.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK accounting standards have Signed on behalf of the Board been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Alison Brittain Nicholas Cadbury prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Chief Executive Finance Director unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Whitbread Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 accounts 2015 16 98
