8 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC STRATEGIC REPORT those not accessible on the same terms or at all to UK Strategy and business model investors.
Companies are required to publish a Strategic Report, which should provide a description of the objectives Witans multi-manager approach was adopted in 2004, which its strategy is designed to deliver for shareholders, in the belief that no single manager was likely to excel the business model and the outlook for the year in all markets and at all points in the economic cycle.
It should also include analysis of the Companys Employing managers to invest in their areas of greatest performance during the year, relative to the key elements competence has the potential to improve returns and to of its business strategy.
This Strategic Report has been reduce risk relative to using a single manager across the prepared solely to provide additional information to investment waterfront.
shareholders to assess the Companys strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
Our approach is to blend different factors such as quality, value or growth approaches and differing The Strategic Report contains certain forwardlooking geographical exposures, aiming to profit from asset statements.
These statements are made by the directors allocation and from our managers combined ability in good faith based on the information available to them to outperform over time.
We seek managers who can up to the time of their approval of this report and such capture the longerterm growth rewards from equity statements should be treated with caution due to the investment by focusing on fundamental share values inherent uncertainties, including both economic and rather than chasing short-term momentum.
business risk factors, underlying any such forwardlooking information.
2. Business model This report falls into four main sections: The Company has appointed Witan Investment Services Limited as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager 1.
Strategy under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
As AIFM, WIS has responsibility for 2. Business model operating the Companys portfolio and risk management 3.
Performance and principal developments in 2016 processes.
WIS delegates certain portfolio management responsibilities to third party portfolio managers.
Corporate and operational structure addition, the Company uses an outsourced model for other corporate functions, such as fund accounting, Witan is an Investment Trust, which was founded in custody and specialist professional services.
These 1909 and has been listed on the London Stock Exchange activities are overseen by the WIS and Witan Executive since 1924.
It is managed by the Executive team of team, covering Investment, Operations and Marketing, Witan Investment Services Limited WIS, its Alternative headed by the Chief Executive Officer, who is a director of Investment Fund Manager AIFM, under the control and the Company.
supervision of the Companys Board of directors.
Whilst the third party managers appointed are 1.
Strategy responsible for stock selection in their individual portfolios, WIS and the Companys Board are responsible The Companys strategy is to create value for for the overall delivery of performance to shareholders, shareholders by addressing its investment objective and through the following means: to communicate effectively with existing and potential shareholders.
Setting the overall investment objective: The Company invests its shareholders funds primarily Selecting competent managers, who are expected in individual companies across a broad spread of to outperform a suitable benchmark relating to the global equity markets.
The objective is to profit from investment remit set by the Company: opportunities created by global economic growth and to Operating appropriate portfolio, corporate outperform a representative equity benchmark, thereby governance and risk management arrangements for generating long-term capital growth for shareholders, effective corporate management and to meet the together with an income that rises faster than the rate of requirements of the AIFMD: inflation.
Adjusting asset allocation according to The Company employs an active multi-manager opportunities that arise: approach, allocating funds for investment by selected The judicious use of borrowings with the aim of managers with differing styles and specialisations.
The adding to performance: aim is to access the best available managers, including Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 9 Direct investment in funds exposed to specialist The WIS Executive seeks to add to the third party asset categories: managers performance by adjusting the level of gearing employed, by the selective use of exchange-traded Controlled and selective use of exchange-traded derivatives to alter the asset allocation and by the use derivatives to adjust asset allocation: and of specialist funds to gain exposure to areas viewed as offering attractive returns.
These activities are overseen Clear communication of Witans objective and its by the Board, with the Executive operating within results to shareholders and potential investors.
delegated parameters that are periodically reviewed to take account of prevailing investment conditions.
In The Boards and the Executives role in investment essence, the Company seeks to have sufficient levers to management pull to take advantage of investment opportunities that As noted above, the Company has appointed its whollymay arise, in addition to the total returns arising from the owned subsidiary WIS as its AIFM.
WIS has responsibility investment managers portfolios, which are expected to for ensuring that portfolio and risk management are be the driver of performance.
properly carried out, with appropriate safeguards to ensure the functional and hierarchical independence of Our selected benchmark those with portfolio and risk management responsibilities.
The Companys benchmark is used as a reference point The Board remains responsible for setting the investment for comparing performance and is a combination of global strategy, policy and guidelines of the Company and the equity markets, which reflect the investment universe AIFM operates within these.
from which most of the portfolio holdings are chosen.
The selection of individual investments is largely The benchmark was reviewed during the year, with the delegated to third party managers, subject to investment resulting new weights, as set out in the Chairmans limits and guidelines which reflect the particular mandate Report on page 5, taking effect from 1 January 2017.
The e. g. UK or global equities and the specific investment UK weighting has reduced from 40% to 30%, with the North approach which the Company and its AIFM have selected American component rising from 20% to 25% and a 5% e. g. value, higher dividend yield, special situations.
The Emerging Markets weighting introduced.
The weightings managers are chosen by the Witan and WIS Boards after in Asia Pacific and Europe ex-UK remain at 20% each.
a disciplined selection process focused on the managers scope to add value and their fit with the overall portfolio.
The benchmark provides a transparent way of measuring the results of an investment policy that is designed The overwhelming majority of the portfolio is managed in to access a comprehensive range of investment segregated accounts, held by the Companys depositary opportunities in the global economy.
The introduction via the custodian to whom it delegates safekeeping of emerging markets to the benchmark recognises their responsibilities.
This enables the Company to analyse increased importance in the investment universe available the risks and opportunities of the portfolio as a whole as to investors.
An increased weighting in North America well as of each managers portfolio.
The operations of the albeit well below that in leading global indices reflects custodian and the safeguarding of the Companys assets the enduring leadership of the US economy in a number of are supervised by the depositary, appointed by Witan and influential growth sectors such as information technology its AIFM, in accordance with the AIFMDs requirements.
The benchmark weighting in the At the end of 2016, the Company had 10 third party UK has been reduced from 40% to 30%.
Although still investment managers, covering a range of investment high relative to the significance of the UK in the worlds remits.
Information regarding the proportion of Witans economy, the UK stock market derives a significant assets managed by each and of their performance during majority of its earnings from overseas and is the listing the year is set out on page 13.
Following an extensive domicile for many globally-significant companies.
search during 2016, since the year end an additional manager, Global Quality Growth LLC, has been appointed The component weightings reflect the Boards belief that to manage an Emerging Markets portfolio.
opportunities are related to the importance of economic regions as they evolve over time, more than the market Up to 10% of the portfolio at the time of investment may capitalisation of regional equity markets.
It should be be invested in collective funds selected by the Executive emphasised that the portfolio is actively managed and team, with the objective of outperforming Witans equity not designed to track any index or combination of market benchmark.
This portfolio is managed subject to limits indices.
Performance can be expected to vary, sometimes set by the Board, and in accordance with portfolio and considerably, from that of the benchmark, while aiming risk management processes established by Witan and the for outperformance in the longer term.
These investments may represent asset categories that are temporarily undervalued or funds Performance information for other commonly used which are viewed as attractive longer-term generators of indices is also given in the key performance indicators superior returns.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 10 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC STRATEGIC REPORT continued success over the longer term.
Performance and principal relative to the KPIs is also monitored over shorter developments in 2016 periods, success over the long t erm is viewed as more important, given the inherent volatility of short-term The financial statements on pages 62 to 88 set out the investment returns.
required statutory reporting measures of the Companys financial performance.
In addition, the Board assesses Aside from the statutory accounting measures, the the Companys performance against a range of criteria principal financial KPIs are set out below, with a report which are viewed as particularly relevant for investment in italics of Witans performance against them during trusts.
With respect to non-financial measures, details of the Companys policies and performance in relation to its Success in implementing the Companys strategy is obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code are monitored against a range of Key Performance Indicators set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages KPIs which are viewed as significant measures of 3 3 to 42.
Investment performance Outperformance compared with Witans equity benchmark.
The Company seeks to achieve at least 2% p. a. outperformance in NAV total return and shareholder total return terms over the long term.
In 2016, Witan achieved a NAV total return of 22.9%, slightly below that of its combined global equity benchmark see page 9, with a shareholder total return of 18.4% w hich lagged the benchmark by 4.6% ow ing to the wider discount.
Returns over the longer term are set out on page 2 and indicate that outperformance has been achieved over the 3 year 1.7% p. a. and 5 year 4.6% p. a. periods to the end of 2016.
A positive long-term total return, after inflation, for shareholders.
In 2016, the NAV total return and shareholder total returns enjoyed by Witan shareholders were well ahead of inflation of 1.6 % for the year to December 2016.
Returns over the longer term are set out on page 2 and indicate that this objective has also been met over the past 3 and 5 year periods.
Long-term investment outperformance by the individual managers relative to the relevant benchmark.
In 2016, three of the ten third party managers, together with the internallymanaged direct holdings portfolio outperformed their benchmarks, with seven underperforming.
The managers returns since appointment are set out in the table on page 13.
Further details are set out on pages 11 and 12.
Annual growth in the dividend per In 2016, the dividend increased by 11.8 %, compared with an inflation rate of 1.6 % in share ahead of the rate of inflation the year to December 2016.
Further details are set out on pages 12 a nd 13.
C. A positive contribution to investment The Company employed average gearing of 10.7 % during the year, which directly returns from the use of borrowings contributed 2.3% t o returns.
After allowing for the mostly fixed costs of borrowing there was a contribution, after interest, of 1.7%.
Further details are set out on pages 13 and 14.
D. A share price trading at a sustainable The shares traded at an average discount of 5.8 % in 2016, compared with an average low discount or a premium to NAV 0.1 % premium in 2015.
The discount at the year end was 4.0% 2015: 0.2% discount.
including income, with debt at fair Further details of market conditions and actions taken during the year are set out on value, taking account of prevailing page 15. investment conditions E. A competitive level of ongoing In 2016, the ongoing charges figure OCF was 0.7 5% excluding performance fees charges, below the costs of other 2015: 0.76% and 0.6 5% including performance fees 2015: 1.04%.
This compares multi-manager funds, balancing with the average OCF of 1.52% in the Investment Association Global equity funds the need to pay for high quality sector and 0.71% 0.74% including performance fees for the AIC Global sector.
Further investment management with the aim details are set out on page 16. of keeping the costs of managing the business as low as possible Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 11 Performance summary and attribution the outperformers were not sufficient to offset weaker performances from other managers, particularly during The high equity market returns in 2016 were in contrast the first half of the year.
to the previous two years in which returns were little changed for much of the year and, in the end, only Significant value was added by Witans use of gearing modestly positive.
The US was the strongest of the during the year, which averaged 10.7% but was adjusted major markets, with a 12% return in dollar terms boosted in response to market conditions, with additions to to 33% in sterling terms.
Local currency returns for exposure being made following the market falls in the Asia-Pacific 11% and Emerging Markets 13% January and June.
The contribution from gearing indices translated into strong returns of 32% and 34% 2.3% was 1.7% after taking account of the Companys respectively for sterling investors.
Japan 0% a nd Europe mostly fixed borrowing costs of 0.6%.
Share buybacks ex-UK 3% we re little changed in local terms but rose contributed 0.6% to NAV returns, as the Company actively 23% and 20% in sterling terms.
The UKs performance responded to the widening of the discount.
Further details was competitive with other markets in local terms 1 7% of the portfolios performance attribution are shown in but not after currency effects.
Within the UK market, the the table below.
mid-cap index delivered much lower returns of 7% owing Combined portfolio composition to its greater exposure to the domestic economy where The sector breakdown and regional exposure for the investors have become less optimistic following the Brexit aggregated portfolio are shown on page 26.
holdings across the combined Witan portfolio are set out During the year the Company invested its assets with a on page 25.
They represented 4 4 % of Witans portfolio view to spreading investment risk and in accordance with at 31 December 2016 2015: 42%.
These analyses the investment policy.
It maintained a diversified portfolio highlight the substantial diversification provided by our in terms of stocks, sectors and geography.
The portfolio range of managers and the portfolios broad geographical has been actively managed by the investment managers, exposure.
in accordance with their individual mandates, with overall It is important that diversification does not unduly dilute asset allocation and risk being managed by the Executive returns, since the purpose of using active managers is to team, within delegated limits from the Board and the outperform, which requires the portfolio to differ from Companys AIFM.
One measure of active management in Witans NAV total return after all costs was 22.
9 %, a portfolio is known as active share.
This indicates the slightly behind the 23.0 % return from the composite degree to which a portfolio differs from its benchmark, equity benchmark.
Excluding the effect of the rise in with a portfolio identical to the benchmark having an the fair value of Witans debt securities, the NAV total active share of 0% while one with no holdings in common return was 23.5%, 0.5 % ahead of the benchmark.
The with its benchmark would have an active share of 100%.
shareholder total return was 18.4%, as the shares closed Although looking at active share at a particular date is an the year on a 4.0 % discount 2015: 0.2% discount.
incomplete measure of the degree to which a portfolio In a year when market returns were substantially driven is managed actively let alone successfully, the active by political and economic events, returns for stock share of our combined portfolio was circa 70 % at the end pickers were more elusive than in recent years.
This level of active share indicates gross underlying portfolio return was 22.1 %, 0.9 % that, even with the diversifying effects of the multibehind the benchmark.
Only three out of our ten third manager structure, Witans portfolio retains an active party managers outperformed their benchmarks in approach, while relative performance in recent years also contrast to 2015, when eight had outperformed.
The demonstrates that Witans aggregated portfolio retains Direct Holdings portfolio also significantly outperformed an individual character distinct from the relevant indices.
Witans composite benchmark during the year.
However, A breakdown of the performance attribution in 2016 based on the Companys financial statements is shown in the table below.
Net asset value total return 22.
9% Portfolio total return gross 22.1% Benchmark total return 23.0% Benchmark total return 23.0% Relative investment performance -0.9% Gearing impact 2.3% Effect of changed fair value of debt -0.
6% Share buybacks 0.6% 2.3 % 1.4% Borrowing costs -0.6% Operating costs and tax -0.9% -1.5% Relative performance -0.1% -0.1% Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 12 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC STRATEGIC REPORT continued Investment managers mandates, benchmarks and investment style Equity mandate Investment manager Benchmark Investment style UK Artemis Investment Management LLP FTSE All-Share Recovery special situations UK Heronbridge Investment Management LLP FTSE All-Share Intrinsic value growth UK Lindsell Train Limited FTSE All-Share Long-term growth from undervalued brands Global Lansdowne Partners UK LLP DJ Global Titans Concentrated,  investment in developed markets Global MFS International UK Limited FTSE All-World Growth at an attractive price Global Pzena Investment Management LLC FTSE All-World Systematic value Global Tweedy, Browne Company LLC FTSE All-World Fundamental value Global Veritas Asset Management LLP FTSE All-World Fundamental value, real return objective Pan-European Marathon Asset Management LLP FTSE All-World Capital cycles Developed Europe Asia Paci c Matthews International Capital MSCI Asia Paci c Free Quality companies with dividend growth Management LLC Directly-held Witans AIFM and Executive team Witans combined Collective funds invested in mispriced investments equity benchmark or specialist assets, recovery situations Manager structure and performance at the end of 2016.
The largest holding, in SVG Capital, was sold following the bid for the Company in September.
The Companys third party managers have a range of The holding in BlackRock World Mining delivered a total investment approaches and follow differing mandates return of close to 100% during 2016, moving our position set by the Company.
Details of each managers mandate, from loss to a significant profit.
We added to the holding benchmark and investment style are shown above.
in Aberforth Geared Income Trust following postFurther details, including the date of appointment are referendum weakness in UK small and midcap companies.
shown in the manager summaries on pages 22 to 24.
We also made a new investment in the Somerset Emerging Markets Small Cap fund when emerging market All of the third party delegated managers at the end sentiment was depressed in January 2016 and late in the of 2016 were in place throughout the year.
Pzena and year, we made an investment in Syncona formerly called Tweedy, Browne had the strongest performance of our BACIT Limited following the change in its investment five global managers, benefiting from a broadening of objective to specialist life sciences investment.
investor interest to areas favoured by value managers.
Pzenas return of 32.7% outperformed its global equity The main investments are in listed private equity and benchmark by 3.1%, wi th Tweedy, Browne outperforming related funds, a UK smaller companies fund and specialist by 0.4% with a return of 30.0%.
Lansdowne with a return regional and sector funds.
of 14.4% had a relatively weak year, underperforming significantly during the first half of the year although Dividend policy and performance in 201 6 performance was in line with the global equity index in the second half of the year.
In the UK, Heronbridge The Companys policy subject to circumstances is to outperformed the UK market by 0.7% wi th a return of increase its dividend per share in real terms, ahead of the 17.5%.
However, Artemis and Lindsell Train materially increase in the UK Consumer Price Index CPI.
lagged the UK market, after four years of significant outperformance.
Similarly, our European manager, The Companys revenue earnings increased by 19.5% Marathon, underperformed its European benchmark, to 22.
This was driven by an which was itself weak relative to other global equity increase in portfolio dividends and by strength in the US regions.
We are always attentive to performance but note dollar and other overseas currencies relative to sterling.
that the longerterm performance of all the managers who lagged in 2016 remains ahead of their benchmarks For 2016, the Board has declared a fourth interim while those who had lagged in 2015 outperformed in dividend of 6.25 pence per share, to be paid to 2016. shareholders on 31 March 2017, making a total distribution for the year of 19.0 pence 2015: 17.0 Directly held investments pence.
This represents an increase of 11.8 %, well ahead of the 1.6% rat e of CPI inflation in the year to December In 2016, the Direct Holdings portfolio was 11.5% ahead 2016.
This is the 42nd consecutive year that Witan has of Witans composite benchmark with a return of 34.4 %.
This portfolio held 8.7% of assets at the previous year end and represented 10.2% of the investment portfolio Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 13 Investment managers performance % of Value Witans Performance Benchmark of Witan assets under Benchmark since performance assets managed management Performance performance in appointment since at 31.12.16 at 31.12.16 in 2016 2016 % appointment Investment manager m Note 1 % % Note 2 % Artemis 181.7 9.4 9.1 16.8 10.4 6.1 Heronbridge 118.7 6.2 17.5 16.8 11.0 7.9 Lindsell Train 170.4 8.9 10.3 16.8 16.0 9.6 Lansdowne Partners 229.1 11.9 14.4 32.7 23.6 17.3 MFS 148.8 7.7 28.6 29.6 13.1 10.5 Pzena 202.1 10.5 32.7 29.6 13.8 14.4 Tweedy, Browne 66.3 3.4 30.0 29.6 12.2 14.4 Veritas 231.3 12.0 24.8 29.6 14.1 11.9 Marathon 139.5 7.3 13.7 19.7 11.0 9.1 Matthews 240.4 12.5 23.7 25.5 10.5 8.6 Witan Direct Holdings 195.5 10.2 34.4 22.9 10.9 9.2 Notes: 1.
Percentage of Witan's investments managed and cash balances held centrally by Witan.
The percentages are annualised where the date of appointment was more than one year ago.
Since 2006, Witans dividend per share has more than The Company pays dividends quarterly.
The first three doubled, rising 107 % compared with 25% f or the UK CPI.
payments for 2017 in June, September and December will, in the absence of unforeseen circumstances, be In addition to increasing the dividend, the Company has paid at a rate of 4.75 pence per share 2016: 4.25 added 6.
At 5 4.7m after pence, being one quarter of the full year payment for allowing for 2016s fourth interim dividend payment, the 2016.
The fourth payment in March 2018 will be a reserves are equivalent to approximately 30 pence per balancing amount, reflecting the difference between the share, over one and a half times the annual dividend.
three quarterly dividends already paid and the payment The availability of these reserves enables the Company decided for the full year.
to maintain or grow its dividends in years when revenue from the portfolio is less buoyant, or falls.
Policy on gearing and the use of derivatives Employment of gearing The chart below shows the growth in dividends over the Purpose past 10 years, which has been ahead of the rise in the UK The purpose of using borrowings is to improve or CPI in each year.
gear leverage returns for shareholders, by achieving Witans dividend per share compared with the UK investment returns higher than the interest cost of the Consumer Price Index borrowings.
Accordingly, attention is paid to using a level 21.0 220 of gearing appropriate for market conditions having more borrowings when markets are attractively valued and borrowing less at times when returns are expected to 180 17.0 be poorer.
In addition, a blend of long-term and shortterm borrowings is used, to balance the certainty of cost associated with locking in fixed rates for longer periods with the flexibility of using short-term facilities which can 140 13.0 be readily repaid when they are not required.
Limits 100 9.0 Although the Company has the legal power under its 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Articles of Association to borrow up to 100% of the Witan dividend in pence per share left scale CPI index right scale adjusted total of shareholders funds which is also the Source: Datastream maximum level of leverage set by its AIFM, this is subject to practical constraints including a test of prudence.
The Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 14 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC STRATEGIC REPORT continued Boards longstanding policy is not to allow gearing as Following the repayment of the Debenture, greater use defined on page 3 to rise to more than 20%, other than was made of the short-term facility, to fund investments temporarily in exceptional circumstances.
Over the past and share buybacks.
five years it has generally varied between 5% and 15% and where appropriate the Company may hold a small net At the end of 2015, gross gearing adding together cash position.
the value of all positions less cash, irrespective of whether they were an asset or a liability was 10.7%.
This Structure included 37m in index futures FTSE 100 23m and MSCI Emerging Markets 14m equivalent to 2.4% of net Following the repayment of the Debenture in 2016, the assets.
Companys fixed-rate borrowings reduced from 185m to 140m, principally consisting of 6 3m 2025 6.
125% At the end of 2016, gross gearing on the same basis Secured Bonds, 21m 2035 3.29% Private Placement was 10.3 %.
This included 21m in MSCI Emerging Markets Notes and 54m 2045 3.47% Private Placement Notes.
index futures equivalent to 1.2% of n et assets.
Gearing The average interest rate paid on the Companys fixedexcluding this was 9.1 %.
Further details of the accounting rate borrowings is 4.6%.
At the year end, the Company treatment for these positions are given in note 1 on also had a 75 m one-year facility, providing additional page 68. flexibility over the level of gearing, as well as enabling the Company to borrow in currencies other than sterling, Use of derivatives if deemed appropriate.
Witan may either invest its borrowings fully, or neutralise their effect with cash Policy balances or the sale of equity index futures according Witans policy on the use of derivatives emphasises to its assessment of the markets.
The Companys third simplicity, transparency, cost effectiveness and the party managers are not permitted to borrow within their minimisation of counterparty risk.
Where financial portfolios but may hold cash if deemed appropriate.
instruments are available that help the Company to implement its investment policy whether for the purpose Action taken in 2016 of increasing exposure to a particular asset or for The Company repaid the 8.5% Debenture stock at the end portfolio hedging their use will be considered.
In recent of its 30 year life, in October 2016.
This scheduled event years, exchange-traded index futures have been the only had been taken into account in 2015 when the Company instruments used.
These give exposure to a particular issued 75m in 20 and 30 year Private Placement Notes, market index, are relatively liquid to trade and depend at an average yield of 3.4%.
upon the creditworthiness of the particular exchange, not an individual firm.
The value of the investments which The size of the Companys short-term facility was are traded on official exchanges is fully marked to market increased to 75m in October 2016.
December, the drawn balance on this facility was 71m 2015: 3m.
Since the year end, this facility has been The use of index futures enables Witan to adjust its increased to 125m.
gearing rapidly, helping investment flexibility.
It also provides a means of changing asset allocation by Gearing was adjusted periodically during the year.
It was directing investment to particular markets.
In both increased in January, when markets had fallen, reduced cases index futures enable the adjustments to be made in March following a recovery in market levels before without interfering with the assigned objectives for our being increased into the market weakness surrounding investment managers, which are to pick stocks that the Brexit referendum, as market setbacks created will grow in value over the medium to long term and opportunities.
Gearing was 10.7% at the end of 2015, outperform their respective benchmarks.
The operation 12.2% mid-year and 10.3 % at the end of 2016.
The of this investment area is the responsibility of the AIFM, calculation of gearing takes account of cash balances and acting under guidelines set by the Board.
Transactions the full nominal value of any derivatives held, since this are reported to the Board promptly, with the CEO and represents the size of the asset or liability to which the AIFM being accountable for the financial results.
Companys third party managers are not generally permitted to use derivatives and may not gear their Gearing benefited performance during the year.
estimated contribution of 2.3 % of shareholders funds was particularly important during a year when our third Activity during 2016 party managers performed less well and was greater In February and March, the holding in FTSE 100 index than the interest costs borne 0.6%, although the futures was sold, reducing our UK exposure by 1.5% of majority of the finance cost is fixed and would have been assets in favour of allocations to overseas markets.
incurred irrespective of whether the funds were invested.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15 Approximately 2% of assets was invested into Japanese The discount trend since 2012 is illustrated in the chart equity index futures in the spring, following a weak period above.
Although Witans shares ended 2016 on an allof performance by the Tokyo market, when sentiment was time high, they did not fully match the rise in NAV during depressed by strength in the yen.
This position was sold the year.
After trading at a premium for much of 2015, down and closed towards the end of 2016, following a the Companys shares moved to a discount during 2016, recovery in the market, catalysed by weakness in the yen ending the year on a discount of 4.0 %.
The discount following the US election.
was initially prompted by the markets realisation that a subsidiary of Aviva which had taken over management of In March 3% of assets was invested in MSCI Emerging an insurance business which held a number of investment Markets Index futures, in order to maintain exposure trust stakes was seeking to sell its investment trust following the sale of the Trilogy Emerging Markets fund holdings, including a 16% holding in Witan.
This position was reduced into periods of helped push Witans and other discounts in the sector to emerging market strength later in the year.
wider levels than seen in recent years.
Witan proposed to buy back the entire Aviva stake at a 6.5% discount The realised gain on index futures during the year is and, having obtained shareholders permission to do so, shown in the cash flow statement on page 65. purchased approximately 7% of the shares outstanding in late May, the balance having been placed with other Witans shares in the market liquidity and discounts investors.
Shortly thereafter, the UK Brexit vote ushered in a period of investor uncertainty when investment trust Witan is a member of the FTSE 250 index, with a market discounts widened further.
The Board places great importance on the encouragement of a liquid Witan bought back shares regularly during the year, market in Witans shares on the London Stock Exchange.
starting when a low discount first became persistent Considerable effort is devoted to communicating Witans in February and at wider discounts throughout the objective and performance clearly to shareholders summer and autumn, in accordance with our objective and potential investors.
There is a wide range of firms for Witans shares subject to market conditions to trade and online investment platforms through which the at a sustainable low discount or a premium to NAV.
In Companys shares may be held and the Companys total, 18.9m sh ares were bought into treasury at a cost subsidiary Witan Investment Services Limited also of 143m, resulting in an uplift of 9.2m to net assets, operates a savings plan for investing in Witan shares, equivalent to a boost of 0.6% in the NAV per share.
Our details of which are described on page 93. principal objective is to grow the NAV and dividend per share rather than assets under management.
We have no Whilst delivery of sound investment performance remains conflict in buying back shares when there is a persistent the principal focus of the Board, it also pays attention discount, as the process is accretive for shareholder value.
The Company has, over many years, made significant use of share buybacks, Discounts are affected by many factors outside the purchasing shares when they have stood at an unduly Companys control but w here it is in shareholders wide discount to the NAV taking debt at fair value.
In interests, taking account of market conditions the addition to being accretive to NAV, this had the objective Company remains prepared to buy back shares at a of reducing the discount.
Over 49% of our shares were discount to NAV or to issue shares at a premium.
It remains a long-term objective to create sustainable Witan Investment Trust discount trend liquidity in Witans shares at or near to asset value 5.0 5.0 subject to general market conditions.
We believe that our proactive steps during 2016 are evidence of our commitment in this area.
0.0 0.0 Marketing -5.0 -5.0 For an investment trust the purpose of marketing is to communicate the Companys strategy and new developments effectively to existing and potential -10.0 -10.0 shareholders, to ensure they are properly informed of our performance as stewards of their capital savings -15.0 -15.0 and to help sustain a liquid market in our shares.
Clear 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 communication of the Companys investment objective 5 day average 3m average 1 year average and its success in executing its strategy makes it easier Source: Datastream for investors to decide how Witan fits in with their own investment objectives.
Other things being equal, this Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 16 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC STRATEGIC REPORT continued should help the shares to trade closer to NAV, from As an illustration, if our managers uniformly which all shareholders benefit.
If the shares trade on a outperformed their benchmarks by 3% after base premium, this creates the possibility of increasing the size management fees, this would generate a performance of the Company to meet market demand by issuing new fee of 0.15% of net assets, giving total investment shares, with benefits in terms of greater liquidity as well management fees of 0.64% including a 0.49% base fee.
When the shares are on a discount, The comparable estimate in 2015 was 0.66%.
The actual there is an opportunity to create shareholder value by fees payable will of course vary according to the level of buying back shares.
performance and the variation in performance between managers with higher or lower fees.
In view of these potential benefits, the Company has for many years operated a marketing programme in order to Witan takes care to ensure the competitiveness of the fee disseminate information about our investment strategy rates it pays and that where higher fees are incurred they and performance more widely.
We communicate with are linked to good performance, from which shareholders private and professional investors, financial advisers and benefit.
A majority of the managers have base fees alone intermediaries using a range of media including direct without performance fees and a majority of the fee meetings, press interviews and advertising through structures incorporate a taper whereby the average fee traditional media and the internet.
The Company also rate reduces as the portfolio grows.
provides an informative and easy to use website www.
com, to enable investors to make informed The Companys investment managers may use certain decisions about including Witan shares in their investment services which are paid for, or provided by, various portfolios.
The website, which was redesigned in 2016, is brokers.
In return, they may place business, including regularly refreshed with new information and includes a transactions relating to the Company, with those brokers.
section focused on the requirements of financial advisers as well as an investor disclosure document required by Ongoing charges and costs the AIFMD and information about the Witan Wisdom The ongoing charges figure OCF which is the recurring and Jump savings schemes operated by the Companys operating and investment management costs of the subsidiary, Witan Investment Services Limited.
Company, expressed as a percentage of average net assets was 0.75 % in 2016 2015: 0.76%.
Increased Costs investment management costs arising from the growth Investment management fees on net assets were offset by a rise in the average level of net assets, while other expenses were little changed.
Each of the third party managers is entitled to a base When performance fees due to the relevant third party management fee rate, levied on the assets under managers are included, the OCF was 0.65 % in 2016 management.
In some cases, a performance fee may be 2015: 1.04%.
The lower figure including performance payable, calculated according to investment performance fees for 2016 arises because accruals for performance relative to an appropriate benchmark.
Four managers, fee liabilities at the end of 2015 were reduced owing to covering 33% of Witans portfolio, have performancesome external managers underperformance in 2016. related fees.
They have lower base fees than the managers without performance-related fees.
For comparison, the average OCF for 2016 was 1.52% in the Investment Association Global equity funds sector The agreements can be terminated on one months notice source: IA, Morning star and 0.71% 0.74% including except one, for which three months notice applies.
The performance fees for the AIC Global sector source: base management fee rates for managers in place at the Morningstar.
end of 2016 ranged from 0.2% to 0.8% per annum.
The average base management fee, weighted according to the value of the funds under management, was 0.49% as at 31 December 2016 2015: 0.49%.
Across the third party managers the average performance fee with performance fees ranging from nil to 20% of the relevant outperformance is 5% of the outperformance of the relevant benchmark 2015: 6%, subject to capping of payments for any particular year.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17 2016 2015 % of % of 2016 average net 2015 average Category of cost m assets m net assets Other expenses excluding investment management expenses 5.
21 0.3 3 5.41 0.36 Less expenses relating to the subsidiary whose expenses do not relate to the operation of the investment company.
0.89 0.06 0.84 0.0 6 Investment management base fees note 4, page 70 7.62 0.48 6.99 0.46 Ongoing Charges Figure including investment management base fees 11.94 0.7 5 11.56 0.76 Investment management performance fees note 4, page 70 1.46 0.10 4.
30 0.28 Ongoing charges including performance fees 10.
48 0.65 15.8 61.04 Portfolio transaction costs 2.00 0.12 1.75 0.12 Relative performance during the year valuing debt at fair value -0.1% 2.9% 2015 OCF % figures have been restated to reflect a revised number for average net assets during 2015.
The cash numbers remain the same as in the 2015 Annual Report.
The Company exercises strict scrutiny and control over Priorities for the year ahead costs.
This will not always result in the lowest absolute In 2017, the key priorities for Witan include: costs, since the Board believes that it is in shareholders interests to pay for managers who add value.
Seek to build on the good returns believes that the OCF during the year represented good achieved for shareholders in recent years, setting value for money for shareholders, taking account of an appropriate strategic asset allocation to reflect recent and longer-term performance.
changing opportunities in the world economy.
Make use of a range of active managers to deliver There is continuing debate over the most appropriate our strategic objectives through a multi-manager measure of investment company costs, to enable structure.
Continue to deliver dividend growth ahead investors to assess value for money and to make of inflation: comparisons between funds.
Consensus on how best to Communication.
Communicate Witans distinct present a single figure for costs remains elusive, partly and active investment approach and achievements because of concerns that oversimplification might distort effectively to existing and potential shareholders.
comparisons rather than facilitating them.
Continue to increase the focus on improving information for personal investors and financial In the meantime, the Company will continue to focus on advisers, where direct meetings are less practicable: the OCF which is prepared in accordance with the AICs recommended methodology as a readily-understood Regulatory change.
Continue to operate risk and measure of the underlying expenses of running the investment management processes in compliance business.
As in previous years, the information on costs with the AIFMD, liaising closely with the Companys is presented in a single table above.
This indicates the AIFM, Witan Investment Services Limited.
Ensure main cost headings in money terms and as a percentage compliance with other regulatory changes : of net assets.
The figures for relative NAV total return Client service.
Provide good service to the corporate performance are also included, for comparison purposes.
and individual clients of Witan Investment Services Limited.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 18 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC STRATEGIC REPORT continued Witan Investment Services Limited WIS 4.
Corporate and operational WIS is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Witan Investment structure Trust plc Witan.
It is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
As described earlier page 8 Witan is an Investment Trust with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
It It was established in March 2005 to provide investment has a single, wholly-owned subsidiary, Witan Investment savings accounts and marketing services and to give Services Limited WIS which acts as the Companys investment advice to professional investors.
2014 WIS has acted as the Companys AIFM to fulfil the requirements of the AIFMD.
Operational management arrangements In addition to the appointment of delegated investment In addition to its responsibilities as Witans AIFM, WISs managers, Witan and WIS contract with third parties for principal activities are to provide executive management the supporting services required, including: services to the Boards of Witan and Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc Witan Pacific, to communicate BNP Paribas Securities Services London Branch information about the companies to the market to for global depositary services, custody, investment increase investor interest in their shares and to operate accounting and administration: cost-effective savings plans for investors to hold the shares.
Frostrow Capital LLP for company secretarial services: International Financial Data Services Ltd. IFDS as WISs operational objectives for 2017 are: the WIS savings plan administrators of Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings: to fulfil its investment and risk management responsibilities as Witans AIFM: Specialist advisers used for investment manager research: to provide a reliable and efficient investment savings platform for Witan and Witan Pacific investors: The Company also takes specialist advice on regulatory compliance issues and, as required, to provide suitable advice to the Boards of its procures legal, investment consulting, financial and corporate clients: tax advice.
to reduce the net operating costs for Witan: and As with investment management, the contracts governing to seek appropriate business opportunities that can the provision of these services are formulated with legal add value for shareholders.
advice and stipulate clear objectives and guidelines for the level of service required.
WIS has two principal sources of income.
These are savings plan revenues and the fees as AIFM or Executive Premises and staffing Manager and for marketing services paid by its corporate clients, Witan and Witan Pacific.
The main costs incurred Since November 2005 the Company has had a lease on by WIS are fees to the savings schemes administrator office premises at 14 Queen Annes Gate, London SW1H IFDS, staff costs to provide the services described above 9AA, which is also the Companys registered office.
and professional advice to ensure that its regulatory and The current lease has a 5 year term, commencing in accounting obligations are properly satisfied.
The savings plans provided for WIS clients are marketed The Companys policy towards its employees is to attract under the Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings brands.
They and retain staff with the particular skills and expertise currently have over 2 2,000 a ccounts with assets of some required to manage the affairs of an investment trust 401 million invested.
Details of the Companys remuneration policies and required disclosures are set out in the Directors Principal risks and uncertainties Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 55.
Employees and those who seek to work within the Group are treated The directors have carried out a robust assessment of the equally regardless of sex, marital status, creed, colour, principal risks facing the Company, including those that race or ethnic origin.
The Company has seven direct would threaten its business model, future performance, employees, four men and three women.
The Board solvency or liquidity.
These risks, and the actions taken to currently consists of eight non-executive directors six mitigate them, are set out on pages 19 and 20. men and two women and the Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Bell, who is an employee.
Given its outsourced model and small number of direct employees, the Group has no specific policies in respect of environmental or social and community affairs.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 19 Risks are inherent in investment and corporate During the year, Andrew Bell the Chief Executive Officer management but it is important that their nature CEO managed the overall business and the investment and magnitude are understood, in order that risks, portfolio in accordance with limits and restrictions particularly those which the Company does not wish to determined by the Board and its AIFM.
The Board take, can be identified and either avoided or controlled.
regularly reviews the matters delegated to Executive In accordance with the provisions of the AIFMD, WIS management, on which the CEO reports at each Board has a Risk Committee in order to comply with its risk meeting.
The Board also regularly reviews investment management and reporting obligations as Witans AIFM.
strategy and performance, supported by comprehensive The Company has established a detailed framework of the management information including investment key risks impinging on the business as set out below, with performance data and financial reports.
associated policies and processes devised to mitigate or manage those risks.
This risk map is reviewed regularly by Operational the Audit Committee along with the WIS Risk Committee, Many of the Groups financial systems are outsourced to which report on issues arising to their respective boards, third parties, principally BNP Paribas Securities Services for action as necessary.
The guiding principles remain BNPSS.
Disruption to the accounting, payment systems watchfulness, proper analysis, prudence and a clear or custody records operated by BNPSS could prevent system of risk management.
the accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
BNPSS as the Companys depositary Where appropriate, the Witan and WIS Boards meet has a key responsibility for monitoring such issues on jointly to cover matters of common interest.
The WIS behalf of the Company and WIS, its AIFM.
IFDS a cts as the Board consists of seven non-executives and one Administrator for the Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings executive director who are also directors of Witan, and Plans so the effectiveness of their systems and controls one executive director who is a Company employee.
is key for the efficient operation of those plans.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by its The Groups key risks fall broadly under the following suppliers, and the key elements designed to provide categories: effective internal control, are explained further in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 41 to 42.
Market and investment portfolio risks Witan is set up to invest in UK and overseas equity Corporate governance markets on behalf of its shareholders.
Equity exposure The Board takes its own regulatory responsibilities is unlikely to drop below 80% of net assets, in normal very seriously and regularly reviews the main points of conditions.
Therefore a key risk of investing in Witan is a compliance against requirements.
general fall in equity prices, which could be exacerbated by gearing.
Other risks, as with any international equity Details of the Companys compliance with corporate portfolio, are the investment portfolios exposure to governance best practice are set out in the Corporate country, currency, industrial sector and stock specific Governance Statement on pages 3 3 to 42.
There are also risks associated with changes in Board conducts an annual internal assessment of the Witans share price discount or premium to NAV and the effectiveness of its governance processes in managing performance of its investment managers.
the Company and enabling it to evolve in response to future challenges.
There is also a three-yearly The Board seeks to manage these risks through: independent external review, the most recent of which was conducted in late 2016.
See page 37 for further appropriate asset allocation decisions, with a broadly details.
diversified equity benchmark: Operational and regulatory risks are regularly and manager diversification and regular reviews of the extensively reviewed by Witans Audit Committee, in managers competence: conjunction with WISs Risk Committee.
WIS is subject to attention to key economic and political events its own operating rules and regulations and is authorised affecting the global stock market outlook: and regulated by the FCA.
Since becoming the AIFM for Witan, WIS has become more closely involved in active management of risk, whether to preserve a wide range of Witans operations.
The Company capital or capitalise on opportunities: has established a modus operandi for the effective the application of relevant policies on gearing and coordination of these responsibilities, which has been liquidity: and adapted to ensure full compliance with the AIFMDs requirements without duplication of effort and will the use of share buybacks and issuance to respond to continue to be adapted in the light of experience.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 20 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC STRATEGIC REPORT continued Operationally the multi-manager structure is robust, as Viability statement the investment managers, the custodian and the fund In accordance with the 2014 U K Corporate Governance accountants keep their own records which are regularly Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the reconciled.
The depositary, AIFM and the Board provide Company over a longer period than the 12 months additional checks and risk management safeguards.
required by the Going Concern provision.
The provisions Management monitors the activities of all third parties require the Board to explain, taking account of the and reports any significant issues to the Board.
Companys current position and principal risks, how they have assessed its prospects and over what period and Accounting, legal and regulatory why they consider that period to be appropriate.
The In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company directors must state whether they have a reasonable must comply with sections 1158-59 of the Corporation expectation that the Company will be able to continue in Tax Act 2010 CTA.
A breach of these sections could operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the result in the Company losing investment trust status period of their assessment.
and, as a consequence, capital gains realised within the Companys portfolio would be subject to Corporation The Companys current position and prospects are set Tax.
The criteria are monitored by the CEO and AIFM out in the Chairmans and Chief Executives Report and and reviewed at each Board meeting.
The Company also the Strategic Report.
The principal risks are set out on carefully and regularly monitors compliance with the pages 18 to 20.
T he Board has considered the Companys accounting rules affecting investment trusts.
financial position and its ability to liquidate its portfolio and meet its expenses as they fall due and notes the The Company is required to comply with the provisions of following: the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, and also with the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure The portfolio consists of investments traded on major Guidance and Transparency Rules UKLA Rules.
A international stock exchanges and there is a spread of breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company investments by size of company.
In normal conditions, and or the directors being fined or becoming the subject the current portfolio could be liquidated to the extent of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could of more than 85 % within 5 trading days and there is result in the suspension of the Companys shares which no expectation that the nature of the investments would in turn lead to a breach of the provisions of the held within the portfolio will be materially different in CTA.
future: The closed-ended nature of the Company means that, These legal and regulatory requirements offer significant unlike an open-ended fund, it does not need to realise protection for shareholders.
The Board relies on the investments when shareholders wish to sell their CEO, the AIFM, the Company Secretary and the Groups shares: professional advisers to ensure compliance with all applicable rules.
WIS is authorised and regulated by The Board has considered the viability of the Company the FCA to act as the AIFM for Witan, for the marketing under various scenarios and concluded that it would and administration of savings plans and the provision of usually be able to take appropriate action to protect investment advice to professional clients.
the value of the Companys assets.
As set out in note 14 to the accounts, the Board has considered Liquidity price risk sensitivity the sensitivity of the profit after taxation for the year and the value of the The Companys portfolio consists mainly of securities shareholders funds to changes in the fair value of the that are readily realisable.
The Company and its AIFM Groups investments and foreign currency sensitivity regularly review possible liquidity needs for example to the sensitivity to changes in the exchange rates for cover operational costs, loan servicing and repayment, the US dollar, Euro and Japanese yen: shareholder dividends and share buybacks relative to the Companys portfolio income and the significance of In addition to its cash balances, which were 5 0.
6m at possible liquidity calls relative to the value and tradability 31 December 2016 2015: 57.6 m, the Company has of the Companys assets.
Given that most of the likely a shortterm bank facility which can be used to meet liquidity requirements are readily foreseeable for its liabilities, and fixed-rate financing in the form example, loan payments and dividends are timetabled, of Secured Bonds, Secured Notes and cumulative while others such as share buybacks are subject to preference shares.
With the exception of the shortthe Companys discretion, the Board is satisfied that term facility, this financing will remain in place until unexpected liquidity needs are not significant relative to at least 2025.
Details of the Companys non-current the size of the Companys portfolio and that they could liabilities are set out in note 13 to the accounts: be readily met without compromising normal portfolio management practice.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 21 The expenses of the Company are predictable and Approval modest in comparison with the assets and there are This report was approved by the Board of Directors on no capital commitments currently foreseen which 9 March 2017 and is signed on its behalf by: would alter that position.
As well as considering the principal risks on pages 18 to 20 and the financial position of the Company, the H M Henderson A L C Bell Board has taken account of the following assumptions in Chairman Chief Executive considering the Companys longer-term viability: 9 March 2017 The Companys remit of investing in the securities of global listed companies will continue to be an activity to which investors will wish to have exposure: Investors will continue to want to invest in closedended investment trusts: The performance of the Company will continue to be satisfactory.
The Board is able to replace any of the current investment managers when it considers it appropriate to do so: The Company will continue to have access to adequate capital when required: The Company will continue to be able to fund share buybacks when required.
The Company bought back 18.9m ordinary shares in 2016 at a cost of 143m and experienced no difficulty with having sufficient liquidity to do so.
It had shareholders funds in excess of 1.7bn at the end of 2016.
Based on the results of its review, and taking into account the long-term nature of the Company and its financing, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue its operations and meet its expenses and liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future, taken to mean at least the next five years.
The Board has chosen this figure in view of the fact that whilst it has no information to suggest this judgement will need to change in the coming five years, forecasting over longer periods is imprecise.
The Boards long-term view of viability will of course be reviewed each year in the Annual Report.
Going concern In light of the conclusions drawn in the foregoing Liquidity and Viability Statements, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months.
Therefore, the directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In reviewing the position as at the date of this report, the Board has considered the guidance on this matter issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
