22 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC INVESTMENT MANAGERS The investment managers summaries of their businesses are set out below.
Artemis Investment Management - UK Lindsell Train - UK Established in 1997, Artemis Investment Management Limited Lindsell Train was established in 2000 by Michael Lindsell and manages over 2 4.5bn as at 31.12.1 6 on behalf of a range of Nick Train and focuses on the management of UK, Global and retail and institutional clients.
Witans portfolio is a segregated Japanese equity mandates for institutional clients.
The business mirror of Derek Stuarts 1.
8bn UK Special Situations Strategy was founded on the shared investment philosophy that developed launched in 2001 - a contrarian strategy that aims to outperform while Michael and Nick worked together during the early 1990s the FTSE AllShare Index by 3% per annum.
This approach seeks and which underlies the business today.
The purpose of Lindsell to exploit market inef ciencies, with an absolute return mindset, Train is to provide a professional working environment that in order to generate maximum returns.
It is a stock picking enables the rm to achieve strong investment results for their strategy that aims to achieve long term capital growth by focusing clients.
Lindsell Train thinks it important to maintain a small and on stocks that are out of favour and have turnaround potential.
simple organisational structure that avoids the bureaucracy and distractions experienced within some larger, more complex investment management businesses.
The structure is designed to Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date allow the investment professionals to concentrate on investment UK FTSE AllShare Recovery special 06.05.08 issues and to give them the freedom to invest in line with their situations investment principles, which they believe will maximise returns to their investors over the longer term.
The business has grown steadily and assets under management total 8.87bn as at 31.12.1 6.
Lindsell Train continues to be majority owned by the two founders.
This is important because it ensures they maintain the integrity of the business principles on which the rm was founded.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date UK FTSE All-Share Long-term growth 01.09.10 from undervalued brands Lansdowne Partners UK LLP Heronbridge Investment Management LLP Heronbridge is a longonly, valuebiased equity investment Lansdowne Partners founded in 1998 manages assets for management boutique.
Founded in November 2005, it is a small, a diversi ed client base that includes some of the worlds largest focused, independent rm, controlled by its working partners and most sophisticated investors.
Assets under management who were previously with Merrill Lynch Investment Managers are 14.
8bn as at 31.12.1 6 across multiple equity investment and Silchester International Investors.
Heronbridge currently strategies: European, Developed Markets, Global Financials and manages 1.
6bn as at 31.12.1 6 for institutional and charity Global Energy, each with its own dedicated team of portfolio clients in the UK, the US and elsewhere.
In order to maximise the managers and analysts.
Lansdowne Partners employs over 100 alignment of interests, the rms partners have capped the size of people in its London of ce.
The investment philosophy is the investment programme and have a considerable proportion of predicated on generating consistent, absolute riskadjusted their own assets coinvested alongside those of clients.
returns, through the use of exceptional investment talent within a leadingedge operational infrastructure.
Central to Lansdowne Partners investment philosophy is a rigorous process Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date of fundamental bottom-up research.
The Developed Markets UK FTSE AllShare Intrinsic value 17.06.13 Strategy is managed by Peter Davies and Jonathan Regis, who growth have been with Lansdowne Partners since 2001 and 2003 respectively and who have worked together for over 20 years.
The Developed Markets LongOnly Strategy leverages the fundamental stock analysis of the team, investing predominantly in megacap companies $10bn market cap in developed markets.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Global DJ Global Titans Concentrated, 14.12.12 benchmark independent investment in developed markets Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 23 Tweedy, Browne Company LLC MFS Investment Management MFS Investment Management is a global investment manager Tweedy, Browne Company LLC is principally engaged in the with capabilities spanning all major asset classes.
MFS actively management of international, global and global, highdividend manages 345.3 bn for clients in 30 countries as at 31.12.16. equity portfolios for institutional and individual clients.
Since the As an active, global investment manager MFS has investment rm was founded in 1920 as Tweedy & Co. a dealer in closely professionals developing on-the-ground perspectives of local held and inactively traded securities, they have pursued a value companies from its of ces in Boston, Hong Kong, London, oriented approach to securities, first as a market maker, and Mexico City, So Paulo, Singapore, Sydney, Tokyo, and Toronto.
later, as an investor and manager.
Their investment principles are MFS investment teams use both fundamental and quantitative based upon the broad concepts of intrinsic value and margin of research techniques to construct portfolios designed to meet safety as conceived and practiced by the late Benjamin Graham.
MFS employs a disciplined, consistent For more than 95 years, through depressions, recessions, and approach across a global investment platform, which is guided by stock market cycles, through a quadrupling of interest rates and three core principles: integrated research, global collaboration, the advent of double digit in ation, and through the emergence and active risk management: MFS integrates fundamental equity, and disappearance of numerous investment fads, they have quantitative, and credit disciplines in each of its eight global adhered to the same valueoriented principles of analysis and sector teams as it looks at investment opportunities around investment.
The consistency of their results over many decades the globe for its clients: the MFS team philosophy and incentive has con rmed their con dence in this approach.
Tweedy Browne structure promote strong collaboration across the rm: and MFS has 13.2bn as at 31.12.1 6 of assets under management.
takes a holistic approach to actively managing risk, with multiple reviews in place at the security, portfolio, and enterprise levels.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date MFS is a majority-owned subsidiary of Sun Life of Canada U. S. Global FTSE AllWorld Fundamental value 02.12.13 Financial Services Holdings, Inc. which in turn is an indirect majority-owned subsidiary of Sun Life Financial, Inc. a diversi ed financial services organization.
MFS has been a subsidiary of Sun Life since 1982.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Global FTSE AllWorld Growth at an 30.09.04 attractive price Veritas Asset Management Veritas is an af liate of AMG Group, managing 1 3.8bn as at 31.12.1 6 of assets, with the key objective of delivering longterm real returns to its clients.
Veritas aligns its interest Pzena Investment Management with clients objectives and is committed to partnership.
Veritas Pzena Investment Management is a global, institutional manages both segregated portfolios and funds, with either long investment manager with a strict focus on longterm classic only or long-short real return mandates.
Their clients include value investing.
The rm was founded in late 1995 and began institutions, charities, trusts and private clients.
The Real Return managing assets on 1 January 1996.
Pzena manages $ 30bn Group Limited was set up in 2003 as a boutique focused on real as at 31.12.1 6 in assets for leading endowments foundations return investing.
The Real Return Group Limited and Veritas Asset and pension plans and for individual investors from around the Management UK Limited merged in 2004.
Pzenas team has grown to approximately 100 employees.
Management UK Limited completed a corporate reorganisation The rm is based at its headquarters in New York City and has and Veritas Asset Management LLP was formed as a regulated of ces in Melbourne, Australia and in London, United Kingdom for fund management boutique running Global and Asian Equity business development and client service.
Veritas Asset Management LLP is the UK operating company of the Veritas Asset Partners Limited group, of which Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Veritas Asset Management Asia Limited in Hong Kong is also Global FTSE AllWorld Systematic value 02.12.13 a subsidiary.
In 2014 Veritas Asset Management LLP partnered with AMG Group.
AMG has a stake in a number of investment boutiques and is quoted on the NYSE.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Global FTSE AllWorld Fundamental 11.11.10 value, real return objective Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 24 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC INVESTMENT MANAGERS continued Marathon Asset Management GQG Partners LLC Marathon Asset Management was founded in 1986 and is totally GQG Partners LLC is an independent, employee-owned independent, managing some 43.4bn as at 31.12.1 6 of investment boutique formed in June of 2016 by Rajiv Jain.
As of institutional client assets.
At the heart of Marathons investment 31.12.16, the rm managed 615 million for clients across three philosophy is the capital cycle approach to investment.
This is products: Global, International and Emerging Markets equities.
based on the idea that the prospect of high returns will attract GQG Partners employs a quality growth approach to investing excessive capital and hence competition, and vice versa.
In with an investment horizon of 5 years or longer.
The portfolios are addition, the assessment of management and how they respond managed in a concentrated, benchmark agnostic fashion with a to incentives and the forces of the capital cycle is critical to the long term goal of outperforming the market at lower than market investment outcome.
The investment philosophy is intrinsically risk levels.
Given the longterm nature of the capital cycle, Marathons investment ideas generally require patience and, GQG was appointed with effect from 16 February 2017. by industry standards, long stock holding periods.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Emerging Markets MSCI Emerging Investment in high 16.02.17 Markets quality companies Pan European FTSE AllWorld Capital cycles 23.07.10 with attractively Developed priced future Europe growth prospects Matthews International Capital Management Matthews Asia Matthews Asia, an independent, privately owned rm based in San Francisco, is the largest dedicated Asia-only investment specialist in the U. S. Matthews has 19.9bn as at 31.12.1 6 in assets under management.
Matthews Asia employs a fundamental, bottom-up investment process that seeks to identify companies with sustainable long-term growth prospects, strong business models, quality management teams and reasonable valuations.
Matthews Asia will seek to invest its portion of the Trust in companies that are paying high dividends relative to their current share price, or are well-positioned to do so in the future.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Asia Paci c MSCI Asia Quality companies 20.02.13 Paci c Free with dividend growth Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
