GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for Wizz Air Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Results and dividend The results for the year are shown on page 72.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend 2015: nil.
Directors The Directors of the Company who were in office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements are listed below: E Jzsef Vradi E William A. Franke E John R. Wilson E Stephen L. Johnson E John McMahon E Thierry fide Preux E Simon Duffy E Guido Demuynck E Susan Hooper appointed with effect from 1 March 2016 Going concern Wizz Airs business activities, financial performance and financial position, together with factors likely to affect its future development and performance, are described in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 24.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are described on pages 25 to 28.
Note 3 to the accounts sets out the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for managing its capital and provides details of the risks related to financial instruments held by the Group.
At 31 March 2016, the Group held cash and cash equivalents of 645.6 million while net current assets were 328.7 million.
Other than convertible debt with a balance of 27.2 million the Group has no significant external borrowings.
The Directors have reviewed financial forecasts including plans to finance future aircraft deliveries.
After making enquiries, the Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its liquid resources for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Viability In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the prospects and the viability of the Group over a three-year period to March 2019.
The Directors have determined that the three-year period was the appropriate period because i Wizz Air has a fast expanding business which gives less certainty of certain key forecasting assumptions over a longer period: and ii the Groups strategic planning process traditionally covers three years.
Assessment of prospects The Groups prospects are assessed by management and the Board primarily through the strategic planning process.
This three-year plan takes into account the current position of the Group, includes the fully detailed annual operating plan for the financial year starting in this case for the year ending March 2017 and then, building on it, a sufficiently detailed bottom-up forecast for further two financial years.
The Board participates fully in the process by aligning the key assumptions and the topline financial targets, reviewing and approving the annual operating plan, and reviewing and acknowledging the three-year plan.
The plan takes into account the existing aircraft order book of the Group that defines a programmed growth for several years ahead.
Financing of future aircraft deliveries is already substantially secured until the end of 2018 with lease contracts for some deliveries and with letters of intent for some others.
The Directors believe that the growth assumptions are justified also from the demand side, as the Group continues to execute its core strategy: have lower cost than any of its competitors, and with low prices stimulate further demand for its services both in existing and new markets.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 59 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Viability continued Assessment of viability Although the strategic plan reflects management and the Directors best estimate of the future prospects of the business, they have also tested the resilience of the business to unfavorable deviations of certain key variables from the base case scenario.
In defining these scenarios the Directors took into account the principal risks that could prevent the Group from delivering on its strategy and financial targets, as summarised on pages 26 to 28 in the Strategic Report.
As part of this assessment, the Directors made the following key assumptions caveats: E there will not be a prolonged grounding of a substantial portion of the aircraft fleet: and E if the UK in June 2016 votes to leave the European Union, the terms of exit will be such that will allow the Group to continue to operate broadly the same network to from the UK as at present.
The Directors assessed the potential financial impacts of severe but plausible scenarios that the Group could experience.
The scenarios included significant increase in jet fuel prices, significant strengthening of the US Dollar to the Euro, decreasing unit revenues, increasing crew costs, and a combination of these factors.
While several risks can impact revenues, increased competition in key markets was considered the most important risk both in terms of likelihood and potential impact.
The results of the testing showed that, due to the strong competitive position, operating cash flows and existing reserves of the Group, it would be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios over the period of the financial forecasts.
Viability statement Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to March 2019.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors at the date of approval of the financial statements confirmed that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware, and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.
Independent auditors A resolution for the appointment of the auditors of the Company for the financial year ending 31 March 2017 is to be proposed by the Directors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Indemnities Wizz Air maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
This insurance covers any claim that may be brought against the Directors in the exercise of their duties.
Wizz Air has also provided customary third-party indemnities to its Directors, to the extent permitted under Jersey law.
Political donation and expenditure Wizz Air works constructively with all levels of government across its network, regardless of political affiliation.
Wizz Air believes in the right of individuals to engage in the democratic process: however, Wizz Air itself does not make any political donations and does not incur any political expenditure.
Capital structure As at 31 March 2016, the Company had 56,922,171 Ordinary Shares of 0.0001 each in issue, each with one vote, and 44,830,503 Convertible Shares, which do not entitle the holder to voting rights save in very limited circumstances.
There were no shares held in treasury at that date.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are set out in the articles of association.
Holders of Ordinary Shares have the following rights: a subject to any rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any Ordinary Shares, on a show of hands, each Shareholder present in person shall have one vote, and on a poll each Shareholder present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every Ordinary Share of which he is the holder: b a certificated share may be transferred by means of an instrument in writing, either by the usual transfer form or in any other form that the Board approves, signed by or on behalf of the person transferring the Ordinary Shares and, unless the Ordinary Shares are fully paid, by or on behalf of the person acquiring the Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares in uncertificated form may be transferred by means of the relevant system: Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 60 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Capital structure continued c the right to receive dividends on a pari passu basis: and d on a winding-up, the liquidator may divide amongst the members in specie the whole or any part of the assets of the Company.
During the 2016 financial year 642,056 new Ordinary Shares were allotted for cash, all on a non-pre-emptive basis.
These were allotted pursuant to the exercise of share options by the employees of the Group.
The aggregate nominal value of the Ordinary Shares allotted for cash in the 2016 financial year was 64.
The aggregate cash consideration received by the Company for the allotment of the Ordinary Shares was 1.2 million.
In addition, an aggregate of 4,000,000 Convertible Shares held by Indigo were converted into Ordinary Shares.
Information required by Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C In compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C, the Company discloses the following information: Listing Rule Information required Relevant disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group N A 9.8.
4 2 Unaudited financial information as required Unaudited financial information was LR 9.2.
18 published by the Group in its interim management statements for Q1 and Q3 and in its half-year results.
There have been no changes to the unaudited information previously published.
The Company issued a profit forecast for the 2016 financial year in the Class 1 Circular dated 15 November 2015, prepared in connection with the Airbus purchase order.
The Company expected to report a net profit for the full year excluding unusual and exceptional items in the range of 190 million to 200 million.
The actual underlying net profit for the year was 223.9 million.
The main driver of the higher than forecasted profit is that the actual unhedged fuel price was only $407 ton in the last seven months of the financial year, while the forecast assumed $550 ton.
Actual demand turned out to be broadly in line with the plan.
4 6 Directors waivers of future emoluments N A 9.8.
4 7 Non-pro-rata allotments of equity for cash See paragraph headed Capital the Company structure in this report.
4 8 Non-pro-rata allotments of equity for cash N A major subsidiaries 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of significance involving a Director N A 9.8.
4 11 Contracts of significance involving a N A controlling shareholder 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling shareholder See Corporate Governance Report.
AR 2 a For and on behalf of the Board Jzsef Vradi Chief Executive Officer 24 May 2016 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 61
