Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Strategic report 4 Our business model We care about food At Morrisons we are passionate about providing good quality fresh food at great value for money.
WHAT WE DO We make things Then we move them We have more butchers, bakers, We have 15 well run and well-invested We operate regional distribution fishmongers and other in-store skilled manufacturing sites, making half of the centres and a national centre, servicing colleagues than anywhere fresh food we sell our supermarkets else in UK food retail Regional National Running our own sites gives greater distribution centres distribution centre control over the supply chain and quality of the food we sell 7 1 Manufacturing sites The craft skills of in-store colleagues provides customers with Our fleet consists of over what they want, when they want it, 550 tractors and nearly 1,700 trailers in a way they can trust that cover around 100m kilometres 15 per year.
This has been streamlined to make it more efficient in terms of delivery time and frequency, reducing the amount of kilometres travelled and our carbon emissions And we buy things Continued investment in the chilled supply chain provides even greater freshness of the products we sell We have expanded our range of products The personal relationships we have in response to customer feedback, with farmers and other suppliers means to offer products such as Free From, we can ensure sustainable and ethical World Foods, Food To Go and Nutmeg sourcing to guarantee the integrity clothing in more stores and quality of the products we sell We work directly with suppliers to reduce the length of our supply chain and build long term relationships Morrisons.
com home deliveries are Morrisons own brand supported through our service agreement fresh meat is British sourced Our high manufacturing standards are also with Ocado, allowing us to utilise best expected of our suppliers, ensuring the in class technology and provide industry integrity and quality of the products we sell leading customer service online 100% Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 5 HOW WE ARE DIFFERENT Food maker And sell them We buy direct from farmers and fishermen, so we have more control over the provenance and quality in our stores or online of the food we sell.
We own our fresh food factories.
We prepare and make half of the fresh food we sell.
We have improved the look, feel Owning the supply chain means we get food onto and maintenance of every store this year in our the shelves faster and fresher.
Back to Best programme Customers trust us and our food because they see us making it in store.
The whole estate will be upgraded through our Fresh Look programme by the end of 2018 19 We have more butchers, bakers, fishmongers and other in-store skilled colleagues than anywhere else We have recruited additional staff in UK food retail.
and rescheduled other colleagues to provide Our skilled craftspeople can prepare what customers support at the busiest times of the day reducing want, when they want it.
queues and improving service levels We have introduced new self-service and express Shopkeeper checkouts into all of our stores Our Fresh Look programme will upgrade the whole estate by 2018 19.
Continued investment in sharper prices provides customers with a consistently Every store has its own identity and can reflect great value for money offer its own local neighbourhood and community.
New and existing popular and useful services We have introduced simple display ends and will be tailored to the customers of each store.
fewer, more impactful promotions with clear We are improving the ranges that our customers in-store communication for customers want to buy, such as Free From, World Foods, Food To Go, and Nutmeg clothing.
Over 50% of the UK population has access to our online offer, bringing great value, fresh food to We are working on shorter queues and better those customers who prefer to shop online availability and customers are beginning to notice the difference.
We offer a range of popular and useful services We have simpler display ends, clearer price points, in-store and aim to provide more for customers and fewer and more impactful promotions.
Communication in-store is more consistent and clearer for customers.
Fresh Look programme complete by the end of 2018 19
