STRATEGIC REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW Our presence across Europe Number of routes operated by country as at 22 April 2016: Poland 125 Romania 112 Hungary 55 Bulgaria 29 Lithuania 30 Macedonia 23 Serbia 14 Latvia 10 Ukraine 9 Bosnia and Herzegovina 8 Czech Republic 9 Georgia 7 Slovakia 5 Other Central and Eastern European CEE countries 8 CEE is a region comprised of Albania, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Ukraine.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 5 STRATEGIC REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW CONTINUED History of the Group Wizz Air was founded in 2003 by its current Chief Executive Officer CEO Jzsef Vradi and five other individuals who recognised a demand for low-cost carriers in CEE driven in particular by the accession of ten new EU member states on 1 May 2004, eight of which are in CEE the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia, and the anticipated accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU in January 2007.
Wizz Air was established with bases in Budapest in Hungary and Katowice in Poland and its first flight took off from Katowice on 19 May 2004.
Significant milestones in the development of Wizz Air since its first flight have included: FY 2005 E By the end of its first year of operation, Wizz Air had established bases in Hungary and Poland, and started flying to eight other European countries Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom, flying a total of 36 routes by March 2005.
E On-board catering, hotel bookings, car rental services and airport agents were offered as ancillary services.
E Indigo Partners and certain EU investors provided financing to Wizz Air in the form of convertible loans and Convertible Notes.
E 0.9 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had six aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2006 E A third base was established in Gdansk, Poland.
E First aircraft order placed with Airbus to acquire twelve A320 aircraft.
E 2.1 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had eight aircraft in its fleet at year end.
FY 2007 E A base was established in Sofia in Bulgaria, ahead of the country joining the EU in January 2007.
Wizz Air started flying to Croatia, Romania and the Netherlands, bringing the number of operated routes to 64 at the year end.
E A second order was placed with Airbus to acquire a further 20 A320 aircraft.
E Priority boarding was launched as an additional ancillary service.
E Indigo Partners and certain EU investors provided further financing to Wizz Air in the form of convertible notes and equity.
E 3.1 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had ten aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2008 E A base was opened in Romania and Wizz Air started flying to Norway.
Wizz Air operated 86 routes at the year end.
E A third order was placed with Airbus to acquire 50 A320 aircraft.
E Multi-currency pricing, extra legroom and travel insurance products were launched.
E 4.6 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 17 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2009 E Wizz Air Ukraine was established in July 2008, the countrys first low-cost carrier, and a base was opened in Kiev.
Wizz Air started flying to Finland and operated 124 routes at the year end.
E 6.2 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 22 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2010 E A base was opened in Prague in the Czech Republic and Wizz Air started flying to Latvia.
E A fourth order was placed with Airbus to acquire 50 later reduced to 30 A320 aircraft.
E First co-branded credit card was launched in Hungary, followed by similar programmes in Poland and Romania.
E 8.2 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 30 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 6 STRATEGIC REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW CONTINUED History of the Group continued FY 2011 E Wizz Air started flying to Serbia and Turkey, operating a total of 194 routes at the year end, and subsequently opened a base in Belgrade in Serbia.
E Wizz Air established a new head office in Geneva, Switzerland.
E An online check-in option was launched and charges were implemented for airport check-in.
E 9.8 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 35 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2012 E A base was established in Vilnius in Lithuania and Wizz Air started flying to Cyprus, operating a total of 217 routes at the year end.
E Wizz Exclusive Club the predecessor to the Wizz Discount Club loyalty programme was launched.
E Wizz Reserved Seat ancillary product selling the first two rows of seats was launched.
E 11.3 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 36 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2013 E A base was established in Macedonia and Wizz Air started flying to Georgia, Israel, Slovenia and Switzerland, operating a total of 233 routes at the year end.
E A new cabin baggage policy was introduced.
Wizz Air was the first EU airline to charge for large cabin baggage.
E Re-launched and re-branded the loyalty programme as Wizz Discount Club.
E A mobile sales channel was launched to enable bookings on iOS and Android mobile telephones.
E 12.3 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 40 aircraft in its fleet at year end.
FY 2014 E A base was established in Donetsk, Ukraine, and Wizz Air started flying to Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Malta, Moldova, Russia, Slovakia and the United Arab Emirates.
E The Wizz Air flight simulator and training centre in Budapest, Hungary, opened.
E Wizz Tours package holiday booking platform commenced sales in October 2013.
E Part 145 maintenance organisation established enabling Wizz Air to perform certain in-house maintenance activities.
E 13.9 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 46 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2015 E Bases were opened in Riga, Latvia, in June 2014 and in Craiova, Romania, in July 2014.
E The Donetsk, Ukraine, base was suspended in April 2014 due to a political crisis in the east of the country.
E Wizz Air announced bases in Tuzla, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Kosice, Slovakia, with operations starting in June 2015.
E Wizz Air commenced flights to Egypt, Portugal and Denmark.
E Baggage fee discounts were offered to Wizz Discount Club members.
E Two types of memberships of Wizz Discount Club were created, comprising a standard membership for two passengers and a group membership for up to six passengers.
E Significant summer 2015 route expansion was announced for Wizz Airs core markets in CEE.
New destinations included Aberdeen, Belfast and Bristol United Kingdom, Billund Denmark, Hurghada Egypt, Iasi Romania, Kosice Slovakia, Lisbon Portugal, Maastricht and Groningen the Netherlands, Molde Norway, Nis Serbia, Nuremberg Germany, Ohrid Macedonia and Pescara Italy.
E Wizz Air announced the closure of Wizz Air Ukraine and the consolidation of Ukrainian routes into the Wizz Air Hungary route network.
E In March 2015 the Company completed an initial public offering IPO with a premium listing of its shares on the London Stock Exchange.
E 16.5 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 55 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
STRATEGIC REPORT Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 7 COMPANY OVERVIEW CONTINUED History of the Group continued FY 2016 E In April 2015 Wizz Air announced the introduction of full allocated seating on all services.
E In May 2015 a comprehensive re-branding, including new livery, was announced.
E Network expansion continued with steady growth and the following new destinations were added: Reykjavik Iceland, Tenerife Spain, Chisinau Moldova, Birmingham UK, Palanga Lithuania, Bratislava Slovakia, Kaunas Lithuania, Ibiza Spain, Porto Portugal.
E Stable growth requires a stable source of professional pilots and Wizz Air launched its Cadet Pilot program in September to train and eventually hire new pilots for its growing fleet.
E New bases were opened in Tuzla Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosice Slovakia in June, Lublin Poland in September, and in Debrecen Hungary in December 2015.
E New bases were announced for Sibiu Romania operating from July 2016, Iasi Romania from August 2016 and for Kutaisi Georgia from September 2016.
E The Company concluded a purchase agreement with Airbus for 110 A321neo aircraft, the first deliveries taking place in 2019.
E Wizz Air reached the cumulative 100 million passenger milestone.
E Wizz Tours online tour operator business unit previously outsourced was brought in house in October 2015.
E In November 2015 the first A321ceo aircraft was delivered to the fleet followed by a further three aircraft by the end of March 2016.
FY 2017 to date E Network expansion has continued with a steady growth and the following new destinations were added: Olsztyn-Mazury Poland, Suceava Romania and Podgorica Montenegro.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 8
