Strategic report Governance Financials Other information In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company Directors Report other disclosures to purchase its own ordinary shares and the Company seeks Articles of Association authority on an annual basis to renew the Directors limited authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market pursuant The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a to Article 57 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
It is intended special resolution of the shareholders.
that a special resolution will be proposed at the2016AGM to grant authority for the Company to purchase up to approximately Appointment and removal of Directors 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, calculated at The Board may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of limitations of the law and the Companys Articles of Association.
The special resolution will set the minimum and maximum The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more Directors prices which may be paid.
The Directors have no present intention and the Board may appoint any person it considers appropriate to of exercising this authority to purchase the Companys shares be a Director.
Under the Articles of Association any such Director but will keep the matter under review.
The Directors will use this shall hold ofce only until the next Annual General Meeting AGM authority to purchase shares only after careful consideration, taking and shall then be eligible for election.
In addition, the Articles into account market conditions, other investment opportunities, require that at each AGM at least one-third of the current Directors appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of must retire as Directors by rotation.
All those Directors who have the Company.
The authority will enable the Directors to continue been in ofce for three years or more since their last appointment to be able to respond promptly should circumstances arise in shall retire at that AGM.
Any Director may at any AGM retire from which they consider that such a purchase would result in an ofce and stand for re-election.
However, in accordance with the increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests provisions of the Code, the Board has agreed that all continuing of the Company.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Directors will stand for annual election at the 2016 AGM.
Association, the Company is allowed to hold shares purchased by it as Treasury shares that may be cancelled, sold for cash or Authority to allot shares used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The authorities At the 2015 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to allot to be sought by each of the resolutions noted above are intended new ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 18,496,980. to apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as Treasury The Directors intend to propose at the 2016 AGM to seek authority shares and to the sale of Treasury shares.
The Directors consider to allot and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert securities it desirable for these general authorities to be available to provide into shares up to an aggregate nominal amount representing exibility in the management of the Companys capital resources.
approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital excluding Treasury shares, calculated at the latest practicable Capitalised interest date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM, but of that amount The Group does not have capitalised interest of any signicance only one-third of the Companys issued share capital excluding onits balance sheet.
Treasury shares, calculated at the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM, may be allotted pursuant to a Change of control significant agreements fully pre-emptive rights issue.
If approved, this authority will expire The Company is not party to any significant agreements that take at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, the Directors will except for the US$800 million US Private Placement Bonds issued also recommend that they be empowered to allot equity securities on 1 September 2015, the 800 million multi-currency revolving credit for cash or to sell or transfer shares out of Treasury other than pro facility agreement dated 3 June 2015, the amended US$600 million rata to existing shareholders, until the 2016 AGM.
This authority receivables facility agreement originally entered into on 31 July shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an 2013 and the US$438 million USprivate placement Bonds issued aggregate nominal amount of no more than approximately 5 per cent on 16 November 2005 which could become repayable following of the issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable a relevant change of control.
There are no agreements between date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM as well as an additional the Company and any Director that would provide compensation 5 per cent, which may only be used for an acquisition or specified for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a change of control capital investment which is announced contemporaneously with the following a takeover bid, except that provisions of the Companys issue or which has taken place in the preceding six-month period share schemes may cause options and awards granted under and is disclosed in the announcement of the issue in accordance such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
All of the Companys with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles.
share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become Authority to purchase shares exercisable for a limited period of time upon a change of control On 29 September 2015, the Company announced a 300 million following a takeover, reconstruction or winding up of the Company share repurchase programme the 2015 Buyback Programme not being an internal reorganisation, subject at that time to rules as a method of returning surplus capital to shareholders.
concerning the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
The 2015 Buyback Programme was completed during the year.
From 29 September 2015 to 19 May 2016, 7,862,836 ordinary Conicts of interest 53 shares of 10 66 pence were purchased for a consideration of Processes and procedures are in place which require the Directors 300 million, representing 2.95 per cent of the issued share capital to identify and declare actual or potential conicts of interest, of the Company as at 29 September 2015.
All shares purchased whether matter-specic or situational.
These notications are were held in Treasury and some were subsequently transferred made by a Director prior to or at a Board meeting, or in writing.
from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Companys share plans.
All Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes.
Additional details concerning the 2015 Buyback Programme The Board may authorise potential conicts which can be limited canbe found in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
inscope, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
As at 31 July 2016, the Company held 14,259,276 ordinary shares These authorisations are regularly reviewed.
During theyear, 53 of 10 66 pence in Treasury.
all conict management procedures were adhered to and operated efficiently.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Accountability continued CREST Independent Auditors and audit information The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement In respect of the consolidated financial statements for the financial system for stocks and shares.
year ended 31 July 2016, the Directors in ofce at the date of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Deloitte LLP Deloitte Disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought The relevant disclosures concerning capitalised interest: the to have been taken as a Director to be aware of any relevant allotments of equity securities for cash: contracts of signicance audit information and to establish that Deloitte are aware of and dividend waiver can be found on pages 55, 55 and 71 of this that information.
The remaining disclosures required by the above Listing Rule are not applicable to the Company.
Deloitte is willing to act as auditors of the Company, and resolutions concerning their appointment and the determination Employees of their remuneration will be proposed at the 2016 Annual The Group actively encourages employee involvement in driving General Meeting.
our current and future success and places particular importance on keeping employees regularly informed about the Groups Political donations activities and financial performance and on matters affecting No political donations or contributions to political parties under the them individually and the business generally.
This can be through Companies Act 2006 have been made during the financial year.
informal bulletins, in-house publications and briengs, as well as via The Group policy is that no political donations be made or political the Groups intranet sites.
A European Works Council EWC has been operating since Restrictions on transfer of shares 1996 to provide a forum for informing and consulting employees in Europe on such matters as significant developments in the There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Groups operations, managements plans and organisational Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in changes within the Group.
There are currently 13 EWC the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company representatives, of which eight are employee representatives and carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Employee representatives The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of are appointed from each European country in which securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities Wolseley operates.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
All employees are offered a range of benets depending on their local environment including through participation in the Companys Share capital and voting rights all-employee sharesave plans where applicable.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with any movements in the issued share capital during the year, are Employment policies shown in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements on Our employment policies aim to attract the very best people page99.
and we believe that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor in being a successful business.
For more information on this, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 seepages 12 and 28. and without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with such rights and The Group also has policies in place relating to the continuation restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine of employment of, and appropriate retraining for, employees or as the Board shall determine.
Copies of the Companys Articles who become disabled, for giving full and fair consideration to of Association can be obtained from Companies Registry, Jersey, applications for employment by disabled persons, having regard or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
to their particular attributes and abilities, and for the training, careerdevelopment and promotion of disabled employees.
The Company also has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme in the USA for which Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas acts as Depositary.
The American Depositary Indemnities and insurance Shares ADS which are evidenced by ADRs are traded on The Company indemnifies the Directors in respect of liabilities the USA over-the-counter market, where each ADS represents incurred as a result of their ofce in accordance with its Articles of one-tenth of a Wolseley plc ordinary share.
Association and to the maximum extent permitted by Jersey law.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions to the maximum extent Shareholder notications permitted by English law were granted to all Directors in ofce by Wolseley plc now known as Wolseley Limited and these remain in Notications received by the Company pursuant to the Financial force as at the date of this report.
When Wolseley plc registered in Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules Jersey became the new holding company, additional third-party are published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the indemnity provisions were granted by the Company, and it has Companys website.
As at 31 July 2016 and at the date of this granted indemnities in accordance with Jersey law to all Directors report, the following information has been received in accordance and the Company Secretary appointed since November 2010. with DTR5, from holders of notiable interests in the Companys issued share capital.
There is appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal action against the Directors and ofcers.
Neither the Companys 1 Name of holder Percentage of issued voting share capital indemnities nor insurance would provide any coverage to FIL Limited 4.96% the extent that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
4.60% Legal & General Group Plc 3.05% 1 Since the disclosure date, the shareholders interests in the Company may have changed.
Wolseley plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information present information, including accounting policies, in a Further disclosures manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Further disclosures required under the Companies Act 2006, understandable information: Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the FCAs provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found specic requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to on the following pages of this Annual Report and are incorporated understand the impact of particular transactions, other events into the Directors Report by reference: and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Page make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a Details of the Companys proposed final dividend going concern.
payment for the year ended 31 July 2016 32 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Disclosures relating to exposure to price, credit, liquidity 106 to transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the and cash ow risks 113 financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that Disclosures relating to financial risk management 106 to the financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law objectives and policies, including our policy for hedging 113 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Going concern statement 33 Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Viability statement 35 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions 29 the corporate and financial information included on the Companys The management report for the year 1 to 57 website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Information concerning post-balance sheet events 105 from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Future developments within the Group 1 to 39 The Directors of Wolseley plc as at the date of this Annual Report 1 Details of the Groups profit for the year ended are as follows : 31July2016 30 Gareth Davis, Chairman 99 and John Martin, Group Chief Executive Shares issued during the year 112 Frank Roach, Chief Executive officer, USA Directors responsibilities statement Alan Murray, Senior Independent Director The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Tessa Bamford and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
John Daly Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Pilar Lpez statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors Darren Shapland are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Jacky Simmonds IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the Non Executive Director.
IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company 1 Ian Meakins stepped down as Group Chief Executive on 31 August 2016. financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Each Director confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Standards and applicable law, including FRS 101 Reduced the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors must relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation profit or loss of the Company for that period.
taken as a whole: In preparing the parent company financial statements, the the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and Directors are required to: performance of the business and the position of the Company select suitable accounting policies and then apply and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as them consistently: a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a and prudent: whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and position and performance, business model and strategy.
explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis The Directors Report, comprising pages 2 to 72 was approved by unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will the Board and signed on its behalf by: continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: Graham Middlemiss properly select and apply accounting policies: Group Company Secretary 26 September 2016 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57
