BOARD OF DIRECTORS Susan Searle Scott Brown Chairman of the Board and the Management Engagement Member of the Management Engagement and Audit Committees Committee and a member of the Audit Committee Scott is Chief Executive of Nexeon Limited, an Imperial College Susan served as the Chief Executive of Touchstone Innovations spin-out focused on developing silicon anode technology for plc formerly Imperial Innovations plc from January 2002 to July next generation Li-ion battery technology.
During his tenure, 2013, where she led funding rounds totalling circa 250m.
he has led the change in the companys strategy to During her tenure, Touchstone Innovations invested 121m in successfully move from an IP licensing business model to one a portfolio of healthcare, engineering and software businesses of material production and supply.
Previously, Scott was linked to major universities.
Executive Vice President at Cambridge Display Technology CDT, responsible for commercial and IP activities of the company.
Prior to CDT, Scott was Global R&D Director for the Previously she worked at Montech in Australia science Electronic Materials Business at Dow Corning, a UScommercialisation, Signet Group plc, Bank of Nova Scotia and headquartered multinational corporation with over US$6bn Shell Chemicals in a variety of business development and in annual revenues.
Scott holds a PhD in Chemistry and is a commercial roles.
Susan currently serves as non-executive Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry.
director of Horizon Discovery Group plc, Benchmark Holdings plc and QinetiQ Group plc.
She is also Chair of Mercia Technologies plc, an investment business that invests in high-growth technology businesses with a focus on the Midlands, North and Scotland.
Susan has an MA in Chemistry from Oxford University.
28 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 29 Carolan Dobson Steven Harris Member of the Management Engagement and Audit Committees Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Carolan Dobson has a background in fund management Management Engagement Committee and is an experienced non-executive director in public and Steven is Chief Executive of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc.
private sector organisations, including a diverse portfolio of He is a bioscience entrepreneur with extensive experience investment trust roles.
She spent her executive career at of founding and leading specialty pharmaceutical Murray Johnstone Ltd, where she managed Murray Income companies.
Prior to co-founding Circassia in 2006, he was a plc and was a main board director, and later joined Abbey founding member of the team that grew Zeneus Pharma National Asset Management as head of UK.
Ltd into a leading specialty pharmaceuticals company.
Carolan is currently the Chair of JP Morgan European Smaller Prior to Zeneus, he spent seven years at PowderJect Companies Trust plc, The Brunner Investment Trust plc, Pharmaceuticals plc as Chief Financial Officer, where he was a Schroders UK Growth plc and Blackrock Latin American key member of the team that grew the early-stage private Investment Trust plc.
She retires from her position as biotechnology organisation into an integrated, profitable Chairman of Aberdeen Smaller Companies Income Trust plc public company, which became the worlds fifth largest on 28th April 2017 having served for a number of years.
She is vaccines business before being acquired by Chiron also a non-executive director of Nest Corporation.
Steven holds a BSc from Southampton University and is a Chartered Accountant and member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
28 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 29 Alan Hodson Dame Louise Makin Member of the Management Engagement and Audit Committees Member of the Management Engagement and Audit Committees Alan Hodson is the senior independent director of Louise joined BTG plc, a growing global specialist JPMorgan Elect plc and non-executive director healthcare company in the FTSE 250, as Chief Executive in HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited.
During her time with the company, Louise and Pitman subsequently SG Warburg, SBC and UBS in has overseen a strategic business review leading to a focus 1984 and worked in a range of roles, all related to on life sciences, expansion into the US and a series of international equity markets.
He became Global Head of acquisitions.
Prior to joining BTG, Louise was with Baxter Equities in April 2001 and was a member of the Executive Healthcare initially as Vice President, Strategy & Business Committee of UBS Investment Bank and of the UBS AG Development Europe and then as President, Group Managing Board.
Biopharmaceuticals Europe, where she was responsible for Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Alan retired from UBS in June 2005 and has since held positions on a variety of financial and charity boards.
He Louises previous roles include director of Global Ceramics at joined BlackRock Commodities Income Investment Trust English China Clay and a variety of positions at ICI between plc in 2005, as Chair of the Board, a role he held until 2015, 1985 and 1998.
Louise is a non-executive director of Intertek on completion of his nine-year tenure.
He was a partner at Group plc, and a trustee of the Outward Bound Trust.
Louise Mill Street Asset Management from 2006 to 2014, and a holds an MA and PhD in Materials Science and is an Honorary member of the Advisory Board of Norges Bank Investment Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge.
In addition to his commercial board roles, Alan has served on the boards of a number of charities, including as Chairman of Trustees of the Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity 2007-2015.
30 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 31
