STATUTORY INFORMATION Board members, and Directors and officers insurance The names and biographical details of the Directors who served on the Board as at the year end can be found on pages 28 to 30.
Carolan Dobson and Alan Hodson were appointed to the Board on 28 July 2016.
During the year under review, the Company purchased and maintained Directors' and officers' liability insurance for its Directors and officers as permitted by Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
Additionally, the Company has specific Public Offering and Securities Insurance which commenced on 24 February 2015 with a five-year run-off period.
Status of the Company The Company was incorporated in England & Wales on 26 January 2015 and started trading on 21 April 2015, immediately upon the Companys listing.
It is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act CTA and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
HM Revenue & Customs approved the Company as an investment trust upon its listing.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs so that it is able to maintain its status as an investment trust.
The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the provisions of the CTA and has no employees.
Internal controls and risk management The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risk on behalf of the Company.
Further details of the Companys principal risks can be found on pages 23 and 24 and internal controls can be found on page 46.
Share capital voting and dividend As at 31 December 2016, the Company had 827 million ordinary shares in issue.
There are no other classes of shares in issue and no shares are held in treasury.
At the last AGM, the Board was granted authority to allot ordinary shares in the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 827,000, representing approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
No shares have been issued under this authority.
The Directors are seeking to renew this authority which will expire at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 12 June 2017.
The ordinary shares carry the right to receive dividends and have one voting right per ordinary share.
There are no shares which carry specific rights with regard to the control of the Company.
The shares are freely transferable.
There are no restrictions or agreements between shareholders on the voting rights of any of the ordinary shares or the transfer of shares.
The Company does not have a fixed life nor is the Company subject to a continuation vote as can sometimes be required of investment companies in accordance with their Articles of Association.
On wind up, the ordinary shareholders are entitled to the capital of the Company.
The Directors do not propose the payment of a dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 2015: 0.16 pence per share.
Substantial share interest During the year to 31 December 2016, the Company received notification in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R of the following interests in 3 per cent or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital.
Holder Ordinary Securities Percentage Date shares lending of total notified voting rights BlackRock, Inc 98,697,719 5,006,724 12.53% 29 December 2016 Following the year end, the Company received the following notifications: Holder Ordinary Securities Percentage Date shares lending of total notified voting rights BlackRock, Inc 97,754,873 2,764,266 12.15% 15 February 2017 Securities lending is the act of loaning a stock, derivative or other security to an investor or firm.
38 38 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 39 39 Independent auditor Viability statement The Companys independent auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP In accordance with Principle 21 of the AIC Code of Corporate Grant Thornton, has expressed willingness to continue to act as Governance published in July 2016 and provision C. 2.2 of the UK the Companys auditor for the forthcoming financial year.
The Audit Corporate Governance Code, published by the FRC in April 2016, the Committee has carefully considered the auditors appointment, as Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over the required in accordance with its Terms of Reference, and, having five-year period to 31 December 2021.
The Directors consider regard to its effectiveness and the services it has provided the that a period of at least five years is required to assess the viability of Company during the period under review, has recommended to an investment company that holds predominantly young unquoted the Board that the independent auditor be re-appointed at the or smallto medium-sized companies, as they believe this to be a forthcoming AGM.
Resolutions are therefore to be proposed for reasonable period of time for such young companies to make its appointment and to authorise the Directors to agree its meaningful progress on the journey towards fulfilling their long-term remuneration for the forthcoming financial year.
In its assessment of the viability of the Company, the decision, the Audit Committee considered the points detailed on Directors have considered each of the Companys principal risks and page 49 of the Audit Committees report.
uncertainties detailed on pages 23 and 24 and in particular the impact of the total collapse of one or more of the Companys Audit information significant holdings.
The Board has considered the Companys likely As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the income and expenditure.
The Board is particularly mindful that a Directors who held office at the date of this report each confirm significant proportion of the Companys portfolio comprises cash that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit and equity assets traded on public markets 52 per cent as at information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each 31 December 2016, which are easily realisable and that can be sold Director has taken all the steps required of a Director to make to meet funding requirements, if required.
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
The Board has given careful consideration to the Companys estimated annual expenditure on operating costs, the Companys risks and internal controls, the Companys asset allocation and Articles of Association diversification, portfolio risk, financial controls, and the restrictions Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must set to the Companys level of gearing.
Following the Boards detailed be made by special resolution.
analysis, it has concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue to operate and to meet Global greenhouse gas emissions for the period from 1 January its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period to 31 2016 to 31 December 2016 December 2021.
The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions Management and administration producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Company secretary and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited the company secretary is the corporate company secretary of the Company Going concern on the basis of a fee of 55,000 per annum exclusive of VAT and The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern out-of-pocket expenses plus any additional ad hoc expenses that basis.
Having had regard to the Companys projected income and may fall outside the scope of their agreement that are normally expenses, the Directors consider that going concern is the charged on a time-spent basis unless otherwise agreed with the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that, with in Board.
The company secretarial agreement can be terminated by excess of 771m of total assets, 52 per cent of which is realisable, the either party by providing six months written notice.
Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12-month period.
The Directors shall continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing Administrator the financial statements.
Northern Trust Global Services Limited the administrator, a company authorised and regulated by the FCA, has been appointed as the administrator of the Company.
The administrator is responsible for the Companys general administrative functions, such as the calculation of the net asset value and maintenance of the Companys accounting records.
The fee payable to the administrator is based on the Companys net assets.
The fees for the period under review equated to 0.01 per cent of the Companys net assets exclusive of VAT and out-of-pocket expenses.
The administrator agreement can be terminated by either party by providing six months written notice.
38 38 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 39 39 AIFM AGM Capita Financial Managers Limited, a UK-based Company authorised The Companys AGM will be held on 12 June 2017 at Modern Art and regulated by the FCA, has been appointed the Companys AIFM Oxford, 30 Pembroke St, Oxford, OX1 1BP at 11.00 am.
for the purposes of the AIFMD.
The AIFM monitors the Portfolio Manager of the Company and ensures that the Companys assets are Shareholders are being asked to vote on various items of valued appropriately in accordance with the relevant regulations and business, being: guidance.
The fees payable to the AIFM are on a sliding scale, based on the Companys proportion of Woodford Investment Management the receipt and adoption of the Company's annual financial Limiteds gross assets.
Throughout the period the fees payable were statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, together with based on 0.0125 per cent of the Companys total assets.
The AIFMs the strategic report, Directors' reports and the auditor's report agreement can be terminated by either party providing three on those financial statements: months written notice.
the receipt and approval of the Directors' remuneration report: t he election re-election of Directors: and Portfolio Manager the re-appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditor and the The Companys Portfolio Manager is Woodford Investment authorisation of the Board to determine the remuneration of Management Limited, an investment management firm authorised the auditor.
Neil Woodford has primary responsibility for management of the Companys portfolio.
Further details of how Resolutions relating to the following items of business will also be the Portfolio Manager is remunerated can be found in note 4 proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Portfolio Managers agreement may be terminated after the Companys third anniversary following its Resolution 11: authority to allot shares listing by the AIFM or the Portfolio Manager providing three months Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of AGM is an ordinary resolution written notice.
and will, if passed, authorise the Directors for a period of 15 months from the date on which the Resolution is passed or until the Depositary following AGM to be held in 2018, if earlier to allot up to 82,700,000 The Companys depositary is Northern Trust Global Services ordinary shares of 1p each or 10 per cent of the Companys shares Limited the depositary, a company authorised by the Prudential in issue, with a nominal value of 827,000, which will replace the Regulation Authority PRA and regulated by the FCA and PRA.
The current authority granted to the Directors at the last AGM.
Northern Trust Company as a delegate of the depositary provides custody services to the Company.
The fee payable to the depositary The shares will only be issued at par or at a premium to net asset is based on the Companys net assets.
The fees throughout the value at the time of issue and at a time when the Directors believe period under review equated to 0.01 per cent of the Companys net it to be in the best interest of the Companys shareholders.
assets exclusive of VAT and out-of-pocket expenses.
The depositary agreement can be terminated by either party by providing six Resolution 12: authority to disapply pre-emption rights months written notice.
Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of AGM is a special resolution and will, if passed, authorise the Directors for a period of 15 months Continuing appointment of the Portfolio Manager from the date on which the Resolution is passed or until the The Board keeps the performance of the Portfolio Manager under following AGM to be held in 2018, if earlier to allot up to 82,700,000 continual review.
It is the opinion of the Directors that the ordinary shares of 1p each, or 10 per cent of the Companys shares continuing appointment of the Portfolio Manager is in the interests of in issue with a total nominal value of 827,000 for cash on a shareholders as a whole.
The reasons for this view are that the non-pre-emptive basis, which will replace the current authority Companys performance has been in line with expectations for a granted to the Directors at the last AGM.
The Directors believe that by paying the portfolio management fee as a percentage of excess The Directors intend to use this authority at a time when they believe returns over a cumulative 10 per cent per annum hurdle rate, subject it to be in the best interest of the shareholders as a whole and to to a high watermark, the interests of the Portfolio Manager are more satisfy demand for the Companys shares.
The shares will only be closely aligned with those of shareholders.
issued at par or at a premium to net asset value at the time of issue.
Change of control Resolution 13: authority to buy back shares There are no agreements which the Company is party to that might Resolution 13 set out in the Notice of AGM is a special resolution and be affected by a change of control of the Company.
will, if passed, authorise the Directors for a period of 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed or until the following AGM Post year-end events to be held in 2018, if earlier to buy back up to 123,967,300 ordinary Save as otherwise disclosed, there have been no important events shares of 1p each, or 14.99 per cent of the Companys shares in issue to disclose since the period end under review.
with a nominal value of 1,239,673, which will replace the current authority granted to the Directors at the last AGM.
The maximum Regulatory disclosures information to be disclosed in accordance price exclusive of expenses which may be paid by the Company in with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 relation to any such purchase is the higher of: The Company has nothing to disclose in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
4. i five per cent above the average of the market value of shares for the five business days before the day of purchase: or ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
40 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 41 The minimum price which may be paid is 1p per share, being the The full text of the resolutions being proposed at the AGM can nominal price per share.
The decision as to whether to buy back any be found on pages 90 and 91. ordinary shares will be at the discretion of the Board.
Ordinary shares bought back in accordance with the authority granted to the The Board considers that all of the resolutions described above Board will either be held in treasury or cancelled.
If the shares are and disclosed on pages 90 and 91 are in the best interests of the held in treasury, they may be reissued from treasury but will only be Companys shareholders and are likely to promote the success of reissued at a price that is in excess of the Companys then prevailing the Company.
The Board and Portfolio Manager recommend that net asset value.
The Company will fund any buyback by using the you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect Companys cash resources or utilising the Companys loan facility.
of their own beneficial holdings.
Resolution 14: notice period for general meetings By order of the Board Resolution 14 set out in the Notice of AGM is a special resolution and will, if passed, allow the Company to hold General Meetings Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited other than Annual General Meetings on a minimum notice period Company secretary of 14 clear days, rather than 21 clear days as required by the 20 April 2017 Companies Act 2006.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM to be held in 2018.
The Directors will only call General Meetings on 14 clear days notice when they consider it to be in the best interests of the Companys shareholders and will only do so if the Company offers facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic means.
Special business Resolution 15: amendment to investment policy Resolution 15 set out in the Notice of AGM is an ordinary resolution and will, if passed, allow the Company to amend its investment policy as described on page 19.
The proposed new investment objective and investment policy are set out in full in Appendix 1 on page 95 of this annual report, with all the amendments to the existing investment objective and investment policy highlighted for ease of reference.
Resolution 16: electronic communications The Company is seeking to take advantage of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 to allow electronic communications with its shareholders, including making important documents available through its website, and an ordinary resolution authorising this is included in the Notice of AGM.
The resolution, if passed, would allow the Company to use electronic communications with shareholders by placing documents such as the annual report on a website rather than sending them in hard copy.
The Company will notify those shareholders who have elected for electronic communication, by post or email if they have provided an email address, that the document is available on the website.
Shareholders can, however, ask for a hard copy of any document at any time.
If this resolution is passed, the new arrangements are expected to result in potential administrative, printing and postage cost savings for the Company, while preserving shareholders rights to receive hard copy documents if they so wish.
40 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 41
