KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Performance and indicators The Company calculates the ongoing charges ratio as a percentage of Performance is measured against the Company's objective of in average shareholders' funds and expenses, excluding finance costs, excess of 10 per cent growth per year.
During the period to 31 performance fees and taxation, in accordance with AIC guidelines.
December 2016 the Company's net asset value declined by 4.2 per This gives an indication as to the Company's expenses to its cent.
A more detailed explanation of the Company's performance shareholders and potential investors.
The Board monitors the can be found in the Portfolio Manager's review on pages 8 to 10 Company's estimated ongoing charges against its peers at each and the Chairman's statement on page 7.
Board meeting to ensure that the Company remains competitive against its peers.
It is not expected that the ongoing charges will The key performance indicators KPIs monitored by the Board are exceed 0.2 per cent, which compares favourably with the Company's the progress that the top 10 holdings in the portfolio make against peers who operate with an average ongoing charges level of 1.03 commercial, operational and technical milestones.
As at 31 December 2016 the Company's ongoing charge the next 10 holdings is also reviewed with less frequency.
entrants and emerging portfolio company progress is also discussed.
Woodford is committed to greater transparency on the total cost of investing.
Since July 2016, all transaction costs, in addition to the Performance against other trusts ongoing charge figure, have been disclosed monthly on its website The Company is positioned within the AIC's UK All Companies sector to help investors better understand the total, true cost of investing.
by most investment company broker analysts.
The Board does not have a specific benchmark against which performance is measured.
Gearing It believes that operational progress is the key performance indicator As at 31 December 2016, the Company had gearing of 74,640,000 in this unique portfolio of quoted and unquoted assets.
9.6 per cent, in respect of an overdraft, while the average level of gearing amongst its peers was 3.8 per cent.
Share price premium discount to net asset value per share During the Companys first financial period to 31 December 2015, it issued a total of 827,000,000 ordinary shares in order to meet natural Portfolio diversification market demand and no shares were bought back.
However, no At each Board meeting the Board reviews the Company's portfolio to further shares were issued in the year under review.
The Company's monitor the Company's exposure to various sectors, geographical shares traded at an average premium of 0.4 per cent to its net asset areas, investment split between listed and unlisted equities and value cum income throughout the year to 31 December 2016. early-growth, early-stage and mid-large companies to ensure there is sufficient diversification of the Company's portfolio.
However, as the Ongoing charges portfolio value grows it is expected to become more concentrated Woodford does not receive a fee for managing this investment trust, around a number of large assets.
unless it delivers cumulative annual returns in excess of 10 per cent.
The ongoing charges cover the general administrative and For and on behalf of the Board of Directors by management costs associated with running the trust.
Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited Secretary 20 April 2017 24 24 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 25 25 26 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 27 DIRECTORS REPORT 26 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 27
