Our markets We operate in attractive markets As an international company, we operate across multiple markets with varying characteristics.
For more information on specic regional markets see the Regional performance section on pages 14 to 25.
Market characteristics and key growth drivers Many customers Customers Large supplier Clear need for Highly fragmented Benets ofscale The customer base is Due to scale needs are local base distributors in the industry with no fragmented.
Wolseley benets, market Professional The supplier base supply chain market dominated serves approximately leaders can perform contractors typically is large.
Wolseley Distributors bridge by a single player 1.1 million customers better through the operate within about distributes the the gap between Our markets are across theGroup.
20 miles of a local products of the large supplier typically highly branch and may visit approximately base and the large fragmented, with it several times per 52,000suppliers and geographically fewlarge players in week.
In addition to across the world.
This they are now using is where Wolseley digital channels which operates.
What is driving market growth?
Population growth Sustainable development Population growth of more The EU plans for all new than 7 per cent is expected buildings to be nearly zero inthe USA in the next decade.
Population is expected to grow Environmental concerns will inall the countries we operate in.
drive demand for renovation Source: United Nations Department of ofexisting buildings.
Source: European Council for an EnergyEfcient Economy.
324m 347m 2016 2026 Increased comfort levels in homes Ageing housing stock Large aftermarket 86% 41 years 595 billion of new homes in the USA have two or The median age of homes in the USA is The size of the building repair market more bathrooms.
There is high demand for repairs, in Western Europe is forecast to be increasing levels of comfort in homes.
maintenance and improvement in the large 595billion in 2016, which is greater than installed base of existing homes.
Source: US Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Source: US Department of Housing and Source: Euroconstruct.
Western EU in Euroconstruct reports includes all our European markets UK, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Switzerland and the Netherlands.
Wolseley plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
