INVESTMENT TEAM Neil Woodford Paul Lamacraft Head of Investment Fund Manager Neil Woodford is one of the most respected fund managers in An experienced finance industry professional, Paul began his the UK.
His disciplined, valuation-oriented approach has career at Ernst & Young now EY and his most recent role, prior consistently delivered outstanding long-term performance to to joining Woodford, was as a fund manager on the UK Equities his clients.
He was a pivotal part of the UK equities team at team at Invesco Perpetual.
His private equity and corporate Invesco Perpetual for more than 26 years, fine-tuning his finance background provides our team with invaluable distinctive approach and making his mark on the investment expertise.
Paul is focused on comprehensive and diligent industry.
He was appointed a Commander of the Order of the analysis of fundamentals to deliver positive long-term British Empire CBE in 2013 for services to the economy.
Neil outcomes and has a particular specialism in the early-stage announced he was leaving Invesco Perpetual in October 2013 and early-growth components of the portfolios.
to set up his own fund management business.
He joined the company on 1 May 2014.
Woodford's first fund was launched on 2 June 2014.
30 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 31 Saku Saha Stephen Lamacraft Fund Manager Fund Manager Sakus previous role was as Analyst and Investment Director For the six years prior to joining Woodford, Stephen made his for the Invesco Perpetual UK Equities team.
In this role, he was mark at Invesco Perpetual as a UK Fund Manager.
Responsible responsible for analysing investment opportunities and for 120m of assets, his strategy focused on fundamental assisting Neil Woodford, with a specific focus on early-stage analysis, an approach inspired by his mentor and colleague Neil and early-growth companies.
His many years at a senior level Woodford.
An intensely competitive addition to the Woodford in the British Army, stationed at home and abroad, have team, Stephen is highly focused on performance and has a equipped him with exceptional discipline and rigour in his naturally challenging mind that endeavours to enhance the analysis and interpretation of market intelligence.
businesss collective understanding of investment opportunities.
He has a particular focus on the mature, blue-chip elements of the portfolio.
32 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 33 Lucinda Crabtree Harry Raikes Senior Investment Analyst Investment Analyst Lucinda brings invaluable expertise and knowledge to the Harry joined Woodford as an early-stage investment analyst Woodford investment team.
Over the past decade, she has in 2015 from Envestors, an FCA-regulated corporate finance worked in various analyst roles covering the pharmaceutical adviser, where he evaluated business proposals and and biotechnology sectors at a number of investment banks, conducted due diligence research for high-growth unquoted including Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan.
Lucinda also has companies seeking up to 10m in equity funding.
While significant experience working within the industry itself, studying for a BSc in Economics and Finance at Bristol having worked at AstraZeneca and Grnenthal Group.
University, Harry completed internships at Kite Lake Capital Lucinda graduated from University College, London in 2004, and Fidelity Biosciences Venture Capital.
with a BSc first class in Physiology and Pharmacology and a PhD in Pharmacology.
32 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 33 Richard Lockington Grant Wentzel Investment Analyst Head of Trading Richard joined Woodford in 2015 from Duff & Phelps, the Grant has held a number of significant roles including Senior global valuations adviser, where he was Senior Associate Vice President at JPMorgan London and director at Lehman working on valuations of intangible assets and businesses.
Before joining Woodford in May Richards extensive skills and experience help the team 2014, he had been a director at Barclays London for five evaluate investment opportunities and performance, with years.
Grant is an exceptionally experienced trader, dedicated responsibilities including due diligence, company valuation to making sure the fund management team can execute its modelling, performance monitoring and internal reporting.
The nature of his role at A qualified Chartered Accountant ACA, Richard gained Woodford demands that he understands and interprets previous audit and due diligence experience during three short-term market influences, enabling him to keep the fund years at Shipleys, the accountancy and advisory firm.
managers informed with intra-day market developments and changes in sentiment, thereby allowing them to focus on long-term fundamentals.
34 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 35 Mohammad Sohail Trading and Trade Operations Mohammed joined Woodford as trading and dealing specialist in 2015 from Ruffer LLP, where he had worked for the previous four years.
He began his career as a relationship manager at Fidelity before moving to Ruffer where he became a dealer in 2013, responsible for all areas of executions, including global equities, fixed income and FX.
Mohammad graduated from Kingston University in 2008 with a BA in Financial Economics and in 2010 completed an MSc in Investment Management at Londons Cass Business School.
He also holds the Investment Management Certificate.
34 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 35 36 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 37 THE DIRECTORS HAVE PLEASURE IN PRESENTING THEIR ANNUAL REPORT AND THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016.
36 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 37
