PORTFOLIO MANAGER'S REVIEW We began 2016 with the money raised at the launch of WPCT fully deployed and so the period under review started with a portfolio primed for its long-term patient capital journey.
It is rich in quality, broad in terms of development stage and technology and, most importantly, high in potential.
The operational progress made during the year, across the majority of the portfolio, was extremely encouraging.
Much of this fundamental progress has yet to be reflected in the net asset value of the Company itself, which declined 4.2 per cent in 2016.
I understand that some investors may be disappointed at the net asset value progress thus far and, although I would have preferred to have been writing this review having delivered a positive return, it must be remembered that the investment strategy was never designed to deliver significant short-term wins.
It remains early days for this strategy, which is seeking to exploit very long-term investment opportunities.
Indeed, it is the disconnect between the short-term focus of the modern stock market and the long-term needs of early-stage businesses that in part explains the Company's performance last year and which has created such a compelling investment opportunity in the first place.
Long-term capital providers such as WPCT must work closely with the early-stage businesses they have backed in pursuit of commercial success, but this ultimate goal can take years, sometimes decades, to fulfil.
While on the journey towards commercialisation, these companies need capital partners that are prepared to stay with them for the long term.
For years, the UK has been failing to make the most of its knowledge economy assets, with increasingly adverse implications for the long-term health of the overall economy.
Primarily, this is because the early-stage businesses that look to develop and commercialise the outstanding intellectual property that emanates from British universities have been deprived of the capital they need to succeed.
Encouragingly, the government does now seem to be paying attention to this fundamental problem.
We are currently engaged in its Patient Capital Review, which was announced by the Chancellor in last year's Autumn Statement and we await its outcomes with interest and optimism.
In the meantime, however, the opportunity that exists for those capital providers that are prepared to take a long-term, supportive view towards investing in early-stage businesses remains compelling.
Positive progress Barely a week goes by when I dont hear of something coming to fruition within the portfolio.
In my view, it is only a matter of time before this starts to be reflected in the net asset value and share price of the Company.
Indeed, some of this progress is already beginning to be reflected in the individual company valuations of our unquoted holdings.
The unquoted portion of the portfolio, which accounted for approximately 40 per cent of the Companys assets, delivered a positive contribution to returns of more than two per cent in 2016.
In contrast, the quoted part of the portfolio, which accounted for approximately 60 per cent of assets, delivered a negative contribution of more than five per cent during the year.
To an extent, this is of course down to stock specifics as I explore below.
However, broadly speaking, I do not believe that the operational performance of the portfolios quoted businesses was, in aggregate, so much worse than the operational performance of its unquoted holdings.
There is a world of difference between the underwhelming progress of share prices last year and the underlying progress of the portfolio which has surpassed my expectations.
That such a wide disconnect exists serves, I believe, to highlight the problem that the Patient Capital Review is aiming to solve.
Ultimately, the probability of success or failure is no different for an unquoted company than it is for a quoted company.
An issue for early-stage businesses is whether to remain unquoted or list on the stock market and, depending on the business, staying private for longer can make the journey easier.
Indeed, for some there is little benefit to a stock market listing for an early-stage business that could still be several years away from generating revenues, let alone profits.
But, for the patient investor, this source of market inefficiency can at least be exploited because it can lead to substantial valuation anomalies.
Theres more detail on the progress being made by each of the Companys top 10 holdings at the end of this review but one stock I wish to highlight to demonstrate my conviction and investment strategy is Prothena a company I have known for many years.
8 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 9 Having performed well in 2015, Prothenas share price fell significantly in the first few weeks of 2016, primarily as a result of an increase in the short interest in the stock.
Our investment focus is resolutely on the long-term fundamentals of the business, which, despite the short-term share price performance, have been improving all year.
News from the company has significantly reinforced our positive view on the stock and we took advantage of temporary share price weakness to add to the Companys position.
In particular, my increasing conviction is due to the progress that Prothena has made with its leading drug development candidate, which is for AL amyloidosis, a rare and often fatal organ disease affecting fewer than 10,000 patients a year.
Results from its phase I and II trials have been outstanding, while patient advocacy groups have been calling for its urgent approval.
There are currently no approved drugs for AL amyloidosis and in 2018 we will learn the results of two late-stage trials, which, if positive, would result in a significant revaluation of the company.
From a fundamental perspective, the AL amyloidosis opportunity on its own would warrant a valuation far above that of todays, in my view.
Meanwhile, Prothena has also made significant progress on two other development candidates, one in Parkinsons disease and the other in psoriatic arthritis.
The speed with which it has identified and developed these three assets suggests that there could be more to follow in time.
The companys rapid progress and its positive share price performance in the second half of the year are the principal reasons why its position in the portfolio has grown significantly from 6.3 per cent of assets to 14.4 per cent at year end.
In the world of equity investment, nothing is certain.
As with any therapy in clinical trials, there is a risk that one or more of them fails to deliver the positive outcome that we hope for and expect.
However, I am convinced that this business is poised to deliver incredibly attractive long-term returns to its shareholders and to improve the lives of patients suffering from these awful, debilitating diseases.
Overcoming hurdles Some businesses in the portfolio have encountered problems and, undoubtedly, others will too.
This is part of the territory when investing in early-stage businesses.
Whats important, in my opinion, is how one reacts to these hurdles when they arise and the lessons one learns.
For patient capital investing to be a success, one has to work through the difficult periods.
My approach has always been to favour voice over exit, which means overcoming hurdles to continue to support and nurture businesses that I retain my long-term faith in.
This was the case with Circassia, which announced results from a late-stage trial into its cat allergy vaccine in June.
Although many aspects of the trial data were highly encouraging, further evidencing the drugs strong therapeutic benefits, the results also showed that a placebo had broadly the same impact on symptoms.
This development led to Circassias share price declining by more than two-thirds during the period, making it a significant negative contributor to performance.
More recently and outside the period under review, it announced similar results for its house dust mite vaccine and has now decided to stop investing in the development of its allergy portfolio.
We share the management teams obvious disappointment at these trial results but remain supportive shareholders.
There is much more to Circassia than its allergy platform and it remains in a strong position.
It continues to successfully develop the asthma and respiratory assets that it acquired in 2015, with three new pipeline candidates added in the second half of the period under review.
In March 2017, it announced a commercial collaboration with AstraZeneca, which significantly strengthens the companys strategy as a speciality biopharma business.
New entrants Several new holdings were introduced to the portfolio during 2016, primarily funded by reducing the Companys exposure to larger, more liquid companies early in the period.
These new holdings included Thin Film Electronics, a Norwegian company that specialises in printed electronics, an innovative new technology with a huge range of commercial applications, especially in relation to the internet of things.
I have known the company for a long time and I am confident that it is poised for substantial growth as its technology becomes more widely adopted.
8 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 9 PORTFOLIO MANAGER'S REVIEW CONTINUED We also participated in the IPO of Draper Esprit, a leading venture capital investment company involved in the creation, funding and development of high-growth technology businesses with a like-minded investment approach to our own.
Among new unquoted positions were Metalysis, a titanium materials company serving the 3D printing industry, Nexeon, a battery technology company with enormous potential to improve battery performance across a wide range of industries, and Accelerated Digital Ventures, a newly-formed business that aims to provide patient capital to young British digital businesses with significant growth potential.
Looking ahead The WPCT has evolved in 2016, but the original investment hypothesis remains in place.
In fact, I believe it is stronger than ever.
That statement may surprise those investors that have been eager to see an early return on their investment or those that are frustrated by the lack of net asset value progress seen thus far.
To an extent, I share those emotions, but they are insignificant compared to the confidence and excitement that I have in the opportunity from here.
I know how much fundamental progress our businesses are delivering and I hope I have managed to convey some of that progress in this update.
In my view, it is only a matter of time before this progress is reflected in valuations.
As for how long this takes, it is difficult to be precise.
I said towards the start of this review that it is still early days for this long-term investment strategy but I acknowledge that I cant say that for ever.
At launch, I set out to deliver double-digit annualised long-term returns.
It is, of course, critical that I do so and I remain absolutely confident that I will.
In the meantime, Id like to thank investors for their continued support.
Neil Woodford 20 April 2017 10 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 11 PROGRESS REPORT: WOODFORD PATIENT CAPITAL TRUSTS TOP 10 HOLDINGS From the outset, it was the Portfolio Managers intention to put greater emphasis on the companies in the portfolio about which it has the strongest conviction.
The direction of travel of several holdings in the portfolio has been rapid and operational milestones are being met.
Name Weight % Prothena 14.34 A US-based biotechnology company focused on discovering, developing and commercialising therapies directed specifically to disease-causing proteins.
We have known its management team since the company spun out of Elan in 2012 and, over the years, the company has made considerable operational progress.
Prothena is developing three main therapies, each in multi-billion dollar indications.
A phase III trial for its lead asset, NEOD001 a potential treatment for AL amyloidosis, is well advanced.
Meanwhile, in October 2016, the company reported highly encouraging data from a phase Ib trial for PRX002, its potential therapy for Parkinsons disease, which is being developed in collaboration with Roche.
Additionally, Prothena announced plans to progress its potential treatment for psoriatic arthritis, PRX003, into phase II following positive results from earlier clinical trials.
Oxford Nanopore 7.69 A healthcare technology company spun out of Oxford University in 2005, which has developed a highly disruptive, next-generation nanopore platform technology that enables the analysis of biological molecules, such as DNA.
The company is making excellent progress in commercialising its technology, with its lead product, MinION, gaining increasing attention from a growing base of clients, not least because it can provide real-time data analysis at a starting price of $1,000.
In 2016, MinION was used to sequence the human genome, perform surveillance of the Ebola and Zika viruses and to research cancer genetics.
In August 2016, MinION was also successfully tested on board the International Space Station.
The company raised a further 100m from investors in December 2016 to accelerate commercial roll-out.
Immunocore 5.60 A clinical-stage biotech founded in 2008 with technology spun out of Oxford University in 1999.
The company is developing immuno-oncology drugs that redirect the human immune system to unmask and kill cancer cells.
Immunocores proprietary platform creates ImmTACs for cancer and ImmTAVs for viral infection drugs that are made from engineered T-cell receptors key components of our immune system to bind to peptides found on cancer cells or viruses.
Since funding, the company has commenced pivotal studies in uveal eye melanoma and cutaneous skin melanoma and has continued investing into its broader pipeline success here could see it rivalling some of the US biotech sectors most successful stories for size and scale.
In June 2016, the company announced positive data from its first in-human, phase I clinical trial for IMCgp100, its lead ImmTAC asset.
Theravance Biopharma 4.62 Theravance Biopharma is a US biotechnology company with a broad set of assets and a robust R&D engine.
The company was spun out of Theravance in 2014 and it retains a valuable economic interest in the future commercial potential of the Closed Triple a combination of three respiratory drugs into one programme.
This is being developed by GlaxoSmithKline and Innoviva as a potential treatment for patients with respiratory conditions such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD and asthma.
During 2016, the company made excellent overall progress, announcing some very positive clinical data from a COPD phase III study for the Closed Triple programme, while a phase III study for patients with asthma is ongoing.
In 2017, the company is also set for a number of phase I and II trial results in its earlier-stage pipeline of small molecule drugs.
Meanwhile, its on-market antibiotic, Vibativ, is enjoying solid rates of growth, with net sales in the US increasing by 100 per cent during 2016.
10 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 11 PROGRESS REPORT: WOODFORD PATIENT CAPITAL TRUSTS TOP 10 HOLDINGS CONTINUED Name Weight % Proton Partners 4.41 Proton Partners is on track to introduce the UKs first cancer centres offering proton beam therapy to cancer patients.
New compact equipment has significantly improved the cost benefit of proton beam therapy versus conventional radiotherapy.
Clinically, proton beam therapy should provide better outcomes for cancer patients as it reduces the damage to peripheral tissue and organs.
Its first centre, in Newport, is due to open in the first half of 2017 and will offer proton beam therapy from early 2018.
Meanwhile, building on its second centre in Northumberland is underway and is expected to be operational in early 2018, while in December the company announced that building at its third centre in Readings Thames Valley Science Park will start in 2017.
Proton Partners also marked their international expansion by securing a contract to manage and install their proton beam therapy technology in a private clinic in Abu Dhabi, UAE.
Allied Minds 4.03 An intellectual property commercialisation company that aims to form, fund, manage and build technology businesses using its unparalleled access to the best intellectual property emanating from US universities and other government-sponsored research institutions.
Existing portfolio companies include Federated Wireless which develops technology that allows the sharing of highly valuable and scarce mobile telecommunications spectrums and SciFluor which aims to optimise drugs through strategic fluorination in order to improve potency, selectivity and to reduce harmful side effects.
The company announced a write-down of several subsidiary companies in April 2017 outside the period under review, which will allow it to focus more aggressively on the companies that are rapidly progressing towards their commercial goals and reallocate capital towards new ideas.
Mereo BioPharma 3.81 A UK-based specialty biopharmaceutical company formed in March 2015 by a highly experienced team to acquire and develop early-stage assets from major pharmaceutical companies.
WPCT helped fund its acquisition of an initial portfolio of three programmes, all with proof of concept, from Novartis in July 2015 and, 11 months later, in July 2016 the company listed on London Stock Exchanges AIM market.
This provided a positive uplift to the companys valuation in the Companys portfolio.
Mereo benefits from an extensive network of experts with solid knowledge across multiple clinical disciplines.
It has the potential to create substantial long-term shareholder returns by commercialising assets itself or by extracting value through out-licensing deals.
Purplebricks 3.79 Purplebricks is fast becoming a household name and Woodford was an early investor.
It is a hybrid property agent, combining a simple-to-use online platform with a team of flesh-and-blood agents.
It operates 24 7 and is well placed to significantly disrupt the UKs traditional estate agency business model indeed it is already doing so.
Its growth revenues increased by 159 per cent for the six months to October 2016 after it sold 2.6bn worth of properties over that period, making it the third largest operator in the market.
With the strategic and successful launch of its branch in Australia in September, Purplebricks disruptive and competitive business model is beginning to demonstrate its international viability and it has recently raised capital to expand into the US in 2017.
Oxford Sciences Innovation 3.53 An Oxford-based investment company which provides long-term, patient capital to young, innovative businesses formed on technology and intellectual property emanating from Oxford University.
The company aims to commercialise world-beating IP originating from a wide range of scientific fields, including healthcare, computer science and engineering.
Existing portfolio companies include Vaccitech which develops viral vector vaccines, good at treating recalcitrant illnesses such as prostate cancer and Evox Therapeutics which aims to develop an entirely novel class of biotherapeutics based on harnessing and engineering exosome proteins.
The company raised a further 230m in December, which raised its capital base to 580m and provided an uplift to its valuation in the Companys portfolio.
4D pharma 3.20 An early-stage biotechnology company focused on the development of live biotherapeutics, a novel and emerging class of drugs which contain a live organism such as bacteria.
The company was founded in 2014 and its proprietary platform MicroRx has already helped to build a diverse pipeline of programmes across a range of therapeutic areas including multiple sclerosis, Crohns disease and cancer.
It is making excellent operational progress, with its lead asset, Blautix, a potential treatment for patients with irritable bowel syndrome, successful in its phase I trial in 2016 and expected to move forward into phase II in 2017. as at 31 December 2016 Further detail on the unquoted holdings can be found in Appendix 2 on pages 96 and 97.
12 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 13
