Our business model: Key resources and relationships How we serve our customers Wolseley is a specialist distributor adding value through its scale, bespoke logistics network and its peoples expertise.
We bridge the gap between 52,000 suppliers and 1.1 million customers, providing our suppliers a cost effective route to market and customers specialist advice and a wide range of products where and when they are required.
commit us to competitive pay levels, incentives Our people that recognise superior performance and benets structures that are valuable to people at all levels.
In addition, our all-employee sharesave 39,000 employees programme encourages our people to take a stake in our business and share in our success At Wolseley our people matter.
at a discount to the market price.
Our teams in sales, branches, logistics and We are continuously improving the systems in distribution centres are the customer-facing side place to manage the health and safety of our Case study: of our business.
Their relationships with both people, customers and others with whom we Specialist training large and small customers are critical to our come into contact.
All businesses work to a success, and their expert knowledge means that minimum standard for health and safety and for the US sales they are a key part of our customers workday.
site-level reviews are undertaken by our internal team audit function.
The way we organise and multi-skill our teams New recruits to the sales ensures local exibility, reliable execution We are committed to making our Company team in the Heating, and superior productivity very important in an attractive place for people to develop their Ventilation and Air challenging market conditions.
We are proud careers, be rewarded for success, and enjoy Conditioning HVAC that our people have the passion to provide the contributing to a team that is making a great business at Ferguson highest levels of service for our customers.
receive in-depth training In Ferguson we have an enduring tradition of For more information on health and safety to best equip them to see page 28 investment in people and continue to attract serve our customers.
talent through a very effective college recruitment The programme takes place process that develops them, through operational over five months on site at Our customers roles, to become the managers and leaders of Ferguson HVAC branches the future.
60 per cent of the current Ferguson and includes practical Executive team started on this programme.
training with experienced 1.1 million customers In Wolseley UK we launched a Training Academy sales colleagues, in 2016, with our new accredited apprentice manufacturers and HVAC To be successful, our customers depend on us programmes now involving over 300 new and customers.
This approach for high levels of availability on a broad range existing staff.
Further investments in people gives the sales trainees of products, ready for collection or delivery on development are planned.
exposure to a wide range of the same or next day.
We know our customers scenarios to prepare them Key to delivering outstanding levels of customer also value high quality and efficient service from for success in their roles.
We have high our knowledgeable people, local relationships, expectations of the managers and leaders in our competitive pricing and billing and order businesses to lead by example through our values accuracy.
They also want exibility in choosing see page 27.
By listening to our people, via our the most convenient way to do business with us, regular employee surveys, we understand how we whether in branch, by phone or online.
We aim can help them continue to improve and develop our to deliver all of these things through a best-inbusiness and rapidly address issues of importance industry service offering across all channels so to them.
We continue to develop and motivate our our customers keep coming back.
people, embedding a strong culture of execution.
We provide training for our customers on new We measure both employee engagement and products as they come to market.
This helps customer satisfaction in each business and solidify our customer relationships.
When new target continuous improvements in both see key product regulations or government incentive performance indicators on pages 8 and 9. programmes are launched, we support our In 2015 16, we reviewed our approach to reward customers to understand and benefit from the and established Group-wide principles that opportunities that they represent.
In 2015 16, Wolseley plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Wolseley UK ran a road show of 40 seminars to Distribution network introduce over 3,000 customers to a government initiative to disclose energy efficiency through new Energy-related Product ErP labelling on boilers, 5,800 fleet vehicles heat pumps, cylinders and solar thermal products.
Where the market demand exists, we promote Product availability of a wide basket of products sustainable products and again provide training is essential for our customers and our scale, and advice to customers to support growth logistical know-how, rigorous stock control and Case study: in these new product categories.
Our Dutch large fleet enable us to provide reliable product and UK businesses have built large dedicated Efficient use availability and exible delivery options to cater sustainable buildings or energy-efficiency centres for all our customers needs.
of our fleet that act as showrooms for the latest products Suppliers deliver in bulk to our distribution and serve as training facilities for our customers.
We help our suppliers avoid centres, our branches or directly to our unnecessary travel by customers.
In plumbing and heating businesses, backhauling product from Our suppliers we predominantly distribute from distribution their factories when our centres, ship hubs and branches to customers.
trucks are returning empty In building materials businesses, the model to our distribution centres.
52,000 suppliers is more direct from supplier and branch In 2015 16, we saved our to customer.
suppliers in the USA and We have 52,000 reputable suppliers UK from travelling 4.3 million To keep our distribution network running manufacturing over one million products around miles.
This equates to 6,304 efficiently with minimal impact on the the world.
This gives us access to a diverse and tonnes of avoided carbon environment, we focus on the reduction of broad range of quality products.
Our leading emissions the equivalent carbon and waste and the associated costs.
market positions enable our central sourcing of taking 1,341 passenger All businesses have targets to reduce their teams in each region to leverage our scale and vehicles off the road for carbon and waste, relative to revenue.
We have negotiate competitive prices in return for access a year.
achieved a 14.9 per cent reduction in carbon to our 1.1 million customers.
gov since 2014 15 through local initiatives such as fleet upgrades, route optimisation and lighting We work with our suppliers to ensure that they and heating upgrades.
are reliable and ethical and that their products are fully compliant with the laws and regulations Where possible, we work with our suppliers of the countries they, and we, operate in.
On the to reduce their environmental impacts.
rare occasion that a product is faulty, customers For example, we reduce supplier transport have the confidence of knowing that we will emissions by backhauling product from their support them.
We conduct background checks factories when our trucks would otherwise return on our suppliers for unethical or illegal behaviour.
empty to our distribution centres see case study opposite.
For further information see pages 28 and 29 For information about our environmental Case study: efciencyefforts see page 29 Focus on health Channels to market and safety 2,754 branches Wolseley UKs Distribution Centre in Measham reached a total of 500 Our customers increasingly expect a 24 7 multidays without an accident channel approach dealing with us through during 2015 16.
The team a combination of branches, showrooms, encourages a positive view online, call centres and an outside sales force.
on health and safety and The majority of our business is still conducted asks its employees to report through our 2,754 branches and our extensive near misses or concerns branch network means our customers typically so that processes can be travel fewer than 20 miles to buy from us and visit continually improved.
Our multi-channel approach UK business as a whole allows our customers to access products and reduced its injury rate per advice 24hours a day whenever it is required.
100,000 hours worked by For detail about how we protect our information 19.3 per cent in 2015 16. see page 29 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13
