18 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our strategy Our strategy is designed to ensure that our business remains successful in a rapidly changing market, creating sustainable value for all our stakeholders, Customers including our customers, colleagues and shareholders.
We will continue to focus on We focus on addressing the payments We aim to achieve superior results understanding our customers and needs of specific groups of customers for our customers by having a deep addressing their payments needs in larger corporates and in SMEs understanding of their payments needs, in core market segments Small and Medium Enterprises.
extensive market reach, and strong product development, technology Achievements in 2016 For our larger corporate customers, and people capabilities.
Strong net revenue growth, up 15% many of whom operate internationally, 14.9bn transactions processed in 2016, our strategy is to have a deep understanding We have developed our strategy up 14% of their businesses and growth ambitions, based on our long experience with WPUK net customers added at and to address the payments complexity our customers, a comprehensive over four times the level of 2015 that comes from their negotiating appreciation of the critical success Global eCom transaction value multiple payment methods, currencies, factors in the industry and a deep grew by 22% channels and regulatory systems.
US transaction value increased by 5% Our SME customers are predominantly Planned for 2017 domestic and require products and Continue transaction growth in services tailored to their industry.
We Our five strategic pillars focus on: all key customer segments help them to navigate the increasingly 1.
Customers Drive customer retention and complex world of payments by providing new wins products and services that are easy to 2.
Technology and products Further embed our verticalised use, which integrate into their business approach processes and maximise their sales 3.
Markets Launch new tools to reach our opportunities.
customers, such as digital channels, 4. Business model and deepening partner relationships We operate in three principal markets: 5.
Acquisitions and Global eCom investments We are a trusted partner to approximately 1,200 customers who operate in the global ecommerce market, including some of the largest, global online merchants.
WPUK We serve approximately 300,000 UK and Ireland-based customers ranging from SMEs to major retailers.
WPUS In the US, we serve over 100,000 SME customers and approximately 15,000 enterprise customers.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 19 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Technology and products We will further develop our technology Technology is a fundamental strategic Our product development agenda and products to differentiate us from capability for Worldpay.
We have includes upgrades to our existing our competition developed our proprietary global products, both to enable them to scale technology platform with software with predicted customer growth, but Achievements in 2016 created by our own engineering talent also to add features and functionality Commenced customer boarding and using our in-house intellectual for customers.
We have also invested in onto our next-generation new property.
Our strategy is to continually a next-generation payment routing layer acquiring platform invest in technology and products so that enhances our existing investment in Launched our Enterprise Data that we can achieve better business technology assets such as our payments Platform with customers, applying outcomes for our customers.
We believe gateways and big data engine.
We expect machine learning to payments that these investments in technology to begin trials with customers at the end Further developed our UK product and engineering talent will extend our of the year.
offering with the launch of an SME competitive advantage.
data insight portal My Business In 2017, we also expect to commence Dashboard and an all-in-one Our control and ownership of the a customer trial of our research and payments device My Business Hub, components in our payments platform development investments in advanced as well as upgrading our omni-channel allows us to independently set the pace technologies around identity and mobileintegrated payments solution and sequence of new developments based payments acceptance.
We are Worldpay Total without waiting for external suppliers also targeting further developments Comprehensively upgraded our to deliver product enhancements.
It also in blockchain technologies, identity and Global eCom products allows us to serve the needs of a diverse biometrics, and payments via embedded Launched Worldpay Total in the US range of merchants in a wide variety autonomous objects on the Internet of Provided around 10m in financing of countries: gives us the ability to Things, as well as leading the development through Worldpay Business Finance co-create products with our customers of emerging technology standards.
in partnership with Liberis and partners: and enables us to flexibly combine components to better serve Planned for 2017 our customers needs.
Migrate customers onto our new acquiring platform In 2017, we expect to migrate the final Launch customer trials of our component of our technology still next-generation gateway, enabling hosted by RBS: clearing and settlement the intelligent routing of payments for card acquiring.
As we migrated Continue to scale and enhance new and built the other components of product launches including merchant our payments platform, we delivered lending Worldpay Business Finance significant upgrades to reliability, and enhanced data analytics security, performance and capacity.
My Business Dashboard, Your We expect that the delivery of this Marketplace final component, having been built for Further develop our Worldpay Total modern payments, will enable significant proposition in the US market future benefits to speed of development Extend our capabilities in nextand flexibility.
generation POS hardware and software, and deepening our partner proposition Continue investment in future payments technology 20 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our strategy continued Business Markets model We will continue to expand in existing We are a global payments partner to We will realise the full potential markets and enter new ones our merchant customers, providing of our business model them with integrated payments and Achievements in 2016 value-added services across a broad Achievements in 2016 Obtained new processing licences in geographic reach with a wide range of Continued strong net revenue growth Australia, Hong Kong and Singapore payment capabilities.
Our aim is to allow Significantly stronger free cash flow Incorporated new alternative them to accept any payment type their Consolidated our one star position payment types customers wish to use, in almost any in the Best Companies employee ecommerce solution now being country, and in nearly every currency.
engagement survey delivered to over 45% of new UK This is supported by our global payments Introduced a UK Save As You Earn SME customers network which, with local operating scheme and a US Employee Stock Implemented a regional manager licences and approvals from local Purchase Plan model in Global eCom to better regulators, and simple access points support our global customers into the network for merchants Planned for 2017 of any size in almost any country, Continue to deliver strong organic net Planned for 2017 represents a sustainable source revenue growth Continue to deepen and strengthen of competitive advantage.
Target further improvements in free our global payments network, cash flow obtaining new licences and In a payments market which remains Deliver improved operating leverage embedding new alternative fragmented, our global network gives us in the second half of the year payment methods a significant opportunity to expand with Invest in our people to further improve Expand with existing customers our existing customers, helping them engagement and drive capability and take them into new markets to prosper and grow their businesses.
Win new customers in our In order to maximise our opportunities for existing markets growth, we target fast-growing segments in the economies we support, and those customers with complex needs and therefore the greatest demand for our existing and new products and services.
We seek to grow by winning new customers in target segments, where we can use our existing expertise and global network to address their specific requirements.
We also aim to broaden our expertise into new segments, developing products, partnerships and technologies to adapt our payments platform to their requirements.
We expect to increase our addressable market by further broadening our reach, and by deepening our presence and capabilities in selected geographies through obtaining new licences, or through new partnerships.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 21 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Acquisitions and investments We operate in strongly growing markets We will augment our growth through The highly cash generative nature of our which present many opportunities.
acquisitions and investments business enables us to make substantial We are well placed to capitalise on investments in delivering better outcomes these and realise the full potential Achievements in 2016 for customers.
Our strategy is to reinvest, of our business model using our scale, Increased investment in our joint venture, both organically and through acquisition, our unmatched global payments Pazien Inc. and integrated its worldto support future growth and innovation, network, our extensive payments class analytics and reconciliation and to embed new technology capabilities capabilities, our modern technology tools into our product offering in the products and services we offer.
platform, and the skills of our people.
Increased investment in Blue Star We will be highly disciplined in our Sports Holdings, Inc. investment, achieving an appropriate We expect that realising the full potential balance between promoting strong and of our business model will drive robust, Planned for 2017 sustainable growth, and cost control and visible and recurring organic revenue Continue to seek opportunities cash flow generation.
growth over the medium term.
This is to deepen our technological and based on a combination of strong geographical capabilities through We have proven M&A capabilities and a underlying market growth and the acquisition or investment demonstrable track record of successful opportunities we see to offer more acquisitions that have helped us further innovation to our customers and our strategic objectives.
Since December provide end-to-end payments solutions.
2010, we have invested over 300m in acquisitions that have brought new Since our divestiture from RBS in 2010, technological capabilities and enhanced we have invested heavily in the Groups our geographical presence.
In the future, infrastructure and people, in each of we intend to continue to pursue M&A our three operating divisions, and in opportunities selectively, to expand or the technology separation from RBS.
strengthen our products, our services, As we pass the peak of this investment, our technology base, or our geographic and as we grow volumes and revenues, reach.
We will also be creative in our we expect to deliver improved operating pursuit of new growth opportunities, leverage.
We also expect to further for example by looking for opportunities enhance the strong cash generation to incubate or provide seed funding for inherent in our business model as we attractive and potentially disruptive new reduce our capital expenditure and payments technologies.
separately disclosed items, and moderate the rate of underlying cost growth.
