Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 09 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our markets Since the widespread adoption of In light of these market trends, payment payment cards in the 1960s, there acceptance is no longer seen as a has been an ongoing shift from cash business utility but as a strategic enabler Ongoing shift from cash to non-cash payments.
Today, these of growth and differentiation.
As such, include credit, debit, prepaid cards, merchants need their payment partners tonon-cash payments.
and many other forms of local and not only to process transactions safely alternative payment methods.
and reliably, but also to provide them with the opportunity to compete across More recently, ecommerce purchases channels, open up new markets, interpret by consumers online rather than in their transaction data and maximise The nature of competition is changing high street stores has seen fast growth, acceptance, while minimising fraud as our markets evolve.
Many payment and ecommerce merchants are also and risk.
service providers predominantly increasingly operating in many countries.
compete on a national or regional basis, This contrasts with historic models Competitive landscape principally serving merchants in their where merchants were primarily We operate in competitive markets, home markets.
focused on a single, or a small number and compete against a broad range of, domestic markets.
of companies who provide payments Payments providers in these markets services.
These competitors range tend to be either owned by a domestic The fast growth of ecommerce and from a small number of global payments or regional bank, or to have come from its increasingly international nature companies, who primarily compete with this heritage.
As a result, it is common is making payments more complex us in the ecommerce space: to smaller for the top three payments companies for merchants in a number of ways: players who may be focused on particular to account for at least half of the in complying with local market geographies or customer segments: to payments market in specific countries regulations and practices: in minimising niche specialists who compete based or regions.
It is also typical for a number the costs inherent in cross-border trade: on specific expertise.
of niche specialists to operate in these in managing cash flows and reporting types of markets, and, while their shares in many different currencies: in taking As the competitive landscape evolves, tend to be small, a number are gaining a larger number of different payment we believe the advantage lies with ground as a result of their innovative, types: and in dealing with greater market participants who can: technology-based offerings.
In addition, if they Maximise acceptance while have businesses operating both offline minimising fraud: Companies that On a global basis, however, competition on the high street and online in the provide end-to-end coverage and in our markets remains fragmented, ecommerce market, merchants are scale technology to anticipate given this national or regional industry challenged to integrate these two evolving requirements and threats.
Although a number of global parts of their businesses.
Meet the demand for omni-channel payments companies have emerged options: Payment partners need to serve the needs of merchants who to offer a comprehensive range operate predominantly in ecommerce of integrated payment channels to markets, there are a relatively small maximise sales opportunities and number who can provide merchants ensure reconciliation in one place.
with access and connections to global Follow and support consumers payments networks and the value-added globally: Providers need to establish services they require.
a global network to provide access to international markets through Market shares of payments companies, local or alternative payment methods, when measured on a global basis, remain currency conversion and settlement.
We therefore believe that, Leverage the advantages of being over time, our industry is likely to able to process large volumes of data: consolidate as payments become Scale players capturing a high volume more global.
This will enable payments of transactions have a superior data companies to serve merchants more set to exploit and the capital to effectively on a worldwide basis, and invest in new products and services leverage the benefits of scale.
10 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our markets continued Market theme 1: By contrast, global cash payments, Market themes which are estimated to have totalled Digital payments about $22.6trillion in 2016, are forecast In last years Annual Report to register a compound annual growth and Accounts, we highlighted is a large, global rate of only 1.3% to 2021.
Cash is still the following five themes used for about 85% of all transactions and fast-growing worldwide due largely to cash being which are important in preferred for a great number of small understanding our markets market value transactions.
We expect increasing and the growth prospects card issuance, together with technological innovation and regulation, to result in they offer.
This year we have In 2016, according to Euromonitor that percentage decreasing in the future.
updated the analysis in each International, it is estimated that total worldwide card payments by consumers section for the latest trends As a result, we expect strong growth in will have amounted to $23.1 trillion, and available statistics.
payments revenues, even in developed exceeding the total amount spent in markets.
Oliver Wymans 2016 EU Retail cash for the first time.
We are seeing and SME Payments Report forecasts 1.
D igital payments is a large, an increased propensity both to use that credit and debit card revenues in cards, and to use cards for lower value global and fast-growing the EU are expected to rise at an annual payments.
The total volume of card market.
average rate of 4% and 8% respectively payments is increasing at a faster rate until 2020, with account-to-account than the value of card payments or the 2.
Technology is enabling transfers growing at 6%: while revenues number of cards.
associated with cash transactions are new ways to pay.
RBR states that in 2015, the volume 3.
C onsumers expect more of card payments increased by 15%, from merchants.
compared to a 10% increase in value and an 8% increase in card numbers 4.
N ew ways to pay are and they expect the shift away from cash payments to continue.
Consumer proliferating globally card payments are forecast to grow at and locally.
an average of 7.5% per annum from 2015 to 2021, and ecommerce is expected to 5.
R isk, fraud and regulatory have an even stronger compound annual Consumer change are increasing the growth rate of 16% over the same period.
card payments burden on merchants.
5% Each of these themes is discussed in more detail on the following pages.
Cash payments 1.3% Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 11 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Forecast compound annual growth rates Market theme 2: 2015-2021 Technology is ecommerce enabling new ways 16.0% to pay Technology is liberating commerce for consumers, allowing them to switch between payment channels, browse and buy on the move and pay through different devices.
As a result, merchants need to provide innovative, fast and flexible payment solutions.
Much of this is being driven by the increasing use of smartphones and smart devices.
According to Statista, in 2015, more than 25% of the global population used a smartphone and over a third of the worlds population is projected to own a smartphone by 2017, up from just under 10% in 2011.
In addition, we expect that in the coming years, most electronic products will support smart applications linked directly to consumers payment details, so that they can be used to make purchases at the touch of a button or even automatically.
PwC predicts that the connected home market could grow at around 35% on average in the five years to 2020.
We expect this to lead to more challenges for merchants, particularly in the field of identity, and to also raise issues of device and data security.
Merchants will need to differentiate between different users and their payment details, and the proliferation of interconnected devices may result in increased susceptibility to hacking and fraud.
Payment partners will, therefore, need to play an increasing role in helping merchants to grow efficiently and securely.
12 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our markets continued Market theme 3: Market theme 4: Consumers expect New ways to pay more from merchants are proliferating globally and locally Consumers are seeking a seamless, Our 2016 Global Payments Report but safe, transaction experience from highlighted how consumers in China, merchants, bringing together all their for example, use Alipay when booking There are currently more than 300 local interactions, both offline and online.
a taxi, searching for a restaurant, and alternative payment methods in These new experiences are difficult chatting to friends, and when they use around the world, and we expect to support using traditional payments want to make a purchase or a that number to continue to increase.
technology, and complex to implement peer-to-peer transaction.
Consumers increasingly Our 2016 Global Payments Report expect to shop in one channel and However, in the West, consumers highlights that, while we are seeing seamlessly return an item in another.
are more likely to open their browser an increase in mobile wallet payments, However, currently, data, finances and to buy goods and use a purpose-built overall mobile wallet uptake has been transactions are frequently stored app for money transfers.
This has slower than expected, given the rise in in different systems for ecommerce resulted in payments markets remaining contactless payments, and as a result and in-store channels.
While this offers more choice of smartphones with the required to consumers, it has slowed adoption technology being out of reach for some In some markets, this consumer as they find it difficult to decide which consumers.
We expect this to change, demand for an integrated experience payment methods are best for them.
however, as consumers upgrade their has been taken one step further, phones to NFC-enabled devices, mobile with payment methods becoming This evolving landscape will require wallets add attractive services such as increasingly embedded into daily life merchants to remain current with budgeting features and loyalty schemes, interactions and activities.
emerging payment methods, while and merchants upgrade their payment companies like Worldpay will also play terminals to support mobile wallets.
a critical role in helping to harmonise and simplify the payments landscape We are also seeing an increase for both merchants and consumers.
in the adoption of flexible payment In some markets, the One aspect of simplifying this landscape methods, particularly by digitally is being led by the World Wide Web literate consumers who want consumer demand for Consortiums W3C Web Payments increased control over their finances.
Working Group, which Worldpay an integrated experience co-chairs, and whose aim is to make In addition, we are seeing a rise in flexible has been taken one step online payments easier and more secure.
e-invoicing, bespoke credit cards and prepaid cards.
Klarna, for example, is now further, with payment one of Europes best known credit issuing platforms, and its strong growth in the methods becoming Nordic region is now being supplemented increasingly embedded by growth in the rest of Europe and the US.
into daily life interactions Elsewhere, cost-conscious consumers are driving growth in the adoption of and activities.
prepaid cards, particularly in emerging or semi-mature markets.
In Brazil, for example, the Carta Elo prepaid card is challenging American Express as the third most popular payment scheme behind Visa and Mastercard.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 13 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Market theme 5: Global payment methods 2020 forecast Risk, fraud and Credit and debit % regulatory change cards Two thirds of large companies have are increasing the detected a cyber-security breach or attack in the last year.
burden on Regulators, both national and global, merchants are also continuing to drive change and push for more innovation in payments.
36% The risk of fraud and data breaches The Second Payment Services Directive is a growing threat for our merchants, PSD2, which will be implemented in as more business moves online, and 2018, is an important step in building a as more data is held in the cloud.
The Digital Single Market in Europe.
It aims UK Governments Cyber Breaches to build a more integrated and efficient Survey 2016 reported that 65% of payments market across Europe, and large companies had detected a to promote competition, bring into cyber-security breach or attack in scope new types of payment services eWallets the last year.
In addition, Symantec, and enhance customer protection in its April 2016 Internet Security and security.
This provides both Threat Report noted a 23% increase an opportunity and a challenge for in identities exposed through breaches payments companies as they help in 2015: a 36% increase in new malware customers to navigate this new variants: and a 77% increase in new payments landscape.
30% For consumers too, the greater use of smartphones for payments and The Second Payment managing finances means that they increasingly contain valuable personal Services Directive is an information, creating attractive targets for criminals.
The Internet of Things, important step in building Bank whereby cars, household devices and a Digital Single Market transfer appliances, and medical devices, for example, can now be connected to in Europe.
the internet, has added a further layer 13% of potential vulnerability.
Payments companies are responding to this with significant investments in Cash on security technology such as in single delivery use tokens which obscure a card number 8% making it useless to a criminal : encryption: and fraud identification tools.
The verification of a consumers identity Prepaid is also a key challenge, leading to development of technologies such as 6% facial recognition for offline transactions, and non-traditional methods of identity verification online.
