How were doing J. Walter Thompson Worldwide the team produced nine reports, surveyed over 150,000 consumers, and worked with 260 clients in 39 offices.
We also launched an extraordinary piece of innovation called Pangaea, an internal Artificial Intelligence designed and powered by Mirum and JWT, which allows us to ask questions and get answers from any one of the 12,000 people across our network.
Pangaea leverages the diversity of our Report by Tamara Ingram massive network.
And, as Ive said, the way we will create Chief executive officer, worldwide better thinking, better ideas, and more innovation is to have different people with different skills and backgrounds.. s a 152-year-old agency, J. Walter Thompson This speaks to an important piece of our renewed energy.. has a rich legacy of pioneering that has shaped Moving fast and forward is not just about being agile, the industry and our clients brands.
In 2016, efficient, and productive: it also means that we pioneer and A A we solidified the strategy that will empower us push cultural and societal progress forward.
In that vein, to continue delivering innovative, inventive, and memorable weve begun piloting multiple global diversity initiatives, solutions for our client partners: We are hungry.
We move including blind recruitment and unconscious bias training.
We move the dial on people, culture and commerce.
We partnered with consulting firm InQUEST to provide One of our biggest steps forward this past year is our an independent review of our policies and practices, and investment in digital.
We added Washington DCs weve also developed an internal network hotline.
With the iStrategyLabs ISL and Turkeys Wanda Digital to our hotline, employees can essentially act as our diversity and roster.
Alongside Mirum, which expanded its global initiative partners and can securely and anonymously share footprint in the India and MEA markets, Wanda and ISL their thoughts or concerns about how we make JWT an deepen our ability to create digital and physical experiences even more inclusive workspace.
In line with these initiatives, we bolstered the We had significant new business wins across our presence of women in leadership roles and across our markets, including Air China, Newell, Nespresso, Danone, creative departments.
Today, we have female CEOs leading TJX, and Tudor.
We were particularly proud of key offices countries: New York, Chicago and Canada, the evolution of our partnership with Lux.
After working Buenos Aires, Beijing, Egypt, Portugal and Italy.
And we with Lux for 91 years, we became its global digital agency have many women in other leadership roles: head of new of record for the first time in our shared history.
business, London and New York: head of design, Mirum 2016 also marked a creative leap forward.
Across North America: head of planning, South Asia, Singapore: the years awards circuit, we showed significant jumps in head of production, London: and our global chief creative rankings.
At the Cannes Lions International Festival of talent officer.
Creativity we saw our best performance at the festival in In helping to shape a more diverse industry in the next our entire history, with 80 Lions.
JWT Amsterdam was generation of talent, weve also continued our Helen also named Cannes Innovation Agency of the Year, and Lansdowne Resor Scholarship and our Jump Start programs.
JWT Latin America earned the premier title of Latin Both are dedicated to mentoring and nurturing talent from American Network of the Year.
a range of academic, professional and cultural backgrounds.
We also had major recognition across other global shows, Our Female Tribes study, launched in early 2016, also including D&AD, Clios, Goafest, and Spikes.
Several of our continued to blossom with our offices in India, the Middle creatives were recognized across Advertising Ages Creativity East & Africa, the Philippines and Vietnam, building 50, a list of the 50 most creative people of the year, and market-specific studies dedicated to helping their clients Business Insiders 30 most creative people in advertising brands unlock the capital of female consumers.
These creative milestones earned us the title of We are consistently and actively looking for new The Gunn Reports Biggest Mover of 2016. opportunities to invest in creating change, understanding While our award wins set us apart from the competition, and progress for our employees, our clients, and the industry.
one of our biggest key differentiators is JWT Intelligence, our I am incredibly proud of the hard work weve done in engine for culture and consumer insights.
Last year alone, the past year.
I am thrilled to see where this new momentum carries us.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 57 How were doing Advertising Ogilvy global creative product, and the seamless continuity of our network leadership team as the key reasons for selecting us.
Im so fortunate to have Tham Khai Meng, worldwide chief creative officer, as my partner.
We are deeply grateful for his stewardship of our Twin Peaks creative mission, and his passionate leadership of our sparkling worldwide Report by John Seifert creative community.
Ogilvy has scaled the top of the Worldwide chairman and creative mountain over the past decade and we intend chief executive officer to climb ever higher in the years to come.
Our new business record in 2016 was equally impressive n 2016, I became the ninth chairman and CEO of and diverse, encompassing some of the worlds top brands.
Ogilvy since David Ogilvy founded the agency in 1948.
Our high-profile wins included: Aldi in China and The responsibility is one that I take on with both Germany: Perform Groups live sports streaming service, I enormous pride and great humility.
I have been with Dazn, in Japan: Southwest Airlines in New York: Tesco Ogilvy for 38 years, starting in the Los Angeles office as in the UK, Czech Republic and Poland: Tyson Foods in a summer intern.
I stand on the shoulders of so many Chicago: Unilever in the Philippines: Whaley Technology talented Ogilvy leaders who have come before me to serve and Yili Group in China: and Lenovo, already a client in this amazing company.
I never want to let them down.
China, named us global agency of record, which includes As I traveled the Ogilvy worldwide network this past the Motorola brand.
After a 25-year break, we also won year meeting extraordinary staff, clients, and partners back Nationwide, a former client whose relationship with of the brand I was constantly reminded of our assets.
We have wonderfully talented people who represent a wide range of professional skills, diverse cultures and multiple generations with great values.
We have an enduring creative... a comprehensive culture that David Ogilvy personally built with a close-knit reorganization of our enterprise team of partners over decades.
We have a portfolio of the '' worlds most admired clients.
And we have a truly global will shift Ogilvy... to a unified and presence that enables us to project the Ogilvy brand, and single Ogilvy brand offering ff serve our clients, everywhere that matters in todays world.
With this solid foundation, I started drafting a strategy, Ogilvy The Next Chapter, as soon as I transitioned into For the third year in a row, we received a perfect score the role of CEO in January 2016.
Before I go into detail on the Corporate Equality Index, a benchmarking survey about our Next Chapter agenda, I want to share some and report on corporate policies and practices related to highlights of our performance this past year and recognize lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender workplace equality, a few of the leaders who were responsible for our success administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation.
While there is a lot of talk in our industry right now 2016 was an outstanding year for the company in about diversity and inclusion in the workplace, we have terms of creative recognition, client portfolio development, championed diversity in all its forms since our founding.
expansion of services, and advances in workplace diversity.
This past year we put in place concrete performance Our relentless commitment to producing work for our measures globally to raise standards in our industry and clients that is both creative and effective what we call Twin accelerate the accomplishment of our own diversity and Peaks propelled us to our fifth straight win as Network of inclusion goals, none more important than realizing gender the Year at the Cannes International Festival of Creativity, equality across our worldwide leadership ranks within the and helped us to regain our title as the Effies Worlds Most next five years.
In recognition of this outstanding Our specialist marketing services of Influence and creative performance, we closed 2016 by being named, for Public Relations, Customer Engagement Marketing and the first time ever, Adweek magazines Global Agency of the Strategy Consulting performed particularly well in 2016, Year.
Adweek singled out the diversity and quality of our and will accelerate the delivery of even more modern marketing solutions across our business.
58 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Advertising Under the worldwide leadership of Stuart Smith, seismic change socially, politically, economically and our influence marketing and public relations professionals technologically clients are demanding deeper connectivity performed brilliantly in 2016, growing the value of the across the full range of modern marketing capabilities that top five clients served by these professionals alone by an their brands and businesses require.
In light of these unprecedented 41%, and the value of the top 20 clients heightened expectations, we must deliver better thinking, served by 17% versus last year.
Weve expanded these better work, and better delivery from the Ogilvy brand.
client engagements to encompass other Ogilvy offerings including brand strategy and advertising, content management, digital and customer engagement marketing.
"This [transformation strategy] will Our public relations professionals also enhanced enable our global enterprise to be Ogilvys reputation for creativity overall by contributing strongly to our performance in Cannes, and with Agency "" more client-centric and our people of the Year recognition in China, Singapore, Hong Kong to deliver the most creative and and the Middle East."
In addition, our thought leadership and delivery of earned influence as a critical marketing modern solutions practice won critical acclaim, topping the prestigious n Holmes Reports list of 2016 best innovations in public relations.
Our growing influence and public relations It is with this context in mind that I have set out, capabilities will increasingly drive a more comprehensive with the enthusiastic support of Sir Martin Sorrell, WPP modern marketing offering for the company overall.
leadership and all of my Ogilvy partners, to transform our Under the worldwide leadership of Brian company under the Next Chapter strategy mentioned Fetherstonhaugh, our customer engagement professionals earlier.
Underpinning this strategy is a comprehensive delivered strong business results in 2016.
The strength of reorganization of our enterprise structure, which will shift our creative product, led by precision targeting through Ogilvy from a collection of individually-managed vertical data-driven customer insights and purchase behavior, business units and P&Ls e. g. Ogilvy & Mather enabled us to win new client assignments in key business Advertising, OgilvyOne, Ogilvy Public Relations, and sectors such as retail, consumer goods, financial services more to a unified and single Ogilvy brand offering, which and airlines.
A particular proud moment was being will be led and managed through an integrated financial named a leader in global digital agency rankings by framework and business operating system as one Ogilvy.
Our new Social Customer Relationship This new entity, with the shared purpose of making Management SCRM and Marketing Automation offerings brands matter, will be comprised of deep capabilities of will remain key points of competitive differentiation and modern marketing experts and expertise encompassing accelerate enterprise growth over the coming years.
data, strategy, creative content and specialist marketing and Under the worldwide leadership of Carla Hendra, we media services that work seamlessly together to provide the founded a consulting practice six years ago with the idea most creative, most effective, and most cost-efficient solutions that clients experiencing disruption needed advice and for our clients.
We will roll out the first phase of business counsel from a trusted partner steeped in strategic brand transformation across our US operations in early 2017, and marketing knowledge.
We delivered record growth with the rest of our markets following throughout the year.
through this practice in 2016, and will accelerate the This transformation strategy centers on our people, momentum for our global enterprise in 2017 and beyond by our work and our clients.
Refocusing our leaders to these expanding the practice throughout key markets in Europe, essentials, and away from financial and administrative Asia Pacific and Latin America.
management of an organization grown too fragmented and In this fast changing and dynamic industry of ours, complex, has to be a good thing!
We will break down the we have learned never to rest on our laurels.
David Ogilvy barriers of a legacy organization structure designed for instilled in all of us a core value of divine discontent a a different era of client service and marketing.
This will constant reminder that we can always do better, and must enable our global enterprise to be more client-centric and be vigilant in anticipating what is coming around the corner our people to deliver the most creative and modern to deliver more value to clients.
In this current climate of solutions demanded of our industry.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 59 How were doing Advertising Our clients expect their strategic partners and suppliers Y&R Group to create better work with more accountability for business value faster and less expensively than ever before.
Understanding that there are no brilliant ideas or differentiated client experiences without flawless execution, we are also launching a new function, called Ogilvy Delivery, as part of our enterprise transformation.
Ogilvy Delivery revitalizes our commitment to the art of making, Report by Peter Law-Gisiko focusing on the critical craft skills required to bring big Chief executive officer ideas to life in all channels and touchpoints in the most agile, cost-efficient and effective way possible.
t is close to 45 years since the Y&R Group first The Ogilvy brand has always been at the leading edge pioneered what is now considered a best practice of change.
"For the next chapter of top agencies, seamlessly integrating a full range ""."
- I of Ogilvy, we intend to re-found the entire company in the I of marketing disciplines to best service our clients spirit of David Ogilvys original business point of view and and engage and motivate their customers.
core beliefs, but with an expanded portfolio of specialist The advances in marketing technology, the abundance capabilities, new ways of working together and partnering of data, the proliferation and fragmentation of media, across WPP, and with a revitalized determination to as well as the need to connect to the much empowered transform the Ogilvy brand experience for our people and our consumer, has helped amplify each of our companys clients.
This agenda will define Ogilvy for decades to come.
core competencies through the filter of our changed I could not be more confident in our collective ability environment.
Today, each Y&R Group company has to deliver our Next Chapter ambition.
Our shared purpose more perspectives and tools than ever before to help and mutual commitment to work together as one their clients create enduring brands that will thrive in organization will ensure our future is even brighter than the evolving marketplace.
Most of all, I have tremendous faith in the At the same time, clients, now more than ever, require incredible people of Ogilvy.
It is their spirit, talent, us to be nimble and focused on driving efficiencies without resilience, and drive to win that will push Ogilvy into sacrificing effectiveness.
Our team approach, among its next great age.
ourselves and with WPP, is key to making sure we Our mission is clear: we are a founder-branded, deliver on both sides of the equation, for our clients pervasively creative, modern marketing organization and for our business.
The different uses of marketing technology, data and storytelling are the ingredients that make Y&R Group so effective on behalf of its clients and a natural partner Ogilvy CommonHealth in so much of the horizontality that underpins WPP.
In just one example, Y&R, Wunderman, VML Worldwide and Burson-Marsteller work side-by-side in Memphis, See report on page 84.
Tennessee to help the U. S. Navy recruit the next generation to their ranks.
The use of data is being driven in different and unique ways across the Group.
Landors Brand Community model overturns traditional hierarchical thinking about brand management, using data-driven tools like Brand Differential.
Burson-Marsteller is leveraging its renowned polling resources to help drive content and creative work.
60 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Advertising The Science & Learning program at Sudler & Hennessey Y&R is designed to help clients leverage critical data.
Y&R just launched its second year of Best Countries rankings, in partnership with US News & World Report and The Wharton School, and part of a larger platform based - --- i... on BAV methodology that analyzes data to understand : nations as brands.
- --:, 'i Report by David Sable lfl Global chief executive officer Each Y&R Group company has esist the Usual.
The saying comes from Young & more perspectives and tools than Rubicams founder, Raymond Rubicam, who was, himself, an unusual leader for his time.
As the '' ever before to help their clients R first creative to found an agency, Rubicam was, , convinced that it was our job to resist the typical, the create enduring brands expected, on behalf of our clients.
As he was fond of saying, Resist the Usual.
The ways that our companies continue to reinvent Jeff Bezos of Amazon has said: If youre only going to themselves only serve to deepen the synergies between do the things you know are going to work, youre going to them, creating greater incentives to collaborate, and leave a lot of opportunity on the table.
That might sound numerous ways to leverage the different ways the Y&R like a reckless statement, were it not for another corollary Group companies engage with new technologies and data of his to obsess over customers, not competitors.
In fact, models in order to tell stories that have marketplace impact.
we cant think of a more customer-centric strategy than to Y&R Group initiatives benefitted all of the companies.
The Groups IT, for example, worked to improve the Resisting the Usual in 2016 produced great results.
technology structure, creating a new platform, UHUB, With Resist the Usual as our call to action, in 2016 we were that optimizes the development operations of the digital named the No.
3 Creative Global Network at Cannes, with teams.
Through better code management and enhanced 99 Lions spanning 26 offices.
1 agency of collaboration, UHUB improves productivity, increases the EMEA Effies, No.
2 in Chinas Effie Awards and No.
2 capacity, reduces risk and improves margin.
Over 80 offices for the Asia Pacific region.
are using it and driving it around the network is a goal Resisting the Usual is always about people first.
That for 2017. has never been more true than now, when data is prolific In 2016, Y&R Group embraced WPPs focus on the and algorithms too often left to do the job that only United Nations Sustainable Goal of gender equality, with people can do apply instincts and insights and historical an ultimate goal of increasing the ranks of women in knowledge to make full and credible analyses.
all areas and in particular senior leadership roles.
At the Resisting the Usual is also finding new ways to apply Group level, we are beginning to pilot an unconscious data.
Our Best Countries platform, partnered with bias training program focused on gender equality, with US News & World Report and The Wharton School is in a second program dedicated to helping those returning its second year.
The 2017 data has not only generated new to the workplace that will be launched later this year.
Best Countries rankings with some surprising results in Reports on 2016 from each of the companies follow.
a volatile year but also provides a gold mine of insights about nations as brands, useful to governments, businesses and the general public.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 61 How were doing Advertising And last year saw the key appointment of David Patton, Resisting the Usual generated a new wave of our who joined Y&R as the global president, moving from Innovation incubator, led by our global director of Grey.
Based out of our Y&R London office, David is innovation, Mansi Jayakumar, who was also named this helping to operationally manage our extensive global year as one of Forbes magazines 30 Under 30 and a Shots network.
A creative champion, a masterful strategic Rising Star NYC.
The new SparkPlug program has five thinker, we are already feeling his impact and inspiration.
new start-ups that will take up residence at our global Resist the Usual added up to close to $100 million HQ in New York, helping our clients find new ways to of new business revenue around the world, including the engage their customers all the while we help them shape massive U. S. Census win, major Pfizer brands, as well as their offering to best do that.
JPMorgan Chase, Cirque du Soleil in the US, Chanel, We also Resisted the Usual, by leveraging our Premier League and, in early 2017, JD Williams in Europe HR Talent experts to help bring new thinking to and Xtep in China.
In the fall, based on our deep Resist the Usual meant leveraging the full force of our relationships with colleges from which we recruit talent Global Boutique in new ways, for example, creating new and for our apprenticeship program we worked with work for Dannon Activia that brought the right people to the Navy Partnership to arrange an IdeaHack.
Y&R the table from Y&R New York, Buenos Aires and London.
executives, representatives of the Navy and our Navy It also meant building on our deep partnerships with VML, team, trekked up to Boston for a 48-hour exercise of iconmobile and TAXI.
creating ideas for millennials with Northeastern students It meant creating new practices.
Howard Courtemanche in Journalism, Computer Science and Design.
It was a joined us as the president of a new Health and Wellness win for everyone new ideas that gave us insights into practice, which in its first six months scored four wins recruitment targets, and clearly this taste of our business for over $21 million revenue.
Its mission is to Resist The adds to our ability to recruit the best and brightest.
Usual in creating communications for consumers, always In 2016, we expanded into two new markets pushing for breakthrough solutions.
Charter clients include Memphis and Washington, DC to provide the U. S. Navy Merck, Galderma, Boehringer Ingleheim, Teva, MD and the U. S. Census with the best staffing model that is Anderson and Optum.
In 2016, our first year, a flurry of all about the professionalism, proximity and productivity additional new clients were won, including BMS, Pfizer they need.
OTC, PhRMA, Orexigen and Bayer.
And Joe Rivas, who Finally, Resist the Usual was about telling great stories.
is the global lead on our Dell business, is heading up a In Asia, we partnered with VICE to create a webcast that Technology & Business practice.
It will help clients, showed the renaissance in the Myanmar market, done as current and new, benefit from a shared understanding an extended eXploring exercise.
In London, despite having of the challenges in the sector, as well as from learnings, lost the Marks & Spencer business, we signed off with experience and proprietary tools we have developed.
In the what was declared the UKs most beloved holiday campaign first quarter of 2017, we launched a third practice, Y&R this year Mrs Claus.
In New York, we created a new Inspire Change, which will focus on helping non-profits, platform for the newly split Xerox company, Set the Page NGO and CSR initiatives, leveraging our deep experience Free, and launched it by reimagining a classic spot, helping companies, hospitals and other organizations, Brother Dominic from 40 years ago to show the dramatic particularly as they face the key challenge of developing changes in Xerox technology.
Also in New York, we created a new generation of givers.
a campaign for PhRMA about biomedical research set to Resist the Usual saw BAVs fielding approach transition Dylan Thomas famous poem, Do Not Go Gentle Into to a digital, online format.
Even more important, we That Good Night.
explored brand equity and BAV and how it aligns to social equity in the online space, with the objective of building a practice around that understanding.
62 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Advertising VML Wunderman.... -.
1 '.. Report by Jon Cook Report by Mark Read Global chief executive officer Global chief executive officer.
'....... n every conceivable level, the pulse of VML underman enjoyed a very successful 2016,.. o:... :.
From the second delivering its best results in five years.
:.... consecutive year of Advertising Age A-List ended the year positioned to grow stronger '.
'.. O honors naming VML as one of the top five W on recent client wins and to benefit from the most influential and impactful agencies in the entire increasing opportunities from clients looking to transform industry to the most creatively awarded year in our their marketing and customer experience to take advantage history, its undeniably the most productive and prosperous of the digital revolution.
Over the past two years, we have worked on positioning VMLs global network credentials have never been Wunderman for the future, building more innovative stronger, equally balancing creative capabilities, technology capabilities, hiring new people, making a number of critical proficiency and strategic thinking.
We enjoyed our best-ever acquisitions and integrating much more closely our creative showing at Cannes, with a record number of Lions and and data skills.
Today, we can offer the progressive client, shortlists spanning a dozen diverse categories, Lead one who recognizes the power of data and technology Agency recognition in the Forrester Lead Agencies Wave but knows that brilliant creative ideas are needed to report, Leader ranking in the Gartner Magic Quadrant inspire consumers, a trusted partner to help them map for Digital Agencies study and much more.
Weve strengthened Most Important Partner relationships by leading clients through brand, technology W underman is very well placed, and consumer engagement transformations.
Whether it be through expanded experiences for long-standing partners with our heritage in data, to such as Bayer, Ford, Sprint, Tyson and Wendys or '' through new agency of record client partnerships with leverage the benefits of AI for Electrolux and New Balance.
its clients ff VML continues to extend capabilities and collaboration around the world, supporting clients such as Bridgestone, Colgate-Palmolive, Dell, Kelloggs, Kimberly-Clark, Ford, Wunderman is a Creatively Driven.
Microsoft and PepsiCo across multiple VML markets and organisation.
We believe in strong creative ideas but also regions.
VML global offices secured new business in delivering measurable results founded in our expertise relationships with brands such as GoDaddy, HSBC, Netflix in data.
We have integrated our three major disciplines and Verisign.
Additionally, multiple VML global offices Data and Analytics, Creative Communications and garnered Agency of the Year honors.
Experiences, and Technology-Enabled Marketing across In short, VML has never been more relevant for a our 175 offices.
This combination not only enhances our growing number of respected and renowned global brands.
expertise: it also enables us to offer end-to-end solutions Were thrilled that our 25th anniversary year coincides with for our clients.
At its heart is COLLISION, our unique way the strongest momentum in our history.
of working, which builds on the notion that the best results come out of the collision of creativity and data, and delivers results through rigorous frameworks, easy access to data and a collaborative way of working.
Our people now work WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 63 How were doing Advertising side by side across disciplines, taking full advantage of each Finally, we are thinking ambitiously about our future others knowledge and strengths.
and how advances in computing power are driving artificial In 2016, we made a number of acquisitions.
Wunderman is very well placed, with our welcomed Acceleration into our network from WPP Digital, heritage in data, to leverage the benefits of AI for its clients.
adding 150 seasoned technology and consulting experts We have successfully delivered a number of projects for clients to our team.
Founders Jacques van Niekerk and Stephan that benefit from the application of AI to marketing and are Pretorius joined us in broader roles as CEO of Wunderman investing with some key strategic partners in new areas.
Data and Global CTO, respectively.
We extended our data Above all, the more than 7,000 people who make up business in Europe with Conexance joining us in France.
Wunderman around the world are energized by their And late in the year, Brazils leading marketing automation achievements in 2016 and ambitions for the future.
I would company, Pmweb, joined our network.
This new infusion of like to thank them for what they have done and what they talent improved our ability to deliver data and technology will do together in 2017 to realise our ambition of inspiring consulting and extended our offer into end-to-end digital people to take action.
Our efforts, I am pleased to say, are paying off.
Globally, we won more than $75 million in new business in Burson-Marsteller 2016, including from leading brands such as GSK, Danone, T-Mobile, Shell, HSBC, Nestl, U. S. Navy, Ford and Dyson.
We gained major new assignments in every region io : : and practice.
Whats more, many of those assignments are ', , L lin new areas for us, including data and technology strategy, product innovation, content strategy and virtual reality.
J I Creatively, we continue to improve and are gaining Worldwide chair and recognition for our efforts.
Our offices in Belgium and chief executive officer Buenos Aires won Cannes Lions last year alongside awards for our Shanghai office at the IAB Mixx Awards, our Buenos n 2016, we continued strengthening and combining Aires and Lima offices at the El Ojo festival, our Paris office the two pillars of our growth strategy world-class at the Cristal Festival, and our Seattle and London offices strategic counseling and cutting-edge integrated at the Data & Marketing Associations events.
I communications to build a fully modernized firm.
Our specialist groups, Wunderman Health and On both fronts, we won significant business from current Wunderman MSC, also continued to perform particularly and new clients.
strongly with double-digit growth in the past year.
Leading corporations and business associations chose Wunderman Health has positioned itself as a change agent, us to spearhead major campaigns aimed at their most as the healthcare industry increasingly commits to digital important reputational challenges.
We reignited our US and customer-centric marketing.
During 2016, the agency government work, winning major federal contracts.
was buoyed by wins like GSK Consumer Healths selection New clients tapped our crisis capabilities to cope with to its global digital roster.
In 2017, it will launch an evolved particularly controversial situations.
And we continued to personalized marketing practice, unveil proprietary deepen our capabilities in evidence-based, content-driven, research and further expand into emerging fields of creative work, building out our StudioB across our global wellness and health services.
network while collaborating with our polling arms Our ecommerce expert, FusePump, has built exciting Benenson Strategy Group and Penn Schoen Berland, and proprietary mobile applications aimed at the digital shopper.
our media partnership arm Palisades Media Ventures.
64 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Advertising New offerings introduced in 2016 included BursonClient highlights include the rebrand of the Australian Marsteller Advantage Women, which helps organizations Open which broke all attendance records and the further their goals to close the gender gap and create launch of Axway, Alawwal Bank, Holler & Dash opportunities for women to rise as leaders.
We also added a restaurants, Airbus company Navblue and S&P Global.
higher education specialty that helps college and university administrations handle the new wave of social issues sparking debate and unrest on campuses across the US.
Bravo Adding more world-class strategic communications professionals, building state-of-the-art integrated social media and creative services and deepening strengths to help clients address 21st century needs helped lead to a 44% year-over-year increase in awards for our work, including being named Large Agency of the Year in the US by PR Report by Eric Hoyt News.
We are proud of the progress we have achieved, President and building on a culture rooted in performance, urgency chief executive officer and progress.
016 was a challenging year but Bravo has emerged smarter and more effective than ever.
Our core Landor offering has become highly integrated, delivering 2 omni-channel solutions for clients that build their brands and grow their business.
In an increasingly multicultural America, Wendys, Mazda, Pfizer, Coca-Cola, Chevron and SC Johnson continue to entrust their needs with Bravo.
Central to Bravos performance are people and Report by Lois Jacobs partnerships.
Talent optimization and enhancing the skills Chief executive officer of our best people ensure our clients and our agency are driven by superior marketing professionals.
Continued xceptional financial growth, a radical new collaborations with Y&R, VML, Wunderman, Ogilvy, : model for managing brands, and the most Red Fuse, Garage, GroupM and Geometry attest to Bravos awarded branding agency at Cannes for the strategic and creative excellence in the increasingly E second year running.
2016 was an outstanding integrated world our clients require.
We expanded our brand engagement and verbal identity practices: we added Landor Lab an intensive incubator Sudler & Hennessey experience, and we created Brand Differential a predictive See report on page 85. research and prioritization tool.
We welcomed new clients such as Airbus, Fidelity Investments, Huawei, Jabal Omar, Metro Group, One&Only Resorts and Siemens.
Our revolutionary approach to brand management The Brand Community Model is already achieving great traction with both new and existing clients.
It recognizes that traditional tools are failing in todays hyperconnected, complex market.
Top-down command and rigid control are no longer effective.
Landors new model helps clients build, nurture and sustain enduring and effective brand communities.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 65 How were doing Advertising Grey Group Grey We enhanced our leadership ranks for the future with the promotion of several talented executives who have driven our success for years.
Michael Houston took up his duties as global president of Grey, an expanded worldwide management role.
Alain Groenendaal was appointed president and chief executive officer of Grey Europe, after Report by Jim Heekin leading Grey Latin America.
Eduardo Maruri became Chairman and president of Grey Latin America, having built our marketchief executive officer leading agency in Ecuador.
Nirvik Singh, who has been key to our growth in Asia for nearly three decades, took 016 marked our ninth year in a row of record on added duties as chairman and chief executive officer financial and creative performance.
We began of Grey Asia, Middle East and Africa.
Per Pedersen, our the year with Global Agency of the Year honors chairman of the Grey Global Creative Council, was named 2 from Adweek and continued our momentum.
Importantly, Debby Reiner High-profile new business wins included Marriott became chief executive officer of Grey New York, a new International, Weber, Procter & Gambles Herbal Essences, position.
During her many years of leading our Procter & Marks & Spencer, C&A and Bose.
Many of our current Gamble business, Grey has become one of the foremost clients awarded us significant new assignments including beauty agencies in the world.
Eli Lilly, Kelloggs, Ally Financial, Pfizer and Nestl.
Importantly, we emerged from the GlaxoSmithKline global review with five global brands, one more than A dweek wrote, Grey is winning we previously served.
"And early 2017 marked the big for work... that busted announcement of Walgreens Boots Alliances global "" account consolidation with Team WBA, of which Grey through the boundaries of is a key member."
Grey will be the clients lead advertising advertising... entertaining, agency in the US.
Our creative reputation continued to soar at the Cannes inspiring, useful stuff ff International Festival of Creativity.
We won 93 Lions from 14 countries in four regions, including a Grand Prix and Titanium Lion.
Grey won in 20 categories from film, radio Grey continued its strategic acquisitions to enhance the and outdoor to the newest disciplines of mobile, creative networks capabilities and critical mass.
We acquired Tank, data and entertainment.
The agency ranked sixth globally a leading healthcare and consumer agency in Canada.
We and Grey New York ranked as the No.
1 most creative strengthened our presence in the Benelux region acquiring agency in the US and North America and No.
FamousGrey, one of the largest independent agencies.
In Adweek wrote, Grey is winning big for work that Ecuador, we took a majority stake in Maruri Grey, our worked and busted through the boundaries of advertising.
Finally, we continued our expansion in Its entertaining, inspiring, useful stuff: meaningful work China, acquiring Easycom, a premier social media agency that people want to be around.
Our Gillette Olympic commercial, Perfect Isnt Pretty, Not many advertising agencies survive yet alone thrive chosen by Procter & Gamble to run in the opening to mark their centennial.
As we celebrate our 100th ceremony, to our Song of the Open Road for Volvo to anniversary throughout 2017, Im convinced Greys best Super Bowl Babies Choir for the NFL, all exploded in days lie ahead.
popular culture true to our Famously Effective philosophy.
66 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Advertising Commarco Our full-service web design agency deepblue networks expanded its strategic focus and launched a specialised unit for gaming and e-sports, helping to position brands as first mover in the ascendant e-sports business.
Report by Frank-Michael Schmidt Blumberry augmented its digital portfolio and launched Chief executive officer the worlds biggest branded content travel portal for TUI '.... Group with its Content Live Hub technology.
-, -: ommarco is the second-largest Germany-based KKLD conducted the global brand design relaunch for marketing communications group.
With our MINI and launched an innovative brand experience space :.. :.. broad portfolio of agency brands and specialised for MINI: the A D O design space in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.
C disciplines, we are deeply rooted in the biggest with co-working and prototyping facilities as well as event European market and see ourselves as experts for Germany.
spaces for designers, influencers and brand aficionados.
Our companies work for clients such as BMW, Opel GM With these and many other companies and clients, PSA, Siemens, Samsung, Unilever, Vodafone and many Commarco will continue its innovation and growth organisations in the public sector.
We look back on 2016 strategy within the highly-fragmented German as a year of numerous successful projects, new competence communications market.
centres and new business wins.
Our flagship brand Scholz & Friends celebrated its 35th anniversary with its best business results since joining WPP.
Its new management system, established in 2015, bore fruit by generating collaboration beyond silos and new entrepreneurial initiatives: the content desk for real-time content marketing: the specialised employer branding unit: and the new agency brand Scholz & Friends Trademarks for retail marketing.
Many new business wins rounded out a successful year, for example: RWE, Germanys largest energy provider, with the innogy launch and IPO campaign: AirBerlin, Germanys second-largest airline: Car2Go, the worlds largest car-sharing provider: and many others.
"W e are deeply rooted in the biggest European market and see ourselves as experts "" for Germany ff gkk DialogGroup, our CRM specialist, welcomed Siemens Financial Services, innogy and Porsche as new clients and enlarged its social media business with Samsung and KIA, making it one of the top 10 social media agencies in Germany."
