1 Strategic Report Investment Objective and Policy The Company invests in the global healthcare sector with the objective of achieving a high level of capital growth.
In order to achieve its investment objective, the Company invests worldwide in a diversified portfolio of shares in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and related securities in the healthcare sector.
It uses gearing, and derivative transactions to enhance returns and mitigate risk.
Performance is measured against the MSCI World Health Care Index on a net total return, sterling adjusted basis Benchmark.
Investment in unquoted securities will not exceed 10% of Investment strategy the portfolio at the time of acquisition: The implementation of the Companys Investment Objective has been delegated to OrbiMed by Frostrow as AIFM under A maximum of 5% of the portfolio, at the time of the Boards and Frostrows supervision and guidance.
acquisition, may be invested in each of debt instruments, convertibles and royalty bonds issued by pharmaceutical Details of OrbiMeds investment strategy and approach are and biotechnology companies: set out in the Portfolio Managers review on pages 11 to 13.
While performance is measured against the Companys A maximum of 20% of the portfolio, at the time of Benchmark, Frostrow and OrbiMed have been given the acquisition, may be invested in companies in each of the ability to manage the portfolio without regard to the following sectors: Benchmark and its make-up.
healthcare equipment and supplies While the Boards strategy is to allow flexibility in managing healthcare technology the investments, in order to manage investment risk it has imposed various investment, gearing and derivative healthcare providers and services.
guidelines and limits, within which Frostrow and OrbiMed are required to manage the investments, as set out below.
Derivative strategy and limits In line with the Investment Objective, derivatives are Any material changes to the Investment Objective, Policy and employed, when appropriate, in an effort to enhance returns Benchmark or the investment, gearing and derivative and to improve the risk-return profile of the Companys guidelines and limits require approval from shareholders.
There are two types of derivatives currently employed within the portfolio: Options and Equity Swaps: Investment limits and guidelines The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross The Board has set the following limits within which derivative assets in other closed ended investment companies exposures are managed: including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Derivative transactions excluding equity swaps can be Exchange, except where the investment companies used to mitigate risk and or enhance capital returns and themselves have stated investment policies to invest no will be restricted to a net exposure of 5% of the portfolio: more than 15% of their gross assets in other closed ended and investment companies including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange: Equity Swaps may be used in order to meet the Companys investment objective of achieving a high level of capital The Company will not invest more than 15% of the portfolio growth and counterparty exposure through these is in any one individual stock at the time of acquisition: restricted to 12% of the gross assets of the Company at At least 60% of the portfolio will normally be invested in the time of acquisition.
larger companies i. e. with a market capitalisation of at Further details on how derivatives are employed can be found least U. S. $5bn : in note 16 beginning on page 61.
At least 20% of the portfolio will normally be invested in The Company does not currently hedge against foreign smaller companies i. e. with a market capitalisation of currency exposure.
less than U. S. $5bn : Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 05 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 Gearing limits The Company has two current sources of leverage: the The Board and Frostrow believe that shareholder returns can overdraft facility, which is subject to the gearing limit: and, be enhanced through the use of borrowings at appropriate derivatives, which are subject to the separate derivative times for the purpose of investment.
The Board has set a limits.
The Board and Frostrow have set a maximum leverage maximum gearing level, through borrowing, of 20% of the net limit of 140% on both the commitment and gross basis.
OrbiMed are responsible for deciding on the Further details on the gearing and leverage calculations, and appropriate level of gearing at any one time, subject to acting how total exposure through derivatives is calculated, is within the 20% limit.
included in the Glossary beginning on page 69.
Leverage limits Under the AIFMD the Company is required to set maximum leverage limits.
Leverage under the AIFMD is defined as any method by which the total exposure of an AIF is increased.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 06
