How were doing Landor See report on page 64.
Group XP Brand Union Report by Simon Bolton Report by Toby Southgate Group chief executive officer Worldwide chief executive officer a, , ..... ' roup XP is a unique consulting model formed 016 was challenging in a number of key through the partnership between Brand Union, markets.
We saw twin drivers of change: :.
We believe that the commoditisation of our packaging design G great customer experience is the key driver 2 offer and the impact of the value investors.
By connecting diverse perspectives In contrast, we find continued value in our core and skills in our network, we bring a holistic view of purpose.
We have been part of WPP for 30 years, and have experience to create transformative interactions between done our best work breaking ice: engaging senior clients brands and people.
with practical, agnostic advice on how best to communicate and organise their brands.
In 2016, this focus secured significant new engagements with Aetna, Tyson Foods, Le Group, National Grid, Liberty Mutual and IAG.
H orizontality remains a key We evolved structurally, too.
In Asia Pacific we created element to the success of the a unified regional model under chairman Monica Lee and, , '' CEO Graham Hitchmough.
In the UK, we established a Group XP offer new leadership team with CEO Alex Clegg, who joined us after a successful decade leading Ogilvy Group Vietnam.
We partnered with Kantar Millward Brown and There were areas of outstanding performance.
Madrid, BrandZ to launch the Group XP Experience Index, a under Pilar Domingo, is a model of sustained organic first-of-its-kind report that enables us to quantify the role growth.
New York, led by Christina Falzano and Don brand experience plays in building financial growth.
The Forringer, delivered another strong year: through the results, a global ranking of the Top 30 experience brands, dedication of Coleen Cahill, we grew our business with Bank were launched simultaneously in London and New York of America.
In Germany, CEO Tobias Phleps has built a in October.
successful start-up story in Berlin.
In a ruthless economy, Horizontality remains a key element to the success of Epigram Brand Union in So Paulo delivered growth.
the Group XP offer and we are now serving Adidas, JTI, We ended the year with guarded confidence, and having Samsung, Simply Health and VW Group across at least delivered the strongest quarterly new business performance two operating companies, a trend that we expect to grow in several years.
For 2017 we predict modest growth fuelled in 2017. by both a refreshed clarity of purpose and our relationships across Group XP and WPP at large.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 81 How were doing Branding & Identity FITCH SET Report by Simon Bolton Worldwide chief executive officer.
e enjoyed a successful year as we grew the ' ' '.
I... ' network on all key dimensions.
Growth was fuelled by acquiring major new client Report by Sabina Teshler I, .. W assignments from T Mobile, Ann Inc.
Founder and A Samsung, PetSmart, JTI and Carpoly.
chief executive officer In the retail sector, we continue to evolve our offer, .. ahead of the market curve and have been particularly ET continues to work towards its mission of potent in marrying the online and offline worlds, despite making experiences through physical interactions.
the tension often inherent between those environments.... the most powerful and most craved media channel Given this context, we added further bench strength to S for people and brands today.
As brands continue S our Asia Pacific network through the acquisition of an to allocate a greater share of the overall marketing budget independent agency in Hong Kong that comprises a blended to non-traditional channels, SET is uniquely positioned to 2D, 3D and interactive studio.
Led by Jonathan Cummings capture a greater portion of this spend.
and Cally Williams, the team brings full branding solutions Our financial performance in 2016 reflects this trend.
to clients such as SWIRE Properties, Genting Resorts and With net revenue growth exceeding 50%, 2016 was truly Nord Anglia.
a banner year for our agency.
With the support of WPP The leadership structure, led by three regional CEOs, and Group XP, SET has enjoyed some major client wins Hermann Behrens NA, David Blair EMEIA and Andrew connected to the NY studio including Verizon, The North Crombie SENA, ensures a tight, collaborative network Face, The Gap and Sennheiser, leading to threefold growth that sees resource, talent and skills deployed internationally of the studio.
to best meet client needs.
As our client relationships increasingly move upstream, we continue to elevate our strategic and creative talent and thus broadening our service offering to support the experience needs of marketing executives.
Last year I n the retail sector, we continue we added two ECDs to our team, Simon Hatter and to evolve our offer ahead of the Jodi Terwilliger.
Weve also created a digital production team that supports the new experience needs of our '' market curve ff client partners.
Tim Greenhalgh, chairman and CCO continued to position FITCH as the go-to retail and design agency for ambitious clients.
Tim sat on a number of major awards juries and delivered a keynote on Generous Brands at the NRF and talked to the Store of the Future at WPPs World Retail Forum.
At the time of going to press, I am delighted to announce the well-deserved promotion of David Blair to global CEO.
David and I will work closely together to steer FITCH through 2017.
82 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Branding & Identity The Partnership Report by Jim Prior Chief executive officer... :... ur hybrid structure of five distinct but closely PeclersParis o:.
: :, l ' : collaborative companies yielded encouraging Under the leadership of CEO Eric Duchamp, PeclersParis... : ' :.
results in its second full year since formation.
Fashion and beauty trend consulting ' '.
O A number of significant new client opportunities services expanded significantly, globally and particularly were created through The Partnership companies working in China.
The companys trend books sold well and remain in combination, while the specialist, client-focused a crucial source of inspiration to clients worldwide, and its approaches of each individual company were well-suited digital business continues to grow.
to the general operating environment, resulting in good growth overall.
This group continues to set an industryleading creative standard and enjoyed award wins in The Partners multiple competitions around the world.
The combination of senior-level brand consulting skills with multi-award winning design capabilities helped The Partners to another year of excellent growth, with its Addison Group London and New York offices performing particularly The company continued to diversify its mix of business well.
New clients in 2016 included Nespresso and Revlon.
in 2016 achieving a well-balanced portfolio of digital, Another successful year at the Cannes International Festival corporate branding and corporate content work.
CEO of Creativity, most notably with work for Argos, was a Tom Robinson led Addison Group to establish several new creative highlight.
relationships with high-profile clients, including Diageo, National Grid and QinetiQ.
VBAT It was a momentous year for VBAT as its acquisition of Lambie-Nairn dBOD was completed and the two firms merged to create Clients are increasingly recognising Lambie-Nairns a market leader in branding and design in the Netherlands.
Dynamic Brands approach as the most contemporary and The newly-merged company, now under the leadership fit-for-purpose method with which to manage their brands of CEO Remco van der Sluis, further strengthens the across multiple markets and multiple media.
In 2016, the companys relationship with Heineken and offers marketcompany retained its global role with Telefonica after a leading capabilities to clients in its home market and competitive review and won several important new clients, internationally.
