How were doing w, p:l Jgfta :f..... and Mazda: new clients included Lufthansa, LOral, Muller, American Express and Facebook.
'.. 1 Creative agency Johannes Leonardo experienced.., continued success with its guiding mantra The Consumer.. -, I is the Medium.
JL helped make Adidas Instagrams ' most-liked brand within its category and won new work J. with Sonnet Insurance, New York City Football Club, Report by Mark Read NBC, Alexander Wang and Bleacher Report.
The agency Chief executive officer also added Mass Mutual to its roster and continued to and strengthen relationships with Google and Coca-Cola.
Mark Povey Chief operating officer A s the network of.
PP Digital is a group of companies that drives communication channels marketing transformation and innovation for ''.
Combining technical available to consumers grows.
W W expertise with a consumer-focused, insightincreasingly complex, we driven approach, WPP Digital companies deliver awardwinning solutions that allow our clients to reach consumers will remain at the forefront in context across all digital touchpoints.
2016 was another of marketing innovation successful year, with the expansion of existing client relationships, significant new client wins and multiple industry accolades.
Hogarth had a very successful year.
"Growth in "" POSSIBLE, an integrated agency, continued its focus digital was particularly strong, fuelled by the opening on data, technology, creativity and emotion."
Its Empathy of a specialist offshore digital production facility in Brazil Model, a proprietary tool for analysing the emotions of and the deployment of dynamic advertising content for social posts, made Coca-Cola the leader in social media use on the web.
The company continued to expand its marketing at the 2016 Summer Olympics.
POSSIBLE offer in TV primary and post production, working with a expanded its Commerce practice by building specific number of global brands to consolidate its TV production services and expertise that optimise marketing and sales activity around the world.
Major client wins included performance for brands on Amazon and Alibabas Tmall, Nespresso, GSK and General Mills.
In addition, it and continued to strengthen relationships with Microsoft, substantially grew the scope and scale of its relationships Nestl, AT&T, Procter & Gamble and Turner, and added with P&G, Santander, TK Maxx and Dow Jones, amongst Aston Martin, Adidas, LEGO and Specsavers to its roster.
The global nature of Hogarths leading client The agency launched POSSIBLE POV, a curated collection relationships has driven activity across the whole company.
of articles on all things digital.
The agency also expanded Revenue grew across all regions in 2016, with particularly into Germany, Brazil and Argentina and strengthened its strong performances in the US and Latin America.
Adobe expertise through the acquisition of Conrad Caine.
F. biz maintained momentum, despite a challenging SYZYGY enhanced its CGI, virtual reality, innovation, economic environment in Brazil, and was recognized as customer experience, data and media management offerings.
1 digital agency in Brazil by Scopen.
In addition The company acquired USEEDS, a Berlin-based customer to a Cannes Lion for Unilever work, COO Guilherme experience specialist, opened new offices in Munich and Jahara received the Cabor Award, the most prestigious London and expanded in the US.
Creative director Piotr national professional award for creative professionals Jaworowski was awarded The Internationalist Agency in Brazil.
New clients included Honda Motorcycles Innovator award and the agency won Cannes Lions and and Ovaltine.
MM&M awards for its work on Soolantra.
SYZYGY continued to work successfully with Global Avis globally 92 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing WPP Digital Blue State Digital, the leading purpose-driven creative WPPs largest ecommerce agency Salmon expanded and technology agency, expanded its portfolio of clients into Northern Europe and India with the acquisition of to include Airbnb, Fair Trade USA, March of Dimes and ecommerce consultancy Eperium.
Salmon launched new Yale University and continued to work with Google, Lloyds commerce initiatives for Audi UK, Ted Baker, Habitat and Banking Group and Colgate-Palmolive to deepen their Punch Taverns, in addition to driving digital growth with engagement with customers.
BSDs technology powered existing clients DFS, Game, Sainsburys and Selfridges.
Bernie Sanders grassroots movement along with hundreds The company grew to 700 employees and has driven of political candidates and advocacy organizations during billions worth of digital transactions through its clients the 2016 US election.
BSD received a number of awards sites to date.
including a Lovie for its Tate Modern creative work, a The Data Alliance, a horizontal team that helps Shorty Award for the Love Must Win campaign with WPP companies access and leverage data, entered into Freedom To Marry and Webbys for work with NYUs partnerships that will benefit WPP companies and their Tisch School of the Arts, the Sierra Club and several clients.
The group established partnerships with Spotify, trade associations.
The group will continue Rockfish experienced another year of solid performance to pursue opportunities that provide access to valuable driven by best-in-class ecommerce strategy and execution insights for all members of the WPP network.
of pure-play and omni-channel experiences.
It expanded its offering and activations in innovation-based services for T he Data Alliance established existing, long-term clients Southwest Airlines, Ford Motor Company and Sams Club, while leaning into emerging partnerships with Spotify, technologies with commerce-focused Internet of Things '' and mobile connectivity innovations for CPG and retail Mobilewalla, Snapchat, , clients.
Additional highlights include being named and VICE Innovation Agency of the Year at the iMedia Awards, key horizontality partnerships within WPP, and new business wins with Intel, Colgate-Palmolive, Patient WPP Digital expanded its investment portfolio in Point and Luxottica EyeMed.
2016 with the addition of Mit, the largest community Digital technology consultancy Cognifide added of Latino content creators and social media influencers, Barclays Africa Group Limited to its roster.
The company Woven, a digital media company that produces and expanded geographically with new offices in New York distributes pop culture content, and Russel Simmons and Johannesburg.
Cognifide was named as the UKs Top All Def Digital, a leading producer of music and content Tech Agency in the EConsultancy Top 100 and recently tailored to the urban-centric youth population.
spearheaded the WPP Common Ground initiative in In 2017, WPP Digital will continue to explore support of #techmums, a project that empowers women acquisition and investment opportunities that enhance through technology.
As the network of communication channels available to consumers grows increasingly complex, we will remain at the forefront of marketing innovation.
