r 1-- r. : jl Board of Directors Non-executive chairman Members of the Advisory Board Roberto Quarta Jeremy Bullmore Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee John Jackson Member of the Compensation Committee Bud Morten John Quelch Executive Directors Richard Rivers Cuneyd Zapsu Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Company Secretary Paul Richardson Finance director Marie Capes Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Non-executive directors Jacques Aigrain Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Charlene Begley Member of the Audit Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee Tarek Farahat Member of the Audit Committee Sir John Hood Chairman of the Compensation Committee Ruigang Li Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Daniela Riccardi Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Nicole Seligman Senior independent director Hugo Shong Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Timothy Shriver Member of the Compensation Committee Sally Susman Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Sol Trujillo Member of the Audit Committee WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 115 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Board of Directors Jacques Aigrain Non-executive director Age 62 Jacques Aigrain was appointed a director of WPP on Roberto Quarta Non-executive chairman Age 67 13 May 2013.
He is currently a Senior Advisor at Warburg Pincus LLP.
He was on the Executive Committee of Swiss Roberto Quarta was appointed as a director with effect Re AG from 2001 to 2009 including CEO from 2006, and from 1 January 2015 and became chairman of WPP prior to that, he spent 20 years with JPMorgan Chase in in June 2015.
He is Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc, New York, London and Paris.
In addition, he is a nona FTSE 100 listed global medical devices company and executive director of London Stock Exchange Group Plc Partner of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice and Chairman of and a Supervisory Board Member of LyondellBassell NV Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Europe, a private equity firm.
and Swiss International Airlines AG.
He was Chairman Previously, he was Chief Executive and then Chairman of LCH Clearnet Group Ltd from 2010 to March 2015, of BBA Group plc, Chairman of Rexel SA and IMI plc and also was a Director of the Qatar Financial Center and a Non-Executive Director at BAE Systems plc, Authorities until March 2015 and Supervisory Board Equant NV, Foster Wheeler AG and PowerGen plc.
Member of Lufthansa AG until April 2015.
He is a dual French and Swiss citizen.
He holds a PhD in Economics Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 72 from Sorbonne University, and a MA degree in Economics from Paris Dauphine University.
Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, becoming Group chief executive in the same year.
He was a Charlene Begley Non-executive director Age 50 non-executive director of Arconic Inc. until 10 March 2017 and Delta Topco until 31 January 2017.
Charlene T Begley was appointed a director of WPP on sirmartinsorrell@wpp.
Most recently, Ms Begley served as a Senior Vice President of General Electric Company and Paul Richardson Finance director Age 59 the Chief Executive Officer and President of GE Home & Business Solutions at General Electric Company.
In Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP this role, she had responsibility for $9 billion of revenue in 1996 after four years with the Company as director with the GE Appliances, Lighting and Intelligent Platforms of treasury.
He is responsible for the Groups worldwide businesses, as well as served as the companys Chief functions in finance, information technology, procurement, Information Officer and led the Sourcing Council and property, treasury, taxation, internal audit and Corporate Leadership Staff.
As CIO, she managed a budget sustainability.
He is a chartered accountant and fellow of $3.7 billion and led 10,000 IT professionals with a of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
strong focus on business process excellence, simplification, paul.
com collaboration and security and compliance.
Over her career at GE, she served as President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Enterprise Solutions, GE Plastics, and GE Transportation.
In addition, she led GEs Corporate Audit Staff and served as the Chief Financial Officer for GE Transportation and GE Plastics Europe and India.
Ms Begley currently serves as a non-executive director and member of the Audit Committee of NASDAQ OMX and non-executive director and member of the Audit and Nominating Committees of Red Hat.
Ms Begley was a director of Morpho Detection, Inc. and GE Fanuc JV.
She was recognized as a Young Global leader on the World Economic Forum and Fortunes Most Powerful Women in Business.
Ms Begley graduated Magna Cum Laude from the University of Vermont in 1988 with a BS Degree in Business Administration.
116 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Tarek Farahat Non-executive director Age 52 Ruigang Li Non-executive director Age 47 Tarek Farahat was appointed a director with effect Ruigang Li was appointed a director of WPP on from 11 October 2016.
He is JBS Global President for 12 October 2010.
He is the Founding Chairman of Marketing and Innovation and a member of the Board of CMC Capital Partners and CMC Holdings CMC, Directors.
JBS is the largest protein production company Chinas most prestigious platforms for media and in the world by sales.
He initially joined JBS S. A. in 2013 entertainment investment and operation with an extensive as an independent non-executive director before taking coverage across the entire spectrum of traditional and on his current executive role in 2015.
Mr Farahat serves internet space.
Ruigang Li has led CMC to create a number on the Board of Alpargatas S. A.
Prior to JBS S. A. of champions and emerging leaders in key sub-sectors Mr Farahat spent 26 years at Procter & Gamble, in a including television, film, animation, sports, music, range of marketing and general executive management location-based entertainment, financial media, financial roles, working across Europe, the Middle East, Africa and and media data services, advertising, e-commerce, Latin America, including the General Management Vice ticketing, mobile video social network, game and President roles of the Latin America region from 2001.
Ruigang Li was the Chairman and President the head of Procter & Gamble operations in Brazil 2006 of SMG Shanghai Media Group for more than 10 years 2012 he led the company to a period of accelerated growth and successfully transformed SMG from a Shanghaias well as successfully integrating the Gillette business.
In based provincial broadcaster into Chinas leading media 2012, he was elected by the board of directors of Procter & conglomerate with the most diversified business scope.
Gamble as President for Procter & Gamble Latin America and was also appointed to Procter & Gambles Global Daniela Riccardi Non-executive director Age 57 Leadership Council.
Mr Farahat has a BA Business degree from the American University in Cairo and a degree in Daniela Riccardi was appointed a director on 12 September Finance from Cairo University.
He is a joint Egyptian and 2013.
A prominent FMCG, retail-and-fashion products Brazilian citizen.
executive, she is Chief Executive Officer of Baccarat, the international luxury goods company, and was Chief Sir John Hood Non-executive director Age 65 Executive Officer of Diesel Group, the innovative fashion business.
She was an executive at Procter & Gamble for Sir John Hood was appointed a director on 1 January 2014.
25 years, including service as President of Procter & An international education and business leader, he was Gamble Greater China, with 7,000 employees, and Vice formerly Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford and President-General Manager for Eastern Europe & Russia.
of the University of Auckland.
In his native New Zealand, Ms Riccardi also sits on the Board of Kering and on the he served as Chairman of Tonkin & Taylor Ltd and as Board of Comite Colbert.
Ms Ricardi is a guest lecturer non-executive director of Fonterra Co-operative Group, at Grenoble Ecole fide Management in Paris.
Ms Riccardi ASB Bank Ltd, and other companies.
Sir John currently is a Magna Cum Laude graduate in Political Science and serves as President & CEO of the Robertson Foundation, International Studies at Sapienza University of Rome and and as Chairman of Study Group Limited and BMT Group.
completed a Fellowship in Marketing at Yale University.
He also serves as Chair of the Rhodes Trust.
Sir John also serves on the board of Aurora Energy Research.
Sir John earned his PhD in Civil Engineering from the University of Auckland and then won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford, where he was awarded an MPhil in Management Studies.
Sir John has been appointed a Knight Companion to the New Zealand Order of Merit.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 117 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Nicole Seligman Non-executive director Age 60 Timothy P. Shriver Non-executive director Age 57 Nicole Seligman was appointed a director on 1 January Tim Shriver was appointed a director of WPP on 8 August 2014.
Most recently, Ms Seligman served as President of 2007.
He is Chairman of Special Olympics and in that Sony Entertainment, Inc. and Sony Corporation of America capacity, he happily serves together with over 5.34 million and Sony Group Senior Legal Counsel.
Until 2014, she Special Olympics athletes in 170 countries, all working was Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Sony to promote health, education, and a more unified world Corporation.
Previously, as a partner in the Washington through the joy of sports.
Before joining Special Olympics law firm of Williams & Connolly, she counselled a wide in 1996, Mr Shriver was and remains a leading educator range of clients, including major media companies, on focusing on the social and emotional factors in learning.
complex litigation and commercial matters.
She was a law He co-founded and currently chairs the Collaborative for clerk for US Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall and Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning CASEL, the was associate editorial page editor for the Asian Wall Street leading school reform organization in the field of social Journal.
Ms Seligman serves on the Board of Viacom Inc. and emotional learning.
He is a member of the Council She was a Magna Cum Laude graduate of both Harvard on Foreign Relations.
Mr Shriver earned his undergraduate College and Harvard Law School.
degree from Yale University, a Masters degree from The Catholic University of America, and a Doctorate in Hugo Shong Non-executive director Age 61 Education from the University of Connecticut.
He has produced four films, written for dozens of newspapers Hugo Shong was appointed a director on 13 May 2013. and magazines, founded an ice cream company, and been He is the Global Chairman of IDG Capital and president rewarded with degrees and honors which he didnt deserve of IDG Asia China.
He joined IDG in 1991 as an associate but happily accepted on behalf of others.
to IDGs founder and chairman, Patrick J. McGovern, for Asian business development after working for three years as Sally Susman Non-executive director Age 55 a reporter and editor at Electronic Business and Electronic Business Asia magazine, where he launched over 40 Sally Susman was appointed a director on 13 May 2013.
She magazines and newspapers in Asian countries, such as PC is currently executive vice president, Corporate Affairs for World Vietnam, the Chinese editions of NetworkWorld, Pfizer, the worlds largest biopharmaceutical company.
Sally Electronic Products, Cosmopolitan, Harpers Bazaar, also heads the firms corporate responsibility group and plays National Geographic, FHM and Mens Health.
In 1993, he a key role in shaping policy initiatives.
Before joining Pfizer helped IDG to set up Chinas first technology venture fund, in 2007, she was EVP of Global Communications at Este IDG Capital, which now has $5 billion under management Lauder, where she directed global corporate affairs strategy and an investment portfolio including Baidu, Tencent QQ, and served as a member of the Executive Committee.
She Sohu, Ctrip, Soufun and Xiaomi.
In January 2017, IDG also held several senior corporate affairs posts at American Capital led the acquisition of IDG Ventures, the investment Express, working in both London and the US.
She started business under IDG.
He currently serves on the board of her career in government service focused on international Mei Ah Entertainment Group, an entertainment company trade issues and her positions included Deputy Assistant with interests in television, film and theatre listed on the Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs in Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Hugo has been a member of the US Department of Commerce.
She serves on the board the board of trustees of Boston University since 2005.
After of the International Rescue Committee.
Sally holds a BA in completing his undergraduate studies at Hunan University, Government from Connecticut College in the US and has he attended the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and studied at the London School of Economics.
earned a Master of Science from Boston University in 1987.
He conducted graduate studies at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and has also completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School.
