1 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers All of the healthcare sub-sectors in Review which the Company invests were Samuel D. Isaly positive contributors to performance.
Biotechnology Index NBI was down 34% both in sterling Review of investments terms.
For the Companys financial year, the XBI fell by 29% Performance review and the NBI fell by 22% both in sterling terms.
The year that ended 31 March 2016 was certainly marked by The Companys performance for the year ended 31 March 2016 periods of extreme volatility in the global equity markets.
was adversely impacted by these market conditions, given the Moreover, it was also one of the most volatile periods in the relative overweight positioning of the portfolio in biotechnology history of global healthcare equities, in particular stocks.
The net asset value per share total return was -9.0% biotechnology stocks, which bore witness to one the largest and the share price total return was -10.5%.
This compares to drawdowns in history.
the Companys Benchmark, the MSCI World Healthcare Index, Most notable was the market drop in August 2015, as investor measured on a net total return, sterling adjusted basis, which concerns over a slowing economy in China and the devaluation was -5.4%.
of the Yuan caused global equity markets to roll over.
When Nevertheless, since the Companys inception in 1995 to macro concerns reach such prodigious levels, market 31 March 2016, the total return of the Companys net asset value correlation typically approaches 1.0.
Such was the case here per share is 2,094.6%, equivalent to a compound annual return and no sector was spared.
In addition, further exacerbating the of 15.9%.
This compares to the blended Benchmark rise of move down in healthcare was the U. S. political landscape.
924.9%, equivalent to a compound annual return of 11.8%.
The spotlight on U. S. drug pricing, widely known as the last See inside front cover for further information bastion of free market pricing for pharmaceuticals, had also intensified in the autumn of 2015 after price gouging by the Contribution to performance now shamed ex-CEO of Turing Pharmaceuticals, Martin In terms of positive contribution, the most significant Shkreli was uncovered.
Then, Hillary Clinton, a candidate for contributor in both absolute and relative terms was the Democratic nomination for the next U. S. Presidential Osaka-based Ono Pharmaceutical.
Over the course of the year election, added to the poor performance of the biotechnology under review, the company transformed itself from a mid-tier sector.
Her threatening tweet in late September 2015 about domestic player to one of the largest pharmaceutical drug prices in America was a catalyst for the biotechnology companies in Japan.
The worldwide roll out of the most collapse.
The result was a toxic mix of uncertainty and important cancer drug in over 10 years, Opdivo nivolumab concerns over a biotech bubble, which ultimately started one has revolutionised how cancer is being treated and how long of the largest equity re-ratings in U. S. biotechnology history.
Adding to the market woes, at the turn of the calendar year Opidvo belongs to a new class of agents called immunotherapy some macro concerns came back into the fore.
Two primary in which the bodys own immune system is recruited to hunt concerns once again roiled global equity markets at that time: and destroy tumour cells.
Onos stock started to garner renewed concerns over slowing of the Chinese economy and attention after its partner, Bristol-Myers Squibb launched further declines in the price of oil.
The resulting tumult Opdivo for melanoma and lung cancer in 2015 in the United created a risk-off environment in which investors fled the States and across Europe.
The role-out portended mega block market and particularly sold high-flying, risky sectors.
buster status and Ono is the recipient of a blended Additionally, the backdrop of rhetoric emanating from the U. S. double-digit royalty on end-user sales from those Presidential election cycle, in which drug pricing had been a geographies.
Meanwhile, the sales opportunity for Ono in hot button topic, had not dissipated.
This perfect storm simply Japan alone started to attract investor attention, in particular pushed biotechnology stocks even lower.
in lung cancer, which was approved in Japan in December 2015.
Patient uptake as reported by the company surprised on The resulting environment was extremely difficult for the upside early in 2016, suggestive of a blockbuster in Japan healthcare equities, most notably therapeutic stocks.
In the alone, sending the stock higher.
The result was a share price worst period 20 July 2015 to 11 February 2016, the S&P that essentially doubled in the period in sterling terms.
Biotech ETF XBI was down 45% and the NASDAQ Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 11 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 One biotechnology company that proved to be immune to the capabilities.
The launch of the innovative cancer drug apatinib epic sell-off in biotechnology stocks was Swiss-based in China and generic cyclophosphamide in the U. S. Actelion.
Its European domicile helped protect it from the via partnership with Sandoz, the generic unit of Novartis difficult U. S. environment, but solid fundamentals were also significantly accelerated Hengruis profit growth from 20% in critical.
The company is a global leader in the treatment of 2014 to over 40% in 2015.
Upwards earnings revisions and pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH, a severe lung disease multiple expansion as a result of investors appreciation of the characterised by an increase in blood pressure in the blood companys growth potential and value of its pipeline assets vessels of the lung, leading to a series of breathing drove the outperformance of the stock.
complications, lung transplantation, and in some cases, death.
Negative contribution to the portfolio came from two Actelions latest offering to patients afflicted with PAH is called significant sources: 1 overweight positioning in biotechnology Uptravi selexipag.
Uptravi has been shown in clinical trials to stocks: and 2 individual stocks with unexpected negative reduce significantly the risk of a morbidity mortality event by news flow.
40% versus a placebo in patients with PAH, making it the most efficacious agent ever to be marketed for this disease.
A Our fundamental view on the outlook for biotechnology shares December approval by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration was positive through the reported period and remains positive FDA and solid launch early in 2016 pushed Actelions share today.
A mix of innovation, new product launches, growth, price to an all-time high by the Companys year-end.
valuation, and merger and acquisition M&A supports our view.
Political rhetoric was largely to blame for the Intuitive Surgical.
is the leader in robotic-assisted surgery biotechnology sector difficulties, rather than a shift of with the companys da Vinci suite of systems and instrument fundamentals, thus we believe our prominent overweight of set solutions.
During the period, the companys share price this sector is justified.
Nevertheless, this positioning yielded was driven by solid new adoption rates of its Xi robotic negative contribution of over 6.5% in absolute terms and over system, as well as accelerating procedure growth in key new 4.0% relative to the benchmark.
general surgical categories such as hernia repair.
Importantly, procedure growth was materially outpacing both company In terms of single stocks, the largest single detractor was guidance and investor expectations.
Lastly, investor concerns Fluidigm, a life sciences company enabling genomics had declined over the launch of competing robotic platforms research in the expanding single cell analysis market the from Medtronic Covidien and Johnson & Johnson Google, as chemical analysis of the contents of a cell.
At an industry early feedback has pointed to less robust systems that will be conference early last year, management introduced multiple marketed toward procedure categories in which Intuitive does new products to further solidify its footprint in the growing not currently compete.
The new product launches were to layer over an existing product base, affirming investors view that The year ended 31 March 2016 saw multiple advances for the Fluidigm was indeed a solid growth stock.
However, execution coming wave of generic alternatives to biologic therapies, or of their new product launches was poor due to a lack of so called biosimilars.
Celltrion is a South Korean company management experience in large scale commercialisation and that is in the forefront of biosimilars as a leading developer, misunderstanding of the product cycle.
The company manufacturer, and marketer.
Celltrions lead monoclonal subsequently had to revise expectations lower numerous antibody biosimilar, Remsima infliximab a copy of Johnson times once their new product launches disappointed and &Johnsons Remicade showed impressive market share existing product sales lagged.
penetration in Europe after launching in February 2015.
Celltrion also won the backing of an FDA Advisory Committee The global large capitalisation biotechnology company, Biogen, in February 2016.
Finally, global regulators supported the began the year on a high.
The company had presented notion of extrapolation of Remsima, allowing the drug to be impressive data, albeit early, for their novel antibody, approved across the entire suite of indications for which aducanumab, for the treatment of Alzheimers disease.
The Remicade is approved, without needing clinical trial data in all data showed preliminary evidence that aducanumab could be of them.
This further validated Celltrions biosimilar pipeline, disease modifying.
Such potential would be transformative for leading to favorable stock performance in the period.
patients inflicted with this insufferable disease.
However, an additional data set was released in July 2015, creating some Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine is a leading Chinese pharmaceutical doubt about the compounds efficacy, causing the stock to fall.
company with strong drug development and commercialisation Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 12
