How we comply Corporate governance In 2017, in India, the Board will review the Groups Directors conflicts of interest Asia Pacific operations.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where Evaluation a director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly WPP undertakes an annual review of the Board, conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational its committees and individual directors.
The Board has a formal system in place for evaluation of the Boards and all committees effectiveness directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered was externally facilitated in 2015 and the results of for authorisation by those directors who have no interest the evaluation considered in the 2015 Sustainability in the matter being considered.
The annual evaluation for 2016 has been to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted conducted internally by Nicole Seligman, the senior directors must act honestly and in good faith with a independent director.
view to the best interests of the Company and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, Re-election or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
The directors submit themselves for annual re-election Any Situational Conflicts considered, and any at each AGM, if they wish to continue serving and are authorisations given, are recorded in the relevant minutes.
considered by the Board to be eligible.
Directors may be The prescribed procedures have been followed in deciding appointed by share owners by ordinary resolution or by whether, and on what terms, to authorise Situational the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Conflicts and the Board believes that the systems it has in and Governance Committee and must then stand for place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts re-election at the next AGM, where they may be re-elected continue to operate effectively.
by ordinary resolution of the share owners.
With only specific exceptions to ensure Board Remuneration continuity, non-executive directors shall not stand for re-election after they have served for the period of their Non-executive directors do not participate in the independence, as determined by applicable UK and US Companys pension, share option or other incentive plans.
standards, which is nine years.
The Board considers that the non-executive directors remuneration conforms with the requirements of the UK Diversity Corporate Governance Code.
WPP recognises the importance of diversity, including The fees payable to non-executive directors represent gender, at all levels of the Group as well as the Board.
compensation in connection with Board and Board WPP is committed to increasing diversity across its committee meetings and where appropriate for devoting subsidiaries and supports the development and promotion additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group of all talented individuals.
As at 31 December 2016, women in a wider capacity.
comprised 29% of the WPP Board and 33% of nonDetails of directors compensation and service contracts executive directors, 34% of directors and executive leaders form part of the report of the Compensation Committee in our operating companies, 48% of senior managers and which commences on page 128.
172 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we comply Corporate governance Relations with share owners The Annual General Meeting The 2017 AGM will be held on Wednesday 7 June 2017 Dialogue with share owners at 12 noon at the Pullman Hotel London St Pancras, The relationship with share owners, potential share 100-110 Euston Road, London NW1 2AJ.
A separate owners and investment analysts is given high priority notice convening the meeting is distributed to share owners by the Company.
and will be published on WPPs website, wpp.
The Company has a well-developed and continuous All resolutions for which notice has been given will be program to address the needs of share owners, investment decided on a poll.
institutions and analysts for a regular flow of information about the Company, its strategy, performance and competitive position.
Given the wide geographic distribution of the Companys current and potential share owners, this program includes regular visits to investors, particularly by the Group chief executive, the Group finance director and the head of investor relations, in the UK, Continental Europe and the major financial centres in North America and also in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
The Companys chairman meets with investors and regularly consults with investors governance representatives and advisory bodies.
The Company provides a preliminary announcement, an interim management statement at the end of the first and third quarters that includes a trading update, an interim report at half year and a trading update and presentation at the AGM.
The Company ensures that it has a proper dialogue with share owners and their representative bodies through executive and non-executive directors in relation to remuneration and corporate governance matters.
In 2016, the chairman held extensive rounds of discussions with share owners and advisory groups regarding senior executive compensation and the new compensation policy, and CEO and Board succession planning.
The chairman and senior independent director provide thorough feedback to the Board on issues raised with them by share owners.
com, provides current and historical financial information, including trading statements, news releases and presentations and the Companys statement of its corporate governance practices.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 173 Other statutory information Substantial share ownership Articles of Association As at 19 April 2017, the Company is aware of the following There are no restrictions on amending the Articles of interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital: Association of the Company other than the need to pass a special resolution of the share owners.
MFS 6.64% BlackRock Inc 5.62% Share capital The disclosed interests refer to the respective combined holdings of the entity and to interests associated with it.
The Companys authorised share capital consists solely of The Company has not been notified of any other 1,750,000,000 ordinary 10 pence shares.
The Company holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
operates an American Depositary Receipt program.
The rights and obligations relating to the ordinary share capital are outlined in the Articles of Association: there are no Profits and dividends restrictions on transfer, no restrictions on voting rights and no securities carry special voting rights with regard The profit before tax for the year was 1,890.5 million to control of the Company.
The directors declared a final At the AGM on 8 June 2016, share owners passed dividend of 37.05p 2015: 28.78p per share to be paid on resolutions authorising the Company, in accordance with 3 July 2017 to share owners on the register at 9 June 2017 its Articles of Association, to allot shares up to a maximum which, together with the interim ordinary dividend of nominal amount of 86,157,177 of which 12,936,513 19.55p 2015: 15.91p per share paid on 7 November 2016, could be allotted for cash free of statutory pre-emption makes a total of 56.60p for the year 2015: 44.69p.
In the year under review no shares were issued for cash free from pre-emption rights.
Details of share capital movements are given in note 26 of the financial statements Change of control on pages 217 to 219.
All of our bonds contain provisions which are triggered on a change of control of the Company.
The holders of such Authority for purchase of own shares bonds have the right to repayment at par except for holders of our US$ bonds.
The holders here have the right to At the AGM on 8 June 2016, share owners passed a special redeem the bonds at 101% of par, if the Company is resolution authorising the Company, in accordance with non-investment grade at the time of the change of control its Articles of Association, to purchase up to 129,365,131 or becomes non-investment grade within 120 days of the of its own shares in the market.
In the year under review, announcement of the change of control.
25,890,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were In addition, the Group has a Revolving Credit Facility purchased at an average price of 16.51 per share.
in the amount of $2,500 million due July 2021, the terms of which require the consent of the majority of the lenders if a proposed merger or consolidation of the Company Auditors would alter its legal personality or identity.
In general terms, awards granted under WPPs The directors will propose a resolution at the AGM to incentive plans will usually vest on a change of control, re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors.
Where awards are subject to performance conditions, those conditions will still need to be met, also on a pro-rated basis.
Certain incentive plans allow the Compensation Committee to require outstanding awards to be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
