ulf!I.... WPPs collective intelligence WPP CEO Sir Martin Sorrell reports hen Tim Berners-Lee.... :: : :.. wrote his proposal for an information management... W system at CERN, the European particle physics laboratory, it was out of frustration that the different parts of the organisation both human and technological struggled to communicate with each other.
Data was hard to find, there were multiple, incompatible computer systems, and knowledge was not shared efficiently.
Nearly three decades later, the World Wide Web that Berners-Lee imagined has transformed how we communicate and the way we live our lives and yet improving coordination within companies remains one of the business worlds most stubborn challenges.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 99 What we think WPPs collective intelligence.. : hy?
Because it is a problem that technology Connected know-how.
successful in getting their people to work Horizontality is best described as connected know-how: W W together effectively, it is not because they a way of working that unites people with diverse skills have a common IT infrastructure, intranet or cloud-based to deliver seamless solutions for clients.
We have file-sharing system, but because they have solved a complex made it our first strategic priority, because client demand equation of which technology is just a part alongside for coordination between the different companies and leadership, motivation, incentives, structure, process, disciplines within parent groups is growing stronger culture, communication and more.
We need to continue to do it better than This is difficult to do, and in large firms that do not our competitors, several of whom have now woken up operate under a single brand, it is even more difficult.
As a company that has grown to a Including those of our associates and investments, significant degree through acquisition, the Group is made WPPs 205,000 individual brains represent the planets up of many individual agency brands that, traditionally, greatest store of advertising and marketing services insight, have operated largely independently from one another.
The more we work Each has its own identity, its own way of doing things, together, the more we can draw on that collective its own relationships with clients.
intelligence, and the more effective we are on behalf This has been a source of great strength for those of our clients as a result.
companies and for the Group as a whole, and will continue So how do we connect all that know-how, and deploy to be so.
But it can also be a barrier to communication all that talent?
and collaboration between WPPs constituent parts.
Horizontality takes various forms, ranging from Once upon a time this would not have mattered very relatively small-scale collaborations between different much.
It wasnt important to clients, so it wasnt important agencies and specialisms around the world to its most to us.
But clients needs have changed and marketing advanced manifestation: the Global Client Team.
services businesses need to change to meet them.
Global Client Teams pull together people and resources Advertisers or clients increasingly tell us that they from across WPPs companies, disciplines and markets want to take advantage of the full scale and capabilities to provide the most creative and effective solutions for of WPP, to receive a tailor-made range of integrated a single clients business.
The model is infinitely flexible, communications services, and to tap into our talent and with each Team built around the clients unique needs.
resources wherever they sit within the Group.
All Teams have a dedicated leader, who provides a single point of leadership and access to WPPs collective talent and capabilities.
This allows clients to pull from the best of the best, from anywhere within the Group.
W PPs 205,000 individual WPP pioneered the Team model of client service, brains represent the planets beginning with Ford and HSBC over a decade ago.
Ford, '' through GTB Global Team Blue and Colgate, through greatest store of marketing Red Fuse, are the most complete examples today.
There are services insight, expertise, now 48 Global Client Teams, accounting for more than a, , third of WPPs total revenues and involving almost 40,000 creativity and experience of our people.
Another important integrator is the Country Manager, Some especially forward-thinking clients began asking whose job is to encourage horizontality in specific for this over 10 years ago.
It was clear that, as well as serving geographic markets in order to deliver the best resources them through single agencies each organised as a separate, to clients, to identify acquisition opportunities and to help vertical silo, we needed a horizontal offering that spanned recruit local talent.
We currently have WPP Country and the entire Group.
We needed to stimulate co-operation across Regional Managers, covering about half of the 112 company, functional and national boundaries, and we countries in which we operate.
needed to share information much more effectively.
We have also established a number of sector-specific And so something we call horizontality was born.
WPP practices and other cross-Group units, through 100 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 What we think WPPs collective intelligence which our companies share knowledge, pool resources As Marc Pritchard, Procter & Gambles chief brand officer, and coordinate services for clients.
They include The Store put it when addressing agencies at an industry conference retail, WPP Digital, The Government & Public Sector last year: Your complexity should not be our problem.
Practice, The Data Alliance, WPP Health & Wellness and, With ever greater frequency, global clients are most recently, The WPP Sports Practice.
conducting reviews and calling pitches at the level of WPP Health & Wellness is particularly significant as parent company rather than individual networks or it represents the first time in our history that an operating agencies.
Those with the most joined-up, comprehensive company has carried the WPP brand.
Comprising all of offer, and who present it most compellingly, will be the our healthcare agencies, pharmaceutical and consumer winners in this new landscape.
healthcare client teams, and new horizontal health partnerships across all the Groups major companies, it breaks new ground by going to market explicitly under The collaborative instinct the WPP banner.
The large majority of people within our agencies dont, in fact, need much pushing.
WPP united Tim Berners-Lees proposal wasnt just a response to a problem it was a hopeful vision of what might be possible.
We will continue to travel in this direction, behaving less He identified not only the need for a better approach, but and less as a loose federation of independent companies, the potential of an idea based on essential truths about and more and more as one, united firm.
This will be particularly pronounced in our media CERN is a wonderful organisation, he wrote.
investment and data investment businesses, GroupM and It involves several thousand people, many of them very Kantar, which between them represent approximately half creative, all working toward common goals.
Although they of the Groups revenues.
are nominally organised into a hierarchical management structure, this does not constrain the way people will communicate, and share information, equipment and software across groups.
W PP Health & Wellness He also said his best source of information was often breaks new ground by going asking people what they were working on while they were '' having a coffee break which if nothing else shows that to market explicitly under particle physics is as reliant on caffeine and gossip as our, , the WPP banner own business.
His point was that you dont have to force people to When we have been successful in winning big pitches collaborate they do it naturally.
The challenge, then, is over the last year or so, it was because we presented a to facilitate that collaboration, and to remove those things tightly integrated offer, with media and data in lockstep that stop it happening.
And when we failed to For our people, horizontality provides exposure to, present an integrated offer, we failed to win the business.
and the opportunity to work with, a wider range of We are unique among our industry peers in having our colleagues and clients across a broader spectrum of own data business.
Our ability to leverage that proprietary marketing disciplines.
This is particularly the case in our first-party data and apply our insights to the media new colocations, such as the WPP Campus in Shanghai, investment we make on clients behalf, and to our wider which bring the Groups agencies together under one roof business, is a source of value to those clients and in a single, beautifully designed, ultra-modern building.
Madrid and Amsterdam are next, with more to follow.
For some, the idea of one WPP is controversial.
Informal interaction and networks are critical to We certainly cant push agencies down this road too fast.
organisations of all kinds, and our new shared office spaces It needs to be a gradual process, handled with great care.
are specifically designed to enable the open, face-to-face Controversial or not, though, such integration is inevitable exchange of ideas and information including conversations if we are to retain our place as essential partners to brands.
over coffee that help people do their best work.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 101 What we think WPPs collective intelligence Common platforms In September 2016, Kantar, our data investment business, launched a new corporate identity covering its In a group of our size and international spread, virtual 12 operating brands, reflecting its own ongoing change spaces are, of course, vital for collaboration too.
As well as creating a single family of brands, the In 2014, we began a major program of transformation program fosters and rewards much greater collaboration and investment in our global information technology between them, with the aim of presenting clients with more systems.
Many of our operating companies now share a easily-navigable and connected solutions that draw on common IT infrastructure and set of applications.
If this the best of Kantars expertise.
sounds a little underwhelming, consider that for the first And in November 2016, GroupM, the parent company 30 years of our existence, most of WPPs companies had to our media agencies, announced the creation of their own, often proprietary systems that like some agency [m]PLATFORM, the industrys most advanced technology CEOs resolutely refused to talk to each other.
suite of media planning applications, data analytics and Happily, in both cases, that no longer applies.
first time, there is a single email and calendar platform, a directory with the details of everyone within the Group and a common file-sharing application.
Simple things that have H orizontality is happening not a huge impact on how we all work together.
only between our companies Team Unilever, which handles one of our biggest global '' client relationships, has taken advantage of these shared but within them ff platforms with the launch of Central, a new community and publishing platform for the 15,000 people and 80 different agencies working on Unilever business worldwide.
The platform brings together under one team It is a tool not only for sharing news and information capabilities from GroupM and other WPP businesses, but also for building a greater sense of cohesion, including search, social, mobile, digital ad operations and understanding what colleagues are working on and, programmatic.
It connects wide-ranging WPP data sources critically, sourcing talent and expertise.
Expect to see across Kantar and Wunderman: third-party data providers: more initiatives like this among our other client teams.
GroupMs data from unique agreements with global media partners: and clients own data when they choose.
[m]PLATFORM is supported by a team of data Horizontality within scientists, technologists and digital practitioners from GroupM specialist companies and Xaxis, our programmatic Horizontality is happening not only between our digital media platform, and it allows media planners at all companies but within them.
GroupM agencies to use the most detailed consumer data In January 2017, Ogilvy & Mather, the global to achieve results for their clients.
marketing communications network, unveiled a transformation program that will see the company unified as a single-branded, fully integrated enterprise, Ogilvy.
The reorganisation will simplify both how the company markets itself around the world and its own internal structure.
Like all WPP businesses, Ogilvys essential offering is the quality of its talent, and the companys One Ogilvy strategy is designed to ensure that its people are able to work together as seamlessly as possible.
102 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 What we think WPPs collective intelligence Worldwide communications services expenditure 2016 $m Data investment Public Direct & specialist Advertising management relations communications Sponsorship Total North America 188,675 19,640 4,300 109,681 22,400 344,696 Latin America 36,412 1,800 480 38,084 4,500 81,276 Europe 105,569 16,800 2,700 114,759 15,900 255,728 Asia Pacific 176,515 6,000 4,950 61,442 14,800 263,707 Africa & Middle East 17,414 760 158 2,204 2,600 23,136 Total 524,585 45,000 12,588 326,170 60,200 968,543 Source: GroupM Note: Healthcare communications $5.0 billion is distributed pro-rata in Direct & specialist communications.
f Media and marketing investment vs GDP 2012-2017 % change 5.5 Media and o 5.0 marketing annual % change 4.5 Global nominal o GDP % change 4.0 3.5 f f 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Source: GroupM f: Forecast.
A model for our times Worldwide, corporate investment as a proportion of GDP has continued to decline.
In the US, fixed capital investment One of the reasons that clients are increasingly attracted to by business is at its lowest ebb for more than 60 years.
WPPs horizontal, Team model of service is the efficiencies Companies are, consequently, sitting on huge amounts of scale we are able to offer.
In todays low-growth, of uninvested cash.
McKinsey & Company estimate that cost-constrained corporate world, this is becoming ever corporate cash holdings are the equivalent of 10% of GDP more important.
in the US, 22% in Western Europe and 47% in Japan.
Since the financial crisis, heralded by the collapse of What all this tells us is that companies lack the will or, Lehman Brothers nearly a decade ago, top-line growth has perhaps, the confidence to invest in their own growth and been hard to come by, boards and investors have been ultradevelopment, and prefer instead the seemingly risk-free conservative, and companies have been reluctant to invest.
approach of returning funds to shareholders or retaining As a result we have seen a much greater focus on ever-larger cash balances.
cost reduction, consolidation on a massive scale, the By choosing short-term risk-avoidance, though, they widespread stockpiling of cash, and a boom in share are piling up far greater dangers for the future.
success relies on investment in those things that drive a By one measure, at least, corporate America is shrinking.
business forward brands, research and development, In 2009, 60% of earnings across the S&P 500 were spent innovation and marketing.
on share buy-backs and dividends.
That ratio passed 100% The pressure faced by leaders to manage their businesses at the beginning of 2015, and rose to 131% in the first for short-term results is intense.
The number of listed quarter of 2016.
In the FTSE 100, the dividend-payout ratio firms in the US has halved in the last 20 years, driven by has climbed from below 40% in 2011 to over 70% in 2016. consolidation and the pursuit of savings.
In 1990, there were WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 103 What we think WPPs collective intelligence Shape of global recovery 11,500 M&A deals worldwide: since 2008, the number has % change more than doubled to 30,000 a year, with a value equivalent to approximately 3% of global GDP.
Advertising So-called legacy companies are squeezed from all sides o 20 Global nominal o by activist investors, by zero-based budgeters, and by new, 15 GDP 10 disruptive competitors.
Analysts and the financial press, 5 meanwhile, obsess over the minutiae of quarterly results 0 as if they were the key to a companys entire future, rather -5 than a snapshot of its fortunes over a mere three months.
In a 2013 McKinsey survey of more than 1,000 top f Nominal GDP projections 2016-2018 executives, nearly two-thirds said that pressure to deliver % change short-term financial performance had increased in the prior five years, and nearly 90% agreed that a longer f 2016 o f time horizon to make business decisions would boost 2017 o f 2018 corporate performance.
"o World output T he potential value unlocked by US companies taking a longer-term China '' approach was worth more than Japan c:::J $1 trillion in forgone US GDP over Cl Cl the last decade Germany France "" When the exercise was repeated in 2016, the situation had deteriorated further."
Whereas, in 2013, 79% felt under UK particular pressure to demonstrate results within two years or less, by 2016 that figure had risen to 87%.
India The 2016 study identifies the vicious circle of shorttermism that makes it such a difficult disease to cure: Italy While executives may feel that investor pressure forces their hand, the short-term objectives and metrics they set Brazil also push investors to shorten their horizons to match the data available to them.
Canada CEOs have complained of this for some time, but until now there has been little evidence to support their case.
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 In February this year, McKinsey published a new piece of research led by Dominic Barton, the firms global managing Source: GroupM partner.
It identified US companies that take the long view f: Forecast.
and found that, between 2001 and 2014, their revenue grew on average 47% more than that of other firms: their earnings grew 36% more: and their profit grew 81% more.
104 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 What we think WPPs collective intelligence Long-term companies invested almost 50% more in In September 2016, with BlackRock, The Dow Chemical research and development: their market capitalisation Company and Tata Sons, the founding partners relaunched grew $7 billion more than that of other businesses: their the scheme as FCLT Global, an independent not-for-profit total shareholder return was greater: and they added with its own CEO.
FCLT Global is part of a growing nearly 12,000 more jobs on average.
movement to raise awareness of the damaging effects of The report lays bare the cost of short-termism: Had short-termism and develop strategies for defeating it.
all firms created as many jobs as the long-term firms, the Late last year, US educational and policy studies US economy would have added more than five million organisation The Aspen Institute assembled leaders from additional jobs over this period this suggests, on a global businesses including Unilever, Pfizer, Royal Dutch preliminary basis, that the potential value unlocked by Shell, Levi Strauss and WPP to launch The American companies taking a longer-term approach was worth more Prosperity Project a non-partisan framework for than $1 trillion in forgone US GDP over the last decade.
McKinsey is one of the founders, alongside the Canada The launch was a call to action not only for business Pension Plan Investment Board, of Focusing Capital on the leaders but also policymakers, recognising that progress Long Term an initiative aimed at promoting long-term is impossible without partnership between the public thinking in business and investment, that we also support.
As The Aspen Institute puts it, Neither business nor government can shoulder this responsibility alone.
Average job creation: long-term vs others Annual cumulative jobs added Long-term o 20,000 All others o 11,600 10,000 Starting employment 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Average company economic profit: long-term vs others $ million per year Long-term 1,000 o All others o 800 Financial crisis 81% 600 400 200 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Source: McKinsey Corporate Performance Analytics: S&P Capital IQ: McKinsey Global Institute Analysis WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 105 What we think WPPs collective intelligence f Inherent unpredictability Principal contributors to 2017 media growth Contribution Contribution $m % Central to the Aspen project is spending on infrastructure, ASIA PACIFIC all 11,064 48.2 chiming with President Trumps plans to invest $1 trillion NORTH ASIA 6,634 28.9 in transportation, clean water, a modern and reliable China 6,242 27.2 electricity grid, telecommunications, security infrastructure, NORTH AMERICA 4,979 21.7 and other pressing domestic infrastructure needs to quote US 4,684 20.4 from the campaign literature.
WESTERN EUROPE 2,785 12.1 LATIN AMERICA 2,360 10.3 UK 1,553 6.8 Argentina 1,426 6.2 N ot for the first time, residents Japan 1,355 5.9 of the Davos bubble of which ASEAN 1,349 5.9 '' CENTRAL & EASTERN EUROPE 1,144 5.0 I am one had misjudged the India 1,063 4.6 public mood, failing at the MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA 631 2.7 Russia 533 2.3 previous meeting to predict Egypt 496 2.2 the result of either the US Australia 482 2.1, , Philippines 428 1.9 election or the Brexit vote Brazil 372 1.6 Spain 349 1.5 If these plans become reality, they are likely to boost Thailand 330 1.4 growth and inflation, perhaps delivering a twoto threeVietnam 328 1.4 year Keynesian Trumpian boom.
But what we gain on South Korea 312 1.4 the US domestic swings we may lose on the international Turkey 303 1.3 roundabouts, given the inherent unpredictability of Canada 295 1.3 President Trumps impact overseas.
The Muslim travel Indonesia 266 1.2 ban and suspension of the US refugee program provided Mexico 213 0.9 an early and particularly vivid example of that.
Large Source: GroupM question marks also hang over the US approach to Russia, f: Forecast.
China, Mexico and NATO, to name just a few examples, adding further clouds to an already uncertain outlook for business globally.
The wave of populism that swept President Trump to where dissatisfaction with the political Establishment runs power, dumped or is in the process of dumping the UK deep.
The economic crisis, recession, unemployment, wage out of the European Union and rocked the Establishment stagnation and so-called hollowing-out of the middle the world over, was the single most fretted-over classes that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers in phenomenon for delegates at the World Economic Forum 2008 have opened the door to populists Trump showed in January 2017. he can translate celebrity into votes he has tapped into Not for the first time, residents of the Davos bubble something very important that cannot be ignored.
of which I am one had misjudged the public mood, failing As President, Donald Trump continues to tap that well at the previous meeting to predict the result of either the of public discontent.
Alongside controlling immigration, US election or the Brexit vote.
job creation and job repatriation are at the top of the Although I thought Hillary Clinton would emerge as Presidents list of promises to the American people.
the winner, as the Primaries got under way I wrote that Globalisation has been the bogeyman but there are other, Davos is a long way from the heartlands of America, perhaps more fundamental, threats to employment.
106 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 What we think WPPs collective intelligence f Contributors to 2017 media growth by region country $m UK Central & China 1,553 Eastern Europe 1,144 US 6,242 Western Europe 2,785 4,684 Japan 1,355 Middle East & Africa India 631 1,063 Latin America Australia 2,360 482 Source: GroupM f: Forecast.
Robots and robber barons A recent report in The Economist highlights the issue: In Silicon Valley a handful of giants are enjoying market At the beginning of 2017, I attended the Consumer shares and profit margins not seen since the robber barons Electronics Show in Las Vegas a highly-polished showcase in the late 19th century...
In the old days companies with for everything from the latest smartphone, TV and in-car large revenues and global footprints almost always had lots technology to virtual and augmented reality, artificial of assets and employees.
Some superstar companies, such intelligence robotics and home automation.
But beneath as Walmart and Exxon, still do.
But digital companies with the buzz surrounding the toys and gadgets, there was huge market valuations and market shares typically have serious discussion of the potentially darker implications few assets.
The report points out a startling contrast: a quarter of Voices as diverse as Stephen Hawking, Citibank and the a century ago, the three biggest automotive manufacturers University of Oxford have warned of the risks of automation in Detroit had nominal revenues of $250 billion, a market to human employment.
Subject to the constraints of capitalisation of $36 billion and 1.2 million employees: in economic viability, most things that can be automated will 2014 the three biggest players in Silicon Valley had revenues be automated.
One study has suggested that 35% of UK of $247 billion, were capitalised at over $1 trillion and had jobs face being replaced by robots, a figure that rises to just 137,000 people on their books.
almost 50% in the US and 77% in China.
The tech giants have ushered in an era of massive scale At the same time, a new breed of corporation has accompanied by minimal employment.
Expect the debate grown to dominate the business landscape.
There have to get louder as this trend accelerates.
always been very large companies, of course, but todays big beasts are different.
Worlds largest listed companies by market capitalisation 2006 vs 2016 $bn 2006 2016 0 200 400 600 0 200 400 600 Energy Exxon Mobil Apple D Financials General Electric Alphabet D Healthcare Microsoft Microsoft Industrials Citigroup Berkshire Hathaway D IT Gazprom Exxon Mobil D PetroChina Amazon ICBC Facebook Toyota Johnson & Johnson Bank of America JP Morgan Chase Royal Dutch Shell General Electric Data as at 31 December 2006 and 2016.
Source: Bloomberg WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 107 What we think WPPs collective intelligence Tech companies faking it?
Increasing automation has brought advertisers significant benefits in terms of greater efficiencies and better targeting The digital duopoly enjoyed by Google and Facebook but, in the digital and programmatic world, there is a risk is the most striking aspect of the contemporary media of advertising appearing in inappropriate contexts, of bots business landscape.
Their dominance and influence has notching up fraudulent views and of ads being paid for but brought scrutiny and criticism.
Facebook was forced to admit to a series of Given these risks, GroupM has taken a very public, embarrassing errors after it repeatedly overstated the proactive leadership role in championing viewability, metrics used to gauge the effectiveness of advertising, anti-fraud and brand safety measures.
No one has fought prompting wider questions about the value of digital ad harder to ensure quality in digital advertising.
spend in a market already dogged by concerns over GroupM is the only media investment business with viewability, third-party verification and fraud.
a dedicated global team focused on digital supply chain More damagingly, along with Twitter and Google integrity.
It uses every available brand safety tool and it was thrust into the limelight during the fractious US supports or leads every industry effort that drives up Presidential campaign, accused of giving a platform to standards in the digital media marketplace.
It helped found hatred and fake news, and even of swaying the result itself.
and fund the Trustworthy Accountability Group TAG and The long-standing collective defence to such claims is that other initiatives that benefit the industry as a whole.
And it they are not media companies but tech companies a has developed trusted marketplaces, outside open networks, defence thats wearing pretty thin.
where advertising is placed only with well-known, safe media Google and Facebook are, after all, the largest and third partners who do not carry fake news or hate speech.
largest recipients of our media spend on behalf of clients, GroupM has shown that with the right mitigation at around $5 billion and $1.7 billion respectively in 2016 strategy and by working with the best technology partners, the second largest is 20th Century Fox News Corp Sky it is possible to ensure that the overwhelming majority of at $2.25 billion.
Thats a lot of media bought from advertising is published alongside contextually relevant and organisations who claim not to be media owners.
Although they masquerade as tech, they are in the Brand safety measures are, however, only as good as the business of monetising inventory, just like any traditional oversight and coding of content by the digital media owners media group.
Unlike them, however, they seek to themselves, who have ultimate responsibility for what disassociate themselves from the content on which they appears on their platforms.
To take YouTube as an example, rely, claiming to be mere digital plumbers with little or if Google fails to correctly identify video content, it becomes no responsibility for what flows through their pipes.
impossible for advertisers to completely exclude risk when They are finding this line increasingly difficult to hold.
As Robert Thomson, chief executive of News Corp, As the neutral intermediary between brands and media put it: These companies are in digital denial.
Of course owners, GroupM will continue to work with all parties to they are publishers and being a publisher comes with drive continual improvement in this still very young and the responsibility to protect and project the provenance fast-developing market.
The great papers have grappled with that sacred burden over decades and centuries, and you cant absolve yourself from that burden or the costs of compliance Enduring strength by saying, We are a technology company.
"There are those who point to the rise of adtech and martech, the walled gardens of Facebook and Google, and the Digital advertising in the spotlight growing interest in our sector of acquisitive management consultancy firms, and would have you believe that we are ----------------------""""'''."
Media agencies have also faced questions over their role in in a period of unprecedented change or even existential a less-than-perfect digital inventory supply chain, and their threat to the advertising and marketing services business.
supposed complicity in a system that supports questionable This argument is somewhat lacking in supporting data.
content rather than quality publishing.
The direction of the wind always changes, and WPP has always had a very good weather vane.
Ours is a history 108 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016
