How were doing GroupM Report by Irwin Gotlieb Global chairman The future is clear.
Media allocation, optimization and and attribution have to be informed by data and executed at the Kelly Clark speed of the platforms on which advertisers need to win.
Global chief executive officer At the same time, we must maintain our unique perspective that comes from deep visibility and executional skills across a, ...... '.. roupM delivered another year of strong results and between walled gardens and other channels, advertiser, .
Slow growth and complexity in the supply G chain force advertisers to seek value and transparency.
In 2016, the level of new business reviews G roupM is leading the market was significant.
"GroupM lost two major clients but still in ensuring the digital supply won a market-leading $5.6 billion of new business, , according to RECMA. """
chains integrity O ur global brand safety We announced the creation of [m]PLATFORM to meet these needs.
"[m]PLATFORM will enable GroupM, unit has been active for three its agencies and our partners across WPP, to create "" personalized communications for clients at scale with years, and no such unit exists improved performance and efficiency."
elsewhere in the industry ff In addition to creating an outstanding leadership team for [m]PLATFORM, GroupM appointed a new global CEO, Trust must underpin the relationships between as did our agency MEC.
We salute Dominic Proctor, our advertisers, buyers, sellers and the technologies that connect outgoing president and WPPs first media agency leader, them.
GroupM is leading the market in ensuring the digital who has moved onto new challenges after 30 years of service supply chains integrity through improved viewability, more to the Group.
robust measurement, and the protection of clients from We aspire to be more intelligent and responsive than content pirates and fraudsters.
Our global brand safety ever, and relentless in the pursuit of talent and applying that unit has been active for three years, and no such unit exists talent to the advantage of our clients through better and elsewhere in the industry.
We remain, as always, focused on our clients success.
68 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Media Investment Management Mindshare We garnered Agency of the Year and Digital Agency of the Year in Austria and Italy, the Most Effective Agency in the UK, Media Plan of the Year in the US and were named Agency of the Year in Portugal, Turkey, India, Sri Lanka, Japan, Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia, China, Thailand, Bangladesh, Hong Kong and Singapore.
We also won gold for Digital Agency of the Year in Vietnam, Indonesia, Report by Nick Emery Bangladesh and Pakistan.
Global chief executive officer In 2017, our focus continues to be on the marriage of the worlds of branding and outcomes and how we create 016 was another great year for Mindshare and new models for our clients around data, digital and content.
we head into 2017 stronger than ever.
We are brilliantly placed to deliver.
We ended 2015 winning Facebook, booking.
com Mindshare is 20 years old on 1 November 2017 2 and General Mills and being re-appointed across 60 we will be making 2017 a year of celebration.
We continued that momentum across 2016 with many stand-out performances.
The year was peppered with some great new business MEC wins Kangshifu, Yili, 21st Century Fox, Malaysian Airlines, Haribo, Achmea, Uniqlo, JD.
com, OLX, The Weather Channel, Avon, Aujan and Deutsche Bahn.
In Australia, the last quarter saw wins from IKEA, BUPA, QSR and REA.
In the US, Chicago finished 2016 on a great new business run, securing Tyson Foods.
China continue to set new benchmarks by giving us our largest Report by Tim Castree haul of new business from any country, including our Global chief executive officer appointment as the first gaming agency of record for Yili.
Our team in India beat last years haul of awards and joined MEC in January 2017 and am honored to head broke all records with 250 awards: Agency of the Year at a company that accomplished so much under Charles FOMA APAC: SMARTIES Agency of the Year APAC: Courtiers 14-year leadership.
We wish Charles the first Agency of the Year at the Content Marketing I continued success and happiness.
Its Cannes Glass Lion Grand Prix was a cause 2016 was again dominated by new business pitches.
Campaign Asia Pacific named Our biggest wins included Nationwide and BMW in the us SE Asian Media Agency of the Year and also SE Asia UK, Vodafone in Australia, Hertz in US Latin America Digital Agency of the Year.
We retained Beiersdorf We won the Campaign Media Network of the Year in Europe, Mitsubishi in Australia, SABMiller in EMEA, for Asia Pacific and were named Mobile Agency of the Calzedonia in Italy, Erste Bank in CEE and Johnson & Year in EMEA and Asia Pacific by the Mobile Marketing Johnson came back to MEC Russia less than a year after Association.
We also won Agency Network of the Year moving its business.
We are taking the lessons of the loss at the Festival of Media Asia.
of AT&T in the US and Mexico very seriously.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 69 How were doing Media Investment Management MEC UK was named Campaigns Media Agency of MediaCom the Year and scored over 30 other industry awards for client work.
In Asia Pacific, we saw strong performance with sustained top-line growth.
China is making huge improvements, notably winning back Mercedes less than six months after losing it, and launching an analytics team which is the new model for that discipline across GroupM Report by Stephen Allan China.
Globally, our content offering, MEC Wavemaker, Worldwide chairman and continues to grow at an exceptional pace, now present in chief executive officer.... '.
ooking back at 2016, we are delighted with how we responded to our challenges and, L grew stronger.
: L Our loss of Volkswagen Group after Wavemaker, continues to grow 19 successful years was well documented, but its, , '' our fightback that deserves more attention.
Since the at an exceptional pace decision, we have regrouped, refocused, and refreshed our Content Connections offering to deliver excellent And we continue to lead the talent transformation new business results.
agenda with numerous types of industry recognition for In total, we have recorded wins worth more than our initiatives.
$2 billion in less than a year, with major successes in every As we look forward, we recognize that MEC is at a critical market and the pitch pipeline is still full.
Clients are being disrupted by the same forces of we won Walgreens and Duane Reade in the US, and Boots change that are impacting our core business and they need in the UK as part of a wider WPP solution for Walgreens MEC and GroupM to be their partners in transformation.
Boots Alliance through Team WBA and there are further We are excited about the ongoing reinvention of our international opportunities ahead.
company and are hard at work to make a difference to our clients business and to make MEC the distinctive and admired media, technology and content agency for W e have regrouped, refocused, the future.
and refreshed our Content '' Connections offering to deliver excellent new, , business results In North America, we also welcomed FanDuel, Electrolux, PhRMA and WholeFoods to the agency, while EMEA-specific highlights include winning IKEA in Germany and British Gas in the UK.
In Latin America, we won Pfizer in Mexico and extended our relationship with P&G across its LADMAR region.
70 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Media Investment Management We grew our P&G relationship in China too, and technology, effectiveness & data sits at the heart of what also added Uber in that market.
Elsewhere in Asia Pacific, we do, creating outputs that differentiate our ability to plan, we retained Vinamilk in Vietnam, and won Unilab in the activate and optimise media.
Philippines and Agoda in Indonesia.
Buoyed by these But tech doesnt matter without the best talent.
Weve made successes, we have since opened new offices in Sri Lanka it a mission to improve gender equality at Maxus.
In 2016 and Bangladesh to extend our influence in the region.
we launched Walk the Talk https: twitter.
com maxus wtt, Powered by our Systems Thinking philosophy, we an intensive coaching experience for senior Maxus women, continued to deliver best-in-class work, winning more arming them with the confidence for their bigger game, than 240 awards.
These included 12 Cannes Lions for ensuring that our leadership is reflective of the wider world P&G, Deutsche Telekom, Fonterra and Mars, 11 trophies around us.
Over 800 women have completed the course and at the Festival of Media Global Awards and 12 at the 22 secured promotions within eight months.
M&M Global Awards, including Agency of the Year.
The average age of a Maxus colleague is just 28.
Gen Y This strong performance means we remain second in have a very different set of values and motivations for work: RECMAs Network Diagnostics Report, which measures for example diversity, transparency and a desire for global overall agency quality.
This is a wonderful achievement, made mobility.
So we launched the Maxus Global Exchange possible thanks to the continued dedication of our people.
This saw 75 Building on this momentum, we have relaunched our Maxus people from 45 countries travel to experience another operating system, 20|20 Connections, to take full advantage culture, ways of working and forge strong relationships.
of GroupMs [m]PLATFORM, which uses a database of more than 1.5 billion individual IDs.
This will help our teams serve increasingly personalised messages to consumers W e launched Walk the Talk, an and deliver even greater efficiencies for our clients.
"intensive coaching experience "" for senior Maxus women ff Maxus Our talent initiatives were driven by Rudi Symons, promoted to chief talent officer."
Also welcomed to our global board were Dan Benedict, chief client officer, and Pam Sullivan, our LA leader.
And we promoted Jen Smith as our first global creative director to collaborate and Report by Lindsay Pattison create with other WPP agencies around the world.
Worldwide chief executive officer 016 was about putting the engine in place that will propel Maxus in the future.
Innovative, ambitious new clients came into 2 our agency: BT EE, US digital retailer jet.
com and Huawei appointed us in 35 markets.
These visionaries are just a few examples of those who are absolutely reliant on new technology and new forms of communications.
Technology inside and out has been our focus.
New services included our Tech Consulting group and a unique PAYG DMP for clients who want nimble access to data.
Internally, we restructured our agency to ensure that TED WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 71 How were doing Media Investment Management Essence Xaxis Report by Christian Juhl Report by Brian Gleason Global chief executive officer Global chief executive officer.
', s our first full year operating within the WPP 016 was a year of diversification and international GroupM network, 2016 proved to be one of growth for Xaxis.
expansive growth with new-found scale.
We We welcomed plista, a leading native advertising.
A A opened offices in Chicago, Delhi, Shanghai 2 company from Berlin, into the fold and launched and Sydney, bringing our headcount to over 650 full-time its offering into 12 new markets, including China and the people and continuing our mission to make advertising US.
We also expanded the footprint of Light Reaction, our more valuable to the world.
Growth-wise, all of our regions performance offering, across 33 countries.
Finally, in are up year-on-year.
As with 2015, Asia Pacific was the November 2016, we completed the acquisition of Triad rocket ship, almost doubling for the second year in a row.
Retail Media, which now provides our clients with a unique North America and EMEA were impressive in their own opportunity to reach and engage consumers as they shop right, contributing towards our 10th year in a row online with leading retailers like Walmart.
And, our investment in ad tech As the integrity and contribution of various players maintained momentum, as our proprietary media within the programmatic advertising value chain came under management platform, Olive, almost doubled its increased scrutiny throughout the year, we remained true contribution year-on-year towards our overall revenue.
to our guiding principle of delivering measurable results for brands and a positive experience for consumers, fulfilling our mission of making advertising welcome.
We heard the advertisers call for a simpler and more A sia Pacific was the rocket ship, accountable approach to programmatic media, hence our almost doubling for the second 2017 focus is on consolidating Xaxis position as the leading provider of outcome-based media, ensuring our clients '' year in a row ff digital marketing investments deliver optimal returns.
To do so, we will further invest in areas that help us On the new business front, in North America we won deliver long-term competitive advantage and value in a the Target account in conjunction with GroupMs Team rapidly-changing multiscreen environment: Arrow, and picked up two global pieces of business Access to Xaxis unique algorithms and machine FrieslandCampina and DAZN.
Together with our organic learning capabilities.
growth, these new accounts contributed to our billings An experienced and talented workforce.
climbing 30% year-on-year: crossing over the $1 billion Strategic media partnerships with the leading global mark.
Key hires such as a chief talent officer, a global head and local media brands.
of strategy, an EMEA CEO and a new global head of As the path to purchase becomes ever more diverse and analytics reaffirmed our commitment to hiring the best consumers attention increasingly fragmented, our clients can talent in the business, as well as our unwavering loyalty to count on Xaxis to make the complex simple and to deliver further developing our data and analytics offerings globally.
consistent and measurable results for their brands.
72 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Media Investment Management tenthavenue Report by Rupert Day Chief executive officer 016 was a significant year for tenthavenue.
To best deliver this we have organised our businesses As the global leader in reaching people into three units: on the move, we see continued interest in the 2 support of out-of-home OOH inventory against 1.
Creation of audiences other channels driven by the following key factors: In the last quarter of 2016, we launched Bookmark by Increased demand for inventory based on targeted merging Forward Worldwide and Spafax Content.
The audiences versus simple location data.
new entity will work with travel and retail clients to Cross-channel integration such as geo-located OOH build audiences aligned with their brand either funded combined with mobile display.
directly by the client or through third-party advertising.
Further automation resulting in increased efficiency of creative distribution.
Exclusive rights or products to sell into Ability to optimise the creative on a real-time basis.
existing audiences Advertisers concerns over fraud, viewability, brand Spafax Networks and TMARC with the acquisition safety and waste of digital programmatic.
of Platform5 will build exclusive opportunities to tenthavenue is best placed, among its peers, to take reach traveller and retail audiences.
advantage of this momentum and deliver optimised branding as well as drive-to-store solutions by integrating: 3.
Audience networks Creative production origination and content tenthavenue media offers travel audience solutions by acquisition specialist platform versioning through the selling directly to advertisers and supported by tech, partnership of Candyspace and Spafax.
creative and data fees on a fully-transparent basis.
Technical delivery infrastructure, with its proprietary technical competence around developments such as Reach, As a specialist, we constantly need to re-affirm or its digital reformatting capabilities, Spafax Hub, and our point of difference so, in 2017, we will build new OOH media specialists, Kinetic and Aviator.
opportunities across these three areas, again focusing Our sales-side business strategy is driven by a focus on travellers, through a mixture of acquisitions, on reaching travellers: consumers who travel for business: partnerships and in-house product development.
leisure entertainment and retail: and the understanding It is with many thanks to the 1,500 people who work of interactions around these different activities.
within tenthavenue, our clients and partners that I feel confident that 2017 will be our seventh consecutive year of above-market growth.
