How were doing Strategic report to share owners Sustainability matters Sustainability performance summary 2016 2015 2014 The Groups commitment to, and investment in, Value of client business supported by our sustainability sustainability supports major business wins, increases 1 credentials 1.64bn 1.29bn 1.35bn access to talent, improves efficiency and reduces risks to Gender diversity % female our business.
We estimate that clients who engaged with employees 54% 54% 54% WPP on our approach to sustainability were worth over Gender diversity % female 1.6 billion in revenues to the Group in 2016, equivalent executive leaders 34% 33% 31% to over 11% of total revenues.
Investment in training 45.1m 41.1m 38.2m We are in business for the long term and, like all leading Carbon footprint tonnes of CO 2 companies today, we recognise our wider responsibilities per employee 1.86 2.07 2.28 2,3 and the opportunity to generate value for share owners, Social contribution 42.3m 40.2m 46.9m 1 clients, our people and the world at large through our V alue of clients who requested information on our sustainability policies and performance through their supplier management process.
Sustainability at WPP cuts across all areas: from 2 Includes free media space donations.
the work we do for clients, to the time we donate to causes 3 T he 2015 figure has been restated to reflect correct exchange rates in the through pro bono work, the way we run our Company calculation of free media space.
and look after our people, and our commitment to respect human rights.
And finally ------- - The business we are in demands that we be quick on our I t is the ability to create, feet: quick to take advantage of new opportunities: quick recognise, refresh and maintain to respond to new challenges: quick to understand new '' popular attitudes.
2016, more than any we can remember, those long-term brand values was a year that made countless such demands.
But there is another skill, at least as important, that gets that provide most big companies less recognition.
It is less newsworthy, rarely draws attention with their most reliable profit to itself and is perhaps closer to wisdom.
It is the ability, , to create, recognise, refresh and maintain those long-term streams brand values that provide most big companies with their most reliable profit streams.
At a time when all external Sustainability issues are ever more important to our pressures seem to call for instant, short-term responses, clients as they adjust to the impact of long-term an understanding of the value of confidence, consistency demographic, environmental and social trends, they need a and continuity has never itself been more valuable.
marketing services provider who understands the changing It requires no less attentiveness and no less sensitivity landscape and shares their values.
WPP companies are to change in a markets dynamics.
But it knows when a already advisors to pioneering businesses looking to embed gentle turn of the wheel is going to be far more favourable sustainability and purpose into their brands, products and for a brands future than a dramatic change of course.
marketing and our own track record on sustainability gives The results reported here are the outcome of tens of us credibility.
thousands of different client projects undertaken by tens A summary of the Groups approach to sustainability of thousands of talented individuals working for a great can be found on pages 161 to 167.
Please also see our diversity of companies within WPP.
Some of these annual Sustainability Report on the work our clients and companies have yet to celebrate their fifth birthday: others our people do in this important area.
are as old as their clients oldest brands.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 51 How were doing Strategic report to share owners We thank them all for another record-breaking year.
Forward-looking statements And the uncertainties of 2017 mean that we shall be more than ever grateful not only for their fleetness of foot, In connection with the provisions of the Private Securities but also for the benefit of their considered thoughtfulness Litigation Reform Act of 1995 the Reform Act, the and accumulated experience.
Company may include forward-looking statements as defined in the Reform Act in oral or written public statements issued by or on behalf of the Company.
These Roberto Quarta forward-looking statements may include, among other Chairman things, plans, objectives, projections and anticipated future economic performance based on assumptions and the like that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those Sir Martin Sorrell discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Important Group chief executive factors which may cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: the unanticipated loss of a material client or key personnel, delays or reductions in client advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates of compensation, regulatory Paul Richardson compliance costs or litigation, natural disasters or acts of Group finance director terrorism, the Companys exposure to changes in the values of other major currencies because a substantial portion of its revenues are derived and costs incurred outside of the UK and the overall level of economic activity in the Companys major markets which varies depending on, among other things, regional, national and international political and economic conditions and government regulations in the worlds advertising markets.
In addition, you should consider the risks described under the heading Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 46 to 50, which could also cause actual results to differ from forward-looking information.
In light of these and other uncertainties, the forward-looking statements included in this document should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Rupert Day Grey Insights, Kantar Cohn & Wolfe Burson-Marsteller tenthavenue 2.
Richard Ingleton Kantar Futures VML Xaxis Kantar Health Insights, Kantar 3.
Stephen Allan Mindshare Kantar Public Landor Grey MediaCom 4.
Toby Hoare Y&R MEC Group XP J. Walter Thompson Jutkowitz Worldwide SJR Our business is best understood 14.
Tamara Ingram J. Walter Thompson Kantar Worldpanel J. Walter Thompson 42.
Stuart Smith through an understanding of its Worldwide Worldwide SET Ogilvy 24.
On the following Mirum Strategies Wunderman Xaxis Maxus WPP Digital pages, the leaders of our major 16.
Mark Povey Ogilvy Kantar Added Value 35.
Phil Smiley GroupM WPP Digital companies give summary Kantar Retail 17.
Mary-Ellen Howe ghg Fetherstonhaugh accounts of their performance Mellman CommonHealth Specialist Ogilvy Specialist 46.
Frank-Michael Worldwide Communications and progress in 2016.
Jed Beitler Kantar Brand Union Sudler & Hennessey 28.
Steve Harding The Partnership Geometry Global Group photograph of WPP company leaders, 1 4 5 above, taken at the global WPP Leadership 3 6 2 Conference, London, September 2016: and left, those who were not present for the photoshoot.
Christopher Graves Kantar IMRB Grey HERING SCHUPPENER Ogilvy 2.
Eric Hoyt AKQA MEC Kantar Media Bravo 3.
Wendy Lund J. Walter Thompson Y&R Essence GCI Health Worldwide 8.
Beth Ann GroupM Michael Feldman, Kaminkow Carter Eskew 13.
Roland Rudd Kantar Vermeer left to right Finsbury The Glover Park Group Mark Seliger
