How were doing Kantar Innovation that drives impact Much of our focus has been on using technology and big data to help clients get a more complete understanding of their market, to help them optimise budgets and to do this at lower cost and faster.
Report by Eric Salama Chairman and C lients at the highest level chief executive officer are questioning how best he world at large will obviously remember 2016 '' to understand the attitudes for Brexit and the election of President Trump.
and behaviours of ordinary T The combination of these events and the, , T competitive pressure which our clients are facing people has changed the environment in which we work, too.
Clients at the highest level are questioning how best to understand the attitudes and behaviours of ordinary people Kantar Worldpanel has used smartphones and receipt and are more open to shifting budgets, experimenting and scanning technology to launch panels that measure trialling new technology than ever before.
Inertia is not a  in China, Thailand, Indonesia concept that holds much sway at the moment!
and much of Latin America as well as the worlds first Against this backdrop, our focus has been on ecommerce panel in France.
Kantar Media has become a accelerating our efforts in getting the best of Kantar to all world leader in analysis of return-path data in a way that of our clients, delivering work that helps our clients have enables us to measure media consumption of niche channels impact within their organisation, innovating in ways that in markets as diverse as South Africa and Malaysia and reduce cost and that make our output more predictive and in measuring all content consumption on all devices in real-time, and being the kind of thought leader which our markets such as the Netherlands and Denmark.
Kantar clients feel compelled to partner with.
Added Value, Kantar Futures and Kantar TNS combined In doing so, a characteristic of much of our best work to use social media data to deliver habits and attitudes are insights and a way of activating those insights that work for Unilever at half the previous cost in half the time.
combine multiple data points, points of view and people Numerous parts of Kantar have tapped into WPPs wider from across all our brands.
Recent work for clients in areas deal with Spotify to help clients understand how music as diverse as driverless cars and Parkinsons Disease were can be used as a proxy for mood and as a source of great examples of analysing a mix of data survey, segmentation.
Kantar TNS, Kantar Millward Brown and ethnographic, big data, social media, device-originated our operations teams have partnered with, for example, telemetry, wearable and delivering insights and actionable ZappiStore and Qualtrics to enable clients to test new recommendations that we would have been unable to concepts and advertising in less than eight hours, rather produce only a few years ago.
than the five weeks it used to take, and have taken data collection to mobile and to the cloud.
Kantar Retail has expanded its virtual reality offering so that clients can now test new in-store layouts and packaging through proprietary software and portable VR headsets.
74 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Data Investment Management Kantar Health continued to strengthen its reputation as sectors such as ecommerce, search and transport have a leader in healthcare consulting and market research.
The come to recognise the importance of understanding their primary contributors behind another year of growth were brand and their customers and maximising their chances the global expansion of real-world evidence consulting and of success.
data analytics: the launch of CancerLandscape a novel solution that enables unprecedented insight into the Compelling thought leadership innovations being developed in cancer: and continued In this environment, thought leadership isnt just a nice to commitment to the empowerment and education of have.
Clients want partners that they feel can guide them consumers and patients worldwide.
But clients want more than just a better understanding.
Some of our thought leadership has involved a They want to understand how to optimise their spending continuation of programs started several years back.
and how to make sense of multiple insight streams.
BrandZ, which tracks the value of global brands and is In combining the segmentation work that Kantar TNS now the worlds largest brand database, is into its 20th year has done for LOral with Kantar Worldpanel data, we and saw events held globally and in markets as diverse as enabled the client to understand where the biggest China, Indonesia, India, Brazil, Mexico and Peru.
Now opportunities were and how to access them: in combining in its fourth year, Kantar Worldpanels Brand Footprint Kantar Millward Brown brand tracking with Kantar measures the extent to which brands are purchased around Worldpanel data in an approach called PowerPurchase the world and has both analysed and predicted the growth we have enabled clients in many markets to understand of local brands and the way in which penetration is the key the extent to which their trade activity was building on driver of future market share in categories as diverse as their brand building activity and how best to leverage it.
Kantar Retails PoweRanking Through our partnership with Facebook and VICE we studies and its China Digital Power have become, over time, offer clients the ability to measure the ROI of Facebook the industry benchmarks for understanding the relative campaigns and of long-form content: and in rolling strength of individual retailers and manufacturers in out Kantar TNS Connect and Kantar Retail XTEL we their relationship.
And Kantar Vermeer followed up its have enabled clients to optimise their media allocation involvement in the Marketing 2020 program with Insights by touchpoint and maximise the impact of their 2020, the largest global marketing and insights leadership promotional spend.
initiative, and it saw its work leveraging the findings for Unilever appear as the cover story of the Harvard Business Review.
K antar Public was one of only But some of our thought leadership has been new and even more visible.
Kantar Public was one of only two organisations to predict '' two organisations to predict correctly the outcome of the Brexit vote having consistently done so for a month before correctly the outcome of the, , the actual vote.
Kantar Public in Australia carried out a Brexit vote seminal study regarding domestic violence against women which was debated in Parliament and led to new legislation.
In carrying out this work, we have significantly Kantar Futures Defying Gravity work has mapped out expanded our client portfolio.
Local clients, such as JBS ways in which clients can grow in a slow-growth lowout of Brazil, Pladis out of Turkey and Indofoods out of inflation environment.
Kantar Healths Edge of Insight Indonesia and BBVA out of Spain, have become big clients series helped clients understand the importance of for us in their home market and as they globalise.
Clients secondary influencers in healthcare decisions and of the such as Facebook, Google, Hulu, Twitter, Alibaba, eBay, way in which technology is shaping the mobile health Didi and Ola have shown how new technology-driven consumer.
Across the US, we have rolled out our WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 75 How were doing Data Investment Management FragmentNation approach to help understand the way Recognition for our brands and people that the nation has fragmented and to understand some Finally, a point about recognition.
Other than internal of the current dialogue and polarization.
and client awards, a number of our brands and people have been recognised publicly.
Kantar TNS and Lightspeed Getting the best of Kantar to clients and swept the board at the UKs MRS awards, Kantar IMRB to the market swept the board at the Indian Research Industry awards In previous years we have talked about the need to scale and Kantar TNS won the Australian B&T Research some of the great work we do to more clients and markets Agency of the Year award.
Numerous units, including and to make sure that we get the best of Kantar to all Kantar Worldpanel in the UK, France, Thailand, Taiwan, our clients.
and Latin America as well as the Kantar Delivery Centre We have had success in doing so but we recognised the in India and Kantar Health in the UK, won awards as a need to go faster.
So, at the beginning of 2016, we changed top place to work.
We eliminated our internal P&Ls, rebranded Individuals such as Mike Kelly, David Hanlon, everything with a Kantar prefix, made our proprietary data Jon Puleston and BL Chen were recognised for their available to everyone internally, appointed Kantar Country individual contribution to their industry.
Leaders, reorganised the way we approach HR, finance, But every month each of our 30,000 Kantar people operations, marketing, launched Kantar Public and Kantar around the world know of examples of how they have Consulting, and appointed a unitary management team impacted their clients and made a difference to our for our insights brands.
They work for corporate clients, for the public sector and on charitable causes such as Unicef and the Special Olympics.
They dont get recognised for it publicly and we, as management teams, should say thank you W e eliminated our internal more than we do.
To all of our people for all of those P&Ls, rebranded everything occasions, a public thank you here for all you do to make '' our company special and an indispensable partner to so with a Kantar prefix many of our clients.
"The aim of all this was to eliminate any siloed way "" of thinking and to ensure that our clients get the best of Kantar and that our people get the full benefits of working for Kantar."
It has been a big change not as big as Brexit, perhaps but which has been warmly welcomed by clients and our people alike.
Most importantly, it is a change that clients and staff are actually experiencing we are determined to make sure that it reaches every interaction and is deeply embedded in the way we behave.
