2 Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam.
North America 1.9 0.0 -4.3 -3.2 -2.5 -3.3 3 2014 and 2016 Latin America growth figure affected by method change and Latin America 0.0 -3.2 -9.0 -8.2 2.3 -4.6 therefore not shown.
Central & Eastern Europe -4.1 -11.5 -10.7 -19.8 -9.3 -6.5 Asia Pacific all 0.0 -2.6 -7.6 -8.1 -12.6 -9.8 1 North Asia 4.7 -1.8 -12.3 -16.6 -29.0 -23.9 2 ASEAN -1.8 -5.6 -10.0 -8.2 -15.8 -9.5 Middle East & Africa -12.7 6.3 -11.8 -12.5 -13.0 -8.3 World -1.6 -2.5 -5.4 -5.0 -4.4 -4.4 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 109 What we think WPPs collective intelligence of rapidly and successfully adapting our existing businesses group for the last six years, is testament to that, while by developing or acquiring new skills to meet the changing our five consecutive Effies, recognising the effectiveness needs of the market and our clients.
of marketing campaigns, proves the business value of Walled gardens are not a new phenomenon.
The such creative excellence to clients.
US TV giants were once as powerful oligopolists as the If anything, the need for creative talent has grown current generation of digital media firms are today.
New channels require new assets media planning and buying, our role has always been to and formats, boosting demand for agencies, individuals extract maximum value from media platforms on behalf and teams that can produce platform-specific work.
of advertisers to help them achieve their objectives that hasnt changed.
Advertisers rely on us for objective assessment of the Fuel in the tank value of those different platforms.
Google and Facebook both think they have all the answers, but they cant both WPP is the leader in our industry but scale has value be right.
Clients know this, and although some work direct only when it is harnessed.
We have done that very effectively with media owners some of the time, very few work direct for many years in some parts of the Group, not least in our all of the time.
media division GroupM, but we have yet to do so fully in At WPP we have a range of capabilities that any single other areas of our business.
In other words, there is a great advertiser would find it very difficult to replicate in-house.
untapped opportunity within WPP to improve how we We are expert in managing data and systems that can be operate and the results we are able to produce for our clients.
applied to advertising: we work with every media platform Horizontality is the means of unlocking that value.
everywhere in the world: we have visibility across all In some respects it is frustrating that we are only at the channels and all product and service categories globally: beginning of the journey towards a more integrated WPP we have deep institutional knowledge in every business I have never been a patient person.
Fundamentally, sector in a world of high talent mobility on the client side: though, it is good news.
It means we still have a lot of and we are uniquely well placed to stay abreast of the fuel in the tank.
myriad product and technology changes in the market.
Our collective effort, collective strength and, above all, In contrast, consulting businesses are flawed by their collective intelligence will be a growing source of advantage lack of geographic reach, their lack of exposure across over new and existing rivals.
On their own, WPPs channels and their lack of exposure in a meaningful way companies are formidable.
Together, they become a to media markets.
If you dont trade in the product its competitor few can ever challenge.
Adtech and martech products are complex to choose, use and change.
We play a vital role in selection, In the meantime, remember implementation, operation and most crucially in managing switching between components.
The next one billion middle-class consumers will come stems from the fact that WPP has always been an early from Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle adopter of technology and its application to marketing East and Central and Eastern Europe.
Our rapid deployment and integration of 2.
Given falling birth and death rates, talent will become technology has created new opportunities in many of our the scarcest resource.
businesses from GroupM and Xaxis to Wunderman and 3.
There is a need for Third Forces to challenge the digital AKQA and enduring relevance and strength for WPP itself.
dominance of Google and Facebook.
And what of creativity, the heart of our business?
Amazon and Alibaba are becoming the online Walmart todays disrupted, technology-driven market, demand for of the future.
creative services remains as strong as ever.
Internal communications are one of the keys to strategic theres still no substitute for a brilliant idea for a campaign.
And there is no organisation on earth with more people 6.
Internal organisations are being built globally and locally.
who excel at producing such ideas than WPP.
Finance and procurement are looking at marketing as a Our record at the Cannes Lions International Festival cost not an investment.
of Creativity, where we have been named the most creative 8.
Government is becoming a more important potential client.
Sustainability is the core of long-term strategic success.
Short-term pressures will increase consolidations and 110 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 convergence.
What we think Just Because You Can Doesnt Mean You Should How personalisation can get altogether too personal for comfort By Jeremy Bullmore.. or years, youve been unable to do something.
be expected at the very least to pay its way: to be an........... Then new technology comes along and suddenly investment rather than a cost in another way, to believe.
that the specific task of all advertising is to make a sale F Its an entirely human instinct but not one can be dangerously misleading.
Its unwise to assume that just As Stephen King reminded us over 40 years ago, the because youre now free to do something from which you precise role of any advertisement can usefully be plotted were previously debarred, it must be in your interest to grab on what he called a Scale of Immediacy.
immediate end of that scale, advertising is designed to Ever since the advent of mass media, marketing people trigger the nearest thing possible to an instant transaction.
have bemoaned their lack of precision.
I know that half Before the internet, you could fill out a coupon or pick up the money I spend on advertising is wasted.
The only a phone, and today just a couple of clicks can set a sale in trouble is that I dont know which half is a hoary old train.
Thats about as direct an effect as advertisements saying that has no undisputed source, no historical ever have.
validation and is almost certainly apocryphal.
The fact In devising such advertising advertising intended to that it survives at all is evidence of the marketing worlds get any given consumer actually doing something there and continuing uneasiness about what is seen as waste.
then knowledge about that consumer can be invaluable: You sell, say, disposable diapers.
You buy, say, 30 and on the whole, the more knowledge you have, the more seconds worth of UK television time.
You reach, say, valuable it is.
The drive for personalisation makes total 10 million households.
Yet there are only 2.5 million sense.
To know when an individual may be in the market UK households that include babies of nappy-wearing for a mortgage, a new car or a holiday villa, is precious age.
It follows that a considerable proportion of your knowledge.
It allows you to dangle the offer enticingly media money is wasted.
in front of that person at the moment of greatest potential So when the new digital media come along and seem to interest: and, very importantly, that person will probably offer you precision targeting, even personalisation, you are be grateful to you for having done so.
Now you can talk only to But, of course, most advertising isnt like that.
Most families who need to buy diapers and surgically exclude all advertising is on behalf of staple brands, repeat purchase those who dont.
You should certainly be interested: but not goods and services, and its not expected to trigger an all the time and not for everything.
immediate action on the part of its audience.
To return Its a common flaw in discussions about advertising to Kings Scale of Immediacy, advertising for most staple to imply and implicitly accept that all advertising, brands belongs at the lower end of that scale: its mechanism all commercial advertising campaigns, are intended and is indirect.
It sets out to remind its audience of the brands expected to perform the same role: and that is to sell.
existence and purpose: to maintain, nourish and enhance And while in one way thats correct all advertising should its general desirability: to increase its brand equity: to add WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 111 What we think Just Because You Can Doesnt Mean You Should intangible qualities to its functional core.
But perfect, detailed knowledge of each one of such advertising doesnt even attempt to make an several million people is impossible to acquire: openly using immediate sale: its sole purpose to make a brand more partial knowledge is as likely to alienate as it is to appeal: saleable and to keep it so.
and furthermore, its quite unnecessary.
This function is usually described as brand-building The best relationship of a person with a brand is not and indeed it does build brands.
At least as critical, unlike the relationship between two friends.
As with however, is its role in brand nourishment, brand friends, we feel most comfortable with brands when we feel sustenance, brand maintenance.
It preserves a brands that in some sense we have discovered them for ourselves.
worth, and therefore its profitability.
The disciples of personalisation forget that the human brain is on constant, unconscious alert for things, ideas, people with whom it might like to connect.
We dont, on the whole, like pushy people: people W e wont respond well to who get too close at parties and who tell us that they pushy brands: brands that really, really want to be best friends.
And in much the '' same way, we wont respond well to pushy brands: brands claim to understand us when that claim to understand us when they clearly dont.
So brands So brands shouldnt be seen to be making all the running.
"The skilful brand custodian imbues a brand with shouldnt be seen to be making characteristics and character that are most likely to attract the attention of its clearly defined target audience and all the running then invites that audience to make that final, all-important connection themselves. """
This kind of advertising may well have some immediate sales effect but thats not its primary purpose.
I was once given a lift by a 50-year-old friend whod M ass media provide exactly recently sold his share in an advertising agency and had celebrated by buying himself an extremely expensive car.
the right balance of reach I bought this car because I saw an advertisement, he told '' and distance me.
Nothing very special about that, I grant you except that I saw that ad when I was 14.
"Not all advertisements are still paying their way after "" 36 years."
But the value of consistent brand advertising, This is by far the best way to first initiate and then advertising that remains true to the brands character, cement a brand relationship and for two overlapping and continues to enhance it, can be almost timeless.
First, because the individual has been an active And its when planning this kind of advertising that participant rather than a submissive recipient, the agencies and their clients need to be most wary of the relationship will be strong.
And secondly, because that claims of personalisation.
relationship has been in part forged by the individual, As a race, were deeply suspicious of being spied upon.
it can only be personal: it cant be anything else.
A cartoon of many years ago identified this anxiety So a brand shouldnt be seen to be trying to get too perfectly.
A man stands looking at one of those maps of close.
Any attempt at personalisation will almost certainly a town centre to be found in car parks.
Mass media provide exactly the right balance of reach labelled: YOU ARE HERE.
And the man, clearly unnerved, and distance.
For decades, marketers may have felt they is saying, How do they know?
used them reluctantly because they had no choice.
In truth, Of course it makes perfect marketing sense for only mass media confer the status, the fame and the allure marketing people to know as much as they can about those that make brands individually desirable to millions of whom they hope will become, or remain, their regular wonderfully disparate individuals.
P ractical Progress from a Theory of Advertisements, 1975.
To be found in A Master Class in Brand Planning, The Timeless Works of Stephen King, Wiley, 2007.
