...... we exist Our mission They need access to high-quality information, strategic advice and specialist communications skills.
And its in the To develop and manage talent: nature of specialist and creative talent that it is unlikely to apply that talent, to flourish within the confines of a client company.
People with specialist talents work best and contribute more throughout the world, when recruited, trained and inspired by specialist companies.
for the benefit of clients: Within WPP, our clients have access to companies comprising the complete range of advertising and marketing to do so in partnership: communications services skills: companies with strong and to do so with profit.
distinctive cultures of their own.
WPP, the parent company, complements these companies in several different ways.
etween them, WPP companies have tens of WPP encourages, enables and incentivises operating thousands of individual clients.
They range from companies of different disciplines to work in close Fortune 500 global giants through single-nation collaboration for the benefit of clients.
We call this B start-ups to the smallest of specialist charities.
horizontality a way of working that unites diverse Diverse as they are, they have one thing in common: in talents round a single client brief to forge a seamless pursuing their objectives, they face formidable competition.
No two clients are structured in precisely the Growing affluence in many parts of the world combined same way.
Within WPPs operating companies, teams with overcapacity and over-supply in almost every significant can be tailor-made to match any and all.
consumer market has put more and more power into the WPP can also function as the 21st-century equivalent hands of consumers, accelerated by technology.
For some clients, predominantly As always, if they are to succeed or even to survive those with a global presence and a requirement for a with profit every competitive company needs an wide range of marketing services, WPP can itself provide intrinsically appealing product or service.
Increasingly, such clients with a single contact point for both access part of that appeal must lie in a companys evident sense and accountability.
of a wider responsibility: one that extends beyond share And finally, WPP the parent company relieves the owners, employees and consumers and recognises a duty operating companies of much necessary but time-consuming to the environment and to society as a whole.
Financial matters such as planning, most successful companies are founded on strong values.
budgeting, reporting, control, treasury, tax, mergers, But even all that, though remaining the most acquisitions, investor relations, legal affairs and internal fundamental of requirements, is seldom enough.
Just audit are all coordinated centrally.
It also plays an acrossas competitive costermongers arrange their apples in the-Group role in the management of talent, property, appealing displays and polish them lovingly to catch procurement, IT, knowledge-sharing, practice development their customers eyes, so all companies need to display and sustainability.
For the operating companies, every their wares compellingly.
administrative hour saved is an extra hour to be devoted to the pursuit of professional excellence.
