How were doing In 2016 Berlin Cameron continued to build on its core business with its biggest client, Capital One.
The agency relocated alongside BAV Consulting and together they won assignments for Lexus, the National Kidney Foundation and Sequential Brands Group.
The agency also furthered its start-up and branding practice with wins from MyHeritageDNA and Underclub.
Report by Mary-Ellen Howe At Seattle-based Cole & Weber, growth continued Chief operating officer, Specialist Communications, strongly after winning new business from Regence Blue North America Cross Blue Shield and driving organic growth with clients and including Hydro Flask.
The agency is well positioned as Laurence Mellman nimble and medium-sized, combining the creativity of Chief operating officer, International Specialist a boutique with the strategic partnership of business Communications consultancy and the digital prowess of a digital shop.. PPs Specialist Communications division Our role in managing this... comprises individual business units with separate and distinct marketing expertise portfolio is to help these W by industry, audience segment or medium.
"W "" companies grow on their Our clients benefit from the depth of knowledge and strategic focus of these specialists: the Group benefits own terms and to support through the flexibility these companies offer as partners co-operation opportunities for sister WPP companies when serving clients integrated ff marketing needs."
Our role in managing this portfolio is to help these companies grow on their own terms and to Sra.
Rushmore was, for the 12th year in a row, voted support co-operation opportunities across the Group.
1 advertising agency in both original and effective In aggregate, the portfolio of companies achieved a creativity in Spain, as well as the most attractive integrated strong 2016 result and expectations are that they will agency overall.
This past year has been the agencys most continue to enjoy good growth in 2017. international year with campaigns being aired in more than WPP Scangroup is listed on the Nairobi Securities 125 countries worldwide.
Exchange, operating a multi-agency model as WPPs The Farm Group had another active year which saw partner across multiple disciplines in sub-Saharan Africa, the opening of its 33,000 square feet, state-of-the-art with offices in 25 African countries.
2016 saw the first headquarters in London, as well as the supply of a technical full-year benefit of new offices in Nigeria H K Strategies and editing team in Rio for the BBCs feed of the Summer and the launch of a new office in Gabon.
The Farm HQ is equipped with new UHD and agencies continued to win numerous awards across the HDR technologies, ready to supply programs to suppliers region.
Alongside collaboration with sister agencies, like Amazon and Netflix as well as traditional broadcasters.
acquisition opportunities continue to be assessed to One of the first major projects in the new facility was broaden both service and geographical offerings.
The Grand Tour for Amazon.
90 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Specialist Communications US-based corporate events company, MJM, created 141 Hawaii aligns branding and experiential marketing inspiration and impact for top-tier clients including for Sony as well as global and national companies while Deloitte, NAPA, Discover, McKinsey and Unilever.
MJM mobilizing a partnership between Friends of Hawaii took talent development and corporate assembly to the next Charities and the Harry & Jeannette Weinberg Foundation level with creative strategy and production for their clients to generate significant funds for Hawaiian charities.
It most significant internal-facing events.
kicked off the full-field PGA TOUR season for the 20th Technical production company Metro Broadcast year with the Sony Open in Hawaii.
In addition to this strengthened its position in the live events industry by flagship PGA TOUR property, it services several other investing further in technology and combining its talents in professional golf management and marketing events on broadcasting with traditional event production.
Introducing the LPGA Tour and Champions Tour.
broadcast elements to live events and utilising the latest in Specialist UK CRM agency EWA continued to build on audio visual tech, Metro added the Bank of England and new services around political polling, surveys and telephone ITV to its client portfolio while extending its reach in the contact with voters for the EU Referendum and local global pharmaceutical market.
Core services focused on improving relationships managed service business by winning a bid to manage between clients and their customers through the delivery YouTubes new studio spaces in London and Berlin boosted of promotions, campaign response and customer experience Metros credentials in this growing market, where solutions, generating new business from HS2, JET and professional video production facilities are made accessible Linden Homes.
to artists, celebrities and vloggers.
BDG architecture design is a team of architects, Mando has continued to expand throughout Europe designers and creative thinkers.
The belief that architecture and South Africa.
The promotional risk management is most successful when it is able to connect people and company also picked up the illustrious Company of the spaces has seen the team continue to grow and expand Year award from The Institute of Marketing in the UK for their European coverage in 2016.
Following the successful outstanding work over the year, with a range of blue-chip completion of the agile working environment for Ogilvy clients including Ferrero, McDonalds and GSK.
and MEC in London at the beginning of 2016, large-scale Pace continues to expand its real estate offerings with colocations of WPP companies are now currently under new assignments for Pier Village, a residential development design in Madrid, Amsterdam, Milan and Lisbon.
in New Jersey and The Bristol, a 25-storey condominium Significant UK client wins included Sky, Money development in West Palm Beach.
Its Florida division, Supermarket and Teach First.
Green Advertising, continues to service outside of real estate with work in the education and healthcare sector as well as security services.
The Food Group has continued to expand its food and beverage marketing and content development business with growth coming from its core clients such as Mars, Mondelz, Kraft Heinz and Perdue Foods.
In addition, it has added some other great clients to the roster such as Aramark, World Kitchen, Saputo, Tampa Maid Foods and the Dairy Farmers of America.
Its culinary division, Creative Food Solutions, continues to grow as it has added clients Rich Products and JennieO Foods, among others.
