How were doing AKQA Report by Ajaz Ahmed Chief executive officer n a world where digital is everywhere, AKQAs passion Many of our ideas are born from the frustration of is a thoughtful, considered and intelligent experience looking at what already exists and asking the question: at every connection.
Our primary motivations are as why does it have to be this way?, making the goal of each I relatable and easily understood as the work they help assignment to be the best of its kind in the world.
The three metrics that matter most to us are: artificial intelligence, the conversational interface and 1.
The creation of genre-redefining work that makes a technological advances, we create beautiful, memorable cultural impact: work thats helping to simplify and enhance the way people 2.
Encouraging positive feedback from audiences: and live and communicate.
Contributing to the career development of our colleagues.
With ideas that move the world, we architect and Thats why our focus is predominantly on progressing a deliver remarkable brand and customer experience.
A culture that gives our team the canvas and environment to common thread has now emerged amongst the clients we create work that elevates the spirit and why we care about collaborate with: the need for a strategic partner to provide delivering meaningful results for our clients.
a cohesive blueprint and future vision for their business, rooted in reaching the audiences of today and tomorrow.
This clarity of purpose will help our clients to increase their relevance and expand their connection in an... the goal of each assignment environment thats now defined by accelerating change.
"[is] to be the best of its kind in "" the world Its heartening therefore to have achieved a 93% client "" retention rate, being voted by our people as one of the UKs top three employers, while achieving incredible feedback from audiences worldwide from the work we create."
At the same time, we won more than 100 honours in 2016, including seven Cannes Lions, and were also named Agency of The Year and Gaming Agency of the Year by IAB and PromaxBDA respectively.
88 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Digital, eCommerce & Shopper Marketing Geometry Global Report by Steve Harding Global chief executive officer n just our third full year of operation, we continued As we build our reputation on our ability to change to strengthen our core capabilities, expand key clients peoples behavior in ways that drive conversion for our.. :.
We made significant progress clients brands, we continue to be validated by the response. '
I in making our way of working consistent across the we receive from new prospects.
In 2016, we welcomed network, attracting top talent, and winning new many new clients to our roster, including Chase, assignments from both current clients and new ones.
We added two key leaders to our global management All told, we have a strong proposition, business team in 2016.
Fadi Shuman joined as global chief digital momentum, solid partnerships with clients and WPP officer to consolidate our digital and ecommerce assets and agencies, and a passion for creating campaigns that help us achieve our vision of becoming a device-agnostic, convert brand equity into action.
Diana Cawley was appointed regional CEO for Asia Pacific, bringing a deep understanding of brand activation and shopper marketing to the region.
She will oversee a transformation from executional activation to more strategic, creative, and digital activation in Asia, and especially in China where she is based.
For key clients we focused on building resilient team '' structures to further support the globalization of the accounts ff For the key clients we service in multiple markets, we focused on building resilient team structures to further support the globalization of the accounts.
The hiring and placing of new Global Client Leaders and local teams strengthened our client relationships, resulting in considerable growth on Unilever, Coca-Cola and Emirates, among others.
