Sector Outlook peers in the coming fiscal year and beyond.
In Europe, we Large capitalisation pharmaceuticals remain very selective, however, improving economic trends, Global large capitalisation pharmaceutical stocks were not immune to the healthcare sector issues that became the new launch cycles, and increased merger and acquisition hallmark of the past year.
While the re-rating was less severe M&A activity makes us a little more positive.
We expect M&A than their biotechnology counterparts, the effect was to remain a dominant theme, especially with recent sector significant.
Looking ahead, while we do not want to completely devaluation, as players continue to pursue creative business ignore the continued rhetoric coming from the U. S. combinations driven by potential revenue, operating and tax Presidential election cycle on U. S. pricing, we firmly believe synergies.
that there will not be any notable adverse impact on the fundamentals of these companies, in particular revenues and Generic pharmaceuticals earnings.
Investors concern about pricing dynamics within the U. S. generic drug market has reached fever pitch, driving notable Nevertheless, large capitalisation pharmaceutical companies underperformance and significant devaluations for most have been dealing with real price pressure in the U. S. market in stocks in this sector.
Continued consolidation within the recent years.
First, Managed Care has become very experienced pharmacy and wholesaler distributor channels is a major in selecting therapeutic categories where there is plenty of reason for the heightened fears, as it has shifted the balance competition respiratory, diabetes, hepatitis C just to name a of power resulting in moderate generic pricing erosion in few.
Second, rebating has increased and net prices have come some generic product areas oral solid, injectable and more down in these areas.
In addition, patent expirations and generic severe contraction in others topicals, narcotics opioids.
entry in which volumes and prices for the branded incumbent now drop over 90% within a month of generic availability.
In the U. S. generic companies may have to demonstrate solid Therefore, while not directly legislated for, per se, free market operating performance for several consecutive quarters to pressures have contributed to price containment in the U. S. reignite investors interest in the space.
In Europe, generic These companies now all acknowledge the same thing only utilisation is increasing in most major regions, but market novel drugs that are truly are innovative and satisfy a unmet conditions, in general, remain concerning due to weak pricing.
medical need get premium pricing, and more importantly, Throughout Asia, economic expansion, favourable reimbursement in the U. S. Market efficiencies in the private demographics, supportive governmental policies, and other sector have provided the appropriate checks and balances for contributing factors continue to drive robust generic utilisation pricing.
In Japan, while some low hanging fruit has already been picked, the secular trend remains strong as the Discovering, developing and launching truly innovative government continues to legislate in favor of increased generic products on a large enough scale while navigating patent utilisation to help thwart rising healthcare costs there.
We therefore remain selective, targeting only companies with deep pipelines, transformative optionality, We still favour generic players with growing, diversified, and management teams who understand the climate in which branded franchises bolstered by focused, franchise-extending, they are operating.
Further consolidation of the generic industry is likely and we believe some of the small and Specialty pharmaceuticals mid-sized U. S. based companies are attractive targets.
Pricing concerns, triggered by the actions of Turing Pharma, Valeant and other bad actors, have stifled performance of Large capitalisation biotechnology most stocks in this sector.
Although this universe is The large capitalisation biotechnology sector experienced heterogeneous, consisting of a diverse group of branded weakness beginning in the summer of 2015 due to investor companies with varied business models and areas of focus, fears over the sustainability of drug pricing in the U. S. A heightened fears have resulted in investors drawing the broad-based sector sell-off was caused by election year incorrect conclusion that these companies are similarly rhetoric about the need for stronger government policies to troubled.
As a result, better-positioned players may have to control drug price inflation.
We believe these drug pricing demonstrate solid operating performance for several proposals are unlikely to become reality given a consecutive quarters to re-gain investors confidence.
 Congress, but the news headlines negatively affected sentiment for the sector.
Additionally, the We believe patience will be rewarded as stronger operators blockbuster product launches in the past few years that have separate from the pack and outperform their disadvantaged Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 14 1 Strategic Report Sector Outlook continued driven earnings growth for large capitalisation biotechnology interest, have significantly rebounded in recent months, companies have entered a more mature phase in their growth primarily driven by several sizable new product cycles, overall trajectory, so earnings growth has moderated.
However, price moderate growth in legacy and market volumes, and pricing earnings P E valuations for large capitalisation stabilisation.
This is more uniformly true amongst the large biotechnology companies, which are normally higher than the capitalisation firms in the space which has also been the area S&P 500 Index, have now dipped below that market index.
The small capitalisation firms We continue to believe valuations are compelling and expect are, by definition, a more diversified and niche group of strong double-digit growth for the sector.
companies whose overall performance has lagged.
Despite the recent sentiment-driven falls in the sector, Despite the fundamental changes to the industry, our stock industry fundamentals for biotechnology remain strong.
We focus on: Innovation continues to be robust, with a number of key data 1 innovation in the form of new product cycles that drive readouts for potential blockbuster drugs expected in 2016 in emerging therapeutic categories or disrupt legacy therapies: areas such as migraine, multiple sclerosis, and cardiovascular and 2 business right-sizing in the form of strong cost controls disease.
The regulatory environment at the FDA remains and subsequent margin expansion.
Within product cycles, favorable for the approval of new drugs.
We would also expect areas of significant investor interest include transcatheter M&A activity to accelerate with the recent fall in valuations, as heart valves, surgical robotics, left atrial appendage closure larger companies continue to seek smaller companies with devices, drug coated balloons and bioabsorbable polymer innovative assets.
New product launches, favourable pipeline coated drug eluting stents, which are all tracking above developments, and M&A should allow the large capitalisation investor expectations.
On the cost control side, companies in biotechnology companies to maintain their steady earnings the process of recovering from years of mismanagement such growth.
As the election year rhetoric on drug pricing subsides, as Boston Scientific or that are in the midst of recognising we would expect sector valuations to recover.
synergies from previously completed acquisitions such as Zimmer Holdings remain key areas of focus for us.
Emerging biotechnology Lastly, while valuations have increased for the sector, we think After years of outperformance, the emerging biotechnology this is more than supported by the improved fundamental sector finally took a breather this year.
2016 guidance across the sector remains conservative, with sector specific risks such as drug pricing concerns drove especially given robust first quarter results, currency the underperformance of the sector, regardless of market tailwinds, and the removal of the Medical Device excise tax in capitalisation.
We believe that pricing overhang will eventually the United States.
We see a high likelihood of upward revisions be lifted and remain confident that unmet medical needs are to guidance and consensus estimates through the balance of still abundant for an aging population in the major markets.
Innovations in the forms of novel drugs and cutting-edge technologies should continue to serve the unmet medical Healthcare services needs and benefit biotechnology companies.
Investors refocused on industry fundamentals after the Looking forward to the coming year, clinical catalysts in orphan Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act a. k. a. diseases such as cystic fibrosis, sickle cell disease, haemophilia Obamacare for a second time in June 2015.
Hospital stocks and rare autoimmune diseases, as well as in oncology and subsequently underperformed as Obamacare headwinds age-related macular degeneration, could drive outperformance began to reappear and fears around recession risk and high in quite a few portfolio names.
In addition, positive yield market stress percolated.
Looking forward, we are clinical regulatory news in emerging biotechnology companies bullish on the sector.
Hospital stocks are undervalued based could reinvigorate M&A activity in the sector, especially with on historical positive correlations between volume growth in a many stocks now trading at attractive valuations.
stable economy versus stock valuation, and we prefer companies with relatively lower leverage so that capital Amid increased volatility in the biotechnology sector, we deployment can support growth.
In addition, there is upside if continue to only invest in high conviction names which have it becomes increasingly clear that Democrat Hillary Clinton near to medium-term catalysts.
will win the U. S. Presidential election in November 2016, because more states would likely expand Medicaid eligibility Medical devices under Obamacare.
A Republican victory led by political Our collective view on the Medical Devices sector is notably newcomer Donald Trump would create some headline risk, more positive than at any point in the past several years.
but his actual healthcare policies remain less clear.
Fundamentals in the sector, and consequently investor Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 15 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 Within managed care, industry consolidation has been the GDP are the three key drivers underpinning the growth of theme as companies seek to scale up to operate more efficiently healthcare markets in these regions for the next few decades.
in an increasingly regulated environment.
We believe proposed In addition, we are seeing early signs that suggest drug mergers between Aetna Humana and Anthem CIGNA are more research and development R&D innovation could emerge as a likely than not to be approved, especially Aetna Humana based new growth driver in a time horizon that is much sooner than on our case study analysis of past Medicare transactions where our previous expectations.
anti-trust concerns were successfully resolved by divesting local We are on the ground getting a first-hand understanding of contracts.
Meanwhile, we remain positive on Medicaid HMOs policy and industry macro trends in each of the subsectors, Health Maintenance Organisation that are benefiting from including drugs, medtech, and healthcare services.
We heavily structural growth tailwinds as states transition Medicaid rely on our fundamental analysis of specific companies to pick populations to managed care from unmanaged fee for service, long-term winners with competitive positioning in their in order to save money and improve care quality.
We used the respective subsector and a solid management team.
We proceeds from Health Net, which was acquired by Centene, to carefully construct our portfolio to manage volatility typically maintain exposure to Medicaid.
associated with emerging market stocks as well as specific industry risks, such as pricing pressure, insurance Life science tools diagnostics reimbursement, and healthcare spending control.
Looking back at the Companys last financial year, macro As we move into the next fiscal year, we expect to observe a themes and product cycles dominated sentiment in the life substantial consolidation trend in China among science tools diagnostic sector.
On the macro front, the pharmaceutical manufactures, as the government starts to unprecedented strengthening of the U. S. dollar relative to implement dramatically more stringent regulatory and quality currencies of both emerging and other developed markets requirements on generic drugs.
A similar consolidation trend tampered growth.
Coupled with the volatility in the currency could also be observed for distributors in the country, as a markets, trepidation about growth in China also caused result of the two invoices system that is being pushed by the volatility in stock prices throughout the course of the year, government.
As such, we are positively biased towards large leading to adjustments in expectations.
On the micro front, established players in each sub sector as we believe it will disappointing product cycles in genomics caused severe likely be a winner takes all situation.
We combine our multiple contractions in small capitalisation life sciences and conviction in macro trends with our fundamental research on diagnostics companies.
specific companies, and favour companies with strong product Looking forward, macro concerns relating to currency are development capability and commercial channels.
Your abating, as currency headwinds look to be less severe than portfolio does include emerging biotechnology companies with feared.
Also, commentaries from the companies with exceptional product pipeline, despite their likely smaller size significant exposure in China with feet-on-the-ground compared to their established peers.
We continue to avoid indicate that the life sciences industry is as healthy and mass generic companies in China as we believe pricing buoyant as before, despite headline concerns.
pressure and regulatory requirements could exacerbate the As leverage in the balance sheets of consolidators nears competitive environment for these companies.
healthy levels, M&A and additional capital deployment We continue to like private hospital stocks in China and in the strategies will once again dominate the sector.
The industry South East Asia region, driven by favourable government policy remains fragmented with scale and geographic footprint being initiatives and early growth stage of the industry.
We also the driving force for further consolidation in the sector.
We expect industry consolidation and M&A activities in emerging prefer companies with balance sheet flexibility and operating markets to continue to play out for our picks in both acquirers margin expansion opportunities.
We remain cautious on and acquisition targets.
companies with significant exposure to reimbursement.
Emerging markets Samuel D. Isaly Despite the economic, currency, and market volatility OrbiMed Capital LLC associated with emerging markets, we continue to believe Portfolio Manager that healthcare investment in emerging markets is a good long-term, secular play.
Our investment thesis has multiple 14 June 2016 themes.
We believe that aging populations, rising income levels, and increasing healthcare spending as a percentage of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 16
