How were doing Ogilvy CommonHealth WPP Health & Wellness Worldwide Report by Matt Giegerich Report by Mike Hudnall Retiring chairman and Chief executive officer chief executive officer, ... PP Health & Wellness is a new entity :.
:....... ', : n 2016, Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide expanded that unites the Groups broad capability its leadership position in the healthcare under one banner to significantly '.
communications industry, adding 21 clients never W advance our offer for our clients across. '
I worked with before, in more diversified categories than the spectrum of health.
ever before, with significant growth in Specialty Marketing, The growing ubiquity of health today is ushering Medical Affairs and Market Access.
in an era of unprecedented cross-industry partnerships and innovation that present tremendous opportunities for our clients and our business.
Building on WPPs T hroughout the year, we areas of competitive advantage, we are well positioned to seize these opportunities, accelerate growth and new drove horizontality through value for our clients.
"Our strategy centers around "" collaboration within Ogilvy advancing horizontality, which we began with the formation of this healthcare specialist practice."
"Beyond and across WPP that, we are establishing health-focused partnerships with Group companies designed to strengthen our Global macro healthcare trends, and our deep collective healthcare capabilities, and create modern "" understanding of them, continue to guide the agency."
With specialized services that will accelerate growth in 2017 consolidation and contraction ongoing, our clients have laser and beyond.
focus on efficiency and ROI, a renewed emphasis on Real 2016 was a strong year for our healthcare business, World Evidence, accelerated R&D in specialty medicines punctuated with coveted new business assignments and and continue to experience access reimbursement pressures.
meaningful contributions to client partnerships that Our response to these trends includes the formation drove substantial growth across our healthcare and launch of NANO a specialized, highly nimble unit portfolio.
We also won more Cannes Lions Health designed to work with emerging healthcare and selfcare awards than any other holding company last year, companies.
We developed and launched a comprehensive underscoring WPPs creative reputation.
Patient Access Service offering, and saw exponential growth of our proprietary properties such as the Element Access Tool that delivers real-time, office-level reimbursement data and unique EHR initiatives delivering key messages within the workflow.
84 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Healthcare Communications Sudler & Hennessey Report by Jed Beitler Chairman and chief executive officer worldwide Of course, we continue investing in talent, growing udler & Hennessey celebrated its 75th staff in such critical areas as medical strategy, planning, anniversary by producing a big idea that will and digital engagement strategy, while elevating our ensure great talent for decades to come: S&H creative product across all disciplines.
S implemented a global apprenticeship for 75 Throughout the year, we drove horizontality through college graduates and provided two months of training collaboration within Ogilvy and across WPP, working with and real-world work experience and a stipend.
OgilvyRED, Effective UI, Bottle Rocket, social@ogilvy, Additionally, two initiatives were launched: Science & Y&R and more, while remaining key contributors to the Learning, an education and training model led by Louisa healthcare Team accounts.
Holland, to help clients strategically leverage critical data In 2017, although full of potential change, we will likely to secure stronger positions for their brands: while Rob face similar market pressures.
But we approach the year Rogers was appointed to lead promotional efforts for Sudler with enthusiasm as part of the new WPP Health & Wellness New York and Sentrix Communications Healthcare, to group, building on the strengths and resources of the execute plans with a fresh attitude and new talent, and healthcare specialist agencies, and supporting the new Ogilvy a new business effort.
Health & Wellness practice in its efforts to capitalize on this growing and dynamic market.
We are excited to enable new cross-agency collaboration horizontality for the benefit S&H implemented a global of our clients and development of our people.
apprenticeship for 75 college After 25 years with the agency, I retired from Ogilvy, , CommonHealth Worldwide in April 2017.
"I handed over "" graduates executive and managerial duties to my very able successors: managing partners Darlene Dobry, Michael Parisi, Shaun Urban and Marc Weiner, who now co-lead the agency."
In the realm of recognition, Chris Duffey was appointed a juror at Cannes Lions Health, two Sudler New York teams were named among the top 10 Young Lions Health finalists, and BeLive, the first wearable and app to track pain in real-time, won 18 awards, including Sudlers first-ever Cannes Lion: IntraMed was honored with the MAHFs Digital Pioneer Award.
Rounding out the years activities, S&H acquired the San Francisco-based digital specialist shop, Viscira, expanding the range of interactive solutions and technology horsepower, and new senior leadership was appointed in Australia and Japan.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 85 How were doing Healthcare Communications ghg in patient education, awareness and compliance: and our vaccines team supplied the first branded Facebook page in a key clients history, helping that company usher in a new era of social sharing.
ghg continues its thought leadership and original research with new studies about millennials and health activators, in partnership with Kantar Health.
Our white Report by Lynn OConnor Vos paper, The New World of Healthcare: What Millennials Chief executive officer Want, explores this quickly-growing, soon-to-be-primary healthcare consumer cohort, which is changing the hg|greyhealth group had another consecutive year industry with its unique outlook, preferences, and habits.
of growth, fueled by breakthrough, multi-channel At ghg, we believe Communication is the Cure.
g agency launch campaigns, innovative medical Its the way we live, and what we do for our clients g education, healthcare-access programs and every single day.
As a recognized leader in partnering with medical affairs for , ghg achieved high growth in our scientific and value-based CMI Compas communications.
ghg works with some of the worlds most influential Report by Stan Woodland companies, creating everything from TV and digital Chief executive officer content, to CRM, mobile apps and virtual-reality experiences.
We have forged partnerships with some of MI Compas is a leading healthcare media the industrys biggest game-changers, such as IBM Watson planning and buying firm, and were on a mission and VICE Tonic.
We have also invested in tomorrows to become an indispensable partner to each and technology leaders, including OptimizeRx, ScrollMotion C every client.
As we worked to redefine the and Text4Baby recently featured in an exhibit at the agency-client relationship, taking on accountability for our Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum.
clients business goals, and even putting our own money behind some client initiatives, we gained the notice of WPP, which acquired CMI in March 2016.
"The companys W e have forged partnerships upward trajectory of growth continued with the winning of several competitive RFPs and an industry-leading client with some of the industrys retention rate, allowing CMI Compas to sustain an average "" annual revenue growth of more than 30% per year over biggest game-changers, such the last four years."
Among the growth drivers were a full as IBM Watson and VICE ff launch of our Drive offering, comprising best-in-class healthcare SEM SEO and social media capabilities.
CMI But what truly differentiates us, beyond award-winning Compas also expanded our customers insights offerings campaigns and high-science initiatives, is the reputation with robust quantitative and qualitative research about we have acquired as inventors of healthcare solutions the physician audience.
we have built, designed, and or developed the following: the Quitters Circle app for smoking cessation, which was the first healthcare app on the Apple iWatch: the Metastatic Breast Cancer Advisor with IBM Watson an AI program that allows patients, physicians, payers and policy-makers to access 10 years of global research on metastatic breast cancer: the Gum Health Physical tool, for Colgate, to aid 86 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How were doing Healthcare Communications GCI Health Getting beyond the stellar work of our employees, we pride ourselves on a company that embraces partnership and performance while fostering a fun environment and staff development, all of which has resulted in us being recognized as 2016 Best Places to Work by PRNews and The Holmes Report.
In 2017, GCI Health will continue to help our clients Report by Wendy Lund succeed in a changing healthcare landscape and launch Chief executive officer breakthrough programming across the entire health sector with a multi-channel, integrated approach.
Where we... CI Health continued its record of double-digit are today is just a starting point for where were going, ''.. ' : '... growth, fueled primarily through an expansion in the future.. '.
of key offerings and diversifying our account G base with over 30 new business wins.
We take great pride in not only the unsurpassed results of the cutting-edge programming we execute, but also becoming an extension of our clients partners in most cases to add to their business performance.
The healthcare industry is increasingly focused on digital content creation and marketing.
Whether collaborating with clients to use augmented reality to show their commitment to corporate responsibility, helping to execute a major social promotional push to refresh a 10-year campaign or launch a suite of social channels featuring a branded Facebook community with open commenting a rarity in the healthcare space we have helped our clients to not only keep pace, but truly innovate in the digital healthcare space.
"W e have helped our clients to not only keep pace, but "" truly innovate in the digital healthcare space ff We are also committed to providing forward-thinking thought leadership in todays ever-changing, often volatile healthcare landscape."
This, combined with our focus on putting Patients at the Center and challenging our staff to Do Something Different, has continued to garner industry recognition including 2016 SABRE Award for Rx Campaign of the Year, Global SABRE for PR Campaign of the Year and PRWeeks Global Breakthrough Campaign of the Year.
