OUR MARKETS Adapting to the market Property portals and comparison websites have transformed theway consumers and professionals interact.
Significant cross-sell opportunities CONSUMERS Consumers benefit from being able to access near whole of market data with realtime alerts to remain up to date and make better informed decisions.
Revenue Championing consumers throughout theentire opportunity propertylifecycle 3bn Every participant in the market is always in one of the three stages of the property lifecycle either finding, moving or managing their home.
Our vision to be the consumer champion at the heart of the home creates a unique opportunity to assist each and every one of the 28 million households in the UK throughout their property journey, by providing them with the most relevant data, insight and services available from our home related partners.
FIND 600m MOVE 1bn PARTNERS Professionals benefit from being able to efficiently MANAGE 1.4bn reach an engaged and transactionready audience torun their businesses more effectively and generate more revenues.
Enabling home related professionals to deliver the bestservice In order to deliver the best experience for the consumer, homerelated professionals also need help when marketing their products and services, managing their business and maximising their revenue opportunities.
16|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Strategic report FIND MOVE MANAGE Consumer Over 90% of all property searches Over 3 million property transactions take The majority of the households in need startonline with consumers becoming place in the UK each year and the moving theUKare managing and maintaining increasingly mobile savvy and event is often cited as one of the most their homes with multiple supplier datahungry.
stressful events in life with complicated relationships perhousehold.
ZPG solution u Running costs & home u Move planner & Move centre u ManageMyHome & servicescomparison Homesavingsclubs MANAGE MARKET MAXIMISE Partner Professionals margins are under pressure It is crucial that professionals brands are Research shows that consumers are challenge from new market entrants such as hybrid front and centre when consumers are eighttimes more likely to switch their agents and start-up home services suppliers looking to evaluate their home services energy and broadband provider during which are offering increasingly flexible and enter the next stage of the property the move stage than any other stage.
pricing models and attractive deals.
lifecycle using a property portal or comparison website.
ZPG solution u Property Software Group brands u Zoopla, PrimeLocation, AdReach u uSwitch, MoveIT Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|17 OUR MARKETS CONTINUED Operating in markets with significant structural growth drivers The property lifecycle is constantly evolving and the adoption of new technology is transforming the way consumers and professionals interact, driving structural growth across both the property and comparison end markets.
The majority of ZPGs Property Services revenues are generated from its Property partners: PROPERTY agents and new homes developers.
The Property Services market drivers can be classified SERVICES asfollows: Property advertising spend: 450m Property software spend: 100m Theproperty software market is Thereis significant headroom in the online property portal market, as property structurally growing as a result of the industry migration from desktop to professionals currently direct just 55% c. 14% oftheir marketing spend online despite cloud-based software SaaS products.
over 90% of property searches starting Additional product spend: 100m online.
In addition, the overall amount Inaddition to core marketing and software spent on marketing is expected to grow 650m products and services, we are able to offer as the volume of UK residential transactions additional products such as custom-built continues to recover towards pre-crisis websites and paid search tools to levels volumes are currently running ourpartners.
around 30% below the long-term historicaverage.
The majority of ZPGs Comparison Services revenues are generated from its Comparison COMPARISON partners: energy suppliers, communications providers and financial services companies.
SERVICES Consumer engagement and the penetration of comparison website switching varies across each of the three main verticals: Energy: 100m Switchingvolumes are boosted by the Despite a potential average saving of rollout of new technologies such as c. 9% over300 per annum per household, over super-fast broadband and the latest half of UK households have still not taken mobile handsets.
advantage of the opportunity to switch Financial Services: 650m 850m and save.
The Energy vertical benefits from Financial Services can be divided into a supportive regulatory environment and the twobroad areas: banking credit cards, adoption of fixed-term contracts is creating loans, mortgages, current accounts a formal prompt for repeat switching.
andcredit reports and insurance motor, Communications: 100m home, life and health insurance.
Switching Communications includes broadband, rates vary by product but the category TV, home phone and mobile and includes car insurance, the most mature encourages increased switching.
switching vertical in the UK.
18|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Strategic report But were playing for Revenue m 50% amuchbigger prize PARTNER PRODUCT 86.7m CROSS-SELL OPPORTUNITY PROFESSIONAL 9% ANDDATA SERVICES 30% 16 86.7 UPSIDE IN PROPERTY 1% TRANSACTION VOLUMES 15 79.9 14 80.2 1.5bn 60% BLENDED ARPP GROWTHPOTENTIAL In addition to its two principal revenue-generating divisions, ZPG has a nascent position in Professional Services and Data Services which it seeks to build out as part of its vision to enhance consumer experience and increase partner value.
Revenue1 m Total market 25pp UPSIDE TO ANNUAL opportunity 111.0m ENERGY SWITCHING RATE By helping consumers through the online property 38% lifecycle by finding, moving and managing their home, the Group has a total market opportunity of 3bn.
26pp 16 111.0 UPSIDE TO ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS 15 80.2 SWITCHING RATE c. 5% 14 68.3 50% 3bn UPSIDE IN PCW ADOPTION 1 Figur es for 2014 and 2015 are provided on a proforma basis in order to give a .
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|19 PARTNER PROPERTY SERVICES PETER KEYLOCK, MANAGING DIRECTOR, JEFFRIES GROUP Adding value to our Property partners Sales and lettings agency, The Jeffries Group which operates nine branches across Portsmouth and Hampshire has been putting 9,000 technology at the centre of its business for the last 20 years.
ONE MONTHS REVENUE ManagingDirector, Peter Keylock describes ZPG-owned Property Software Group and MoveIT as game-changers in the process.
FROM MOVEIT As an agent, Jupix the property management software has enabled us tooffer our customers a unique service and literally change the way we do business.
So, when we learned about ZPG acquiring Jupixs parent company, Property Software Group we totally understood the rationale.
The introduction of the MoveIT interface on Property Software Group also means we can offer our home movers a whole package a comparison-based quoting facility for everything from solicitors to energy switching.
This has made for some really happy customers, 23m which has been evident in the glowing testimonials they leave us.
LEADS GENERATED FOR There are financial rewards too, says Peter.
MoveIT generates a decent PROPERTY PARTNERS income forus.
This month, weve banked 9,000 in conveyancing referrals at a reasonable referral fee level.
At the same time, Jupix DURING THE YEAR allows us to make big savings and means we can provide genuine helpand support to our customers its a win-win.
The introduction of theMoveIT interface on Property Software Group also means we can offer our home movers a whole package a comparisonbased quoting facility for everything from solicitors to energy switching.
