Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Shareholder engagement Communicating with our shareholders We are committed to communicating our strategy and activities clearly to all our shareholders.
We hold meetings with major institutional investors, individual How we communicate with our shareholders shareholder groups andfinancial analysts to discuss the business We maintained an active dialogue with our shareholders throughout performance and strategy.
These are attended by the appropriate the year through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
mix of Directors and senior management, including our Chairman, We also respond to daily queries from shareholders and analysts Chief Executive, Executive Committee members, senior leaders and through our Investor Relations team and have a section of our website the Investor Relations team.
Institutional investors also meet with the which is dedicated to shareholders and analysts: vodafone.
com Chairman to discuss matters of governance.
Our registrars, Computershare, and BNY Mellon as custodians of our American Depositary Receipts ADR programme also have What our shareholders have asked a team of people to answer shareholder and ADR holder queries us this year in relation to technical aspects of their holdings such as dividend payments and shareholding balances.
Common topics raised by our institutional and individual shareholders include: All of our financial results presentations are available on our website at vodafone.
a 4G and data: a shareholder returns: a cash flow, capital expenditure, a regulation in Europe and Our annual general meeting and debt and dividend cover: emerging markets: our roadshows a fixed broadband and TV strategy: a spectrum renewal costs: Our annual general meeting is attended by our Board and Executive Committee members and is open to all our shareholders a performance outlook: a integration of KDG and Ono: and to attend.
A summary presentation of financial results is given a Project Spring strategy: a administration of shareholding.
before the Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
All shareholders present can question the Board during the meeting.
Our investor calendar Set out below is a calendar of our investor events throughout the year.
May 2015 September 2015 December 2015 a Preliminary results published a Investor meeting about regulation a Investor conference in New York a London, New York, a Several investor conferences January 2016 Boston, Toronto, Paris and in London and New York Edinburgh roadshows a Investor meetings in Spain October 2015 and Italy June 2015 a 5G webinar February 2016 a Annual Report published Governance in action: a Investor conference in Germany a Q3 Trading Statement published a Switzerland, Netherlands, Spain Launch of our low-cost and Frankfurt roadshows November 2015 March 2016 share dealing programme a Investor conference in London a Half-year results published a Investor conference in Miami We launched a quick, simple a Investor meetings in Spain, Turkey a London, New York, Boston, and economical share a Investor conference in London and Italy Edinburgh, Paris, Toronto, dealing service for Vodafone Switzerland and a Investor meeting with Enterprise a Chairmans London roadshow Netherlands roadshows shareholders with no more July 2015 than 1,000 shares in February a Investor conference in Barcelona a Q1 Trading Statement published 2016.
This service ran until 23 May 2016 and allowed a Annual general meeting in London shareholders to sell all their a Investor meetings in India Vodafone shares or buy more shares either free of dealing costs or at a competitive rate.
Over 27% of such shareholders chose to use this service.
