Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Long-Term Viability Statement In accordance with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a period significantly longer than 12 months from the approval of the financial statements.
The Board has concluded that the most relevant time period for this assessment should be three years to align with the Groups normal business forecasting cycle and to reflect the pace of ongoing change in the telecoms industry.
The plans and projections prepared as part of this forecasting cycle include the Groups cash flows, committed and required funding and other key financial ratios.
They were drawn up on the basis that debt refinance will be available in all plausible market conditions and that there will be no material changes to the business structure over the review period.
As of 31 March 2016, the Group had sources of liquidity primarily comprised of certain cash and cash equivalent balances and available facilities, of 17.7 billion, which includes undrawn Revolving Credit Facilities expiring in 2020.
The Risk Management Framework on page 22 outlines the approach the Board has taken to identifying and managing risk.
In making this statement, the Board carried out an assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, detailed on pages 23 to 28, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Against this background, the output of the long-range plan has been used to perform central debt profile and cash headroom analysis, including a review of sensitivity to business as usual risks to revenue and profit growth.
In addition, severe but plausible scenarios in the event of each of the principal risks materialising individually and where multiple risks occur in parallel, were also tested.
This combined scenario included the impact of a global economic downturn, with a major impact on consumer and enterprise sentiment causing material impact on financial performance, and a significant reduction in the Groups refinancing capability.
This was considered together with a cyber-attack resulting in a major customer data breach in multiple markets leading to a broader reputational risk.
To assess viability, the headroom position under these scenarios has been calculated using the cash and facilities available to the Group.
The assessment took into account the availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to reduce the impact of the identified underlying risks.
The headroom remained positive in all scenarios tested.
Having considered the principal risks that the Group may face, the Directors consider that this stress-testing based assessment of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the circumstances, taking into account the inherent uncertainty involved.
Although this review has considered severe but plausible scenarios relevant to the Group, any such review cannot consider all risks which may occur, therefore an overall view of the total level of risk required to impede our viability was also considered.
The cash and available facilities at year end, along with the mitigating actions available to reduce cash outgoings, provides a sufficient level of headroom.
Based on the results of their analysis, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending 31 March 2019.
