Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Movement from 2015: Stable EMF related health risks What is the risk?
Concerns have been expressed that electromagnetic signals emitted by mobile telephone handsets and base stations may pose health risks.
Authorities, including the World Health Organization WHO agree there is no evidence that convinces experts that exposure to radio frequency fields from mobile devices and base stations operated within guideline limits has any adverse health effects.
A change to this view could result in a range of impacts from a change to national legislation, to a major reduction in mobile phone usage or to major litigation.
This is an unlikely risk: however, it would have a major impact on services used by our customers in all our markets particularly in countries that have a very low tolerance for environmental and health-related risks.
Changes from 2015 There have been no significant changes to this risk over the last 12 months.
a We have a global health and safety policy that includes standards for electromagnetic fields EMF that are mandated in all our local markets.
Compliance to this policy is monitored and overseen by the Risk and Compliance Committee a We have a Group EMF Board that manages potential risks through cross sector initiatives and which oversees a coordinated global programme to respond to public concern, and develop appropriate advocacy related to possible precautionary legislation a We monitor scientific developments and engage with relevant bodies to support the delivery and transparent communication of the scientific research agenda set by the WHO Movement from 2015: Stable Major enterprise contracts What is the risk?
We have a number of high-value, ongoing contracts with corporate customers, including some government agencies and departments.
Successful and profitable delivery of our major enterprise contracts is dependent on complex technologies deployed across multiple geographies, as well as relative stability in the requirements, strategies and businesses of our customers.
Failure to deliver these enterprise services may lead to a reduction in our expected revenue and could impact our credibility to deliver on large, complex deals.
Delivery challenges for any national critical service would have a particularly adverse impact on our reputation.
Changes from 2015 We are facing new competitors for our Enterprise customers, specifically from major technology companies.
Despite this, and the new business brought in over the last 12 months, the risk remains stable.
a Our Group Enterprise customer operations are now consolidated within one function, aligned to industry best practice which will deliver a standard service model to our customers a We have implemented a single process across Group Enterprise that ensures alignment, visibility and control across the entire customer experience, from sales governance and commercial risk through to service delivery, billing and in-life operations.
This is supported by global standardised ways of working frameworks a We have an investment plan in implementation to digitise service operations, with investment having started in the 2016 financial year and to conclude in the 2018 financial year.
This plan is aimed at lifting our Enterprise customer experience into a market leadership position 25
