Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Risk management continued Movement from 2015: Stable Unstable economic conditions What is the risk?
As a multinational business, we operate in many countries and currencies, so changes to global economic conditions can impact us.
This could be because another global crisis would result in reduced spending power for customers or because a relative strengthening or weakening of the major currencies in which we transact could impact our profitability.
As a UK business, the UK leaving the European Union may impact us, and it could lead to wider concerns about the stability of the Eurozone.
The potential for another global financial crisis may lead to further economic instability and subsequent reductions in corporate and consumer confidence and spending.
It could also have a prolonged impact on capital markets that may restrict our financing.
Changes from 2015 Eurozone stability has improved but low commodity prices, in part a consequence of reduced forecast growth in China, means the threat ofanother global financial crisis remains a significant risk factor, given the inability of central banks to reduce interest rates much further.
a We monitor closely economic and currency situations in both our AMAP and European markets a We include contingencies in our business plans to cater for negative operational impacts that could arise from a variety of causes including the impact of lower economic growth than is generally expected a We have credit facilities with 30 relationship banks that are committed for a minimum of five years and which total 5.8 billion.
Such facilities could be used in the event of a prolonged disruption to the capital market a Our exposure to any depreciation of sterling, for example from the UK leaving the EU, is limited by the fact that the vast majority of our income is denominated in other currencies Movement from 2015: Stable Market disruption What is the risk?
We face increased competition from a variety of new technology providers, new market entrants and competitor consolidation.
There are two ways in which this risk could occur.
First, advances in offerings of over the top OTT services could reduce demand for our traditional voice and text services and impact revenue.
Secondly, new entrants investing heavily or the consolidation of competitors could result in price wars in key markets.
The threat from OTT competition is relevant for all markets where alternative services are commonly available and has the potential for major impact on service revenues.
The risk of competitor disruption is higher in new and emerging markets.
Changes from 2015 This risk previously included supplier concentration.
Improvements in how we manage key supplier groups and ensuring competitive tendering have reduced this risk.
a We have developed strategies which strengthen our relationships with customers through integrated voice, messaging and data price plans to avoid customers reducing their out of bundle usage through internet Wi-Fi based substitution.
The loss of voice and messaging revenue is partially offset by the increase in data revenue a We monitor the competitor landscape in all markets, and react appropriately, working to make sure each market has a fair and competitive environment 26
