Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Movement from 2015: Increased Network IT infrastructure failure What is the risk?
If our network or IT systems fail, voice, video or data transmissions may be significantly interrupted.
We need to ensure that our critical assets are protected and our systems are resilient, so that impact on our customers is minimised, particularly during our major IT transformation projects.
For the majority of network and IT infrastructure failures, the associated impacts would be confined to a single market.
There are, however, some exceptions where data centres and critical network sites serve multiple markets.
There are a number of causes for failure such as major incidents caused by suppliers, natural disasters, deliberate attacks or a failure as a result of an internal project or transformation.
Failure to successfully implement key IT transformation projects would also increase the risk of IT systems being unable to support our strategic objectives.
Changes from 2015 During 2016 a number of major projects to improve key IT systems are taking place in some of our markets, which increases this risk, during the project implementation phase.
a Specific back-up and resilience policy requirements are built into our network and IT infrastructure a We monitor our ability to replace strategic equipment promptly in the event of end-of-life failure, and for high risk components we maintain dedicated back-up equipment ready for use a A blueprinted approach to geographic resilience, where the secondary IT location is expected to be in a different country, has been developed with external market specialists.
This will be used for business applications which require this degree of location resilience a Network and IT contingency plans are in place to cover the residual risks that cannot be mitigated a A crisis management team and escalation processes are in place both nationally and internationally.
Crisis simulations are conducted annually Movement from 2015: New Non-compliance with laws and regulation What is the risk?
Vodafone must comply with a multitude of local and international laws as well as regulations.
These encompass but are not limited to, licence requirements, customer registration, data privacy, anti-money laundering, competition law, anti-bribery and economic sanctions.
Non-compliance with these requirements exposes Vodafone to financial and reputational risk.
Non-compliance with legislation or regulatory requirements could lead to reputational damage, financial penalties and or suspension of our licence to operate.
Changes from 2015 Now included in our principal risks due to changes in laws and their enforcement.
a We have subject matter experts in legal and regulatory teams at a local and global level who manage risk across the Group a Our Compliance team monitors all high risk policies and tracks remedial actions for non-compliance or partial compliance a We train our employees in Doing whats right, our training and awareness programme which defines and reinforces our ethical culture across the organisation 27
