Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Risk management continued Movement from 2015: Increased Failure to deliver on convergence What is the risk?
We face competition from providers who have the ability to sell converged services combinations of fixed line, broadband, TV content and mobile on their existing infrastructure.
If we fail to deliver converged services in key markets, due to inability to access infrastructure or content at a reasonable price, this could potentially lead to higher customer churn and or significant downward pressure on our prices.
Our own convergence strategy may be compromised if we are unable to obtain regulated or equivalent access to infrastructure and content, oracquire, rent or build the right assets, or if we are unable to effectively integrate those businesses we do acquire into our existing operations.
Changes from 2015 The risk has slightly increased as regulation is failing to deliver a level playing field across fixed and content markets leading to potential re-monopolisation by incumbent operators.
a We actively look for opportunities, in all markets, to provide services beyond mobile through organic investment, acquisition, partnerships, or joint ventures.
In key European and some non-European markets we are already providing converged services a Timely and coordinated intervention with regulatory and competition authorities to ensure that dominant infrastructure access and content providers cannot discriminate or restrict competition a Integration plans ensure that cost synergies and revenue benefits are delivered and acquired businesses are successfully integrated through the alignment of policies, processes and systems Movement from 2015: Stable Adverse political measures What is the risk?
Vodafone operates under licence in most markets.
Increased financial pressures on governments may lead them to target foreign investors for further licence fees or to charge unreasonably high prices to obtain or renew spectrum.
Similarly we could be exposed to additional liabilities if we faced a new challenge from tax or competition authorities or if local or international tax laws were to change, for example as a result of the OECDs recommendations on base erosion and profit shifting or the proposed EU tax and financial reporting Directives.
If we are not licensed to operate, we cannot serve our customers.
If the cost of operations were to significantly increase, directly or indirectly, this would impact Vodafones profitability and returns to shareholders.
Additionally, disputes in regards to the level of tax payable and any related penalties could be significant, as reflected in our ongoing dispute inIndia.
Changes from 2015 There have been no significant changes over the last 12 months.
a We work with governments and regulators, nationally and internationally, to help shape any proposals that impact our business a We maintain constructive but robust engagement with the tax authorities, relevant government representatives and non-governmental organisations as well as active engagement with a wide range of international companies and business organisations with similar issues a Where appropriate, we engage advisers and legal counsel to obtain opinions on tax legislation and principles 24
