Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report The Directors of the Company present their report together with the audited Dividends consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Full details of the Companys dividend policy and proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 31 March 2016 are set out on pages 17 and 36 and note 9 to the This report has been prepared in accordance with requirements outlined within consolidated financial statements.
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and forms part of the management report as required under Sustainability Disclosure & Transparency Rule DTR 4.
Certain information that fulfils the Information about the Companys approach to sustainability risks and opportunities requirements of the Directors report can be found elsewhere in this document is set out on pages 20 and 21.
Also included on these pages are details of our and is referred to below.
This information is incorporated into this Directors report greenhouse gas emissions.
Political donations Responsibility statement No political donations or contributions to political parties under the Companies Act As required under the DTR a statement made by the Board regarding the preparation 2006 have been made during the financial year.
The Group policy is that no political of the financial statements is set out on pages 76 and 77 which also provides donations be made or political expenditure incurred.
details regarding the disclosure of information to the Companys auditor and Financial risk management objectives and policies managements report on internal control over financial information.
Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives and policies, including Going concern our policy for hedging are set out in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the Code is set out and disclosures relating to exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash in the Directors statement of responsibility on pages76 and 77. flow risk are outlined in note 23.
Corporate governance statement Important events since the end of the financial year The corporate governance statement setting out how the Company complies Details of those important events affecting the Group which have occurred since withthe Code and which includes a description of the main features of its internal the end of the financial year are set out in the Strategic Report and note 32 to the control and risk management arrangements in relation to the financial reporting consolidated financial statements.
process is set out on pages 54 and 55.
The information required by DTR 7.2.
6R can Future developments within the Group be found in the shareholder information section on pages 175 to 181.
A description The Strategic Report contains details of likely future developments within the Group.
of the composition and operation of the Board and its Committees is set out on pages 38to 73.
Group policy compliance Each Group policy is owned by a member of the Executive Committee so that Strategic Report The Strategic Report is set out on pages 2 to 37 and is incorporated into this there is clear accountability and authority for ensuring the associated business risk is adequately managed.
Regional chief executives and the senior leadership Directors report by reference.
team member responsible for each Group function have primary accountability Directors and their interests for ensuring compliance with all Group policies by all our markets and entities.
The Directors of the Company who served during the financial year ended 31 March Our Group compliance team and policy champions support the policy owners 2016 and up to the date of signing the financial statements are as follows: Gerard andlocal markets in implementing policies and monitoring compliance.
Kleisterlee, Vittorio Colao, Nick Read, Sir Crispin Davis, Dr Mathias Dpfner, Dame Code of Conduct Clara Furse, Valerie Gooding, Renee James, Samuel Jonah, Nick Land, Philip Yea and All of the key Group policies have been consolidated into the Vodafone Code David Nish.
Luc Vandevelde and Stephen Pusey stepped down during the financial of Conduct.
This is a policy document applicable to all employees and those who year ended 31 March 2016.
Details of Directors interests in the Companys ordinary work for or on behalf of Vodafone.
It sets out the standards of behaviour expected shares, options held over ordinary shares, interests in share options and long-term in relation to areas such as insider dealing, bribery and raising concerns through the incentive plans are set out on pages 66 to 72. whistle-blowing process known internally as Speak Up.
Directors conflicts of interest Branches Established within the Company is a procedure for managing and monitoring conflicts of interest for Directors.
Details of this procedure are set out on page 54.
The Group, through various subsidiaries, has branches in a number of different jurisdictions in which the business operates.
Directors indemnities Employee disclosures In accordance with our Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by law, Our disclosures relating to the employment of disabled persons, women Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liability incurred in senior management roles, employee engagement and policies are included as a result of their office.
In addition, we maintained a Directors and officers liability in Ourpeople on pages 18 and 19. insurance policy throughout the year.
Neither our indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proven to have acted dishonestly By Order of the Board or fraudulently.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 The information on the amount of interest capitalised and the treatment of tax relief can be found in notes 5 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements respectively.
The remaining disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 are not applicable to Vodafone.
Rosemary Martin Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Capital structure and rights attaching to shares All information relating to the Companys capital structure, rights attaching 17 May 2016 to shares, dividends, the policy to repurchase the Companys own shares and othershareholder information is contained on pages 175 to 181.
Change of control Details of change of control provisions in the Companys revolving credit facilities is set out on page 130.
Information on agreements between the Company and its Directors providing for compensation for loss of office of employment including details of change of control provisions in share schemes is set out on page 64.
Subject to that, there are no agreements between the Company and its employees providing for compensation for loss of office of employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
