Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Our business model Investing in a great platform for the future Our global scale and reach, leading network quality, and the breadth of services we offer helps differentiate us from our peers.
Our business model is simple maintain a virtuous circle of high investment, to maintain a superior network and customer experience, leading to strong cash generation so that we can reinvest and reward ourshareholders.
Superior network infrastructure Spectrum and Fixed network Information Technology Mobile Network IT 1 7.7bn 72m 25m spent on spectrum in the last 3 years homes reached with high speed broadband My Vodafone app users account self-service 300,000 15bn 12 base station sites spent acquiring fixed businesses in recent years countries have cloud & hosting capability We acquire spectrum and licences to use Our fixed capabilities comprise cable, fibre and Our IT estate provides our data centres, radio frequencies that deliver mobile services.
copper networks to enable TV, broadband customer relationship capability, customer We have steadily increased our spectrum and voice services.
These depend on either billing services and online resources.
Over the holdings to boost network quality and our building our own fixed line infrastructure, last three years we have invested 4.2 billion capacity to carry more data.
We also have one renting from incumbent operators or acquiring to upgrade our IT systems and to standardise of the worlds largest footprints of mobile base cable companies.
This has enhanced station sites, across 26 countries.
customer services at all touchpoints in-store, More on spectrum holdings: on the phone and online and expanded the Pages 187 range of services we provide.
which means which means which means we can provide customers with wide coverage, both we can already reach around half of European we can provide new offerings, such as single bills for indoors and outdoors, a reliable connection, highhouseholds with high speed broadband over 30 Mbps.
converged fixed and mobile price plans, and cloud & speed data transmission, and ample data capacity.
hosting for business users for more flexible working.
Investment and returns to shareholders 47bn 19bn 11bn re-investing in our business Project Spring returned to shareholders in the last 3 years Weve invested 47 billion in capital Project Spring was our two year 19 billion We recognise that our shareholders regard expenditure, new acquisitions and spectrum programme of accelerated investment the dividend as an important form of return and licences in the last three years.
This has in mobile and fixed networks, IT systems, on their investment.
That is why we have enhanced our networks, and competitive products and services, and our retail platform.
consistently increased the dividend per share position and enabled us to generate It aims to secure a premium position in most every year for the last 16 years and returned substantial returns for shareholders.
of our markets, and sustain strong cash flows over 11 billion in normal cash dividends and growing shareholder returns.
06 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Breadth of services A wide range of services Convenient Simple customer service to meet customers needs sales channels 25m 9.5m 16,000 24 7 mobile money users TV customers exclusive branded shops globally call centres in all European markets 1 38m 4,900 41,000 Internet of Things connections stores upgraded to new format in last 3 years retail customer service staff Although our roots are in mobile we now 92% of our customers are individuals We have a broad customer base comprising enable a much wider range of communication or families.
We reach them through a variety individuals, domestic businesses of all sizes, including TV, fixed broadband and landline of channels including branded stores, multinationals and public sector departments, calls.
But we havent stopped there.
We also distribution partners, third-party retailers, with a wide range of communications needs.
provide enhanced services such as mobile and increasingly, online services.
8% of our Our highly-trained and diverse workforce money services, cloud & hosting and connected customers are enterprises from small shop of employees from over 130 countries help machines via our IoT services.
We reach these provide these different services.
More on our mobile money service, M-Pesa: customers via our direct sales teams, indirect More on People and Diversity: Page 11 Page 18 partners, and telesales channels.
which means which means which means we unify communications, bringing together fixed and it is easy for our customers to get in touch wherever our customer satisfaction ranking, which we measure mobile services.
and however is convenient for them.
through our Net Promoter Score, makes us the leader in 13 out of 21 markets.
Note: 1 Includes employees, contractors and third parties.
Customer eXperience eXcellence While Project Spring has built better networks, we know that our customers also want great We want to show customer service, so we have launched a customer service excellence programme.
The goal customers we CARE is simple: to substantially enhance the quality of service we provide and to be the Net Promoter Were continually trying to improve our Score leader in every single market in which we operate.
Our programme has four simple pillars: customer service, and we are pleased to be the leader or co-leader in mobile network quality tests and Net Promoter Scores in the majority of our markets.
Connectivity that Always in control Rewarding loyalty Easy access is reliable and secure Control your costs Extra rewards and Always available, More on focusing on our customers: Network satisfaction with no surprises better service ask only once Page 10 guaranteed 07
