Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration Remuneration Committee During the year the Committee has continued to ensure its work supports our long-term strategic goals and that remuneration levels fairly reflect ongoing performance in the context of wider market conditions and shareholder views.
Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear shareholder On behalf of the Board, I present our 2016 Directors Remuneration Report my first as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman This report sets out both our policy, as approved by shareholders at the Valerie Gooding 2014 annual general meeting, and how this policy was implemented Independent Non-Executive Director during 2016.
Last years report received a vote in favour from shareholders of over Key objective: 97% indicating support for the Committees focus on implementing To assess and make recommendations to the Board on the policies the key principles of our executive remuneration approach.
for executive remuneration and reward packages for the individual The Committee remains committed to ensuring that all of our decisions Executive Directors.
are guided by the principles of: Responsibilities: a offering competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits: a determining, on behalf of the Board, the policy on the a ensuring our remuneration policy, and the manner in which remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Executive it is implemented, drives the behaviours that support our strategy and Directors and the senior management team: business objectives: a determining the total remuneration packages for these individuals a maintaining a pay for performance approach to remuneration including any compensation on termination of office: which ensures our incentive plans only deliver significant rewards a operating within recognised principles of good governance: and if and when they are justified by business performance: and a preparing an Annual Report on Directors remuneration.
a aligning the interests of our senior management team with those of shareholders by developing an approach to share ownership that helps to maintain commitment over the long term.
Project Spring during 2016 The year under review saw operational progress made under Project Spring.
In AMAP this was reflected through continued customer and data growth whilst in Europe our progress was evident in the fact that c. 70% of our markets returned to service revenue growth.
Our improved financial performance was complemented by significant steps being made in the Customer eXperience eXcellence phase of Project Spring.
This saw us increase the number of markets where we are Consumer NPS leader by 2, to 13 out of 21.
In addition to the above, the combined impact of these results has led to a number of notable achievements this year, including: a doubling the number of our 4G customers to 47m: a increasing our fixed broadband base to 13.4m an increase of 1.3m : a returning to full year growth in both EBITDA and service revenue: a strong enterprise performance: and a meeting targets in Europe for dropped call rates of less than 0.5% Contents of the Remuneration Report and for data sessions above three megabits per second of above 90%.
Remuneration policy Page 59 The remuneration policy table Page 60 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration Page 64 Annual Report on remuneration Page 65 Remuneration Committee Page 65 2016 remuneration Page 66 2017 remuneration Page 72 Further remuneration information Page 73 57 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration continued Remuneration outcomes during 2016 This will therefore constitute the third financial year in which the Annual bonus performance during the year was assessed against current policy has been in place a reflection of its success in providing both financial and strategic measures.
The former constituted 60% an effective framework which has demonstrated the flexibility to meet of maximum opportunity and was comprised of service revenue, our changing strategic priorities over the last three years.
EBITDA and adjusted cash flow all equally weighted.
Our strategic In line with the reporting requirements our Policy Report will be put measure was comprised of Customer Appreciation KPIs, reflecting our forward to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 annual general focus on customer experience excellence and included Net Promoter meeting.
The Committee is therefore in the process of conducting a full Score and Brand Consideration, as well as consideration of other factors review of our existing arrangements to ensure that the Policy Report put such as customer churn.
forward for shareholder approval is appropriately positioned to support During the year, performance under all of the financial measures our executive remuneration programme over the next three years.
exceeded target performance, with cash flow in particular Conclusion recording strong results.
These results reflected both a stabilisation The success of Project Spring was always going to require more than of performance in our European markets, with outcomes for this financial investment.
Indeed, our latest results show how our significant region ranging from slightly below to slightly above financial targets, investment in infrastructure has been matched by a contribution and continued strong performance in our AMAP markets where from all our colleagues to improving our customers experience.
financial performance across all three measures was significantly Continuous improvement for customers will be crucial in maximising above targets.
the benefits from Project Spring for years to come.
Performance under the Customer Appreciation KPIs element of the Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Dr Mathias bonus was slightly above on target performance highlighting that whilst Dpfner to the Remuneration Committee and thank my predecessor, there has been a positive start to our customer experience excellence Luc Vandevelde, who stepped down from both the Committee and the focus, there still remain further gains to be made.
We will be looking Board following the 2015 annual general meeting, for his hard work and closely at underlying local market performance to ensure that all of our support during his tenure.
I look forward to ensuring that the Committee customers, regardless of where they are in the world, feel the benefit continues to maintain and develop an executive remuneration of our significant investment in this area.
Further details about how this framework that supports the opportunities ahead.
measure was assessed is provided on page 66.
As part of our commitment to full and open disclosure we have, for several years, published details of the performance required to achieve a target payout under the GSTIP for the year under review.
This year we have sought to further reflect best practice by disclosing Valerie Gooding Chairman of the Remuneration Committee full target ranges of which further details can also be found on page 66.
Performance against these targets during the year resulted in an overall 17 May 2016 payout of 58.4% of maximum.
In terms of long-term incentives, the 2014 GLTI award was measured over the three financial years ending 31 March 2016 and was assessed against both Free Cash Flow and TSR performance.
Over the course of the performance period, the Free Cash Flow measure exceeded threshold performance, which was complemented by a slight outperformance of the median of the TSR comparator group.
This resulted in a combined payout of 23.2% of maximum.
Application of policy for the year ahead Following the Committees annual review of the current policy it was agreed that no changes would be made in respect of the year ahead.
Similarly, it was determined that the current balance of performance measures, following last years introduction of the Customer Appreciation KPIs measure under the GSTIP, remains appropriate.
As part of this annual review, the Committee also contacted our top 20shareholders to consult on the proposed application of the policy for the year ahead.
This included the decision to increase the base salary of the Chief Financial Officer by 2.0% in light of business performance, salary increases for other UK employees and external market information.
The Chief Executive Officer requested not to be considered for a salary increase during the year, and the Committee respected this request.
The Committee appreciates the importance of consulting with shareholders on matters of executive remuneration and was therefore pleased with the high level of engagement and support shown by investors.
During the year the Committee also completed a risk assessment of the current incentive plans.
Although such an assessment is conducted annually, the Committee saw the review as particularly important this year given the current external environment.
Following the assessment, the Committee remains satisfied that the current incentive plans do not promote undue risk.
