Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Our US listing requirements As Vodafones American depositary shares are listed on NASDAQ Stock Market LLC NASDAQ, we are required to disclose a summary of any material differences between the corporate governance practices we follow and those of US companies listed on NASDAQ.
Vodafones corporate governance practices are primarily based on UK requirements but substantially conform to those required of US companies listed on NASDAQ.
The material differences are set out in the following table: Board member independence Different tests of independence for Board members are applied under the Code and the NASDAQ listing rules.
The Board is not required to take into consideration NASDAQs detailed definitions of independence as set out in the NASDAQ listing rules.
The Board has carried out an assessment based on the independence requirements of the Code and has determined that, in its judgement, each of Vodafones Non-Executive Directors is independent within the meaning of those requirements.
Committees The NASDAQ listing rules require US companies to have a nominations committee, an audit committee and a compensation committee, each composed entirely of independent directors, with the nominations committee and the audit committee each required to have a written charter which addresses the committees purpose and responsibilities, and the compensation committee having sole authority and adequate funding to engage compensation consultants, independent legal counsel and other compensation advisers.
a Our Nominations and Governance Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and its other members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
a Our Remuneration Committee is composed entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
a Our Audit and Risk Committee is composed entirely of Non-Executive Directors, each of whom i the Board has determined to be independent based on the independence requirements of the Code and ii meets the independence requirements of the Securities Exchange Act 1934. a We have terms of reference for our Nominations and Governance Committee, Audit and Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee, each of which complies with the requirements of the Code and is available for inspection on our website at vodafone.
a These terms of reference are generally responsive to the relevant NASDAQ listing rules, but may not address all aspects of these rules.
Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct Under the NASDAQ listing rules, US companies must adopt a Code of Conduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees that complies with the definition of a code of ethics set out in section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
a We have adopted a Code of Ethics that complies with section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which is applicable only to the senior financial and principal executive officers, and which is available on our website at vodafone.
a We have also adopted a separate Code of Conduct which applies to all employees.
Quorum The quorum required for shareholder meetings, in accordance with our articles of association, is two shareholders, regardless of the level of their aggregate share ownership, while US companies listed on NASDAQ are required by the NASDAQ listing rules to have a minimum quorum of 33.33% of the shareholders of ordinary shares for shareholder meetings.
Related party transactions In lieu of obtaining an independent review of related party transactions for conflicts of interests in accordance with the NASDAQ listing rules, we seek shareholder approval for related party transactions that i meet certain financial thresholds or ii have unusual features in accordance with the Listing Rules issued by the FCA in the United Kingdom the Listing Rules, the Companies Act 2006 and our articles of association.
Further, we use the definition of a transaction with a related party as set out in the Listing Rules, which differs in certain respects from the definition of related party transaction in the NASDAQ listing rules.
Shareholder approval When determining whether shareholder approval is required for a proposed transaction, we comply with both the NASDAQ listing rules and the Listing Rules.
Under the NASDAQ listing rules, whether shareholder approval is required for a transaction depends on, among other things, the percentage of shares to be issued or sold in connection with the transaction.
Under the Listing Rules, whether shareholder approval is required for a transaction depends on, among other things, whether the size of a transaction exceeds a certain percentage of the size of the listed company undertaking the transaction.
