Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Market overview Understanding our marketplace Our customers are demanding higher network speeds, reliable and secure data connections, and a better customer experience.
Against this background, we can see great opportunities to create value, while managingrisks.
A fast-moving industry generating many new opportunities Whats the scale and Innovation Global market potential structure of our market?
As more communities connect there has been more investment in innovations such as mobile The communications market is growing as money transfer, video and entertainment, more communities around the globe gain 8.5bn and the Internet of Things formerly M2M.
The growth in mobile users expected by 2020 the number of mobile users continues its Operators are upgrading their mobile momentum, now at 7.6 billion, up half a networks, providing 4G speeds of up to billion since last year, generating US$1trillion 450Mbps.
This is allowing customers US$1.1tn in annual service revenue.
Much of the to do more moving from simply mobilepredicted mobile market in 2020 momentum is coming from growth in working with smartphones and tablets emerging markets such as Africa and Asia to now increasingly connecting cars, homes, due to the combination of large and relatively and cities.
We anticipate 5G will become Growth in mobile data usage young populations, fast GDP growth, increased commercially available around 2020, with petabytes calendar year data usage and limited fixed line infrastructure.
This will reduce 2015 Actual 36,000 latency and allow faster connections and Global fixed market 2016 Estimate 52,000 response times.
The global fixed market has two billion 2017 Estimate 72,000 As we look to the future the number of connections, generating US$678 billion in devicesconnected to the Internet of Things 2015, up 0.4% from 2014.
This year revenue via mobile and other technologies is 2.2bn from fixed voice continued its decline as expected to grow significantly, which will fixed connections by 2020 users switched to using fixed broadband massively expand the demand for data and and mobile.
We are also seeing an increased allow customers to use these new services take-up of pay TV, aligned to fixed broadband toincrease their productivity.
These trends provide opportunities fixed service revenue by 2020 for differentiation, as not all operators are wellIn the fixed broadband sector, operators are positioned to sustain the levels of investment investing in more high-speed fibre broadband, needed for higher-speed networks, providing which provides data speeds typically higher quality services for customers.
up to 1Gbps, compared with up to 24 Mbps Growth in pay TV customers million calendar year on copper-based ADSL broadband.
Competition 2015 Actual 875 Regulation The industry is highly competitive with a large 2016 Estimate 910 number of providers in both fixed line and Regulators and policy makers continue 2017 Estimate 939 mobile segments.
There are 12 major telecom to have a significant impact on the providers that are able to gain advantages structure and performance of the industry.
by leveraging size and scale.
In addition Regulators continue to lower mobile to competition between networks, over-the-top termination rate MTR fees, which are the applications have enabled companies to offer fees mobile companies charge for calls data services via apps, increasing the number received from other companies networks, of competitors further.
In this environment, and to limit the amount that operators can Vodafone has differentiated its service through charge for mobile roaming services.
These two high-quality network performance, and also areas represent 10% of Vodafones service through converged offerings mobile, fixed revenue, down 11% from last year.
More on Regulation: line, broadband, TV, allowing us to compete Page 183 more effectively.
Notes: 1 Compound annual growth rate.
The industry data on these pages, unless stated, is from the 2 Vodafones benchmark tests.
following sources: GSMA, Analysys Mason, Ampere Analysis, 08 3 Vodafone, The Connected Future for SMEs.
Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Adapting and evolving our response We live in a fast-paced world where our customers needs are constantly evolving.
In order to compete we are responding to key market trends, and building a stronger product offering for our customers.
More on our strategy to respond to these trends: Pages 10 to 13 Focusing on services that will make a difference to our customers Whats the trend?
Network innovation continues Demand for Network to evolve rapidly as demand for continued network data increases, offering significant With the completion of Project Spring we are ready to take on the innovation improvements in performance, significant data growth demanded by customers.
We now have efficiency and customer 73 million 3G customers in emerging markets and 47 million 4G experience.
As we move towards customers in total using speeds of up to 450 Mbps.
Our high-speed 450 Mbps a gigabit society, innovation will fibre broadband has speeds up to 1 Gbps.
We are working with todays peak performance for continue around mobile and fixed industry and universities on the next set of 5G standards, so we can downloads, up from less than access solutions that enable even continue to improve speed and user experience.
1 Mbps in 2004 faster, more flexible and highly secure exchanges of data.
Demand for data is being Growing importance Data driven by faster fixed and of data, emerging mobile networks with greater markets and other 50% geographic reach and capacity, new revenue areas of our European mobile data traffic is carried on 4G networks more advanced handsets with faster processing power and 1 Vodafone was rated best or co-best for data services in 15 of larger screens, increased use 2 20 markets.
Our AMAP region now accounts for almost half 40% CAGR of applications such as social of all data traffic carried in the 2016 financial year, compared mobile data usage growth media, messaging, video to 30% three years ago.
by 2021 streaming and general browsing.
Customers are increasingly Growth in demand for Convergence choosing simplicity either converged services adding mobile to their fixed Were evolving to meet customer needs across all converged line services, or adding fixed services, first adding fixed-line and then television service line to their mobile service.
offerings for homes and businesses.
Customers can access 56% They want one provider, with Vodafone services and content across multiple platforms, at their of households in Spain use one customer service, and one convenience.
With the rapid growth of the Internet of Things IoT, converged services simple interaction.
we expect to see more demand for converged services across wearable devices, and in the transport, retail and healthcare sectors, amongst others.
Market competition remains Improving business Enterprise intense for basic mobile environment and fixed communications.
Customers are increasingly looking for pre-integrated fixed, mobile Regardless of size, enterprise and cloud services with simple, predictable and transparent pricing.
3 customers are progressively We have invested in building these service offerings at scale 80% adopting digital ways of working helping us achieve a commercial advantage across our footprint.
of Europes SMEs say to improve their competitiveness communication technologies and provide flexibility for More on Enterprise: are fundamental to how they Page 13 their workforce.
