Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Chief Executives strategic review Responding to a changing world It has been a year of continued progress, with signs of recovery in Europe and continued growth in emerging markets.
Our Project Spring investment programme is now complete.
Executing our strategy to capture growth opportunities Project Spring, our two year 19 billion Review of the year a Fibre networks that provide high investment programme, which was designed We have made good progress on a number speed broadband to 72 million homes to placeVodafone at the forefront of the of fronts in the last year.
We have significantly in Europe: including 30 million on our growth in mobile data and the increasing trend expanded our mobile and fixed data network own infrastructure towards the convergence of fixed and mobile coverage and quality, leading to strong a Further expansion in enterprise products services, came to its close in March 2016. growth in data usage: we have maintained and services, with IP-VPN extended Highlights include: encouraging commercial momentum, with to 70 countries, IoT connectivity platform consistent customer growth: and we have a 4G population coverage of 87% in our to 30 countries and cloud & hosting returned to organic growth in both revenue European markets, up from just 32% to 12 countries and EBITDA, thanks in part to strong in September 2013 cost efficiency.
In emerging markets, During the year we also significantly stepped a Extensive modernisation and capacity we are achieving sustained growth supported up our focus on improving our customers improvements, with 93% of our European by thestrength of our brand, our networks experience of our network and customer network now single RAN and 90% with and our distribution.
In Europe, the majority service, in order to bring to life the clear high capacity backhaul of our markets have returned to growth, customer benefits of our investments.
reflecting a more stable regulatory and a 3G population coverage of 95% in targeted As measured by Net Promoter Score, macroeconomic environment and better urban areas in India, and 4G launched in the we ended the year as the leader in 13 out competitive performance than in recent years.
last few months of 21 markets and improved in 15 of these Our key strategic drivers data, convergence markets: good progress, but still much a 91% of all customer data sessions in Europe and enterprise are at the heart of this to do to build clear differentiation.
now at speeds of 3 Mbps or better the rate continued improvement.
needed for high definition video streaming a Dropped call rates down by 40% since September 2013 so customers Vittorio Colao on average now only lose one call in 217 Chief Executive Our strategy We aim to be a converged communications leader, investing to provide our customers with differentiated network access and excellent customer service.
Together with capturing the scale and efficiency benefits of our global presence, we aim to generate attractive returns, enabling us to sustain our investment levels, further increase our network differentiation and meet our customers high expectations.
