Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Board evaluation, induction and training Evaluating our performance and keeping up to date The Board recognises that it continually needs to monitor and improve its performance.
This is achieved through annual performance evaluation, full induction of new Board members and ongoing Board development activities.
Board Development Board Evaluation The Chairman is responsible for ensuringthat all Non-Executive Progress against recommendations set in 2015 Directorsreceive ongoing training and development.
Our NonRecommendation: The Board should continue Executive Directors are conscious of the need to keep themselves to develop its understanding of the future challenges and trends properly briefed and informed about current issues.
in Vodafones sector, especially convergence, technology trends and Specific areas covered at sessions attended by Vodafone Directors the regulatory environment.
in2016were the Enterprise business, technology, share dealing rules Action taken in 2016: The Board received relevant training and and corporate governance.
In June 2015, Val Gooding went on a local carried out deep dives into these areas which were considered market visit with Vittorio Colao to Vodafone Italy.
They attended at Board meetings throughout the year.
customer focus groups, a Customer eXperience eXcellence session run by local management, visited three retail stores, and received a 4G and Recommendation: The Board should increase its focus fibre presentation.
on customers experience and it should continue to monitor managements success in delivering operational strategic objectives.
Specific and tailored updates, delivered by  LLP, were also provided to the members of our Audit and Risk Action taken in 2016: The Board regularly reviewed the progress Committee during the year covering key themes surrounding financial of the Customer eXperience eXcellence programme and continued and narrative reporting, and accounting and auditing standards.
to focus on the execution of our strategy.
The Board also received reports from the Group General Counsel and This years process Company Secretary on current legal and governance issues.
In accordance with our three-year cycle, our 2016 Board evaluation was externally facilitated by Ffion Hague of Independent Board Governance in action: Evaluation which has no other connection with Vodafone.
David Nishs induction The evaluation included a series of one-on-one interviews with all Directors and key senior managers, and observations of Board, Expertise Audit and Risk, Remuneration, and Nominations and Governance a Financial expertise and capital markets skills Committee meetings.
Ffion Hague discussed her initial findings with the Chairman and presented the final results to the Board Focus areas in March 2016. a Learn about Vodafone and our business lines Conclusions from this years review a Learn about Vodafones markets, competitions, customers, The conclusions of this years review have been positive and have business opportunities and risks confirmed that the Board and its Committees operate effectively a Meet senior management across the Group and that each Director contributes to the overall effectiveness and success of the Group.
Overview of induction programme The recommendations in this years review included: Davids induction includes the following: a reviewing the Board induction and development programme a meetings with the members of the Executive Committee to focus on strategically significant areas: to discuss our business, strategy and operations: a increasing transparency around Board and executive a presentations from the management teams of the Europe cluster, successionplans: AMAP and Enterprise: a clarifying expectations on an overall strategic framework: and a visits to the headquarters of Vodafone UK, a Vodafone UK store and Vodafones call centre in Stoke-on-Trent UK : a creating more opportunities for Board members to spend informal time together.
a meetings with various Group senior managers to discuss Group strategy, people strategy and remuneration, technology and The Board will address these recommendations during the 2017 marketing, external affairs, finance, investor relations and risk: financial year and will report on progress in our 2017 Annual Report.
a training on his duties as a director and on Vodafones governance structure: a meeting with the Chairs of the Board Committees and the Chairman: and a meeting key Group advisers.
