Board of Directors as at 8 March 2017 Debbie Hewitt MBE Andy McCue Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer N R Debbie was appointed as a non-executive Director on Andy joined the Company as Chief Executive Officer on 1 May 2015 and Chairman on 12 May 2016.
He was previously Chief Executive currently non-executive Chair of Moss Bros Group plc, of Paddy Power plc, where he embedded a new growth White Stuff Ltd, Visa UK Ltd and senior non-executive strategy which delivered record revenues and profits, as director of Redrow plc, NCC Group plc, BGL Ltd and well as playing a pivotal role in the merger with Betfair plc.
non-executive director of Domestic and General Ltd.
Prior to that, he led the Paddy Power UK and Irish retail businesses, transforming profitability and overseeing its Her executive career was spent at RAC plc where she was growth for eight years.
Andy joined Paddy Power from latterly Group Managing Director and prior to that she was OC&C Strategy Consultants where he was a Principal.
in retail management with Marks and Spencer.
She is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development Andy is currently also a non-executive director and was awarded the MBE for services to Business and and chairman of the remuneration committee of the Public Sector in 2011.
A Member of the Audit Committee Barry Nightingale N Member of the Nomination Committee Chief Financial Officer R Member of the Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman Barry was appointed Chief Financial Officer on 20 June 2016.
Previously Chief Financial Officer at Monarch Airlines, he played a key role in securing the companys return to profitability.
Prior to that, as Finance Director of Betfred, he led the successful acquisition and integration of the Tote.
He has previously held senior finance roles at UK Car Group, easyEverything and Airtours, having qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte.
28 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Simon Cloke Sally Cowdry Senior independent Independent non-executive non-executive Director Director A N N R Simon was appointed as a non-executive Director of Sally was appointed as a non-executive Director of the the Company in March 2010.
Formerly Global Head of Company in March 2014.
Currently she is Consumer and Industrials at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, he was Retail Director at Camelot Lotteries UK Ltd, accountable for appointed Managing Director of HSBCs Diversified the strategic development and commercial performance Industries Group in 2005 and is currently responsible of the National Lottery and its portfolio of games.
Prior for managing HSBCs business with some of its largest to joining Camelot in 2013, Sally was Marketing and UK corporate clients.
Mike Tye Graham Clemett Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Director Director A N R A N R Mike was appointed as a non-executive Director on Graham was appointed as a non-executive Director on 4 April 2016.
He has extensive experience of the retail, 1 June 2016.
Graham is currently Chief Financial Officer leisure and hospitality sectors and was, until 2015, Chief of Workspace Group PLC.
He was previously Finance Executive of Spirit Pub Company plc, where he led its Director for UK Corporate Banking at RBS Group PLC successful establishment as a public company following where he worked for five years.
Prior to RBS, Graham the demerger from Punch Taverns and the subsequent spent eight years at Reuters Group PLC, latterly as Group turnaround and sale of the business.
Prior to that, he held Financial Controller.
He qualified as a chartered accountant a number of senior executive roles in Whitbread, including with KPMG.
Managing Director of David Lloyd Leisure, Premier Inn and Costa Coffee.
Mike is currently also Chairman of Moto the motorway services operator, non-executive Director and Trustee of The Consumer Association Which?
non-executive Director and Trustee of Prostate Cancer UK, and non-executive Director of Haulfryn Group Ltd the holiday resort and residential parks owner.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 29
