Directors report The Directors report comprises pages 52 to 53 and the other Employee benefit trust EBT and share awards sections and pages of the Annual Report and Accounts cross Details of the Companys EBT arrangements can be found referred below which are incorporated by reference.
As permitted by legislation, certain disclosures normally included in the Directors report have instead been integrated The Company has an all employee save as you earn scheme into the strategic report pages 2 to 20. and a long-term incentive plan.
Details of share-based payments during the year can be found on pages 86 to 90 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated note 19. undertakings The Group has 20 subsidiaries.
A list of these can be found on The Group considers that the disclosure requirements under page 99 note ii to the Companys financial statements.
Articles Substantial shareholdings The Companys Articles may only be amended by special Details of substantial shareholdings can be found on page 27. resolution and are available on the Companys website at www.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to Greenhouse gas reporting continue as a going concern while looking to maximise returns The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions to shareholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists of are included in the corporate responsibility report on equity comprising issued share capital, other reserves and pages 19 and 20. retained earnings, debt, finance leases and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group monitors its capital structure on a Results and dividends regular basis through cash flow projections and consideration The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income of the cost of financing its capital.
This shows a Group profit after tax of 60.1m 2015: profit 67.4m before exceptional items.
After Financial risk management charging exceptional items, the Group recorded a loss after The Board regularly reviews the financial requirements of the tax of 40.2m 2015: profit after tax of 68.9m.
The closing Group and the risks associated therewith.
The Group does mid-market price of the ordinary shares on 1 January 2017 not use complex financial instruments and where financial was 324.5p and the range during the financial year was instruments are used, it is for reducing interest rate risk.
Group does not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Group operations are primarily financed from Increase retained earnings and bank borrowings including an overdraft Dividend decrease facility.
Interim dividend In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group also Paid on 13 October 2016 6.8p per share 0% has other financial instruments such as debtors, prepayments, Final dividend trade creditors and accruals that arise directly from the Subject to shareholder approval, Groups operations.
Further information is provided in note 22. payable on 7 July 2017 to shareholders on the For details on interest rates charged and gross borrowings Register of Members at see page 92. close of business on 16 June 2017 10.6p per share 0% Total dividend payable in respect of 2016 17.4p per share 0% For more information on the Companys dividends, see note 9 on page 81 and for details on our dividend policy see page 3.
52 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Significant agreements and change of control provisions The Group has a 140m revolving credit facility in place until June 2020 and a 10m overdraft facility.
Under the terms of the 140m revolving credit facility the Group is required to comply with its financing covenants whereby net interest charges must be covered at least four times by EBITDA and net debt must not exceed three times EBITDA.
The margin on interest rates applied to the revolving facility is dependent on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
The banking facility covenants are tested twice annually and are monitored on a regular basis.
The Group remained within its banking facility covenant limits throughout 2016.
The Group has entered into various contracts, including leases, during the course of ordinary business which may be terminated in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Disclosure of information to the external auditor For further details see page 55.
Going concern The strategic report contains a summary of the cash flow and borrowing position of the Group.
The Group is highly cash generative and as a retail business with trading receipts settled by cash or credit or debit cards enjoys negative, and working capital.
Information on the Groups policies for capital risk management and financial risk management are set out above.
The principal risk factors and uncertainties that could affect the business are detailed in the strategic report on page 11.
Based on the Groups plans for 2017 and after making enquiries including preparation of reasonable trading forecasts, consideration of current financing arrangements and current headroom for liquidity and covenant compliance, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
By order of the Board Barry Nightingale Chief Financial Officer 8 March 2017 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 53
