Directors Report The Group has facilities from a number Financial and business reporting Internal controls and offinancial institutions, none of which The Directors present their Annual riskmanagement arerepayable before May 2021 other Reportand Accounts on the affairs of The Board accepts and acknowledges than modest annual amortisation.
In theGroup, together with the financial thatit is both accountable and responsible addition to surplus available cash of statements and auditors report, for the for ensuring that the Group has in place 43.7 million at 31 March 2016 2015: year ended 31March 2016.
The Corporate appropriate and effective risk management 65.3 million, the Group has undrawn Governance Statement set out on page and internal control systems including facilities of 75 million at the date of 52 forms part of this report.
financial, operational and compliance thisreport.
The Directors Report and the other The Groups primary care property sections of this Annual Report contain The Board monitors these systems on developments in progress are all forward-looking statements.
The extent anongoing basis and this years review substantially pre-let.
to which the Companys shareholders or found them to be operating effectively.
anyone may rely on these forwardThe Group has adequate headroom in its looking statements is set out in the Dividends Glossary on page 124. banking covenants.
The Group has been Details of the dividend can be found in compliance with all financial covenants inNote 19 to the accounts.
The Group on its loans throughout the year.
Principal activities benefits from brought forward tax losses Assura plc is a leading primary care which results in all dividends paid during The Groups properties are substantially property investor and developer.
It owns the year being paid as ordinary dividends let with rent paid or reimbursed by the and procures good quality primary care with an associated tax credit.
NHS and they benefit from a weighted properties across the UK.
average lease length of 14.0 years.
They Supplier payment policy are diverse both geographically and The subsidiary and associated The Group has not signed up to any bylotsize and therefore represent undertakings are listed in Note 9 specific supplier payment code: it is excellent security.
Assuras policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
The Groups financial forecasts show Business review Where specific payment terms are not thatborrowing facilities are adequate The Group is required to include a agreed, the Group endeavours to adhere andthe business can operate within business review in this report.
The to the suppliers standard payment these facilities and meet its obligations information that fulfils the requirements terms.
As at 31 March 2016, the average when they fall due for the foreseeable ofthe business review can be found on number of days taken by the Group to future.
The Directors believe that the pages 38 to 43, which are incorporated pay its suppliers was 22 days 2015: business is well placed to manage its inthis report by reference.
current and reasonably possible future risks successfully.
Going concern Post balance sheet events Assuras business activities together On 17 May 2016 the Group signed a new Accordingly, the Board considers it withfactors likely to affect its future 200 million revolving credit facility with appropriate that the financial statements performance are set out in the business aclub of four banks.
This replaced an have been prepared on a going concern review on pages 38 to 43.
In addition, existing 120 million facility.
basis of accounting and there are no Note 23 to the accounts includes material uncertainties to the Companys theGroups objectives, policies and Directors liability insurance ability to continue to prepare them on this processes for managing its capital, its The Company has arranged insurance basis over a period of at least 12 months.
financial risk management objectives, cover in respect of legal action against details of its financial instruments and its itsDirectors.
Long-term viability statement exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Companys viability statement is on page 32.
86 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements regularly with information regarding Gender ratios Company share scheme progress against the budget, financial The Assura plc Employee Benefit Trust Board and economic factors affecting the holds 1,256,714 0.1% of the issued share businesss performance and other capital of the Company in trust for the matters of concern to them.
In addition, benefit of employees of the Group and all staff are eligible to participate in a their dependants.
The voting rights in defined contribution pension scheme.
relation to these shares are exercised by 1 4 The views of employees are taken into the Trustees who will take into account account when making decisions that any recommendation made to them by Senior management team might affect their interests.
Assura the Board of Assura plc.
encourages openness and transparency, with staff having regular access to the Donations Directors and being given theopportunity In the year to 31 March 2016 Assura to express views andopinions.
donated 29,520 to charities 2015: 2 5 26,962, all of which were UK registered The Group is committed to the promotion charities, and no contributions were Employee workforce of equal opportunities, supported by its made for political purposes 2015: nil.
Equal Opportunity and Valuing Diversity More details of our chosen charities can Policy.
The policy reflects both current be found on pages 46 and 47. legislation and best practice.
It highlights the Groups obligations to race, gender Employees and disability equality.
Full and fair Employees are encouraged to maximise consideration is given to applications for their individual contribution to the Group.
employment from disabled persons and In addition to competitive remuneration appropriate training and career packages, they participate in an annual development are provided.
bonus scheme which links personal contribution to the goals of the business.
Share capital Outperformance against the annual The issued share capital of the Company targets can result in a bonus award 18 17 is 1,637,706,738 Ordinary Shares of proportionate to the individuals 10pence each.
Employees are provided as at 17 May 2016 Interests in voting rights As at 1 May 2016 the Company had been notified of the following interests representing 3% or more of its issued Ordinary ShareCapital: 31 March 2016 1 May 2016 Percentage Percentage Number of Ordinary Number of Ordinary Name of shareholder of shares Shares of shares Shares Invesco Limited 352,848,325 21.55 352,848,325 21.52 Artemis Investment Management 187,028,735 11.42 174,519,607 10.64 Aberdeen Asset Management 64,856,216 3.96 82,606,987 5.04 BlackRock BGI 81,967,814 5.01 79,427,446 4.84 Cohen & Steers Capital Management 57,804,597 3.53 64,117,695 3.91 Investec Wealth & Investment 64,293,423 3.93 62,624,873 3.82 Legal & General 56,259,018 3.44 56,655,043 3.45 Troy Asset Management 55,602,002 3.40 55,602,002 3.39 www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 87 Directors Report continued This confirmation is given and should The technical non-compliance with Price risk, credit risk, liquidity beinterpreted in accordance with theCompanies Act 2006 could, in theory, risk and cash flow risk theprovisions of section 418 of the result in a right for the Company to claim Full details of how these risks are Companies Act 2006. repayment of the Dividend from certain mitigated can be found in Note 23 shareholders and or the Directors who totheaccounts.
Clearly it is not The Directors, on recommendation from the intention of the Company that any the Audit Committee, intend to place a Future developments such claims should be made by the resolution before the AGM to re-appoint Details of future developments are Company against either its shareholders Deloitte LLP as auditor for the year discussed on pages 38 to 41 in the or its Directors.
In order to put the ending 31 March 2017. business review.
shareholders and the Directors into theposition in which they were always Amendments to the Articles Greenhouse gas emissions intended to be, the Company proposes ofIncorporation The greenhouse gas emissions from torelease and waive any such claims.
The Articles of Incorporation of the operating activities and property Resolutions will be put to shareholders Company may be amended by special occupied by the Company represented atthe AGM to approve such release and resolution of the Company.
These waiver and to protect the shareholders reported levels exclude investment and Directors against any future claims.
Interim dividend payment properties where we are not the occupier.
The Board has recently become aware of Annual General Meeting a technical irregularity with regard to the Competition and Markets The AGM of the Company will be held payment by the Company of the interim Authority CMA Order atthe offices of Addleshaw Goddard, dividend to shareholders in April 2016 The Company confirms that it has 60Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4AG the Dividend.
complied with the Statutory Audit Services on19July 2016 at 11am.
for Large Companies Market Investigation Distributions made by a company must not Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Both the Directors Report and the exceed the distributable profits as reported Processes and Audit Committee Strategic Report were approved by in the last set of relevant accounts of Responsibilities Order 2014 published theBoard and signed on its behalf.
For the purposes of the bythe CMA on 26September 2014.
Companies Act the relevant accounts ORLA BALL areeither a companys last annual audited Auditor COMPANY SECRETARY accounts or its last interim accounts.
In Each of the persons who is a Director at 17 May 2016 order to rely on interim accounts to pay a the date of approval of this Annual Report dividend a company must file those interim confirms that: accounts with the Registrar of Companies.
When the Company paid theDividend, So far as the Director is aware, there is although it had sufficient distributable no relevant audit information of which reserves to make the payment at the the Companys auditor is unaware: and payment date, interim accounts showing The Director has taken all the steps the requisite level of distributable profits thathe she ought to have taken as hadnot been filed with the Registrar of aDirector in order to make himself Companies and as a result, the Dividend herself aware of any relevant audit was paid in technical infringement of the information and to establish that Companies Act 2006. theCompanys auditor is aware ofthatinformation.
88 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for enable them to ensure that the financial preparing the Annual Report and the statements comply with the Companies financial statements in accordance Act 2006.
They are also responsible for withapplicable law and regulations.
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Company law requires the Directors other irregularities.
toprepare financial statements for eachfinancial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the The Directors are responsible for the Group financial statements in accordance maintenance and integrity of the corporate with International Financial Reporting and financial information included on Standards IFRSs as adopted by the theCompanys website.
Legislation in European Union EU and Article 4 of theUnited Kingdom governing the the IAS Regulation and have also chosen preparation and dissemination of financial to prepare the Parent Company financial statements may differ from legislation statements under IFRSs as adopted by inother jurisdictions.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial We confirm that to the best of our statements unless they are satisfied that knowledge: they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit The financial statements, prepared or loss of the Company for that period.
inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of In preparing these financial statements, the assets, liabilities, financial position IAS 1 requires that Directors: and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the Properly select and apply accounting consolidation taken as a whole policies The strategic report includes a fair Present information, including review of the development and accounting policies, in a manner that performance of the business and provides relevant, reliable, comparable theposition of the Company and and understandable information theundertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Provide additional disclosures when together with a description of the compliance with the specific principal risks and uncertainties requirements in IFRSs are insufficient thatthey face: and to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other The Annual Report and financial events and conditions on the entitys statements, taken as a whole, are fair, financial position and financial balanced and understandable and performance: and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Make an assessment of the Companys position and performance, business ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for By order of the Board keepingadequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain ORLA BALL theCompanys transactions and disclose COMPANY SECRETARY with reasonable accuracy at any time the 17 May 2016 financial position of the Company and www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 89
