Our milestones of the year Developing and maintaining  JUNE 2015 Property Developer of the Year In June Assura was awarded Property Developer of the Year at the prestigious Health Investor awards.
Property Director Andrew Darke collected the award.
JULY 2015 JULY 2015 Media City rugby event Frome Medical Practice acquisition July saw the first event of the Assura In July we acquired Frome Medical Practice.
Challenge take place at The Pitch at Media The practice, located in Somerset, is City UK.
Assuras charities, Salford Red Devils adjacent to the community hospital and Foundation and the Warrington Wolves offers over 23 additional services including Foundation, joined forces in an excellent Play physiotherapy and minor surgery.
Touch Rugby league tournament including Assura and seven other local businesses.
com Read more on p46 JANUARY 2016 FEBRUARY 2016 Malmesbury Primary Care Completion of Urmston development Centreacquisition In February we completed the forward funded mixed use scheme for In January we acquired Malmesbury Primary Urmston Group Practice.
The new development provides 1,048 square Care Centre.
The centre, located in Wiltshire, metres of high quality healthcare space and resource to the local offers over 21 additional services and makes community.
The building includes a minor operation suite and up part of a primary care village which includes multi-purpose clinical rooms that enable the delivery of GP services a pharmacy and sheltered housing.
and GP training facilities, as well as additional retail units and residential accommodation for Trafford Housing Trust.
4 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements DECEMBER 2015 NOVEMBER 2015 NOVEMBER 2015 Assura enters the FTSE 250 Index Abbey Healthcare Group acquisition 300 million equity raise November saw us acquire Abbey Healthcare In November we successfully completed December saw us join the London Stock Exchanges FTSE 250 Index following three Group Limited and Abbey Healthcare Property anequity raise of 300 million, net of expenses.
Investments Limited, owner companies of The equity raise financed multiple acquisitions years of significant growth.
The premises, and enabled us to repay 181million of located in Surbiton, Milton Keynes and long-term debt and reduce our overall Kilmeny, provide GP services for over debtby36% since 31 March 2015.
Read more on p9 FEBRUARY 2016 MARCH 2016 Acquisition of Well Street Surgery, Hackney Completion of Ashby fide la In February we completed the acquisition of Well Street Surgery, Hackney.
The Zouchdevelopment centre delivers a multitude of services including antenatal, diabetes clinic, drug In March we completed the forward funded misuse and dermatology.
The ground floor includes a large community room and development for Castle Medical Group.
The provides modern kitchen facilities to run classes for the local population, providing development, called Ascebi House, includes food education courses on how, and where, to shop for food in the locality and, modern compliant general practice rooms, subsequently, cooking classes.
space for staff training, a patient records room and an integrated pharmacy.
The site even includes an environmentally friendly bat box.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 5
