Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Priorities Customer Great Leading Investing in first places construction our people See page 20 See page 24 See page 28 See page 32 Our principles Building strong Ensuring the Keeping Being a trusted Safeguarding the community financial health people safe partner environment relationships of our business See page 36 See page 37 See page 38 See page 39 See page 40 Delivering sustainable shareholder value Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Building excellence by putting Customers first Jill Timmins 2015 Barratt Sales Adviser of the Year 20 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic priority Our priority is building great homes and providing an outstanding customer experience.
We seek to anticipate our customers evolving needs by continuously improving the homes and places we build.
Key highlights The challenge Only national housebuilder Britain needs more homes to address its to be awarded HBF 5 Star status housing shortage, with continued demand for seven consecutive years in the market and continued undersupply of new homes.
Home buyers are supported Continued investment by a good mortgage market in terms of in customer service both availability and rates, as well as the Governments Help to Buy Equity Loan Mortgage market remains good scheme in England, Scotland and Wales.
The industry is seeking to increase KPI volumes, maintain customer satisfaction HBF 5 Star Homebuilder and build quality and at the same time address the constraint created by a shortage of skilled people.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Priorities and principles in action Customer first Affordability of homes and accessibility to home ownership We build a wide range of product, from homes for first time buyers to larger family homes.
During the year, the mortgage market We place customers at the remained positive.
Our customers have heart of everything we do, with access to mortgage finance that allows them to buy with a 5% deposit through the Help their satisfaction being a key to Buy Equity Loan scheme and there is performance indicator at all also a range of higher loan to value products levels of management.
which do not use the Help to Buy scheme available.
We continue to work with a broad set of lenders through our approved brokers to ensure that our customers have access to independent advice and a wide range of mortgage products.
We delivered 2,707 2015: 2,853 affordable homes built for registered providers, equating to 17% 2015: 18% of our total completions excluding JVs in the year.
We have a team which engages with housing association 2,707 partners at local, regional and national levels.
We delivered 2,707 2015: 2,853 affordable homes built for registered providers Mr and Mrs Atkinson purchased a three bedroom home at Garnett Wharfe, Otley.
22 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Customer satisfaction We place customers at the heart of everything we do, with their satisfaction being a key performance indicator at all levels of management.
All of our team are responsible for delivering customer satisfaction and we operate a Customer Service Academy comprising both classroom and online training to ensure that our employees understand how We are pleased that we have to deliver right first time, every time.
increased our completions We are pleased that we have increased our delivery, including JVs, by 5.3% completions delivery, including JVs, by 5.3% during the year whilst retaining during the year whilst retaining our HBF 5 Star our HBF 5 Star status for the status for the seventh successive year, the only national housebuilder to do so.
We regularly seventh successive year, the only review the results from the NHBC customer national housebuilder to do so.
survey with the insights gained being used to aid our decision making.
We continue to drive customer service, investing in technology from developments to our customer service systems and our onsite systems to aid our quality control inspections.
Each home we build is repeatedly inspected at key stages and, as a minimum, is approved by the site manager, contracts manager and sales staff before handover to our customers.
Management throughout the business are responsible for customer service and monitor customer satisfaction survey performance on a weekly basis.
Mr and Mrs Patel purchased a beautiful five bedroom Increasing customer insight home at our prestigious David To ensure that we continuously reflect our Wilson Homes, Cane Hill Park development using the customers needs we have worked with part-exchange scheme.
suppliers, customers and industry experts to produce the Future Home Report to inform design direction in terms of customer trends and preferences.
As well as carefully defining customer segments and their design preferences, our project with The Architects Journal to select new house design features to meet these requirements concluded during this financial year.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Building excellence by developing Great places Megan Brooks Technical Manager 2015 Barratt Individual Excellence Award Winner 24 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic priority Our priority is building long term relationships to secure good value land where people aspire to live.
We design developments which look great, are a pleasure to live on, and will enhance local communities for years to come.
Key highlights KPI Land market remained attractive Owned and controlled land bank throughout FY16 4.5 years Transformation of our land bank to more recently acquired higher margin 2015: 4.5 years land is well progressed Land approved for purchase plots Detailed or outline planning permission on 2012: 12,085 99.7% of FY17 expected completions and 2013: 18,536 2014: 21,478 94.2% of FY18 expected completions 2015: 16,956 2016: 24,387 The challenge The future of our business depends upon securing the right land in the right place that achieves our investment hurdle rates.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Priorities and principles in action continued Great places Securing the best land We continue to see high quality land opportunities that at least meet our required hurdle rates of a gross margin of 20% and 1 asite ROCE of 25%.
Our success in buying land is based on the extensive local knowledge of our divisional land teams and strong local relationships Designing great places is with land owners, combined with detailed fundamental to our business: assessments of local market conditions.
We target locations based on the availability ourcustomers want to live of land, housing market conditions and the in great places.
likelihood of obtaining planning consent.
We continue, under normal market conditions, to target a regionally balanced land portfolio with a supply of owned land of c. 3.5 years and a further c. 1.0 year of controlled land.
Our target is for a shorter than sector average land bank reflecting our focus on ROCE and a rapid asset turn.
At 30 June 2016 we achieved this target with a 4.5 year land supply excluding JVs comprising 3.4 years owned land and 1.1 years controlled land, with the owned land bank including land with 37.0% both outline and detailed planning consents.
Land approved for purchase ROCE on completed new sites Year ended Year ended acquired since 2009 30 June 2016 30 June 2015 Total 1,095.6m 957.0m Total plots 24,387 16,956 1 S ite ROCE on land acquisition is calculated as site operating profit site trading profit less overheads less allocated administrative overheads divided by average investment in site land, work in progress and equity share.
c. 11, 700 Mount Oswald, Durham offers a premium collection Acres of strategic land of 60 bespoke homes with 2015: c. 11,100 spectacular views of the surrounding woodland and open areas.
26 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our land bank Effective planning permission Our land bank The transformation of our land bank from Bringing land through the planning system 30 June 2016 30 June 2015 older, lower margin land to more recently quickly and into production is important to Owned and unconditional land bank plots 53,849 51,640 acquired higher margin land is well support our business objectives.
As at 30 June 2016, 93% 30 June the work the Government is currently doing to Conditionally contracted land bank plots 17,502 18,883 2015: 90% of our owned and controlled land speed up the planning process, in particular Owned and controlled land bank plots 71,351 70,523 is higher margin, newer land.
On the 232 sites in relation to quicker resolution of planning that we have acquired and completed since conditions which can hold up prompt progress.
Number of years supply based upon completions in the financial year 4.5 years 4.5 years 2009 we have achieved an average site gross A faster planning process will enable housing JVs owned and controlled land bank plots 5,309 6,325 margin of 20.9%, and an average site ROCE supply to increase faster.
of 37.0%, demonstrating sustained delivery Strategic land acres c. 11,700 c. 11,100 We have maintained good momentum in above our hurdle rates on this more recently achieving planning consents, and during the Land bank carrying value 2,880.2m 2,826.1m acquired land.
year we secured planning on 20,249 plots Whilst maintaining a first class operational 2015: 17,092 plots.
We now have full or outline land bank, we remain focused on securing planning permission in place for 99.7% of our a longer term land pipeline through the expected completions in FY17 and 94.2% of acquisition of strategic land options.
In the year expected production in FY18.
4,558 plots 2015: 5,239 plots were transferred from strategic land to our owned land bank Designing great places and 22% of our completions 2015: 17% during Designing great places is fundamental to the year were on strategically sourced land.
our business: our customers want to live We remain on track to deliver our target of in great places: the vendors of the land we c. 25% of completions to be delivered from purchase want to work with developers who strategic land.
leave behind a legacy of design quality: and We use land creditors to defer payments for local people want developments that enhance land acquisition where possible to drive a their communities.
higher ROCE and as at 30 June 2016, the land We are focused upon placemaking creditor position totalled 1,086.8m 30 June throughout our business and use our internal 2015: 999.0m representing 38% 30 June Great Places design standards, assessing 2015: 35% of the owned land bank.
We are every development against these at the pretargeting land creditors at around one-third application stage.
Our Great Places design ofthe owned land bank for FY17.
standards are aligned to the requirements of Building for Life, and we run annual awards Located in the picturesque to recognise our best developments.
We also village of Tettenhall is review our development layouts to ensure they Woodthorne, a beautiful new development sitting achieve both design quality and efficient land amongst mature trees use, and have an internal urban design team and wonderful green toprovide specialist expertise.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Building excellence by Leading construction Mark Summersgill 2015 Barratt Site Manager of the Year 28 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic priority We deliver the highest quality homes by focusing on excellence across all aspects of construction.
We are embracing the best new methods of on and offsite construction to increase build efficiency.
Key highlights KPI Focused on a right first time approach Total completions including to drive operating efficiency joint ventures units Long term relationships with suppliers and sub-contractors 5.3% Considering and implementing Total completions including joint ventures units new construction methods 2012: 12,857 where appropriate 2013: 13,663 2014: 14,838 2015: 16,447 2016: 17,319 The challenge The housing shortage has increased demand for the building of new homes, which has resulted in pressures upon the availability of materials and skilled labour and sub-contractors.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Priorities and principles in action continued Leading construction Delivering high quality homes We put customer satisfaction at the heart of our construction processes with a focus upon getting it right first time, which also drives operating efficiencies in the build process.
Our site managers continue to lead the industry, winning 79 NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
This is the 12th consecutive year that we have won more of these awards than any We put customer satisfaction other housebuilder.
at the heart of our construction processes with a focus upon Partnering with our supply chain getting it right first time.
We have a centralised procurement team which has built long term relationships with our suppliers.
This ensures the consistency of specification and technical performance of the materials used in our homes.
Long term relationships have enabled us to ensure the continuous availability of materials as demand increased.
We also use many local subcontractors in the construction of our homes, who our divisions partner with at a local level to ensure the availability of the skilled trades that we require.
79 We engage in continuous communication with our suppliers and hold regular performance and business reviews, training days and an annual supplier conference.
We are a signatory NHBC Pride in the Job Award of the Prompt Payment Code.
winners for 2016 We purchase substantial amounts of timber David Wilson Homes East and have implemented a sustainable Midlands 10 Pride in the Job procurement and timber sourcing policy.
Since December 2013, all timber and timber products that we purchase via group agreements are FSC PEFC certified and originate from well managed forestry sources.
Further information is available inthe Sustainability Report for 2016.
30 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Innovating to improve efficiency Kirk Raine, Webbs Meadow Site Manager Winner of The majority of our homes are built with the NHBC Supreme Large traditional brick and block construction, Housebuilder Pride in the although we are increasing the use of timber Job Award for 2015. frame on some of our sites and have built 988 homes using this method during FY16.
We have also completed a successful small scale trial of Light Gauge Steel Frames which are lighter, safer and quicker to put together We are also researching smart than traditional construction methods.
technologies and their use In addition, as the parts are manufactured infuture homes to improve offsite, the level of waste generation is theability of customers to reduced.
We will be undertaking a larger scale trial of this technology in FY17.
Another offsite technology that we have successfully trialled, in FY16, is the use of prefabricated utility cupboards, with preinstalled features such as boilers, storage tanks and heating controls.
These take 1-2 hours to install rather than a whole day, enabling us to make better use of skilled tradespeople and increase build speed.
We have engaged with our suppliers to find, understand and consider innovative 988 products and services including foundation systems, roofing and mechanical and electrical solutions.
Timber frame homes built in FY16 We are also researching smart technologies and their use in future homes to improve the ability of customers to save energy and have undertaken divisional pilots of smart thermostats, which give customers the ability to remotely control their heating systems.
We will be extending their availability to customers in FY17.
With over 200 metres of Thames river frontage, Enderby Wharf offers studios and one, two, three and four-bedroom apartments and penthouses, each with floorto-ceiling windows and private outdoor space.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Building excellence by Investing in our people Suzanne Flynn Graduate and Future Talent Manager 2015 Barratt Individual Excellence Award Winner 32 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic priority We aim to attract and retain the best people by investing in their development and success.
We seek to create a great place to work, founded on an open and honest culture that embraces diversity and inclusion.
Key highlights KPI Focus upon employee retention Upper quartile employee engagement Highly engaged workforce 77% Committed to providing an inclusive 1 2015: 78% working environment The challenge The building and construction industry continues to face a shortage of skilled workers and attracting and retaining the best people is a key priority for our business.
1 Assessed against the UK all sectors comparator group by IBM Kenexa.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Priorities and principles in action continued Investing in our people Attracting people to our industry Together with other housebuilders we are working with the HBF, the Construction Industry Training Board and schools, universities and the West Midlands University Technical College 'UTC' upon targeted projects to help address the industry-wide skills shortage.
We continue to invest in and Employee retention develop our Future Talent During the year employee turnover reduced by strategy, recruiting graduates, 2% to 17% 2015: 19% reflecting our focus in apprentices and paid interns into this area.
However, there is significant demand our business.
and many opportunities for skilled employees elsewhere in the industry.
We therefore continue to focus upon developing talent within our business, including succession planning, to ensure that we have the necessary skills within our business for continued operational delivery as well as focusing on remuneration and benefits to ensure retention measures are in place and effective.
Developing talent 17% We are committed to the development of our people in order to drive our success.
We offer both vocational and leadership training programmes, as well as in-house Employee Turnover schemes promoting employee development, 2015: 19% engagement and recognition.
We continue to invest in and develop our Our South Wales Division took on the Welsh 3 Peaks Future Talent strategy, recruiting graduates, challenge, raising 7,942 apprentices and paid interns into our business.
fortheir charity of the year.
We have local Apprentice Champions who oversee the apprenticeship experience from attracting new trainees, to working with our 268 sub-contractors and aiding our apprentices development.
Number of graduate and apprentice programme employees 34 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Barratt Academy continues to provide The table opposite shows the number of Men and women employed structured, bespoke training to support men and women employed, as at 30 June individual development across three 30 June 2016 30 June 2015 2016, across our business split between PLC separate disciplines: apprentices, site Directors, Senior Managers and employees.
Men Women Total Men Women Total managers and technical commercial roles.
The diversity policy relating to the appointment Number % Number % Number Number % Number % Number Courses combine professional training of PLC Directors is set out on page 65 of the onsite and in the classroom with industry PLC Directors 7 78 2 22 9 6 75 2 25 8 Annual Report and Accounts.
Senior Managers 251 87 36 13 287 250 87 37 13 287 After a successful pilot last year, we have started diversity and inclusion training across Engaging our people Employees 4,103 69 1,810 31 5,913 3,875 68 1,801 32 5,676 our business, which we will continue to rollout As a business we believe that an engaged Total workforce 4,361 70 1,848 30 6,209 4,131 69 1,840 31 5,971 during FY17.
Our 2015 graduate cohort have workforce is critical to our success.
also been promoting a campaign called Built We conduct an annual employee engagement by Both to encourage women into the industry survey in order to gain valuable insight into and have held a number of work experience how our people feel about working for us.
days for women studying at universities.
We are delighted that in our annual employee engagement survey we achieved our upper Human rights quartile target with an index of 77%, which is We support the United Nations Universal 5% above the UK employers norm of 72%.
Declaration of Human Rights and have policies We develop and implement action plans and processes in place to ensure that we act following each survey to strengthen our in accordance with our principles in relation business and to continue our position of being to areas such as anti-corruption, diversity, an employer of choice.
whistleblowing and the requirements of the We recognise the outstanding contributions Modern Slavery Act 2015. of our people through quarterly awards for sales staff, apprentices and site managers as well as through individual and team excellence awards.
Diversity and inclusion We are committed to providing an inclusive working environment where everyone feels valued and respected.
We aim to have a diverse workforce that reflects the communities in which we operate, delivering excellence for our customers and business bydrawing on a diverse range of talents, skillsand experience.
Jordan Brown 2015 Barratt Apprentice ofthe Year.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35
