Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other statutory disclosures Directors Report Strategic Report The Directors Report for the financial year ended 30 June 2016 comprises pages 46 to 104 The Groups Strategic Report is set out on pages 2 to 45 of this Annual Report and Accounts inclusive, together with the sections incorporated by reference.
Any matters on which the and contains certain disclosures required to be contained in the Directors' Report as follows: Directors are required to report on annually, but which do not appear in any other section details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions page 39 : our approach to diversity and details of this report are detailed below.
of diversity within the Group page 35 : our employee engagement programme page 35 : an indication of likely future developments in the Group including in the field of research and Activities of the Group development page 31 and the Groups principal risks pages 42 to 45.
In addition, details of the Companys approach to dealing with environmental issues in its The Company is the holding company of the Group.
The Groups principal activities comprise acquiring and developing land, planning, designing and constructing residential property operations and the impact of and management of risks associated with environmental, social and governance matters are contained in the Strategic Report on pages 42 to 45 and in the developments and selling the homes it builds throughout Britain.
These core activities are supported by the Groups commercial development, urban regeneration, procurement, Sustainability Report available at www.
They can also be found in the sustainability section of the Companys website at www.
design and strategic land capabilities.
The Groups financial assets, financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments are detailed Results and dividends in sections 3 and 5 within the notes to the Financial Statements.
Details of the Groups liquidity, market price, credit and cash flow risks are set out in note 5.5 to the Financial Statements.
The profit from continuing activities for the year ended 30 June 2016 was 550.3m 2015: 449.4m.
Annual General Meeting An interim dividend of 6.0 pence per share was paid on 20 May 2016 to those shareholders on The 2016 AGM will be held at The Royal College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews Place, Regents the register as at close of business on 29 April 2016 2015: 4.8 pence per share.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 12.3 pence per share 2015: 10.3 pence per share Park, London NW1 4LE on Wednesday, 16 November 2016 at 2.30 p. m. The notice convening the2016 AGM is set out in a separate letter to shareholders.
in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2016.
The Directors also recommend the payment of a special dividend of 12.4 pence per share under Directors and their interests the Companys Special Cash Payment Programme see page 9 for further details.
Details of the Directors who held office during the financial year ending 30 June 2016 and as Both the final dividend and the special dividend will, subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 atthe date of this report can be found on pages 46 and 47.
AGM, be paid on 21 November 2016 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 28 October 2016.
If approved, the total dividend including the special dividend for FY16 is 30.7 The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected persons in the ordinary share capital of pence per share 2015: 25.1 pence per share.
the Company together with the interests of the Executive Directors in share options and awards of shares as at 30 June 2016 and as at the date of this report are disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 89 to 92.
At no time during or at the end of the year did any Director have a material interest in a contract of significance in relation to the business of the Group.
98 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Appointment and replacement of Directors Related party transactions In accordance with the Articles there shall be no less than two and no more than 15 Directors The Board and certain members of Senior Management are related parties within the definition appointed to the Board at any one time.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary of IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures IAS 24 and the Board are related parties resolution or by the Board.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors within the definition of Chapter 11 of the UK Listing Rules Chapter 11.
There is no difference to hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the Act and on such terms between transactions with key personnel of the Company and transactions with key personnel as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Directors are not ofthe Group.
subject to a maximum age limit.
During the year, the Company entered into the following transaction s which, for the purposes In addition to the power under the Act for shareholders to remove any Director by ordinary ofIAS 24, is considered to be a related party transaction: resolution upon the giving of special notice, under the Articles the Company may, by special resolution, remove any Director before the expiration of their term of office.
The office of Director Transaction 1 shall be vacated if: i they resign or offer to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer: As outlined in the Annual Report and Accounts for FY15, in August 2014, Mark Clare at the time, ii their resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are Group Chief Executive reserved a flat including a car parking space from Fulham Wharf LLP, a not less than three in number: iii they are or have been suffering from mental or physical ill joint venture partnership between BDW Trading Limited the Companys main trading subsidiary health: iv they are absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six and London and Quadrant Housing Trust L&Q, at a purchase price of 1,692,350.
This purchase consecutive months and the Board resolves that their office is vacated: v they become bankrupt was conducted at a fair and reasonable market price based on four independent market or compound with their creditors generally: vi they are prohibited by law from being a Director: valuations and similar comparable transactions at that time.
An amount of 2,500 was paid on vii they cease to be a Director by virtue of the Act: or viii they are removed from office pursuant reservation and a deposit of 166,735 was paid on 13 October 2014.
The remaining balance was to the Articles.
paid on completion on 17 June 2016 in accordance with the Groups normal terms of trading.
Details relating to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors at each AGM can be found Fulham Wharf LLP is not controlled by and is not a subsidiary undertaking of the Company.
in the Nomination Committee report on pages 64 and 65.
Transaction 2 Powers of the Directors In June 2016, David Thomas notified the Board that he and one of his connected persons intended to buy one property each at the BDW Trading Limited site at Cane Hill, Coulsdon, Surrey the Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Transactions.
Company is ultimately managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or otherwise.
In particular, Property 1 the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or David Thomas intends to purchase a Barratt showhome on a sale and licence back basis.
charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures Sale and licence back transactions are carried out on showhomes in the ordinary course of and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any business and are normally for a period of two years.
The purchase price of the property is third party.
579,995 which includes an upgraded kitchen, flooring, lighting, built-in wardrobe and soft furnishings.
The sale and licence back is for a minimum of two years with an annual rental of 6%.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions David Thomas will also be purchasing all of the furniture and fittings displayed in the showhome for an agreed price of 4,000.
The anticipated completion date is end of November 2016.
At the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, there are qualifying third party indemnity provisions governed by the Act in place under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Property 2 Directors, former Directors and the Company Secretary, together with those who have held or David Thomas connected person is proposing to purchase, in the ordinary course of business, hold these positions as officers of other Group companies or of associate or affiliated companies a David Wilson home from BDW Trading Limited at a purchase price of 545,000 together with a and members of the Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law and the Articles, number of customer extras with a value not exceeding 18,000.
The anticipated completion date against all liability arising in respect of any act or omission in the course of performing their is the end of January 2017. duties.
In addition, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance for each Both of the Transactions are being conducted at a fair and reasonable market price based on an Director of the Group and its associated companies.
independent market valuation and similar comparable transactions at the time.
Neither of the No Director of the Company or of any associated company shall be accountable to the Company properties have been exchanged.
A 10% deposit will be payable on exchange, with the remaining or the members for any benefit provided pursuant to the Articles and receipt of any such benefit balance being payable on legal completion in November 2016 and January 2017 respectively, shall not disqualify any person from being or becoming a Director of the Company.
inaccordance with the Groups normal terms of trading.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other statutory disclosures continued On notification by David Thomas of the Transactions, the Board sought advice from its legal Rights and obligations attaching to shares advisers and Corporate brokers sponsors in respect of the application of Chapter 11 and section Subject to any rights attached to existing shares, shares may be issued with such rights and 190 of the Act Substantial Property Transaction Section 190 to the Transactions.
The advice restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution received concluded that the Transactions, both individually and combined, were exempt from the or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
provisions of Chapter 11, due to being classified as a Small Transaction.
However, the Transactions are above the threshold prescribed by Section 190.
As David Thomas is a Director of the Company, Subject to the Act, the Articles specify that rights attached to any existing class of shares may be varied either with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal which is not a wholly owned subsidiary, shareholder approval is required before the Transactions can be completed.
Accordingly, in June 2016, the Board approved the Transactions subject to value of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the shareholder approval being obtained.
The relevant resolution will be included in the Notice of AGM for consideration and, if deemed fit, approval by shareholders in November 2016.
David Thomas will holders of those shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by enter into the contracts subject to such approval being obtained.
the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
No other related party transactions that require disclosure, have been entered into during the year under review.
Voting Disclosure of information to auditor Subject to any special terms as to voting upon any shares which may be issued or may at the relevant time be held, every member present in person or by proxy at a general meeting or So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, classmeeting has one vote upon a show of hands or, upon a poll vote, one vote for every share information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing its report of which ofwhich such member is a holder.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior the Companys auditor is not aware.
who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of votes Each Director has taken all reasonable steps that they ought to have taken in accordance with ofthe other joint holders and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names their duty as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
ensure that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and In accordance with the Act, each member is entitled to appoint one or more proxies, and in the should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of the Act.
case of corporations, more than one corporate representative to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
The timescales Political donations and expenditure for appointing proxies are set out in the Notice of the 2016 AGM.
No political donations or expenditure were made or incurred during the year 2015: nil.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or other sum then payable by them in respect of that share Offices remains unpaid or if they have been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles The Group had 29 offices excluding those offices undertaking an administrative function only after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares located throughout Britain at the end of the financial year.
The Group also has a representative required to be provided under the Act.
office in Beijing and Shanghai, China.
A full list of the Groups offices and their locations can be obtained from the Company Secretary at the Company's registered office or from its website Transfer of shares www.
Shares in the Company may be in uncertificated or certificated form.
Title to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system and certificated shares may be Capital structure transferred by an instrument of transfer as approved by the Board.
The transferor of a share The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10 pence isdeemed to remain the holder until the transferees name is entered into the Companys register of members.
All issued shares are in registered form and are fully paid.
Details of the Companys issued share capital and of the movements in the share capital during the year can be found in note 5.6 There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares except as follows.
The Board may, in its to the Financial Statements on page 145.
Subject to the Articles, the Act and other shareholders absolute discretion and without giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share rights, shares are at the disposal of the Board.
At each AGM the Board seeks authorisation which is not a fully paid share.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be from its shareholders to allot shares.
At the AGM held on 11 November 2015, the Directors were refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the given authority to allot shares up to a nominal value of 33,199,348 representing one-third of the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to nominal value of the Companys issued share capital as at 30 September 2015, such authority to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
remain valid until the end of the 2016 AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 10 February 2017.
A resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
100 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of Shareholder arrangements to waive dividends transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to The Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust the EBT holds ordinary shares in the be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other Company for the purpose of satisfying options and awards that have been granted under the evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only various employee share schemes operated by the Company.
Details of the shares so held one class of share: iii if joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees: or aresetout in note 5.6 to the Financial Statements.
iv where the transfer is requested by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles The EBT has agreed to waive all or any future right to dividend payments on shares held within if such a person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act, the EBT and these shares do not count in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares used to calculate EPS until such time as they are vested to the relevant employee.
unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in the Articles.
The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares held in the EBT in any way There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not they think fit and in doing so may take into account both financial and non-financial interests aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the ofthe beneficiaries of the EBT or their dependants.
Employee share schemes Shareholder authority for purchase of own shares Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 6.3 to the Financial Statements.
Details At the Companys AGM held on 11 November 2015, shareholders gave authority to the Company of long term incentive schemes for the Directors are shown in the Remuneration report to buy back up to an aggregate of 99,598,040 ordinary shares representing 10% of the Companys on pages 76 to 97. issued share capital.
This authority is valid until the end of the 2016 AGM or, if earlier, until the Employment policy and involvement close of business on 10 February 2017.
Under the authority there is a minimum and maximum price to be paid for such shares.
Any shares which are bought back may be held as treasury i Employment and diversity shares or, if not so held, will be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the Companys issued share capital.
The Group is committed to seeking to develop the talents of its employees so that they can maximise their career potential and providing rewarding careers in an atmosphere that No purchases had been made under this authority as at the date of this Annual Report and engenders equal opportunities for all.
Selection for employment and promotion is based on Accounts.
A resolution renewing the authority will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
merit, following an objective assessment of ability and experience of candidates, after giving full and fair consideration to all applications including individuals with disabilities.
The Group is Dividends and distributions also committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from discrimination.
The Group strives Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to to ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities in respect of issues such time declare dividends for payment to the holders of the ordinary shares of 10 pence each, as training, career development and promotion for all existing or potential staff irrespective of ofan amount which does not exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical disability, marital status, sexual orientation pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividends, whenever the financial position of the or age.
Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become disabled whilst Company justify their payment in the opinion of the Board.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is working within the Group.
Further details on Group's diversity initiatives are available in the not liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the Sustainability Report which is available from www.
co. uk sustainability payment of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
The Board may withhold payment of all our-reports.
or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from aperson with a 0.25% interest if such person has been served with a restriction notice after ii Employee engagement failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required The Board recognises that appropriate employee engagement is a key factor in the long term tobe provided under the Act.
It utilises a comprehensive employee engagement programme with the aim of creating a strong, shared culture.
All employees are invited to take part in an online engagement survey each year.
The results of this survey are fed back to each operating division who use the results to formulate plans for maintaining or improving engagement in the following year.
We continue to report high levels of engagement, with scores remaining within the top quartile of IBMs database this year at 77%.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other statutory disclosures continued iii Employee communications Articles of Association A key part of effective employee engagement is communication.
The Company seeks to ensure The Companys Articles of Association the Articles contain regulations which deal with matters that all significant events, economic factors and financial updates and the impact of these on such as the appointment and removal of Directors, Directors interests and proceedings at the performance of the Group are communicated to employees.
This is mainly channelled general and Board meetings.
Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with through the Groups intranet and the use of email alerts, core briefings and regular newsletters.
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of a special resolution at a general meeting.
Additionally, the Chief Executive regularly briefs senior and middle management via conference Approach to tax and tax governance calls and bulletins which gives them the opportunity to ask questions and enter into dialogue.
Individually and collectively, the Board and the Executive Committee members visit operating For all taxes, it is the Groups aim to ensure it accurately calculates and pays the tax that is due divisions and sites frequently in order to assess operational performance, engage with at the correct time.
Whilst the Group does seek to minimise its tax liabilities through the use employees on a one-to-one basis and gain first-hand experience of employees aspirations of legitimate routine tax planning, it does not participate in aggressive tax planning schemes.
The Group also seeks to be transparent in its dealings with HM Revenue & Customs and has regular dialogue with its representatives to discuss both developments in the business and the iv Future talent ongoing tax position.
The Group runs a number of programmes for new entrants through our Future Talent strategy.
The Chief Financial Officer retains overall responsibility for oversight of the tax affairs of the The Group currently has 73 graduates across our two-year and one-year schemes, 46 of which Group.
David Thomas, in his capacity of Chief Executive and Interim Finance Director, was the commenced their training in September 2015.
In addition, 74 delegates are currently on our named Senior Accounting Officer until 31 December 2015 at which time, Neil Cooper assumed bespoke Foundation Degree in Residential Development and Construction in partnership the responsibility.
The Senior Accounting Officer receives regular updates on the tax position.
We are currently training 451 Trade, Technical, Commercial In addition, taxation is discussed by the Audit Committee at least annually.
and other apprentices trainees and 13 undergraduate students on a paid 12-month industrial placement programme.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise v Employee training and development termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: The Group has a suite of leadership and management development programmes aimed at all The revolving credit facility agreement dated 14 May 2013 as amended on 17 December levels within the organisation.
The programmes are designed and delivered internally and are 2014 and 30 June 2016 made between, amongst others, the Company, Lloyds Bank Plc as tailored to the needs of the business.
the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders the The Group also offers the Barratt Academy, a staged programme to enable employee Revolving Credit Facility Agreement contains a prepayment provision at the election of development from apprentice to site manager as well as within the areas of customer service each lender on change of control.
The Company must notify the facility agent promptly upon new in FY16, our technical and commercial academies have been enhanced and we are making becoming aware of the change of control.
After the occurrence of a change of control, the a significant investment into our IT training provision.
Succession planning is in place across the facility agent shall if a lender so requests within 20 days of being notified of the change of Group and the leadership programmes assist with the development of individuals as part of this control by notice to the Company, on the date falling 30 days after the change of control, process.
In addition, we have continued to provide development centres for those employees with cancel the commitment of such lender under the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement and high potential.
declare all amounts outstanding in respect of such lender under the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement immediately due and payable.
The Revolving Credit Facility Agreement also vi Employee Sharesave Scheme contains a provision such that, following a change of control, a lender is not obliged to fund any further drawdown of the facility other than rollover loans.
For these purposes, a change In April 2016, the Company invited all eligible employees of the Group to participate in the of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert as defined in the City seventh grant under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme the 2016 Sharesave which was Code on Takeovers and Mergers gains control as defined in the Corporation Tax Act 2010 approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting held in November 2008. ofthe Company.
The invitations for the 2016 Sharesave allowed eligible employees to contribute a maximum of 500 per month in one or a combination of Sharesave schemes.
This enabled those individuals who had participated in previous grants under the Sharesave the opportunity to increase their savings and gave other employees new and existing the chance to participate and further align their interests with the performance of the Group.
At 30 June 2016, approximately 60% ofemployees participate in one or more of the active Sharesave schemes.
102 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Each of the note purchase agreements entered into in respect of the Groups privately placed Going concern notes being the US$80m of notes issued pursuant to the following note purchase agreements: In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the Financial Statements, the Directors i a note purchase agreement in respect of the issue of US$15m notes dated 10 May 2011 are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the as amended and restated on 14 May 2013 and as amended on 17 December 2014 : and foreseeable future.
Accordingly, after making enquiries and having considered forecasts and ii a note purchase agreement in respect of the issue of US$65m notes also dated 10 May 2011 appropriate sensitivities, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving as amended and restated on 14 May 2013 and as amended on 17 December 2014 contains a the Financial Statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate change of control prepayment provision.
Each such control provision provides that promptly resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being at least after the Company becomes aware that a change of control has occurred, the Company shall 12 months from the date of these Financial Statements more information on the Going Concern notify all the holders of the notes of the same and give the noteholders the option to require judgement can be found on page 115.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern the Company to prepay at par all outstanding amounts principal and interest under the notes.
basis in the preparation of these Financial Statements.
If a noteholder accepts such offer of prepayment, such prepayment shall take place on a business day that is not more than 90 days after the Company notified the noteholders of the change of control.
For these purposes a change of control means the acquisition by a person On behalf of the Board or a group of persons acting in concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers such that they gain beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the issued share capital of the Company carrying voting rights.
The 100m term facility agreement between, amongst others, the Company and Prudential M&G UK Companies Financing Fund LP dated 10 May 2011 as amended and restated on Tina Bains 14 May 2013 and as amended on 17 December 2014 also contains a prepayment provision on Company Secretary a change of control at the election of each lender: such prepayment provision is the same as that described for the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement save for the fact that the term loan 6 September 2016 is fully drawn and so the restrictions on drawing described for the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement do not apply.
Each of the debt facility agreements based on a proforma agreement agreed in October 2012 between the Company as guarantor, BDW as borrower and developer and the Homes and Communities Agency HCA as lender, whereby the HCA has made up to 33m in aggregate of project financing available to fund up to 20 development sites, contains a provision requiring BDW to obtain the consent of the HCA on a change in control of the Company, BDW or any of their holding companies if relevant.
The HCA is entitled to withhold its consent to such a change in control if the new controller does not have sufficient reputation, financial standing or organisational standing and capacity.
A failure to: i obtain the HCAs consent to a change in control: and ii provide the HCA with notice of the change in control within a specified time period, is an event of default under each of these agreements.
On such an event of default the HCA may, by notice in writing to BDW, terminate each debt facility agreement and require BDW to prepay the project financing.
For these purposes a change in control means the acquisition by a person or a group of persons acting together such that they gain beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the issued share capital or voting rights of the relevant company, have the right to appoint the majority of the Directors of the relevant company or otherwise control the votes at Board meetings of the relevant company.
The note purchase agreements also impose upon the holders customary restrictions on resale or transfer of the notes, such as the transfer being subject to a fide minimis amount.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103
