Attractive Evergreen Market Income Dynamics Streams Our Proven Our Conversion Competitive Model Into Advantage Quality Returns Our business model Strong Growth Opportunities Tried and tested....
Attractive market dynamics UK self storage penetration in key urban conurbations remains relatively low.
Very limited new supply coming onto the market.
Sector growth is positive, with increasing domestic demand.
Our competitive advantage UK industrys most recognised brand.
Prominent stores on arterial or main roads, with extensive frontage and high visibility.
Largest share of web traffic from mobile and desktop platforms.
Excellent customer service, customer feedback programme with store level customer satisfaction surveys.
Largest UK self storage footprint by Maximum Lettable Area MLA capacity.
Primarily freehold estate concentrated in London and South East and other large metropolitan cities.
Larger average store capacity economies of scale, higher operating margins.
Secure financing structure with strong balance sheet.
Evergreen income streams 50,000 customers from a diverse base individuals, SMEs and national accounts.
Average length of stay for existing customers of 22 months.
27% of customers in stores greater than two year length of stay.
Low bad debt expense 0.08% of revenue in the year.
Strong growth opportunities Driving revenue with a focus on occupancy growth.
Yield management as occupancy increases.
Demand increasing with improving economic activity.
Growth in national accounts and business customer base.
Increasing the platform financed from internal resources.
Growth in our Armadillo joint venture platform.
Conversion into Freehold assets for high operating margins and operational advantage quality earnings.
Low technology & obsolescence product, maintenance capex fully expensed.
Annual compound adjusted eps growth of 17% since 2004 5.
Annual compound cash flow growth of 17% since 2004 5 15 Strategic Report continued Our Strategy and Business Model continued The self storage market KPIs In the recently published 2016 Self Storage Association UK Survey, only The key performance indicators of our stores are occupancy and rental 41% of those surveyed had a reasonable or good awareness of self yield, which together drive the revenue of the business.
These are three storage, in line with findings from our own research.
Furthermore, only key measures which are focussed on by the Board, and are reported 7% of the 2,075 adults surveyed were currently using self storage or on a weekly basis.
Over the course of past five years, both occupancy were thinking of using self storage in the next year.
This indicates a and revenue have grown significantly.
Rental yield was relatively stable continued opportunity for growth and with increasing use, together between 2011 and 2012, reduced following the introduction of VAT in with the ongoing marketing efforts of everyone in the industry, we 2013, grew by 6.1% in the year to 31 March 2014, and decreased by anticipate awareness will grow.
3.5% in 2015 principally reflecting the acquisition of the Big Yellow Limited Partnership stores, a regional portfolio, at a lower average net Growth in new facilities across the industry has been largely in regional rent per sq ft.
In the current year, net rent has increased by 2.7%.
Our areas of the UK and in particular in smaller towns.
In London in 2015, key focus is on continuing to grow occupancy, with rental yield growth we believe there were six new store openings last year including our following once the stores have reached higher occupancy levels.
Enfield store, and three closures of stores for redevelopment into alternative uses.
Between 2010 and 2015 average industry openings Adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and have been approximately 11 per year, which compares to an average distributions to shareholders are our other KPIs.
We have delivered of 34 per year in the preceding four years.
compound eps growth of 14% over the past five years, and compound dividend growth of 26% over the same period.
Compound adjusted eps The Self Storage Association SSA estimates that the UK industry is growth since 2004 5 is 17%.
We have illustrated the Groups made up of approximately 1,077 self storage facilities of which 195 performance in these measures over the past five years on page 11. are purely container operations, providing 37.6 million sq ft of self storage space, equating to 0.6 sq ft per person in the UK.
This compares Operational and Marketing Review to 7.8 sq ft per person in the US, 1.8 sq ft per person in Australia and 0.1 sq ft for mainland Europe, where the roll-out of self storage is a Overview more recent phenomenon source: Fedessa European Self Storage We now have a portfolio of 73 open and trading Big Yellow stores, with Annual Survey 2015.
357 self storage facilities in the UK are held a further five development sites and two extension opportunities.
by large operators defined as those managing 10 facilities or more, The current maximum lettable area of this platform is 4.6 million sq ft. which represents 40% of the total number of self storage centres, but When fully built out the portfolio will provide approximately 5.0 million we would estimate approximately 50% to 60% of total capacity.
sq ft of flexible storage space.
Big Yellow is well placed to benefit from the growing self storage In addition we operate from 16 Armadillo stores which are principally market, given the strength of our brand, and online platform which located in northern towns and cities, and operate from a platform of delivers approximately 86% of our prospect enquiries.
Our portfolio is 0.7 million sq ft. strategically focussed on London, the South East and large Access to capital and bank facilities has improved in the last couple metropolitan cities, where barriers to entry and economic activity are of years, however this is mainly for larger well-capitalised groups, at their highest.
rather than necessarily the smaller, independent operators.
Growth in new openings over the last five years has averaged just over 1% of total capacity per annum, down significantly from the previous decade.
Additionally, in our core markets in London and the South East, very high land values driven by competing uses such as residential, is making the creation of new supply very difficult for all operators.
We believe that we are in a relatively strong position given the strength of our balance sheet and our proven property development expertise, together with our ability to access funding to exploit the right opportunity.
16 For unprompted brand awareness, our recall across the UK as a whole is more than six times that of our nearest competitor.
Operations Demand The Big Yellow store model is well established.
The typical store has Of the customers moving into our stores in the last year, surveys 60,000 sq ft of net lettable storage area and takes some three to five undertaken indicate approximately 46% are house move related, either years to achieve 80% plus occupancy.
Some stores have taken longer customers renting storage space whilst moving within the rental sector than this given they opened just before or during the downturn.
or the owner occupied sector.
During the year 11% of our customers The average room size occupied in the portfolio is currently 67 sq ft, who moved in took storage space as a spare room for decluttering and in line with last year.
approximately 32% of our customers used the product because some event has occurred in their lives generating the need for storage: they The store is open seven days a week and is initially run by three staff, may be moving abroad for a job, have inherited possessions, are with a part time member of staff added once the store occupancy getting married or divorced, are students who need storage during the justifies the need for the extra administrative and sales workload.
holidays, or homeowners developing into their lofts or basements.
The drive to improve store operating standards and consistency across The balance of 11% of our customer demand during the year came the portfolio remains a key focus for the Group.
service is at the heart of our business objectives, as a satisfied Our business customers range across a number of industry types, customer is our best marketing tool.
We measure customer service such as retailers, e-tailers, professional service companies, hospitality standards through a programme of mystery shopping and online companies and importers exporters.
These businesses store stock, customer reviews, all externally managed.
Over the year, we have documents, equipment, or promotional materials all requiring a achieved an average net promoter score of over 70%, and average convenient flexible solution to their storage, either to get started or to customer satisfaction scores of 9.3 out of 10. free up more expensive space.
We have a team of nine Area Managers in place who have on average We have seen solid demand from business customers, as they seek a worked for Big Yellow for twelve years.
They develop and support the cost effective, flexible, convenient solution to their storage stores to drive the growth of the business.
requirements, preferring self storage to the commitment of a longer The store bonus structure rewards occupancy growth, sales growth lease, and given the difficulty of renting alternative mini-warehousing and cost control through quarterly targets based on occupancy and space in urban areas, particularly London.
store profitability, including the contribution from ancillary sales of Business customers typically stay longer than domestic customers, insurance and packing materials.
Information on bonus build up is and also on average occupy larger rooms.
Whilst only representing 11% circulated monthly and stores are consulted in preparing their own of new customers during the year, businesses represent 19% of our targets and budgets each quarter, leading to improved visibility, a overall customer numbers, occupying 35% of the space in our stores better understanding of sales lines and control of operating costs.
at 31 March 2016, domestic customers occupy 65%.
The average room We believe that as a consumer-facing branded business it is paramount size occupied by business customers is 121 sq ft, compared to 54 sq ft to maintain the quality of our estate and customer offering.
This compares with the 2016 SSA UK Annual therefore continue to invest in preventative maintenance, store Survey result for the industry as a whole which had 59% of space cleaning and the repair and replacement of essential equipment, such occupied by domestic customers and 41% of space by businesses.
The ongoing annual expenditure is approximately would expect to have a higher proportion of domestic customers given 30,000 per store, which is included within cost of sales.
This excludes our focus on London and other large metropolitan cities.
our rolling programme of store makeovers, which typically take place We have a dedicated national accounts team for business customers every five years, at a cost of approximately 20,000 per store.
who wish to occupy space in multiple stores.
These accounts are billed and managed centrally.
We have four full time members of staff working on growing and managing our national account customers.
The national accounts team can arrange storage at short notice at any location for our customers.
In smaller towns where we do not have representation, we have negotiated sub-contract arrangements with other operators who meet certain operating standards.
17 Strategic Report continued Our Strategy and Business Model continued Marketing and eCommerce Online customer reviews Our marketing strategy continues to focus on driving customer Consistent with our strategy of putting the customer at the heart satisfaction and response through our multiple digital platforms.
of our business, our online customer reviews generate real-time feedback from customers as well as providing positive word of mouth For the last ten years, we have commissioned a YouGov survey to help referral to our web visitors.
Through our Big Impressions customer us monitor our brand awareness.
In our most recent survey, conducted feedback programme, we ask our new customers to rate our product in April 2016, we used a statistically robust sample size of 1,044 and service and with the users permission, we then publish these respondents in London and 2,084 for the rest of the UK.
The survey independent reviews on the website.
There are currently over 13,200 has shown our prompted awareness to be at 74% in London, two and reviews published.
half times higher than our nearest competitor and 38% for the rest of the UK, over three times higher than our nearest competitor.
The Big Impressions programme also generates customer feedback on their experience when they move out of a Big Yellow store and also For unprompted brand awareness, our recall in London is 49%, more from those prospects who decided not to store with us.
In addition, this than five times higher than our nearest competitor and for the rest of programme reinforces best practice of customer service at our stores the UK it is 20%, more than six times higher than our nearest where customer reviews and mystery shop results are transparently competitor: across the UK as a whole it is more than six times our accessible at all levels.
These surveys continue to prove we are the UKs brand leader in self storage source: YouGov, April 2016.
The UK Self In addition, we also gain real-time insight from customers who submit Storage Association has also conducted a brand awareness survey reviews to TrustPilot, the well-known third party customer review site.
These reviews are currently averaging 9.3 out of 10.
We also regularly monitor Google reviews and mentions of Big Yellow Online within the social mediums of Twitter, online forums and blogs.
We use The Big Yellow website, whether accessed by desktop, tablet or this insight to continually improve our service offering.
smartphone, delivers the largest share of prospects, accounting for 86% of all sales leads across the year ended 31 March 2016.
Telephone Driving online traffic is the first point of contact for 9% of prospects and walk-in enquiries, Search engines are the most important acquisition tool for us, where we have had no previous contact with a prospect, represent 5%.
accounting for the majority of traffic to our website.
We continue to We have the largest online market share of web visits to self storage invest in search engine optimisation SEO techniques both on and company websites in the UK.
Across the year ended 31 March 2016, off the site.
This helps us to maintain our high positions for the most our online market share of web visits ranged from 34% to 40%.
Our popular and most searched for terms such as storage and self nearest competitor ranged from 14% to 19% online market share for storage in the organic listings on Google.
the same period source: Connexity Hitwise 36 largest UK operators.
The sponsored search listings remain the largest source of paid for We continually monitor and improve the website user journey to make traffic and we ensure our prominence in these listings is balanced with the experience as informative, customer focussed and intuitive as effective landing pages to maximise site conversion.
Our mobile strategy is central to this.
By the end of March This year, we have also continued with online display advertising on 2016, smartphones and tablets accounted for 50% of all web visits.
websites which are targeted to our core audience groups.
This activity Specifically, smartphones alone accounted for 35% of web visits in performs both a direct response and branding role.
The rate of growth in the use Efficiencies in online spend are continuing into the year ending of mobiles and tablets is slowing, which may be an indication of a 31 March 2017, ensuring the return on investment is maximised from maturing market for these devices, and many of our customers all of our different online traffic sources.
Online marketing budgets will continue to access our digital platforms through desktop computers continue to remain fluid and be directed towards the media with the and laptops.
Whether it is through desktop, tablet or mobile, our customers enjoy a seamless experience whichever digital route they choose.
Our latest mobile optimised website was launched in May 2015 with enhanced usability and features.
We are continually developing helpful and time saving online tools such as check-in online, online FAQs, video store tours and online chat.
These all help the customer to make an informed choice about their self storage requirements.
18 We have the largest online market share of web visits to self storage company websites in the UK.
Social media Social media continues to be complementary to our existing marketing channels.
Our activity is most focussed on Twitter, not only monitoring and answering queries regarding self storage, but also posting our own creative tweets, tips and advice.
The Big Yellow YouTube channel is used to showcase our stores to web prospects through a video store tour.
We use both domestic and business versions to help prospects experience the quality of the product without the need for them to visit the store in person.
Our online blog is updated regularly with tips and advice for homeowners and businesses as well as summaries of our charitable and CSR initiatives.
PR We have used PR stories in the year to help raise the awareness of Big Yellow and the benefits of self storage to different audience groups.
These have focussed on the flexible benefits of using self storage at different key life events such as having a baby and dealing with divorce and separation.
These stories help to promote the wider uses of Big Yellow Self Storage and have generated both national and regional media coverage online and offline.
They are also supported by radio interviews which allow us to talk about the benefits of Big Yellow.
Budget During the year the Group spent approximately 4.0 million on marketing 4% of total store revenue.
We have increased the budget for the year ahead to 4.2 million with a focus on delivering more prospects to our stores from our digital channels.
Cyber security The Group receives specialist advice and consultancy in respect of cyber security and we have dedicated in-house monitoring and regular reviews of our security systems.
We also limit the retention of customer data to the minimum requirement.
During the year we have continued to invest in digital security, implementing new intrusion detection systems as well as the replacement of existing systems such as firewalls.
Policies and procedures are under regular review and benchmarked against industry best practice by our consultants.
These policies also include defend, detect and response policies.
