Strategic Report continued Financial Review continued Armadillo Self Storage The Armadillo Partnerships made a combined operating profit of The Group has a 20% investment in Armadillo Storage Holding Company 4.3 million in the year, of which Big Yellows share is 0.9 million.
Limited and a 20% investment in Armadillo Storage Holding Company After net interest costs, the revaluation of investment properties 2 Limited.
In the consolidated accounts of Big Yellow Group PLC, our valued by Jones Lang Lasalle, deferred tax on the revaluation surplus investments in the vehicles are treated as associates using the equity and interest rate derivatives, the profit for the year was 5.6 million, accounting method.
of which the Groups share was 1.1 million.
The combined occupancy of the portfolios is 477,000 sq ft, against a total Big Yellow has a five year management contract in place in each capacity of 673,000 sq ft, with growth of 14,000 sq ft over the year.
For the year to 31 March 2016, the Group earned The stores occupancy at 31 March 2016 was 70.9% 31 March 2015: management fees of 0.7 million.
The Groups share of the declared 68.8%.
The net rent achieved at 31 March 2016 by the Armadillo stores dividend for the year is 0.4 million, representing a 10% yield on our is 15.59 per sq ft, an increase of 3% from the same time last year.
Revenue increased by 5% to 9.0 million for the year to 31 March 2016 2015: 8.6 million.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The section below details the principal risks and uncertainties that are considered to have the most material impact on the Groups strategy and objectives.
These key risks are monitored on an ongoing basis by the Executive Directors, and considered fully by the Board in its annual risk review.
Risk and impact Mitigation The UK economy is projected to grow at approximately 2% in 2016, and is now ahead of the level Self storage market risk of output last achieved in 2007 before the global financial crisis.
Self storage has proved There is a risk to the business that the relatively resilient through the crisis, with our revenue and earnings increasing over the last six self storage market does not grow in line years.
As the economy has recovered in the past few years, the market risk has fallen in line with with our projections, and that economic increasing occupancy.
growth in the UK is below expectations, Self storage is a relatively immature market in the UK compared to other self storage markets which could result in falling demand and such as the United States and Australia, and we believe has further opportunity for growth.
Awareness of self storage and how it can be used by domestic and business customers is relatively low throughout the UK, although higher in London.
The rate of growth of branded self storage on main roads in good locations has historically been limited by the difficulty of acquiring sites at affordable prices and obtaining planning consent.
The lack of availability of credit within the economy has further reduced this rate of growth since the start of the downturn, and new store openings within the sector have slowed to an average of 11 stores per year over the past six years, down from a peak of 34 per year in 2005-2009.
Our performance during the downturn was relatively resilient, although not immune.
We believe that the resilience of our performance is due to a combination of factors including: a prime portfolio of freehold self storage properties: a focus on London and the South East and other large metropolitan cities, which have proved more resilient during the downturn and where the drivers in the self storage market are at their strongest and the barriers to competition are at their highest: the strength of operational and sales management: continuing innovation to deliver the highest levels of customer service: the UKs leading self storage brand, with high public awareness and online strength: and strong cash flow generation and high operating margins, from a secure capital structure.
We have a large current storage customer base of approximately 50,000 spread across the portfolio of stores and many thousands more who have used Big Yellow over the years.
In any month, customers move in and out at the margin resulting in changes in occupancy.
This is a seasonal business and typically we see growth over the spring and the summer months, with the seasonally weaker periods being the winter months.
The Groups like-for-like occupancy has increased by 3.5 percentage points in the year from 73.2% to 76.7%.
