Remuneration Report Year ended 31 March 2016 INTRODUCTION This report is on the activities of the Remuneration Committee for the period from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016.
It sets out a summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy which was approved by shareholders in July 2015 and remuneration details for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
It has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-size Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The report is divided into three main areas: the annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: the summary of the approved Policy: and the annual report on Directors remuneration.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to the shareholders on certain parts of the Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
The parts of the annual report on Directors remuneration that are subject to audit are indicated in the report.
The annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and the summary of the approved Remuneration Policy are not subject to audit.
ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder, I am very pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Business conditions and Group performance in the year ended 31 March 2016 The business conditions and performance of the Group in the year ended 31 March 2016 are described more fully in the Chairman's Statement and the Operating and Financial Review of this Annual Report.
In summary: the business of the Group performed strongly: in an improving economic environment, Big Yellow remained the clear UK brand leader in self storage and delivered occupancy, cash flow and earnings growth for the seventh year in a row: revenue, cash flow and adjusted profit before tax increased by 20%, 31% and 24% respectively: like-for-like occupancy was increased by 3.5 ppts: the capital structure has been further strengthened with interest cover of 6.2 times: the Group acquired land for development in key strategic locations in London: and dividends are being increased by 15%.
Policy on executive remuneration The policy of the Company is to ensure that the executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of high calibre and reward the Executive Directors for protecting and enhancing value for shareholders.
I am pleased that shareholders overwhelmingly approved the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy put forward at the July 2015 AGM which aimed to achieve these objectives.
The remuneration decisions made by the Committee in the last year were informed by these principles and conformed with the Policy.
The Policy aims to provide: remuneration to the Directors which is fair to the Directors both generally and in the context of the remuneration of other staff of the Company and the returns to shareholders: and a balance of short and long term incentives which provide a strong link between reward and individual and Group performance to align the interests of the Executive Directors with the interests of shareholders.
The Committee believes that the success of the remuneration policy is reflected in the length of service, stability and strong performance of the Executive Director team.
Two of the Executive Directors were founders of the Company while the other two have been Executive Directors for 17 years and nine years respectively.
The Executive Directors have significant interests in the shares of the Company, each in excess of two times base salary which is the Companys shareholding guideline for Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are interested in shares comprising approximately 9% of the share capital of the Company including unvested share incentives held.
The Committee will continue to carry out periodic reviews of the Policy to ensure its relevance in light of changes to the business and wider market and will seek shareholder approval for any amendments.
Having said that, the Committee does not intend to make any revisions at the 2016 AGM, to the Policy approved in 2015.
A summary of the approved Policy is provided in the Directors Remuneration Policy section of the Directors Remuneration Report and the full Policy is available online http: corporate.
co. uk investors governance remuneration-policy.
aspx 66 Remuneration changes during the year All of the changes in remuneration in the year ended 31 March 2016 were within the Policy.
Within the aggregate figure for Executive Director remuneration, the changes during the year were: Base salary: increased by 30,000 3% of which the main change was an increase in the salary of one Director to reflect his progress in the role, the other increases were 2%, in line with increases provided to staff Taxable benefits: increased by 1,000 5% Annual bonus: was 12% of salary for the year being in line with the average for all staff of the Company, and compared to 12.5% for the prior year and reduced by 1,000 1%.
Pension contributions: increased to 15% of base salary.
This change, coupled with the increase in base salaries, led to an overall increase in pension contributions of 52,000 55%.
Sharesave Scheme: one Directors Sharesave scheme vested in the year producing a gain of 14,000 2015: two Directors Sharesave Schemes vested producing a gain of 31,000 in total Long term incentives: the 2012 award of shares granted under the LTIP vested as to 100% representing a total gain of 1,959,000.
As in the previous year, each of the Executive Directors was granted an award equal to 100% of base salary subject to performance conditions.
The value of these awards was 985,000 an increase of 30,000 3% : and awards were made under the 2015 Long Term Bonus Performance Plan LTBPP in the year of 4.43 million 2015: no awards.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance targets for the year and concluded that the awards under the Plan have provisionally vested at 90% in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
There are a further two years performance on which the LTBPP is assessed before any awards vest.
In considering the relative importance of the spend on pay see page 79 : Total employee pay: increased by 15%, largely due to the acquisition of Big Yellow Limited Partnership in December 2014 and amounted to 15.1 million Profit distributed by way of dividend: increased by 31% and amounted to 36.4 million Retained profit for the year: decreased by 3% and amounted to 75.6 million More details of the remuneration of the Directors in the year ended 31 March 2016 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of the Remuneration Report.
AGM I hope that, at the Annual General meeting in July, you will support the advisory resolution on the remuneration paid to the Directors in the last financial year set out in the Annual Remuneration Report section of this Remuneration Report.
Tim Clark Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 67
