Internal audit VIABILITY STATEMENT The Group does not have a formal internal audit function because the The Directors have assessed the Groups viability over a four year Board has concluded that the internal controls systems are sufficient period to March 2020.
This is based on the Groups long term strategic for the Group at this time.
However, the Group employs a Store plan with the period selected to give greater certainty over the Compliance Manager responsible for reviewing store operational and forecasting assumptions used.
He reports to the Chief Financial Officer, and also In making their assessment, the Directors took account of the Groups meets with the Audit Committee at least once a year.
This role is current financial position, including committed capital expenditure.
The supported by an Assistant Store Compliance Manager, enabling Directors also assessed the potential financial impact of the various additional work and support to be carried out across the Groups store risks and uncertainties set out in the report above on the Groups cash portfolio.
The Store Compliance team visit each operational store twice flows, REIT compliance and financial covenants and the likely a year to carry out a detailed store audit.
These audits are effectiveness of the mitigating options detailed.
The Directors have unannounced and the Store Compliance team carry out detailed tests assumed that funding for the business in the form of equity and bank on financial management within the stores, administrative standards, and insurance debt will be available in all plausible market conditions.
Part of the store staffs bonus is based on Based on this assessment the Directors have a reasonable expectation the scores they achieve in these audits.
The results of each audit are that the Company and the Group will be able to continue in operating reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer, the Financial Controller and the and meet all their liabilities as they fall due to March 2020.
GOING CONCERN A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow statement and accompanying notes in the financial statements.
Further information concerning the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in this Report and in the notes to the financial statements.
After reviewing Group and Company cash balances, borrowing facilities, forecast valuation movements and projected cash flows, the Directors believe that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
In reaching this conclusion the Directors have had regard to the Groups operating plan and budget for the year ending 31 March 2017 and projections contained in the longer-term business plan which covers the period to March 2020.
The Directors have considered carefully the Groups trading performance and cash flows as a result of the uncertain global economic environment and the other principal risks to the Groups performance and are satisfied with the Groups positioning.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
