Governance Directors, Officers and Advisers Executive Directors Nicholas Vetch, aged 55, Executive Chairman, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
Prior to that, he was joint Chief Executive of Edge Properties plc, which he co-founded in 1989 which was subsequently listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then sold to Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Local Shopping REIT plc.
James Gibson, aged 55, Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of Big Yellow Group PLC in September 1998.
He is a Chartered Accountant by background having trained with Arthur Andersen & Co. where he specialised in the property and construction sectors, before leaving in 1989.
He was Finance Director of Heron Property Corporation Limited and then Edge Properties plc which he joined in 1994.
Edge Properties was listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then sold to Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
He is also a Non-Executive Director and shareholder of AnyJunk Limited, a Non-Executive Director and investor in Moby Self Storage, a Brazilian Self Storage start-up, and a Trustee of the London Childrens Ballet.
Adrian Lee, aged 50, Operations Director, was previously a Senior Executive at Edge Properties plc, which he joined in 1996.
Prior to that he was a corporate financier at Lazard for five years, having previously qualified as a surveyor at Knight Frank.
He was appointed to the Board in May 2000.
John Trotman, aged 38, Chief Financial Officer, is a Chartered Accountant having trained with Deloitte LLP, where he specialised in the real estate sector and self storage.
On leaving Deloitte in 2005, John worked for a subsidiary of the Kajima Corporation.
He joined Big Yellow in June 2007, and was appointed to the Board in September 2007.
He is a Director of the UK Self Storage Association.
Non-Executive Directors Tim Clark, aged 65, Non-Executive Director.
He was a partner in Slaughter and May, one of the leading international law firms in the world, for 25 years: initially working as a corporate and M&A adviser to a range of companies and institutions and then for the last seven years as senior partner before retiring in April 2008.
He is the Chair of Water Aid UK, and a Senior Adviser to G3, and to Chatham House.
He is also a member of the International Chamber of Commerce UK Governing Body, the Advisory Board of Uria Menendez, the Board of the Royal National Theatre and the Development Committee of the National Gallery.
He is Chairman of the trustees of the Economist Trust and a member of the Audit Committee of the Wellcome Trust.
He was appointed to the Board in August 2008, is the Senior Independent Director and is Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Richard Cotton, aged 60, Non-Executive Director, headed the real estate corporate finance team at JP Morgan Cazenove until April 2009, and subsequent to that was a Managing Director of Forum Partners.
Richard is currently the Chairman of Centurion Properties and a Non-Executive Director of Helical Bar plc as well as a Member of the Commercial Development Advisory Group of Transport for London.
Richard joined the Board in July 2012.
Georgina Harvey, aged 51, Non-Executive Director, started her media career at Express Newspapers plc where she was appointed Advertising Director in 1994.
She joined IPC Media Ltd in 1995 and went on to form IPC Advertising in 1998, where she was Managing Director.
She was a member of the Board of IPC Media from 2000 and was Managing Director of the Regionals division of Trinity Mirror from 2005 to 2012, overseeing its transition to a digital platform.
She is currently a Non-Executive Director of William Hill plc and of McColl's Retail Group plc.
She joined the Board in July 2013.
Steve Johnson, aged 52, Non-Executive Director, started his career at Bain in the 1980s before joining Asda in 1993, where he carried out a number of roles, culminating in Marketing Director.
He left Asda in 2000, to join GUS as a Sales & Marketing Director, departing in 2002 to take up his first CEO role at Focus DIY, where he remained until 2007.
He joined Woolworths as part of the final turnaround team in late 2008.
He has most recently been working as an operating executive for TPG, and was also the Executive Chairman of Dreams plc between July 2011 and October 2012.
He is currently Executive Chairman of Poundworld.
He joined the Board in September 2010.
Mark Richardson, aged 59, Non-Executive Director, retired from Deloitte in 2008 after a career there of 29 years, the last 19 as an audit partner specialising in clients in the Real Estate and Construction sectors.
Mark is a trustee of the Natural History Museum Development Trust, a trustee of WWF-UK, and he is also a trustee and treasurer of the childrens communication charity ICAN.
He was appointed to the Board in July 2008 and is chairman of the Audit Committee.
Company Secretary and Registered office Solicitors Shauna Beavis CMS Cameron McKenna LLP 2 The Deans Lester Aldridge LLP Bridge Road Bagshot Financial advisers and stockbrokers Surrey J P Morgan Cazenove GU19 5AT Independent Auditor Company Registration No.
03625199 Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountant and Statutory Auditors Bankers Lloyds Bank plc Valuers HSBC Bank plc Cushman & Wakefield LLP Aviva Commercial Finance Limited Jones Lang LaSalle M&G Investments Limited 56 Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited financial statements and auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The Report on Corporate Governance on pages 60 to 63 forms part of this report.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are included in note 25 to the financial statements.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company is included in the strategic report.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 18 to the financial statements.
Dividends The Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 12.8 pence per share for the year 2015: 11.3 pence per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 12.1 pence per share was paid in the year 2015: 10.4 pence per share.
A property income dividend of 18.1 pence is payable for the year, of which 12.1 pence per share was paid with the interim dividend, and 6.0 pence per share was proposed for the final dividend.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 22 July 2016, the final dividend will be paid on 28 July 2016.
The Ex-div date is 16 June 2016 and the Record date is 17 June 2016.
From April 2016 dividend tax credits will be replaced by an annual 5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend income across an individuals entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on their dividend income at a rate dependent on their income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
The Company will continue to provide registered shareholders with a confirmation of the dividends paid by Big Yellow Group PLC and this should be included with any other dividend income received when calculating and reporting total dividend income received.
It is the shareholders responsibility to include all dividend income when calculating any tax liability.
This change was announced by the Chancellor, as part of the UK government Budget, in July 2015.
Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions Companies Act 2006: Climate Change, the GHG Emissions Directors Reports Regulations 2013 From October 2013, all listed companies are required to report annual quantities of GHG emissions measured as Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CO e as follows: 2 Scope 1 significant direct emission sources, such as our flexi-office gas heating and air conditioner coolant replacement - currently fit out gas oil use emissions and one Company van diesel fuel use emissions are assessed as not material:.
Scope 2 significant indirect or offsite power station electricity supply emissions to our stores: and Scope 3 Electricity supplier transmission and distribution emissions currently, voluntary GHG emissions, from our waste and water supply chains are not assessed as material.
Summary of Scope 1 and 2 Total Carbon Footprint GHG carbon equivalent emissions tCO e 2 Including store electricity, gas, coolant, generator gas oil and van diesel Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions tCO e 6,879.5 6,283.6 6,470.0 5,681.8 4,908.0 4,456.2 2 Scope 3 Electricity Transmission Losses 544 525 501 445 417 355 Kg CO e Annual Revenue 0.11 0.10 0.09 0.08 0.06 0.04 2 2 Kg CO e Customer Occupancy m 32.0 26.0 26.5 22.6 17.3 14.6 2 2 Kg CO e GIFA m 12.6 11.0 11.1 9.8 7.7 7.2 2 Note: Our materiality threshold for carbon emissions is 1% Further information on GHG emissions and on other sustainability initiatives at Big Yellow is provided in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Capital structure Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Company's issued share capital during the year are shown in note 22.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company's shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 23, and details of shares held by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust are set out in note 22.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company's share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Report on Corporate Governance on page 60.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees' share plans.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
During the year the Company issued 732,302 shares to satisfy the exercise of share options 2015: 641,877.
57 Directors Report continued Directors The Directors of the Company who served throughout the year and to the date of approval of the financial statements were as follows: Tim Clark Senior Independent Director Richard Cotton Non-Executive Director James Gibson Chief Executive Officer Georgina Harvey Non-Executive Director Steve Johnson Non-Executive Director Adrian Lee Operations Director Mark Richardson Non-Executive Director John Trotman Chief Financial Officer Nicholas Vetch Executive Chairman Biographical details of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors standing for re-election are set out on page 56.
Directors indemnities The Company purchases liability insurance covering the Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Political contributions No political donations were made by the Company in either the current or preceding financial year.
Substantial shareholdings The Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company at 31 March 2016 and 23 May 2016.
Percentage of Percentage of voting rights voting rights No.
Purchase of own shares The Company was granted authority at the AGM in 2015 to purchase its own shares up to a total aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
That authority expires at this years AGM and a resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
During the year the Company made no purchases of its own shares.
Employee consultation The Group seeks to ensure employee commitment to its objectives in a number of ways.
Strategic changes are communicated directly to all staff who are encouraged to address queries to the Executive Directors.
The Directors executive meetings are frequently held in stores and in addition Directors and senior management visit the stores on a regular basis.
Furthermore, there are regular team briefings at store level to provide employees with information about the performance of and initiatives in their store.
A wide range of information is also communicated across the Groups Intranet, including the e-publication of the Groups financial results and all press releases, the publication of a quarterly newsletter, and the publication of a weekly operations bulletin.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the Groups performance through Employee Share Schemes and performance related bonuses.
39% of eligible employees participate in the Groups Sharesave Scheme.
The Groups recruitment policy is committed to promote equality, judging neither by race, nationality, religion, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, nor political opinion and to treat all stakeholders fairly.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
58 Human Rights Big Yellow respects Human Rights and aims to provide assurance to internal and external stakeholders that we are committed to human rights and the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We are committed to creating and maintaining a positive and professional work environment that reflects and respects the basic rights of freedom to lead a dignified life, free from fear or want, and where stakeholders are free to express their independent beliefs.
Our employment policies and practices reflect a culture where decisions are made solely on the basis of individual capability and potential in relation to the needs of the business.
Modern Slavery Act The Group is committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our business.
Our Anti-slavery Policy reflects our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in our supply chains.
Our policy is published in full on our website.
Auditor In respect of each Director of the Company, at the date when this report was approved, to the best of their knowledge and belief: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he might have reasonably been expected to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The auditor, Deloitte LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board Shauna Beavis Company Secretary 23 May 2016 59
