Strategic Report Our Strategy and Business Model Our Strategic Report discusses the following areas: Our strategy and business model Operational and marketing review Store performance Financial review Principal risks and uncertainties Going concern basis and viability statement Corporate social responsibility Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2016 and signed on its behalf by: James Gibson John Trotman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Our strategy from the outset has been to develop Big Yellow into the Our Big Yellow stores are on average 63,000 sq ft, compared to an industry market leading self storage brand, delivering excellent customer average of approximately 43,000 sq ft source: The Self Storage service, with a great culture and highly motivated employees.
The upside from filling our larger We continue to be the market leading brand, with unprompted than average sized stores is, in our view, only possible in large awareness of over six times that of our nearest competitor metropolitan markets, where self storage demand from domestic and source: YouGov survey, April 2016.
We concentrate on developing our business customers is the highest.
As the operating costs of our assets stores in main road locations with high visibility, where our distinctive are relatively fixed, larger stores in bigger urban conurbations, particularly branding generates high awareness of Big Yellow.
Our recent London, drive higher revenues and higher operating margins.
accreditation in the Best 100 Companies to work for is pleasing as an We continue to believe that the medium term opportunity to create independent assessment of our employee engagement, and our shareholder value will be principally achieved by increasing occupancy customer satisfaction survey scores remain very high, with an average and rental yield in our existing platform to drive revenue, the majority net promoter score of over 70%, and average customer satisfaction of which flows through to the bottom line.
Our key objectives remain: Self storage demand from businesses and individuals at any given leveraging our market leading brand position to generate new store is linked in part to local economic activity, consumer and prospects, principally from our digital, mobile and desktop platforms: business confidence, all of which are inter-related.
Fluctuations in focusing on training, selling skills, and customer satisfaction to housing activity whether in the rented or owner occupied sector, are maximise prospect conversion and referrals: also a factor and in our view influence the top slice of demand over and growing occupancy and net rent so as to drive revenue optimally above a core occupancy.
This has been demonstrated by the resilience at each store: of our like-for-like stores since September 2007 despite a collapse in maintaining a focus on cost control, so revenue growth is housing activity and GDP over the period 2007 to 2009.
As can be seen transmitted through to earnings growth: from the ten year summary, the performance of our stores was selectively adding to the portfolio through new site development relatively resilient during the downturn, and within that London and and existing store acquisitions: the South East proved to be less volatile.
maintaining a conservative capital structure in the business with Local GDP and hence business and housing activity are greatest in the Group interest cover of a minimum of five times: and larger urban conurbations and in particular London and the South East, producing sustainable returns for shareholders through a low from where we derive 80% of our revenue.
Furthermore, people and leverage, low volatility, high distribution REIT.
businesses are space constrained in these more densely populated In the sixteen years since flotation in May 2000, Big Yellow has areas.
Barriers to entry in terms of competition for land and difficulty delivered a Total Shareholder Return TSR, including dividends around obtaining planning are also highest in more urbanised locations.
reinvested, of 15.9% per annum, in aggregate 938% at the closing price Over the last 17 years we have built a portfolio of 73 Big Yellow self of 774.5p on 31 March 2016.
This compares to 6.9% per annum for the storage centres, largely freehold, purpose-built and focussed on FTSE Real Estate Index and 4.3% per annum for the FTSE All Share index London, the South East and large metropolitan cities.
63% of our current over the same period.
This demonstrates the power of compounding store revenue derives from within the M25: for London and the South over the longer term.
East, the proportion of current store revenue is 80%.
