Strategic Report FINANCIAL POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES We focus on having an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding which enables us to deliver our property strategy Leverage Presented opposite are the five guiding Our debt finance is raised at both fixed and Our mix of equity and debt financing is managed principles that govern the way we structure variable rates.
Derivatives primarily interest to achieve the appropriate balance between and manage our debt.
rate swaps are used to achieve the desired enhancing returns for shareholders and the interest rate profile across proportionally risk of higher leverage.
We use a loan to value Debt financing involves risk from adverse consolidated net debt.
Currently 60% on ratio debt as a percentage of the gross value changes in the property and financing average of projected net debt is fixed over the of our assets, LTV to measure our leverage, markets.
In arranging and monitoring our next five years, with a decreasing profile over primarily on a proportionally consolidated basis financing we include important risk disciplines, the period.
The use of derivatives is managed including our share of joint ventures and funds ensuring that relevant risks are fully evaluated by a Derivatives Committee.
The interest rate and excluding non-controlling interests.
management of joint ventures and funds is addressed by each entity for its business.
Managing risk in delivering our strategy see We seek to manage our leverage such that pages 57 to 63 our LTV should not exceed a maximum Counterparties threshold if market yields were to rise to We monitor the credit standing of our Monitoring and controlling our debt previous peak levels.
This means we will not counterparties to minimise our risk exposure We monitor our projected LTV and our debt increase our LTV if asset values increase only in respect of placing cash deposits and requirement using several key internally as a result of market yield improvement.
Regular reviews are made of the generated reports focused principally on Consequently our maximum LTV may be higher external credit ratings of the counterparties.
borrowing levels, debt maturity, available in the low point in the cycle and will trend facilities and interest rate exposure.
We also downwards as market yields tighten.
Foreign currency undertake sensitivity analysis to assess the Our policy is to have no material unhedged impact of proposed transactions, movements We leverage our equity and achieve benefits of net assets or liabilities denominated in in interest rates and changes in property values scale while spreading risk through joint ventures foreign currencies.
on the key balance sheet, liquidity and and funds, which are typically partly financed profitability ratios.
with debt without recourse to British Land.
When attractive terms are available, the Group may choose to borrow in freely available In assessing our ongoing debt requirements, Our current proportionally consolidated LTV currencies other than sterling, and will fully including for our development programme, of 32% includes our share of the debt in joint hedge the foreign currency exposure.
we consider potential downside scenarios such ventures and funds and is higher than the as a fall in valuations and the effect that might Group measure of 25%.
Debt finance Based on our current commitments and The scale of our business combined with available facilities, the Group has no the quality of our assets and rental income requirement to refinance for four years means that we are attractive to a broad range irrespective of whether the settlement of the of debt providers and able to arrange finance 2012 convertible bond is with equity or debt.
Good access to the capital and debt markets is a competitive advantage, British Lands current committed undrawn allowing us to take opportunities when bank facilities are 1.2 billion.
Managing interest rate exposure The Groups approach to debt financing for We manage our interest rate profile British Land is to raise funds predominantly on independently from our debt.
The Board an unsecured basis with our standard financial considers the appropriate maximum level of covenants set out on page 56.
This provides sensitivity of underlying earnings to movements the greatest flexibility and low operational cost.
in market rates of interest over a five-year Our joint ventures and funds are each financed period and the appropriate ranges of fixed in ring-fenced structures without recourse to rate debt over relevant time periods.
British Land for repayment and are secured on the relevant assets.
54 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our five guiding principles Diversify We monitor finance markets and seek to access different types of finance when the relevant market conditions are favourable our sources to meet the needs of our business and, where appropriate, those of our joint ventures and funds.
The scale and quality of our of finance business enables us to access a broad range of unsecured and secured, recourse and non-recourse debt.
We enjoy and encourage long term relationships with banks and debt investors.
We aim to avoid reliance on particular sources of funds and borrow from a large number of lenders from different sectors in the market and a range of geographical areas, with a total of 33 debt providers of bank facilities and private placements alone.
We also aim to ensure that debt providers understand our business: we adopt a transparent approach to provide sufficient disclosures so that lenders can evaluate their exposure within the overall context of the Group.
These factors increase our attractiveness to debt providers, and in the last five years we have arranged over 6 billion British Land share over 5 billion of new finance in unsecured and secured bank loan facilities, US Private Placements and convertible bonds.
6.2bn Total debt portfolio proportionally consolidated Phase maturity The maturity profile of our debt is managed with a spread of repayment dates.
We monitor the various debt markets so that we of debt portfolio have the ability to act quickly to arrange new finance as opportunities arise.
Maturities of different types of drawn debt are well spread, reducing our refinancing risk in respect of timing and market conditions.
As a result of our financing activity, we are comfortably ahead of our preferred refinancing date horizon of not less than two years.
The current range of debt maturities is one to 20 years.
In accordance with our usual practice, we expect to refinance facilities ahead of their maturities.
8.1 years Average debt maturity proportionally consolidated Maintain In addition to our drawn debt, we aim always to have a good level of undrawn, committed, unsecured revolving bank facilities liquidity in British Land.
These facilities provide financial liquidity, reduce the need to hold resources in cash and deposits, and minimise costs arising from the difference between borrowing and deposit rates while reducing credit exposure.
We arrange these revolving credit facilities in excess of our committed and expected requirements to ensure we have adequate financing availability to support business requirements and opportunities.
1.2bn Undrawn committed facilities Maintain Our facilities are structured to provide valuable flexibility for investment deal execution, whether sales or purchases, flexibility developments or asset management.
Our bank revolving credit facilities in British Land provide full flexibility of drawing and repayment and cancellation if we require at short notice without additional cost.
These are arranged with standard terms and financial covenants and generally have maturities of five years.
Flexibility is maintained with our combination of this unsecured revolving debt and secured term debt in debentures with good substitution rights, where we have the ability to move assets in and out of the security.
1.8bn Revolving credit facilities Maintain strong We actively manage our mix of equity and debt financing to achieve a balance between our ability to generate an attractive return balance sheet for shareholders with the risks of having more debt.
metrics Our capital strategy is responsive to the need to manage our exposure such that we aim not to exceed a maximum proportionally consolidated LTV threshold in an economic downturn if market yields rise to previous peak levels.
32% A- 3.0 LTV proportionally consolidated Credit rating Interest cover proportionally consolidated British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Strategic Report FINANCIAL POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES CONTINUED Group borrowings Secured borrowings The securitisations of Broadgate 1,667 million, Unsecured financing for the Group is raised Secured debt with recourse to British Land is Meadowhall 696 million and the Sainsburys through bilateral and syndicated unsecured provided by debentures at fixed interest rates Superstores portfolio 463 million, have revolving bank facilities, with initial terms of with long maturities and no amortisation.
weighted average maturities of 12.1 years, five years often extendable : US Private These are secured against a single combined 10.4 years, and 6.5 years respectively.
The only Placements with maturities up to 2027: and the pool of assets with common covenants: the financial covenant applicable is to meet interest convertible bonds maturing in 2017 and 2020. value of those assets is required to cover the and scheduled amortisation equivalent to amount of these debentures by a minimum of 1 times cover : there are no LTV covenants.
Secured debt is provided by debentures with 1.5 times and net rental income must cover the These securitisations provide for quarterly longer maturities up to 2035 at fixed rates of interest at least once.
We use our rights under principal repayments with the balance interest and a bank term loan.
the debentures to withdraw, substitute or add outstanding reducing to approximately properties or cash collateral in the security 20% to 30% of the original amount raised Unsecured borrowings pool, in order to manage these cover ratios by expected final maturity, thus mitigating The same financial covenants apply across effectively and deal with any asset sales.
each of the Groups unsecured facilities.
These covenants, which have been consistently agreed Secured debt without recourse to British Land Other debt arrangements with banks include with all unsecured lenders since 2003, are: comprises the following, each of which is LTV ratio covenants with maximum levels net Borrowings not to exceed 175% secured on a specific portfolio of properties: ranging from 40% to 65%, and most have of Adjusted Capital and Reserves: and a fixed rate debenture of 30 million for BLD rental income to interest or debt service net Unsecured Borrowings not to exceed Property Holdings Ltd to 2020: and cover requirements.
a bank loan of 295 million for TBL Properties Limited and its subsidiaries to 2019.
There is no obligation on British Land to Covenant ratio remedy any breach of these covenants and No income interest cover ratios apply to these Borrowings in our joint ventures and funds any remedy needed would be considered by facilities, and there are no other unsecured External debt for our joint ventures and the parties on a case-by-case basis.
debt financial covenants in the Group.
funds has been arranged through long dated securitisations or bank debt, according to the The Unencumbered Assets of the Group, not requirements of the business of each venture.
subject to any security, stood at 6.5 billion as at 31 March 2016.
Hercules Unit Trust has term loan facilities maturing in 2019 and 2020 arranged for Although secured assets are excluded from its business and secured on its property Unencumbered Assets for the covenant portfolios, without recourse to British Land.
calculations, unsecured lenders benefit from These loans include value and income the surplus value of these assets above the based covenants.
related debt and the free cash flow from them.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, these assets generated 63 million of surplus cash after payment of interest.
In addition, while investments in joint ventures do not form part of Unencumbered Assets, our share of profits generated by these ventures are regularly passed up to the Group.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 At 31 March % % % % % 1 Net borrowings to adjusted capital and reserves 44 31 40 38 34 2 Net unsecured borrowings to unencumbered assets 34 23 31 28 29 Highest during the year to 31 March 2016: 1 42%: and 2 33%.
56 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016
