St Strateg rategi ic c Rep Repo or rt t PLACEMAKING 26 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Placemaking is how we create attractive and engaging real estate which is in tune with modern lifestyles and are Places People Prefer.
Actively managing our assets is a core part of our business.
We put our customers first, and invest in the skills and resources which help us understand them better.
This understanding guides our investment activities, from investing and developing the right assets, to enhancing and enlivening them with a range of amenities, events and activities.
This creates preference for our properties, helping to drive occupier demand, growth in rents and capital values.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Strategic Report PLACEMAKING CONTINUED Places which connect physically and digitally with the people who use them, including local communities.
Connecting is about providing assets which complement peoples lifestyles, enabling them to integrate their work and their leisure time.
It means places which are easy to access, so we focus on assets with great transport 4.3bn infrastructure and those with convenient of our assets are within close proximity of a Crossrail station opening 2018 access points or parking facilities.
We often invest to improve connections for pedestrians and cyclists, and we build local relationships connecting with local communities to better understand their needs.
We also think about how digitally enabled we are and how we can use these capabilities to create a closer community.
Building our exposure to Crossrail When Crossrail opens in 2018, it will transform rail transport in London and the South East, increasing central London rail capacity by 10%, and bringing an estimated 1.5 million more people to within 45 minutes of central London.
Already, Crossrail is driving regeneration and economic development.
Around 4 billion ofour assets are located near Crossrail and two of our Masterplanning a London campuses, Broadgate and Paddington, destination for London will have their own Crossrail stations.
Canada We have shared our initial ideas for the Canada Water, our 46-acre scheme in South London, Water Masterplan with the local community.
is very close to Canary Wharf and, from 2018, These include a 3.5 acre park, two new public will be just minutes from the West End.
squares, cycling and pedestrian friendly spaces and dockside improvements so people can enjoy and interact with the water and wildlife.
We are also proposing a pedestrianised, open-air high street, with national and independent retailers alongside new restaurants and cafs and a new culture and entertainment hub, at the heart of the town centre.
Our plans are at an early stage and will evolve, but creating a vibrant and engaging environment will be our key focus.
28 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 560m shopper visits to Meadowhall over 25 years Reviving historic links in new developments At Aldgate Place, designed by Allies and Morrison, we are reinstating an original pedestrian street link which sits above an old Victorian service tunnel connecting Aldgate and Aldgate East stations.
This public thoroughfare will be reinvigorated with shops and cafs, bringing a new sense of community to the area.
Engaging with local communities Our fourth annual Community Day brought together 200 British Land volunteers as well as 520 local jobseekers, schoolchildren, students, elderly residents and people with learning disabilities across 20 community partnerships.
Our partners commented on the commitment of those involved, reflecting how the event helps us strengthen local relationships around our London assets.
For our volunteers it is a great team building opportunity which enables them to interact with people of different ages and backgrounds as well as learning new skills.
Celebrating local heritage Elk Mill in Oldham is one of several assets where we are using public art to celebrate local heritage and connect with local communities.
Professional sculptor Emma Hunter worked with local people to create artworks illustrating Elk Mills cotton-spinning heritage and poems inspired by local peoples stories feature on a trio of sculptures in the style of spinning cotton bobbins.
Bronze footprints are set into paving stones around the Park, recalling a time when mill workers went barefoot to avoid slipping on the oily floor.
To read more case studies go to www.
com placemaking British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 Strategic Report PLACEMAKING CONTINUED Buildings and environments which offer the highest quality of design in both form and function with engaging architecture and a fully integrated public realm.
We look beyond individual buildings to think about the spaces around them.
We focus on assets where we are able to control the broader environment and can therefore undertake broader and bolder design.
We also pioneer new building technologies and the most sustainable practices.
Making our developments distinctive Yalding House, our most recently completed office development in the West End, was home to Radio 1 until 2012.
Our refurbishment retained much of the original character of the building: the reception features an adjoining meeting and waiting room complete with turntable and extensive record collection.
We believe the distinctive nature of the building will appeal to creative and technology focused sectors, which have been a key area of growth across the capital in recent years.
Great design is core to creating Places People Prefer.
To demonstrate our commitment to innovation in design, British Land is proud to sponsor the London Design Festival.
3.1m sq ft of developments on track to achieve BREEAM Excellent for offices, retail and leisure 30 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Improving the public realm at Paddington Central We know from our recent survey of 1,000 office workers across the UK that outdoor areas and gardens are a key part of the ideal office.
Weve recently embarked on our second 2.5m phase of upgrades at Paddington Central, number of visitors to which will transform the campus for the people Broadgate Circle since its re-design in 2015 who work and live there by creating a greener, more pedestrian friendly environment.
Our plans include a Woodland Garden, an outdoor Games Room providing activities where people can socialise, a Library where people can relax and a Kitchen Garden with communal seating in the summer months.
All enhancements are being carefully phased and managed to minimise disruption to retailers, residents, building occupants and visitors.
Designing for a low carbon future At St Stephens in Hull, we have installed 1,100 photovoltaic panels generating enough clean power to fulfil a third of all electricity demand in the common areas.
The panels build on the Centres award-winning efficiency programme, which has reduced landlord energy by 40% since 2010, saving occupiers 383,100 and cutting carbon emissions by 2,470 tonnes.
Other innovations include a rainwater harvesting system which provides over one million litres of water each year and a food-to-water treatment plant which recycles 15 tonnes of food waste annually.
13m of energy savings for us and our occupiers through efficiency reductions over the past four years Delivering innovative design At Glasgow Fort we are building a multi-storey car park with four restaurants on its ground floor.
The building will be naturally ventilated with a sustainable wooden slated rear faade.
A corten steel faade with a punctured tree design will cover the front of the building, and Drawing inspiration a green living canopy will overhang the four restaurant units.
The new car park is set in from local heritage a wild forest themed buffer to the surface At Clarges Mayfair we are creating a new car park, incorporating natural play elements and elegant landmark.
It is entirely rooted for young children.
in the history of the surrounding area, taking inspiration from local heritage and craftsmanship.
This is reflected in the fluted design of the columns, which are made from Portland stone, the delicate aluminium bronze balustrades that are inspired by the branches of the plane trees lining Green Park and the bread lace collars that were fashionable in To read more case studies go to 16th century Mayfair.
com placemaking British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 Strategic Report PLACEMAKING CONTINUED Quality occupiers alongside a broad food, beverage and leisure offering, reflecting the growing expectations of our occupiers and customers.
We enhance our assets by improving the breadth, depth and mix of occupiers and the physical space at our properties.
Relatively simple improvements such as cafs and attractive places to rest or have lunch outside the office or while youre shopping can make a big difference to the places people work or shop.
Incorporating open spaces At Aldgate Place, over 50% of the footprint is dedicated to new public realm spaces including two landscaped gardens, pedestrian streets, well thought-out play spaces and water features.
66% The development includes a four-star hotel, cafs, restaurants and shops.
The landscaping, of people who used Click & Collect across our portfolio designed by Townshend Landscape Architects, went on to spend at our assets reflects the contemporary style of the City but maintains the industrial and historical legacy Investing in assets of the EastEnd.
with great potential New Mersey, Speke is the third largest shopping park in the UK, with annual footfall of 8.9 million and a third of visitors using click and collect.
Since the year end we have increased our holding in New Mersey, Speke to just over 66%.
We have approval for an 11-screen cinema which is pre-let and six new restaurants totalling 29,000 sq ft, as well as plans for a comprehensive refurbishment, introducing double height glazed shop fronts and a new customer services pod.
330,000 sq ft of new space planned at Meadowhalls proposed new Leisure Hall 32 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Enhancing the environment for our own team Our focus on enhancing our assets includes our own head office at York House and Broadgate Estates office at Paddington Central, both of which we recently refurbished, with Broadgate Estates achieving the worlds first BREEAM Outstanding Fit-Out.
Surveys show that people 99% feel happier, healthier and more productive in the new space, which has more natural light, of staff find our newly refurbished offices an better views and greenery, as well as improved enjoyable place to work, space planning to encourage active living and up from 69% social interaction.
This sets the tone to promote wellbeing and productivity across our portfolio.
Listening to our customers The data we collect from across our retail portfolio gives us a clear idea of what matters to our customers.
In response to customer feedback, we have been upgrading assets in the portfolio to improve shopper satisfaction.
Enhancements include additional food and beverage options, better car parking, and improved public realm such as new customer walkways, cycle routes, seating and attractive landscaping, as well as childrens play areas and toilet facilities.
All lightbulbs installed are energy efficient, taps and toilets are designed to use as little water as possible and timber comes from guaranteed sustainable sources.
Leveraging Broadgate Estates We have brought the management of our retail assets in-house through our subsidiary Broadgate Estates, a leading property management company.
We are working to enhance the offer for customers, standardising operational excellence and rolling out value-added services, including technology and consumer services.
Broadgate Estates already delivers best in class service across our office assets and for third parties including many leading commercial and retail landlords.
We have extended its remit to cover retail, as we work together to ensure all our assets are recognisably Places People Prefer.
com placemaking British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 Strategic Report PLACEMAKING CONTINUED Events and activities and best in class services bring life and a real sense of community to our buildings.
We enliven our properties by holding events and activities which benefit our customers and the local communities which surround them.
We also provide best in class services which improve the overall experience for our customers.
Encouraging health and wellbeing Last summer we celebrated health and wellbeing week at Paddington Central to encourage campus residents, workers and visitors to achieve a healthy work life balance.
The schedule featured free health-themed pop-ups, treatments, events, classes and give-aways aimed to relax, energise or activate the mind.
We are now piloting wellbeing and productivity innovations with our occupiers here, who see promoting wellbeing as an important part of their strategy to attract Promoting public art and retain the best talent.
Across our portfolio, we have used public art to bring our assets to life.
In January this year, we sponsored an installation called Platonic Spin by Nathaniel Rackowe at Regents Place More than as part of Lumiere London, a free outdoor light festival.
Over four evenings in January the city 800 was transformed with an extraordinary array of installations, turning the capital into a people World Host customer service trained at our places winter playground.
34 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Celebrating the summer Last summer our recently developed Old Market Evolving traditional retail space shopping destination in Hereford, launched At Meadowhall we are planning a 300 million Herefest, a unique, month-long summer Leisure Hall, to respond to our customers programme of music, street theatre, arts and changing lifestyles where shopping is crafts and food and drink.
An iconic Routemaster increasingly seen as a leisure activity.
bus was parked at the centre, and inside visitors Comprising 330,000 sq ft of space, the enjoyed workshops, makeovers, cake sampling proposed Leisure Hall will add a range sessions and cookery demonstrations.
of dining and entertainment experiences not currently available at the centre.
More than Housed under an elegant glazed roof, the Leisure Hall will integrate with the existing 600 centre to create a new multi-levelled, people at our assets are landscaped mall with high quality internal Dementia Friendly trained and external spaces for promotional and community uses.
Attracting all ages to our assets As part of our comprehensive programme of asset upgrades we have designed and built play areas for our younger visitors at Tollgate, Colchester, Wheatley, Doncaster, Orbital, Swindon and Elk Mill, Oldham.
All the play areas are heritage-themed and reflect feedback from shoppers and local heritage experts.
At Swindon a Spitfire art sculpture and play area reference local industrial links to the manufacture of the Supermarine Spitfire, and designs at Oldham reflect the old cotton mill which formerly occupied the site, with old cotton cans adapted to form play equipment and seating areas.
5.5m sq ft of net space at Canada Water which we plan to develop To read more case studies go to www.
com placemaking British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35
