Strategic Report MARKET OVERVIEW More than What sets 64,000 us apart?
people work across our office portfolio Placemaking skills Improving our assets to create a better overall experience for our customers and local communities.
Places which Our approach to doing business puts are easy to visit, vibrant, pleasant and the customer at the heart of what we do.
engaging and with high quality on site This underpins our ability to deliver services: places where people want Places People Prefer.
to work, shop, live and visit.
Customer insight Our investment in data collection and analytics brings us closer to our customers, guiding our investments and helping us to create places that meet their expectations and lifestyles.
High quality ofce campuses Office-led environments focused around key transport infrastructure with a growing retail and leisure offer enabling people to combine work and play.
The diversity of our offering provides opportunities and amenities for local communities, helping to energise the broader campus.
Lifestyle focused retail 330m environments annual footfall at Regional and local multi-let our retail assets retail assets in tune with modern consumer lifestyles, where people go to shop, eat and be entertained.
12 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Mixed use development experience Large scale projects, combining offices, retail, residential and leisure set amidst attractive public spaces.
Typically, these developments involve close collaboration with local planning Ability to source and authorities, communities and execute complex deals partners, as well as active We have the expertise and day-to-day management.
financial flexibility required to execute complex deals delivering highly attractive returns for our shareholders.
Sustainability credentials We have been sustainability leaders for a long time and have successfully integrated sustainability into our placemaking approach, innovating to improve Strong network peoples wellbeing, supporting of relationships local communities, designing for Our networks span occupiers, the future and developing skills planners, local authorities, and opportunities at our places.
community leaders, strategic partners and investors, reflecting For more information on sustainability our many years as leading www.
com sustainability developers and landlords across the UK.
29,500 People benefited directly from our community programme this year, including apprentices, jobseekers and schoolchildren British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13 Strategic Report MARKET OVERVIEW CONTINUED Major trends impacting our markets Globalisation Positive but moderate Population growth economic growth and urbanisation Our investment and occupational markets are Overall, economic fundamentals in the UK The UK population is expected to grow from increasingly global.
The UKs political stability, remain positive.
Real wages and employment 64.6 million in 2014 to 74.3 million by 2039. sound legal and financial framework, time zone are forecast to continue to grow and inflation Much of the increase will be in its largest cities, and the liquidity of its property markets make and interest rates are expected to remain low notably London, underpinning demand for it an attractive home for international capital.
However, with markets retail and office space, as well as infrastructure London in particular offers some of the best becoming increasingly global there is a greater and housing.
In London, investment in better employment opportunities, as well as great risk that external factors, including a vote for transport, including new rail links and places to live and work, underpinning the the UK to leave the European Union, will impact improved stations is under way.
This is driving growing globalisation of its workforce.
our markets, so we are mindful of the need to growth and regeneration across the capital.
manage our business to mitigate these risks.
Sources of investment in UK real estate UK 57% 5.1% 8.7m Americas 17% UK unemployment rate versus Euro area of 10.3% Greater London population forecast to grow Rest of World 26% by 1% per annum Source: Office for National Statistics, April 2016 Source: Oxford Economics 1.
5m extra people within 45 minutes of London withCrossrail from 2018 Source: JLL 2016 Source: Crossrail website 14 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our sustainable business model is designed to benefit from and exploit long term sector and macro-economic trends.
Transforming impact Increasing consumer Focus on sustainable of technology expectations and ethical behaviours Technology continues to transform the way Peoples expectations of where they work, People expect companies to have sound we work, shop and live.
The internet has created shop and live are rising.
They expect attractive, sustainability credentials, to adhere to a high a choice of delivery platforms, so people can well-managed environments, modern facilities standard of ethical behaviour and to ensure the shop in a manner which suits them.
People are and a high standard of service.
They like places wellbeing of their employees.
This is starting also able to work remotely: increasingly they which are accessible and convenient and, to influence who we want to work for, the places see their working environment as a place to increasingly, they expect leisure to be a part we shop and live and the kind of developments collaborate and network and this changes the of their everyday lives.
local communities are prepared to accept.
type of office space they are looking for.
Reflecting this is a growing expectation that governments should use policy to promote sustainable and ethical practices.
344,000 24% 80% additional employees working for small firms increase in UK F&B leisure spend forecast between of people believe that companies can play a leadingrole 2016 and 2021 in solving societys problems whilestillmaking profits Source: Department for Business Innovation & Skills Business Population Estimates, 2015 Source: CACI Source: Edelman 2016 Trust Barometer 19 5 countries agreed to keep global warming below 2C, pursuing efforts to limit it to 1.5C Source: United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, COP 21 Paris 2015 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 Strategic Report MARKET OVERVIEW CONTINUED How we are responding Getting closer to our customers Creating great environments Focusing on internet resilient lifestyle Retail Improving our understanding of our Investing in places which are well Focusing on creating outstanding regional customers preferences with effective connected, well designed and in tune and local multi-let retail assets which are systems and processes to capture and with modern lifestyles in tune with modern consumer lifestyles analyse data Enhancing and enlivening our assets Understanding where a wide ranging mixed Increasing in-house expertise with dedicated through our placemaking activities: use offering will drive footfall and where analytics and marketing capabilities attractive environments, best in class convenient and accessible assets are services, and innovative leisure and more appropriate Improving in-house management of our entertainment options properties to deliver consistent best in Investing to keep pace with changing class standards Places which are well integrated, which consumer preferences add value to local communities and where Investing in the British Land brand so people they choose to spend time know what they can expect from us and the properties we own and manage Completed 150,000 280m 15 % consumer exit surveys completed over the past four invested in London campuses over the last year increase in dwell time at the assets where we have years at our retail assets recently completed makeovers to improve the shopping experience 16 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Growing in London profitable development Embedding sustainability and theSouth East in placemaking Identifying emerging areas that will benefit Near term opportunities which focus on Adaptable and efficient buildings from growth and regeneration, particularly keeping our campuses and our retail-led Promoting wellbeing and productivity for transport infrastructure-led centres modern our occupiers, customers and communities Increasing the retail, leisure, residential Long term, large scale, mixed use projects Supporting local communities with our and other alternative uses to enhance our where we can put our placemaking skills new Local Charter launched this year office-led campuses to work Developing skills and opportunities to support Investing in relatively affluent retail locations Managing risk through pre-letting and local economies outside of London with population growth phasing development starts where there is potential to upscale the offer Identifying compelling residential opportunities 65% 9.2m sq ft RE100 of our assets are located of developments in our near medium term pipeline We support RE100 committed to purchasing in London or the South East electricity from renewable power in our own space and across service charge space.
For more information on sustainability www.
com sustainability To read more about our strategy, go to pages 18 to 25 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17
