Governance and remuneration BOARD OF DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES Non-Executive Chairman About the Board John Gildersleeve Board composition Skills and experience: John is deputy chairman and senior independent director of Spire Healthcare Group plc and deputy chairman of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC.
John was the chairman of Carphone Warehouse Board of Directors Group until December 2015 and a non-executive director of Pick n Pay SA until March 2016.
He was formerly chairman of New Look Retail Group, 9 8% EMI Group and Gallaher Group: a non-executive director of Dixons Men Carphone plc, Lloyds TSB Bank PLC and Vodafone Group and an 33% executive director of Tesco plc B.
Committee membership: 3 Nomination Chairman Women 59% Executive Directors Chris Grigg Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Independent Non-Executive Directors Skills and experience: Chris was chief executive of Barclays Commercial Executive Directors Bank until November 2008, having joined the bank in 2005.
Prior to Barclays, he was a partner of Goldman Sachs, where his career spanned 20 years.
1 Directors core areas of expertise External appointments: Non-executive director of BAE Systems plc.
Property 38% Member of the executive board of the European Public Finance 38% Real Estate Association.
12% Retail and consumer Member of the board of the British Property Federation.
Academic 6% 6% Public sector Lucinda Bell Chief Financial Officer 1 Some Directors are represented in more than one category.
Skills and experience: Lucinda is a chartered accountant with over 20 years of industry experience.
In 2006 she was a member of the HM Treasury appointed working party which designed the Executive Directors appointments implementation of the REIT regime.
External appointments: Non-executive director of Rotork plc.
Member of the Accounting for Sustainability CFO Leadership Network.
50% 50% Appointed internally Appointed externally Charles Maudsley Head of Retail and Leisure Length of Non-Executive Directors tenures Skills and experience: Charles joined British Land in 2010 from LaSalle Under 3 years 38% Investment Management.
He had previously been with AXA Real Estate 3 to 6 years 24% Investment Managers for seven years.
Over 6 years 38% Tim Roberts Head of Offices and Residential Skills and experience: Before joining British Land in 1997 Tim was a partner at Drivers Jonas, in the Investment Agency team.
He was formerly a non-executive director of Songbird Estates until 2009.
External appointments: Trustee of the property industry charity, LandAid, and Chair of the Grants Committee.
68 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Non-Executive Directors Aubrey Adams Laura Wade-Gery Skills and experience: Aubrey is group chair of L&Q, the housing Skills and experience: Laura is an executive director, Multi Channel of association and residential developer.
He was formerly head of property Marks and Spencer Group plc M&S.
Prior to joining M&S in July 2011, within RBSs Restructuring Division, a non-executive director of Pinnacle she had served in a variety of senior roles at Tesco PLC.
Laura was a Regeneration Group Limited, senior independent director of Associated non-executive director of Trinity Mirror plc until 2012.
Laura is a trustee British Ports PLC, non-executive chairman of Unitech Corporate Parks of the Royal Opera House and Aldeburgh Music.
PLC, non-executive chairman of Air Partner PLC, chief executive of Committee membership: Savills PLC and non-executive chairman of Max Property Group PLC.
Remuneration Aubrey is chairman of the board of trustees of Wigmore Hall.
Committee membership: Tim Score Audit Skills and experience: Tim is a non-executive director of Pearson plc and HM Treasury.
He was formerly chief financial officer of ARM Simon Borrows Holdings PLC and held senior financial positions at Rebus Group Limited, Skills and experience: Simon is the chief executive of 3i Group plc and a William Baird plc, LucasVarity plc and BTR plc.
From 2005 to 2014, member of the supervisory board of Peer Holdings BV, the Dutch holding he was a non-executive director of National Express Group PLC.
company for 3is investment in Action, the non-food discount retailer.
Committee membership: He worked for 28 years in the banking and finance industry, most Audit Chairman recently as chairman of Greenhill & Co. International LLP.
He was also chief executive officer of Baring Brothers International Limited, the corporate finance division of ING Barings and was a non-executive Lord Turnbull director of Inchcape plc until May 2015.
Senior Independent Director Committee membership: Skills and experience: Andrew entered the House of Lords in 2005 Audit as a Crossbench Life Peer.
He retired as Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service in July 2005.
Andrew previously held the positions of Permanent Secretary of HM Treasury and Permanent Lynn Gladden Secretary at the Department of the Environment.
He was formerly a Skills and experience: Lynn is a non-executive director of IP Group plc.
non-executive director of Arup Group, chairman of BH Global Limited She is Professor of Chemical Engineering at the University of Cambridge, and a non-executive of Prudential PLC from 2006 until May 2015.
He commissioner of the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 and was a non-executive director of Frontier Economics Ltd from 2006 a fellow of the Royal Society and Royal Academy of Engineering.
She until November 2015. was formerly a member of the Council of the Engineering and Physical Committee membership: Sciences Research Council and held the position of pro-vice-chancellor Remuneration Chairman for research at the University of Cambridge until 31 December 2015.
Nomination Committee membership: Remuneration Company Secretary William Jackson Elaine Williams Skills and experience: William is Managing Partner of Bridgepoint, one of Europes leading private equity groups, which he has led since 2002.
Elaine was appointed Company Secretary and General Counsel in He also serves as chairman of the board of Pret A Manger and president November 2015.
She was formerly Deputy Group Company Secretary of Dorna Sports SL, the rights holder to the MotoGP world motorcycling at HSBC Holdings plc and, prior to that, a partner at Freshfields championships.
He has served on a range of boards during his career Bruckhaus Deringer.
and has extensive operational and transaction experience.
Committee membership: Remuneration Nomination British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69
