Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY Our strategy for creating Places People Prefer Our strategy Our strategy determines our focus for our annual priorities.
To read more on our priorities for the year ahead go to page 8 Customer Orientation Right Places Leverage our customer insight, services, Create and operate exciting and engaging experience and technology to be recognised lifestyle oriented real estate: put Places for creating Places People Prefer People Prefer at the heart of our approach Use consistent and scalable ways of working Invest in London in existing assets and emerging locations benefiting from Provide best in class property management regeneration and growth by developing in-house capabilities through Broadgate Estates Focus on regional and local multi-let retail assets which are in tune with modern consumers lifestyles Expert People Capital efficiency Maintain high standard of operational Allocate capital to maximise returns from and investment skill sets and encourage our competitive advantages development in evolving areas Manage both our development exposure and Promote a culture which supports financial leverage through the cycle while the recruitment and development maintaining the benefits of scale of a diverse team Be the partner of choice for international Improve ways of working capital and public bodies across the business Creating Places This generates Together with People Prefer longterm growth anoptimal capital drives enduring in rents and structure this demand for capitalvalue.
18 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our objective is to deliver sustainable long term value for all stakeholders Occupiers and their customers High quality environments which promote productivity and wellbeing Affordable and efficient buildings Outstanding customer services and facilities Investors Access to high quality, liquid real estate investment Employees Stable, secure cash flows An inclusive environment Superior total returns with enhanced wellbeing and productivity Potential to develop skills and opportunities O pportunities to make a positive difference Local communities Attractive local environments Facilities and services which enhance the overall area Partners Places which support local jobs Access to high quality real estate and skills A sset management and Stronger community networks development skills and facilities Strong relationships For more information on sustainability www.
com sustainability British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19 Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Our long term objective How we performed Delivering sustainable over the past year long term value Our priorities in the year were What we have achieved Customer Orientation 1.3m sq ft of leasing activity across Retail 350 occupier surveys now completed Getting closer to our occupiers and end users and Offices in Offices, with footfall counters piloted Improving our systems and processes at Broadgate The Leadenhall Building now 98% let under Leveraging Broadgate Estates offer, up from 84% at the start of the year Broadgate Estates now managing all of our retail assets, covering over 20m sq ft Innovating to support customer wellbeing 420m of mature non-core Retail assets sold, including 122m of superstores, Partnered with occupiers on initiatives Continuing to reposition the Retail portfolio reducing our weighting to 5% at our properties, including wellbeing and community Over 43,000 people surveyed in Retail, with sales data on 94% of multi-let assets and Internal team strengthened, with improved footfall data on 99% systems and processes to analyse data 4.2 5 visitor score for shopping experience Right Places 280m net investment into London campuses Circa 80m invested in improvements and Progressing our strategy for London extensions to Retail assets.
Drawing up plans Progressing the Broadgate vision, with Progressing committed and near term for a proposed 330,000 sq ft Leisure Hall planning achieved on 100 Liverpool Street at Meadowhall developments and 1Finsbury Avenue and submitted at 2 and 3 Finsbury Avenue 60m refurbishment of Meadowhall under Refreshing medium term strategies for way and progressing well Broadgate, Meadowhall and Canada Water Good progress at our development at 4 Kingdom Street and Paddington Central Progressing our Canada Water development: Supporting successful local communities held a public consultation in February 2016 Refurbishment of 338 Euston Road, Regents Place completed with over 80% of space Launch of Local Charter to support pre-let to Facebook successful local communities and develop local skills and opportunities Community programme equivalent to 0.6% of pre-tax profits, benefiting 29,500 people Capital efficiency 618m non-core asset mature sales in the 40% carbon intensity reduction versus 2009 Optimising size and financial structure across year, with acquisitions and capital investment index score the property cycle of 639m Balancing trade-off between a cost efficient Building our relationship with Southwark and higher capability organisation Council, our partner on Canada Water Continuing to build relationships with direct Completed over 1bn of financing activity and indirect capital and public bodies since 31 March 2015, including a zero coupon 350m senior unsecured convertible bond Delivering future proofing initiatives due 2020 and the tender offer and purchase of 110m of debenture bonds reducing weighted average interest rate by 50 bps to 3.3% Expert People Appointed Roger Madelin to head up Canada 87% employee score for our offices Continuing to improve organisational design Water development supporting their wellbeing and effectiveness Womens Network and BL Pride established 100% of our employees and 72% supplier Build management capabilities for new workforce at our properties paid the Living Participation in the National Equality Standard as well as traditional skill sets Wage Foundation wage One Star rating in Best Companies to Work Developing skills and opportunities For Survey Creating an inclusive working environment For definitions see glossary on pages 200 to 203 20 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1 How we measure up Risk indicators and incentive measures Total accounting return TAR LTIP AI Total accounting return is our overall measure Risk indicators we monitor: of performance.
It is the dividend paid plus the f orecast GDP: 14.2% growth in EPRA NAV in the period.
the margin between property yields and 2016 14.2% During the year, we generated a strong TAR borrowing costs: and of 14.2% bringing the 3 year TAR to 67.9%.
property capital and ERV growth forecasts.
2015 24.5% Our dividend was increased by 2.5% to 28.36 2014 20.0% pence per share and our NAV increased Management compensation linked to: by 10.9% to 919 pence per share.
total accounting returns relative to peers.
Customer satisfaction AI Sustainability Performance Risk indicators we monitor: consumer confidence: 7.9 out of 10 Dow Jones Sustainability Index World employment forecasts for relevant and Europe 2015: 94th percentile 2016 7.9 sectors: and FTSE4Good 2015: 98th percentile market letting risk vacancies, expiries, 2015 7.8 administrations.
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark 2014 7.9 2015: Sector Leader European Diversified Management compensation linked to: We extensively survey people who use our We track our sustainability impacts on these Company reputation with all stakeholders: assets to assess our performance and indices.
We are proud to have been awarded the and identify opportunities for improvement.
Queens Award for Enterprise: Sustainable supporting the delivery of sustainability Development 2016. objectives.
Total property returns LTIP AI Development commitment AI Risk indicators we monitor: property capital and ERV growth forecasts: 11.3% vs IPD 0.8bn % of standing investments total and speculative development exposure: 2016 11.3% in line 2016 0.8bn 5.8% and progress of developments against plan.
2015 18.4% 130bps 2015 1.3bn 10.0% 2014 14.2% 60bps 2014 1.4bn 12.2% Management compensation linked to: total property returns relative to IPD: We have performed in line with the IPD Development supports value and income execution of targeted acquisitions and benchmark on total property return this growth but also adds risk.
We aim to keep disposals: and year and outperformed over the last 3 years our committed development exposure at progress on key projects including by 60 bps per annum.
less than 15% of our investment portfolio.
Loan to value LTV AI Weighted average interest rate AI Risk indicators we monitor: 1 proportionally consolidated proportionally consolidated likelihood of covenant breach: 32% 3.3% when refinancing is required: and percentage of debt at fixed interest rates.
2016 32% 2016 3.3% 2015 35% 2015 3.8% Management compensation linked to: 2014 40% 2014 4.1% execution of debt financings: progress on strengthening the dividend: and We manage our leverage such that LTV should Our low cost of finance supports performance execution of targeted acquisitions not exceed a maximum threshold if market and is one of the lowest of listed UK REITs.
yields were to rise to previous peak levels.
The Sunday Times Best Companies AI The Sunday Times annual survey is one Risk indicators we monitor: to Work For of the most extensive benchmarks of unplanned executive departures.
One star 2016 One star Management compensation linked to: quality of people and management One star 2015 renewal: and 2014 One star Company reputation with all stakeholders.
1 Please see the glossary for definitions Managing risk in delivering our strategy Long-term Incentive Plan see pages 57 to 63 Annual Incentive award Remuneration report see pages 86 to 110 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED The importance of people Our focus on Places People Prefer puts transport infrastructure are priorities, so these Our values people at the heart of our strategy.
are important considerations for us when we Our values underpin our daily working make investment decisions.
The quality and practices and set us apart.
They are: Customer Orientation efficiency of the building matters: occupiers want the ability to adapt space as their needs We are investing in the resources that bring change, and for their workspaces to promote us closer to the people who work, shop and collaboration and positive relationships across live across our assets, improving both our their businesses.
Employees also expect an Do what is right, Work efficiently customer insight and our understanding of attractive place to work, as well as a range of not what is easy as one team local communities and helping to guide how facilities and services they can enjoy outside and where we do business.
This is why our strategy in Offices is focused on our campuses which are more In retail, our customers have more choice mixed in use, and include retail, leisure and than ever before: the offering is wider and there often residential space and other amenities, are more delivery platforms.
We are building where we can manage the broader our understanding of how our customers environment.
We have developed more Make commercial Make things manage these choices and are working with interactive marketing campaigns giving people decisions that create happen our occupiers at our multi-let assets to deliver the opportunity to participate in the life of our long term value outstanding places for modern consumer campuses and we are piloting footfall counters lifestyles.
Our understanding of our customers at Broadgate, to provide accurate data on how is underpinned by the data we gather from our successfully our activities are attracting people schemes: we have completed over 150,000 to the campus.
We are making a similar effort in consumer exit surveys over the last four years: residential, where over 400 purchasers across we collect turnover data on 94% of our multi-let the super prime, prime and top tier markets assets by value: and footfall data from 98% of were surveyed.
At Clarges, our super prime our multi-let assets.
Importantly, we have the residential development in Mayfair, we work systems and processes in place to generate with our customers on an individual basis to insights and learnings from this data and this ensure we deliver a product that really reflects guides our approach to placemaking.
We know their specific lifestyles.
that our leading indicators, including footfall, dwell time and spend, benefit dramatically from an increased leisure, food and beverage provision and better services, so this is where we are focusing our efforts.
At our regional assets we are focused on improving the breadth and depth of our retail and leisure offer, introducing cinemas and restaurants as well as more innovative leisure concepts.
At our local assets, we are improving the services we offer and creating a more attractive environment for our visitors, those who want convenience and accessibility.
In Offices, our occupiers increasingly see property as key to attracting and retaining talent so we are working together to help them stay ahead.
This year we have surveyed around 350 occupiers or prospective occupiers to further develop our understanding of what Places People Prefer means to them.
We understand that location and, in particular, proximity to 22 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We ensure the highest standards of service across our office assets by managing them in-house through Broadgate Estates, our wholly owned subsidiary and one of the UKs leading property management companies.
Its client portfolio includes some of the most prestigious properties in the UK, and we leverage its scale and expertise across the wider market to provide a best in class service.
Having proved highly successful at managing our Offices portfolio, Broadgate Estates remit now also covers our multi-let Retail portfolio.
To read more about Broadgate Estates go to www.
co. uk wellbeing, giving something back, personal growth, pay and benefits, as well as with their The quality of our assets and strength of our manager and team.
services enables us to attract a high calibre of occupier to our portfolio.
This together with our We believe supporting the workforce of high occupancy levels and long average lease tomorrow is important for our business and lengths underpins the quality and security of our this year with our formation of BL Pride, our markets.
We are involved in initiatives which rental income.
We are increasing the diversity lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender LGBT make young people of all backgrounds aware of our occupier mix and no single occupier and allies network, and our Womens network.
of real estate careers, including Pathways to accounts for more than 5.7% of our revenues.
Both networks have been active in the year Property and Budding Brunels.
15,000 people For our major occupiers see the table on and we are pleased that our Chief Executive, benefited from employment, training and page 188 Chris Grigg was ranked 11th in the 2015 education initiatives across our assets during Leading 30 LGBT Ally Executives by the year.
We are also working towards 3% of Expert People Outstanding and the Financial Times.
our supplier workforce being apprentices by Our 589 employees are split between the 2020.
As detailed in our Supply Chain Charter, core team at British Land and our property We are also piloting a mentoring scheme we try to use local suppliers and we partner management subsidiary, Broadgate Estates.
initially for women, offering help, guidance, with occupiers and suppliers on fair working The breadth and depth of our knowledge, advice and support where it is needed.
We practices including the Living Wage our skills and our relationships underpin currently have three female Directors on the Foundation wage.
our competitive advantages and enable us to Board, Lucinda Bell, Chief Financial Officer, To read more about our Expert People deliver on our over-riding purpose of creating and Lynn Gladden and Laura Wade-Gery, both go to www.
com blogs Places People Prefer.
As at 31 March 2016, and to read more about skills go to 48% of employees across British Land and www.
com skills The scale of our operations has enabled us Broadgate Estates were female, including Report of the Nomination Committee to attract and retain a team of experts who three out of ten of our Executive Committee.
see pages 84 to 85 know our markets well and bring a range of Board of Directors see pages expertise across a mix of activities retail, Nurturing talent and supporting development 66 to 69 leisure, offices and residential.
We have access is an important element of our people strategy.
to a broad network of contacts, spanning We operate a range of online resources to help occupiers, planners, government and local employees develop their skills and work with authorities, community leaders, strategic Cambridge University to run a Leadership in partners and investors, so we see the best Real Estate programme.
24 of our staff have investment opportunities and the most benefited from this programme since it was attractive partnering and funding possibilities, launched in 2014.
Other training partners enabling us to successfully execute attractive this year include Happy City, who promote and often highly complexdeals.
happiness and wellbeing through skills training and campaigns, and measure the Our people strategy focuses on creating a team impact of change on local wellbeing.
They ran who can deliver Places People Prefer.
Getting a workshop for senior managers on embedding closer to our customers is one of our key wellbeing principles across our business.
Our strategic priorities and having a workforce which ongoing volunteering programme also offers reflects the diversity of our customers helps us our staff personal development opportunities, achieve this.
The policy throughout British Land particularly through skills-based opportunities is to employ the best candidates available in such as mentoring.
84% of our staff took part every position regardless of sex, race, ethnic in volunteering activities in the year.
origin, nationality, colour, age, religion or philosophical belief, sexual orientation, Our focus on Places People Prefer starts with marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy, our people.
Both British Land and Broadgate maternity, gender reassignment or disability.
Estates were recognised in the Sunday Times Best Companies to Work For 2016, each We achieved a key milestone on our journey achieving a One Star rating.
This reflects staff towards creating a truly inclusive environment satisfaction with aspects such as leadership, British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23 Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Managing our portfolio From sourcing and investing in the Right Places, to enhancing and enlivening our assets, we are focused on allocating capital efficiently to maximise returns.
Right Places Our investment decisions are heavily influenced by the long term trends we see driving our commercial property markets so we can position ourselves well for the longer term.
Our focus on London and the South East reflects the population growth and increasing urbanisation we are seeing in the capital alongside its attraction as a leading global city.
More specifically, our investment in London in particular has focused on those areas where infrastructure is improving, driving regeneration and growth.
This is where we see the strongest returns over the longer term.
Our portfolio is approximately evenly split between Retail and Leisure and Offices and Residential, but more and more, we are increasing the mix of uses on our existing sites, services and to provide a broader, more improvements so our campuses are vibrant as well as investing directly in mixed use assets.
This approach is and attractive places in which to work, and This reflects the fact that peoples work and shaping our portfolio.
to spend time outside of work.
In Residential, personal lives increasingly overlap: they expect we have been highly selective about the places more of the places they work, shop or visit.
They Our Offices and Residential portfolio is focused we invest in.
Looking forward, it will become a want to work in offices which have places to eat, on our three mixed use campuses in London, more significant part of our portfolio as part shop and relax and retail destinations with a wide and also includes distinctive London properties of our mix-use offer, particularly as we make leisure and service offering.
This understanding such as The Leadenhall Building alongside progress at Canada Water, where we are underpins our focus on placemaking.
Our campuses creating one of the largest mixed use benefit from excellent transport infrastructure, regeneration projects in London.
Placemaking is about owning assets which and two, Broadgate and Paddington Central, connect with the people who use them and will have their own Crossrail stations when In Retail, where technology is changing the which are designed with their needs in mind.
They all have great way people shop, Right Places is about focusing We are investing in our assets to enhance potential.
Broadgate also benefits from its on assets which are in tune with modern the offer, to enliven them with events and proximity to Shoreditch and the emerging tech consumer lifestyles, where people can shop, hubs to the north and east of the City, which eat and be entertained.
The core portfolio are increasing the diversity of the occupier comprises regional and local multi-let assets mix.
Regents Place and Paddington Central where we are able to manage and improve are on the fringes of the West End, offering high the broader environment.
We focus on assets quality, flexible and affordable space.
Regents which are prime in their catchment and capture Place has benefited from regeneration and we a broad range of consumer spend.
Our larger are now seeing this at Paddington.
We are regional assets have a wide-ranging retail using our placemaking principles to evolve and and leisure offering, attracting visitors from grow our campuses with new developments a broad catchment.
Our smaller local assets which reflect the changing ways people work, are convenient and accessible, aligned to the with more flexible floor plates, break-out areas daily life of local communities.
Our focus on and outside space.
We are also adding retail Customer Orientation ensures a consistent and leisure, and investing in public realm approach to placemaking across these 24 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 formats, although our actions are carefully Development is an important part of our considered to improve and optimise each business but it is also higher risk than our individually.
Across our portfolio we are adding income producing assets, due to the time delay leisure extensions where we see demand for between commitment to a project and fully cinemas and restaurants, with smaller scale letting the completed building, so we manage improvements where appropriate such as more our exposure carefully.
Development is limited cafs or improved car parking, helping to to 15% of the total portfolio by value with a deliver our broader placemaking strategy of maximum of 10% to be developed speculatively creating Places People Prefer.
i. e. without a pre-let or residential pre-sale at any one time.
For detail on our portfolio performance see pages 36 to 47 For further details on our acquisitions and disposals see the table on page 186 Development is an important part of what we do and is a key driver of returns.
It keeps our assets We manage our mix of equity and debt financing modern ensuring demand for them endures.
to achieve the right balance between enhancing business, combined with the quality of our We have a significant pipeline of development returns for shareholders and the risk of higher assets and rental income stream.
We raise opportunities focused on our campuses and our leverage.
Our primary measure of leverage is debt from a variety of sources across a spread multi-let retail assets.
We have built optionality loan to value LTV on a proportionally of maturities to ensure the Group and its joint into our pipeline so we can progress consolidated basis which includes the Groups ventures and funds are appropriately financed.
opportunities when the time is right.
share of joint ventures and funds and excludes We also maintain significant undrawn loan non-controlling interests in the Groups facilities to provide flexibility and support current For detail on our development pipeline subsidiaries.
We aim to manage our LTV and future requirements of the business.
see tables on pages 194 to 195 through the property cycle such that our For detail on our development performance financial position would remain robust in the We use strategic partnerships to leverage our see pages 37 to 39 event of a significant fall in property values.
This investments, achieve benefits of scale and means we will not increase our leverage solely spread risk.
Around one third of our owned Across our portfolio we are conscious of the on the basis of an improvement in market yields.
assets by value are in joint ventures, including impact our places have on local communities.
This approach We are working to improve how local people We access a broad range of debt finance on has enabled us to undertake more ambitious can influence decisions relating to our assets attractive terms, reflecting the scale of our development projects, including The so we deliver places they prefer to live and work Leadenhall Building where we worked with around, as well as shops, restaurants cinemas Oxford Properties.
Within these structures, and public places where they choose to spend we typically provide asset management, time.
Relationships with local government and development, corporate and finance services, community leaders are important to our for which we earn management and business.
We build trust by supporting their performance fees, enhancing our overall endeavours and work with them to understand returns and strengthening our relationships and meet local challenges and aspirations.
with partners, key customers andsuppliers.
We make it easy for local people to influence decisions relating to our assets so we deliver We proactively manage our assets to promote places they are pleased to live and work their long term sustainability.
Our resource around, as well as shops, restaurants, cinemas efficiency programme continues to improve and public spaces where they choose to spend operational efficiency, reduce occupier costs time.
At Regents Place, the launch of a new and support well-managed environments.
Community Fund is empowering our occupiers We took a positive approach to the Governments to support local projects and is strengthening Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme, auditing community links.
energy use and implementing additional For more information on communities efficiency opportunities.
We are also innovative www.
com community in our use of materials to lower costs and secure supply and consider on site energy generation Capital efficiency 350m at all our developments.
This year we retrofitted Our capital is broadly balanced between raised through a 0% coupon photovoltaic panels at St Stephens Hull, as part convertible bond in June 2015 our Retail and our Office assets.
Investment of our plans to increase energy generation decisions are made across sectors, based and enhance revenues at our assets, and we on the prospective returns of individual assets.
continue our efforts to minimise flood risk.
We assess our capital allocation by sector, geography and asset level based on our Financial review see pages 49 to 53 estimates of future internal rates of return.
Financial policies and principles see pages This helps to identify where our greatest 54 to 56 potential lies and where our capital is best Details on our carbon reduction allocated.
Over the last five years, we have sold programme see page 48 3.4 billion of non-core asset mature assets and reinvested the proceeds in high quality income generating assets and developments.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25
