Paul M. Williams, 56 Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1998 Skills and expertise: Paul is a chartered surveyor who joined the Group in 1987.
His responsibilities include portfolio asset management, major leasing transactions, Board of supervision of refurbishment and development projects and sustainability.
Other current appointments: Chairman of The Paddington Partnership and Director of Sadlers Wells Foundation.
Nigel Q. George, 53 Executive Director 1.
Robert A. Rayne, 68 Appointed to the Board: 1998 Non-executive Chairman Skills and expertise: Nigel is a chartered Appointed to the Board: 2007 surveyor who joined the Group in 1988.
Skills and expertise: The Hon R. A. Rayne His responsibilities include acquisitions was Chief Executive Officer of London and disposals and investment analysis.
Merchant Securities plc and has been on Other current appointments: the boards of a number of public companies, Director of the Chancery Lane Association.
including First Leisure Corporation plc and Crown Sports plc.
David G. Silverman, 47 Executive Director Other current appointments: Appointed to the Board: 2008 Non-executive Director of LMS Capital Skills and expertise: David is a chartered plc and Chairman of Weatherford surveyor who joined the Group in 2002. International Inc. His responsibilities include overseeing 2.
John D. Burns, 72 the Groups investment acquisitions and Chief Executive Officer disposals.
David is a past Chairman of Appointed to the Board: 1984 the Westminster Property Association.
Skills and expertise: A chartered surveyor and founder of Derwent Valley Holdings in 1984, John has overall responsibility for Group strategy, business development and day-to-day operations.
Other current appointments: 6, 1, 10, 13 Member of the strategic board of the New West End Company Limited.
Damian M. A. Wisniewski, 55 Finance Director Appointed to the Board: 2010 Skills and expertise: Damian is a chartered accountant and, prior to joining Derwent London, he held senior finance roles at Treveria Asset Management, Wood Wharf Limited Partnership and Chelsfield plc.
He has overall responsibility for financial strategy, treasury, taxation and financial reporting.
Other current appointments: Trustee and member of the governing body at the Royal Academy of Music and non-executive Director at the Associated 3, 4, 8 Board of the Royal Schools of Music.
Simon P. Silver, 66 Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1986 Skills and expertise: Co-founder of Derwent Valley Holdings, Simon has overall responsibility for the Groups development and regeneration programme.
He is an honorary fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects.
Simon W. D. Fraser, 53 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board: 2006 Appointed to the Board: 2015 Appointed to the Board: 2012 Skills and expertise: Stuart is a chartered Skills and expertise: Claudia was Group Skills and expertise: Simon started his surveyor.
Until 2008, he was Chief Executive Managing Director of Emap until 2010. career in the City in 1986 and, from 1997 of Cadogan Estates, one of the principal Prior to that she held senior roles at HM to his retirement in 2011, worked at Bank private estates in London, and is a past Treasury, Goldman Sachs and the of America Merrill Lynch where from 2004 president of the British Property Federation Financial Times.
he was Managing Director and co-head of and former chairman of Pollen Estate corporate broking.
Here he led a variety Other current appointments: Trustee Company.
of transactions including equity raisings Chair of the Remuneration Committee and advised company boards on a range Other current appointments: Nonof Halfords PLC, Chair of the Governance of issues.
executive Chairman of Get Living London.
Non-executive Director of the Premier League.
Richard D. C. Dakin, 53 Non-executive Director of Lancashire Non-executive Director Committees: Remuneration chairman, Holdings Limited and of Legal and General Appointed to the Board: 2013 Audit.
He is Skills and expertise: Richard has been 11.
Cilla D. Snowball, 58 also a non-executive Director of Cathedral Managing Director of Capital Advisors Non-executive Director Underwriting Limited, a subsidiary of Limited, part of CBRE, since 2014.
Appointed to the Board: 2015 Lancashire Holdings.
Previously, he had been employed at Lloyds Skills and expertise: Cilla is Group Chairman Committees: Nominations chairman, Bank since 1982 where he undertook a and Group CEO at AMV BBDO and a past Audit, Remuneration.
variety of roles including commercial and Chairman of the Advertising Association.
corporate banking and leveraged finance, 13.
Stephen G. Young, 61 Other current appointments: gaining extensive knowledge of property Non-executive Director Director of BBDO Worldwide and Chairman finance and the real estate sector.
He is a Appointed to the Board: 2010 of the Womens Business Council.
Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Skills and expertise: Stephen is a Surveyors and an Associate Member of Committees: Nominations, Risk.
chartered management accountant Corporate Treasurers.
and Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC.
Committees: Risk chairman, Previously he has held a number of senior Audit, Nominations.
financial positions including Group Finance Director at Meggitt PLC, Thistle Hotels plc and the Automobile Association.
Committees: Audit chairman, Risk, Remuneration.
