t n e m e g a n a m k s i R S t r a t e g 18 STRATEGIC REPORT Creating value: our business model INPUTS Assets There are significant opportunities within our 5bn portfolio of 91 properties, mainly in Londons West End and Tech Belt, to capture reversion and create value.
Acquire Financial resources Create properties and The Group is financed through a well-designed unlock their value combination of shareholder capital and space borrowings from a range of sources.
Our people OUR Our experienced management provides STRATEGIC direction to teams that specialise in OBJECTIVES our core activities.
Collaboration within page 20 an open and collegiate culture engenders Maintain creativity and innovation.
strong and Optimise flexible income financing Relationships with stakeholders We build dynamic and open relationships with potential and existing occupiers, local communities and investors both shareholders and funders.
This enables Recycle us to identify and respond to the needs capital of these key stakeholders.
STRATEGIC FOCUS On good design EFFECTIVE WHAT SETS On central London We believe that good GOVERNANCE DERWENT We concentrate on the architecture attracts tenants, & CULTURE page 77 LONDON markets we know best and and that it is important to be The Groups attitude to APART in which we can deliver our innovative, provide flexible good governance reflects good value mid-market space and continually improve its culture which is shaped product.
These distinctive by the Board.
Through good us a competitive advantage, attributes have helped governance, the Group aims helping us to find relative value develop the Derwent brand.
to earn stakeholders trust and and to identify up-and-coming secure its licence to operate.
We have created a We expect to have a positive number of property clusters impact on the communities in the West End and the Tech and areas surrounding Belt and substantial parts of our buildings and ensure our portfolio will benefit that our schemes are from the opening of efficient, sustainable Crossrail in 2018. and not over specified.
i c f o c u s e r u t l u c & e c n a n r e v o g e v i t c e E STRATEGIC REPORT 19 Our business model explains how we deliver above average long-term returns and benefits to shareholders, occupiers and neighbourhoods.
OUTPUTS OUTCOMES Assets Lettings 22 Well-designed buildings in vibrant locations providing flexible space at mid-market rents that Asset management 24 appeal to occupiers and improve the local environment.
Financial Developments for delivery in 2019 26 Above average long-term financial returns for shareholders.
A conservative financial base and a strong balance sheet, demonstrated by low Acquisitions and disposals 28 gearing and strong interest cover.
Our people Measuring our performance 30 A rewarding environment in which our people are valued and developed to fulfil their potential.
Property review 40 Relationships with stakeholders Occupiers: benefit from our active management approach and high quality and sustainable space that meets their Finance review 52 needs, helping them attract talent.
Many occupiers have moved within the portfolio as their businesses have grown.
Local communities: benefit from the regenerative effects Sustainability 66 of redevelopment, investment and local projects that we initiate or support.
Our people 68 Investors: benefit from regular communication which provides an appreciation of how our business model is able to deliver in varying market conditions.
Communication with shareholders 83 RISK MANAGEMENT page 60 Group perspective Long-term perspective At the centre of the Groups Although all properties are From its very origins risk management process treated individually, decisions Derwent London has had is its risk register.
are taken in the context of a vision to become a the Group as a whole.
This significant and active Property cycle is to ensure that there is the London landlord.
This For REITs, market conditions suitable balance between reinforces our commitment change as a result of a income and development, to quality, allows us to look property cycle.
We aim that the scale and pace of beyond initial returns for to increase our development development activity is long-term gains, and to build risk and activity while reducing appropriate to the larger lasting relationships with financial leverage into a rising Group, that the longer-term occupiers, communities property market.
Ideally, our growth potential remains and local authorities.
lowest leverage is near the intact and that the Group peak and our maximum has the financial resources leverage near the floor.
to adapt to different market conditions.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016
