96 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration report Dear fellow shareholder Executive reward is closely linked to the Groups key performance Welcome to the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
indicators to ensure effective alignment between the Executive The key objectives for the Committee are to ensure the Update image Directors and our shareholders.
Executive Directors are appropriately incentivised and Jonathan Short remuneration arrangements are fully aligned with the Chairman of the Remuneration Companys strategy to generate superior portfolio and Committee shareholder returns.
As outlined on pages 20 and 21, we measure our absolute and relative performance using a small number of key Remuneration Committee and advisers performance indicators: Remuneration Committee members and attendance byothers Relative Total Property Return TPR : Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR : and Chairman 6 meetings Absolute net asset per share growth NAV growth.
Jonathan Short Members Over the medium-term, we aim to outperform Elizabeth Holden our benchmarks.
Jonathan Nicholls In attendance Executive reward linked to the Groups Martin Scicluna performance for shareholders under the 2010 Toby Courtauld Long-Term Incentive Plan the2010Plan The 2010 Plan uses all of our key performance indicators Part attendance to measure the Groups performance being TPR, TSR and NAV growth.
Under the Groups 2010 Plan, the level of Our approach reward tothe Executive Directors and senior management During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised depends on the performance of the Group over a threethree independent Non-Executive Directors, Elizabeth year period.
I am pleased to report that 100% of the TSR Holden, Jonathan Nicholls and myself.
and NAV elements of the Groups main 2012 LTIP and SMP awards vested, reecting the underlying strong financial The Committee was advised during the year by FIT performance of the Company as demonstrated through Remuneration Consultants FIT Rem as independent the trend of the Companys annual KPIs of TSR and NAV remuneration consultants who were appointed by the growth.
TSR for the three year period to 6 June 2015 was Committee in August 2014.
The NAV uplift for the three years to 31 March 2015 meetings and provides advice on remuneration for was 76%.
We also exceeded the Total Property Return TPR the Executive Directors, analysis on all elements of the benchmark for the three year period to 31 March 2015 by remuneration policy and regular market and best practice 0.2 percentage points resulting in a vesting level of 42% for updates.
FIT Rem reports directly to the Committee.
the main LTIP and SMP awards.
This represents a lower level Toby Courtauld, the Chief Executive, provided input with than for the three year period to 31 March 2014 82% as a regard to the achievement of personal objectives for the result of our lower relative income return due to the scale other Executive Directors and attends discussions on of our development activities and greater rate of capital remuneration including on appointments and promotions growth in 2015 for secondary properties compared to our as considered appropriate by the Committee.
No director or employee is involved in discussions on their As at the date of this report, based on the latest information own pay.
available as at 31 March 2016, forthe June 2013 LTIP and SMP awards, with continued strong NAV growth resulting in an uplift for the three years to 31 March 2016 of 90%, we expect 100% of the NAV hurdle to be met.
We also exceeded the TPR benchmark for the three year period to 31 March 2016 by 0.2 percentage points, in line with our outperformance over the prior three year period see above, resulting in a vesting level of 37% due to our associated percentile ranking.
However, following a fiderating of the share prices of GPE and other London focused property companies relative to the broader FTSE 350 Real Estate sector over the last year in part due to adverse Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 97 market sentiment ahead of the upcoming EU referendum, 2016 17 implementation of our policy we expect only 38.4% of the TSR hurdle to be met.
No changes to the overall remuneration structure are proposed for the coming year.
Annual Bonus Plan measures and performancein 2015 16 The base salary increase for employees will be 2% for the year ending 31 March 2017.
Base salary increases of more The Groups annual bonus plan for the Executive Directors than 2% were given to some employees due to market and employees uses financial targets based on NAV growth alignment and or a number of increases in individual and the capital growth element of TPR.
responsibilities, such that the average increase will be 4.6% The achievement of our strategic priorities as outlined on for the year to 31 March 2017.
The Committee propose pages 10and 11, has resulted in another year of strong to increase the Executive Directors salaries by 2% in line performance withNAV per share growth of 19.5% and the with employees.
capital growth element of TPR of 16.3%.
A more detailed summary of the implementation of the The resulting payout under both our Annual Bonus Plan remuneration policy for the year ending 31 March 2016, andthree year LTIP and SMP awards are summarised on which is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 page 98.
AGM, isprovided on pages 99 to 109.
Our overarching remuneration policy 2016 17 policy review principles Our current policy needs to be renewed at the 2017 AGM The Executive Directors total pay is analysed by looking after reaching the end of its three year approval.
Overall, across each of the different elements of remuneration we consider that the current policy has operated effectively including salary, pension, the annual bonus plan and and provided appropriate alignment between the Executive long-term incentives to provide the Remuneration Directors and our shareholders.
However, we recognise that Committee with a view of total remuneration rather than both the Company has grown over the life of the policy with just the competitiveness of the individual elements.
It is net assets growing by over 89% and that there have been important that the Groups remuneration policy reinforces some developments in market practice and shareholders the Companys goals, providing effective incentives for attitudes to pay design.
exceptional Group and individual performance.
As well as We shall be commencing a review of the policy in June providing motivation to perform, remuneration plays an 2016 which will consider all of these issues and what, if any, important retention role and needs to be competitive with changes to the current policy may be appropriate.
As part alternative employment opportunities, in particular at a time of that review, we shall consult with our largest shareholders in the central London property cycle where demands on the and their representative bodies and present any changes to Executive Directors and employees are high and there is a the 2017 AGM.
scarcity value on proven performers particularly with strong development or leasing capabilities.
I do hope that you will support the annual vote of the Remuneration Report at this AGM.
How we structure our remuneration to meet Jonathan Short ourprinciples Chairman of the Remuneration Committee To achieve the aims of the Companys remuneration policy, 25 May 2016 the Committee seeks to position xed remuneration, including benets and pension, around mid-market and total executive remuneration around mid-market for on-target performance taking into account the size and complexity of the business as compared to other peer companies in the sector, and, using a significant proportion of variable reward, to increase total potential remuneration for superior performance through the annual bonus plan and long-term incentives.
Our Remuneration Policy was approved at our 2014 AGMThe Policy has been reproduced for reference on pages 110 to 120.
Further details on the votes received on our 2014 Remuneration Policy and the 2015 Directors remuneration report are provided on page109.
