116 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration report Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role, and our principle is that the pay of any new recruit would be assessed following the same principles as for the directors and the policy previously summarised.
Executive Director recruitment Component Policy Base salary The salary level will be set taking into account relevant market data, the experience and skills of andbenets the individual, responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid to similar roles in comparable companies in line with the currentprocess undertaken by the Committee when setting the salary levels for its existing directors.
Executive Directors shall be eligible to receive benets in line with the Companys benets policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Pension Executive Directors will be able to receive a pension contribution or receive a supplement in lieu of pension contributions in line with the Companys pension policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the Annual Bonus Plan as set out in the remuneration policy table.
For Executive Directors joining part way through a year, awards would be pro-rated.
Different performance measures may be set initially for the annual bonus, taking into account the responsibilities of theindividual, and the point in the financial year that they joined.
Annual bonus The annual maximum potential opportunity under this plan is 200% of salary.
Long-term incentives Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan set out in the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable under plan rules at the Committees discretion of 200% of salary under the LTIP element of the plan and 100% of salary under theSMP element of the plan when the Executive invests a third of salary.
Share buyouts Awards may be granted to replace those forfeited by the Executive Director on taking up the replacement awards appointment where considered by the Committee to be appropriate.
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards such that overall they are no more generous in terms ofquantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
Where the Company compensates new directors inthisway, it will seek to do so under the terms of the Companys existing variable remuneration arrangements, but maycompensate on terms that are more bespoke than the existing arrangements, including awards granted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2, where the Committee considers appropriate.
In such instances, the Company will disclose a full explanation of the detail and rationale for such recruitment related compensation.
In making such awards, the Committee will seek to take into account the nature including whether awards are cash or share-based, vesting period and performance measures and or conditions for any remuneration forfeited by the individual in leaving a previous employer.
Where such awards had outstanding performance or service conditions which are not signicantly completed, the Company will generally impose equivalent conditions.
In exceptional cases, the Committee may relax those requirements where it considers this to be in the interest of theshareholders, for example through a significant discount to the face value of the replacement awards.
Relocation policies In instances where the new Executive Director is non-UK domiciled or needs to be relocated, the Company may provide one-off or ongoing compensation as part of the Executive Directors relocation benets to reect the cost of relocation for the Executive in cases where they are expected to spend significant time away from their country of domicile.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case-by-case basis and may take into consideration any cost of living differences, housing allowance and or schooling.
Legacy arrangements Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions on a prorata basis.
Similarly, if an Executive Director is appointed following the Companys acquisition or merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions on a prorata basis would be honoured.
Non-Executive Director recruitment Component Policy Fees Newly appointed Non-Executive Directors will be paid fees consistent with existing .
