118 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration report Other remuneration payments on termination of employment and change ofcontrol In addition to the payment of base salary, benets and pension as set out above, the Groups annual bonus, long-term incentives, SIP and  for the termination of employment.
The Companys approach to these payments is set out below: Component Good Leaver Bad Leaver Change of control Annual Bonus Where an Executive Directors Outstanding award is An Executive Director may receive Plan employment is terminated after forfeited.
abonus, the amount of which will the end of a performance year be determined by the Committee, but before the payment is made, taking into account such factors the Executive will be eligible as it considers relevant, including for an annual bonus award for the proportion of the elapsed that performance year subject performance period at the date to anassessment based on ofchange of control.
performance achieved over the period.
Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro rata annual bonusfor the period worked in that performance year may be payable in relation to personal objectives set.
2010 Plan Awards may vest at the date of Outstanding awards lapse.
In accordance with the Rules of the LTIP SMP cessation of employment or the 2010 Plan, on a change of control, normalvesting date at the discretion vesting will occur immediately.
Performance against targets will beassessed by the Committee on Awards will vest based on the change of control.
The number of performance achieved up to the date Planshares vesting will normally of cessation normal vesting date at be reduced pro rata to reect thediscretion of the Committee and the amount of time elapsed from bepro-rated to reect the amount the Award Date until the change of time elapsed since the award of control as a proportion of date.
TheCommittee retains the the original vesting period.
The discretion to disregard time when Committee retains the discretion to determining the level of vesting.
disregard time when determining This would onlybeconsidered in the level of vesting.
Thiswould exceptional circumstances and only be considered in exceptional where considered, the Committee circumstances and where would take into account the considered, the Committee would circumstances of the cessation take into account the overall context ofemployment.
of the deal and the actual value Upon death, all long-term incentive delivered to shareholders.
awards vest immediately in full.
Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 119 Component Good Leaver Bad Leaver Change of control Share Incentive All Plan shares can be sold or Free shares and matched All Plan shares can be sold or Plan SIP transferred out of the Plan.
Free, shares held for less than transferred out of the Plan.
Free, matching and partnership shares three years will be forfeited.
matching and partnership shares may beremoved tax free.
If dividend Partnership and Matched may beremoved tax free.
If dividend shares are taken out of the SIP within shares held for more than shares are taken out of the SIP within three years of being awarded, the three years but less than three years of being awarded, the dividend used to buy themis subject five years will be liable to tax dividend used to buy them is subject to income tax at the dividend rate.
depending on time held in to income tax at the dividend rate.
If dividend shares On resignation, matched shares are taken out of the SIP within heldfor less than three years will three years of being awarded, beforfeited.
the dividend used to buy themis subject to income tax at the dividend rate.
Save As You Earn Options may be exercised during Options held for less than Options may be exercised in the Scheme SAYE aperiodof six months following three years will lapse on event of a change of control of the cessation of employment cessation.
or12monthsfollowing cessation more than three years may intheevent of death.
be exercised during a period of three months following cessation, except where the reason for cessation is misconduct.
Good leavers under each of the Annual Bonus Plan, 2010 Plan, SIP and discretion where it considers this to be appropriate, taking into account SAYE are those leaving under specified conditions as set out below.
the circumstances of the termination and the performance in the context of each plan and will provide a full explanation to shareholders of the basis Annual Bonus Plan and 2010 Plan: of its determination.
The exercise of the Committees discretion under one d eath: plan will not predetermine the exercise of its discretion under another.
ill-health, injury or disability evidenced to the satisfaction of the Good leavers under the SIP and SAYE are those participants leaving in Remuneration Committee : certain circumstances as under applicable legislation including death, injury, redundancy: disability, retirement and redundancy.
retirement: Bad leavers are those leavers who are not good leavers.
the award holders employing company or business being transferred out of the Group: or any other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, including where appropriate and exceptionally, resignation.
The Committee will only use its general Governance
