94 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Relations with shareholders Investor contact by method This years investor event provided a deeper dive into our recent Meeting 7 7 activities to around 100 attendees Conference 9 and the feedback has been Tour verypositive.
Meeting and tour Call Stephen Burrows Head of Financial Reporting and 205 59 Investor Relations meetings 123 Communication with our investors is given a high priority.
As a result we maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders, potential shareholders, debt providers and analysts through a comprehensive investor relations programme.
For more information on our direct and indirect The programme is executed across a number of engagement with investors on sustainability, see page 62. geographies, reecting the international nature of our share The Executive Directors and corporate finance team also register, and through a variety of routes including roadshow have regular dialogue with our debt providers, including meetings, meetings at industry conferences, investor and relationship banks, private placement investors, debenture analyst events, property tours and presentations to analysts holders and convertible bond holders.
and investment banks equity sales teams.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Martin We are also committed to providing investors with regular Scicluna and Jonathan Nicholls respectively are each announcements of significant events affecting the Group, available, as appropriate, as a contact for shareholders.
including its business activity and financial performance.
The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an These announcements are available on the Groups opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions website at www.
co. uk along with results webcasts, from, private and institutional shareholders and the whole analyst presentations, property videos, press releases and Board is available before the meeting, in particular, for interviews with the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
shareholders to meet new directors.
The Executive Directors and the Head of Financial The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination and Reporting & Investor Relations are the Companys principal Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual representatives with investors, analysts, fund managers, General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the press and other interested parties, and independent resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting feedback on presentations by the Executive Directors to on 7 July 2016 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on shareholders and analysts is provided to the Non-Executive pages 171 and 172.
After the Annual General Meeting, Directors on a regular basis.
Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, the Companys Registrars will count and verify the poll also offered to meet major shareholders owning 42% of the votes.
The results will be announced to the London Company and during the year he met or spoke with seven Stock Exchange and will be published on our website at institutional investors.
co. uk investors  agm In total, the directors and senior management had 205 formal meetings with shareholders and potential shareholders from 140 institutions during the year as detailed below.
Investor contact by location United Kingdom 12 United States and Canada Rest of Europe 28 Rest of World 205 meetings 36 129 Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 95 What we did in 2015 16 Investor and analyst event 2015 May 2015 Investor roadshow: London Equity sales force meetings x2 June 2015 Investor roadshows: Amsterdam US Switzerland Conferences: Kempen Amsterdam, David Kenningham from Kenningham Retail Morgan Stanley London Equity sales force meetings x3 July 2015 In February 2016, we held an analyst and investor event Annual General Meeting at Oxford House, W1 to provide a deeper insight into our recent activities and the long-term opportunity we have created to add further value.
We had eight presentations from members of our team, along with September 2015 Rob Cookson of Facebook who provided colour on why they chose Rathbone Square, W1 for their new Conferences: Goldman Sachs London, EPRA Berlin, European headquarters, and leading West End retail SocitGnrale London agent David Kenningham.
We also took the opportunity to tour the adjacent Rathbone Square site which is under construction.
November 2015 We had around 100 attendees at the event and the Investor roadshows: London Frankfurt Edinburgh feedback received was very positive.
Conference: JP Morgan Cazenove London Equity sales force meetings x4 Our investor relations awards December 2015 Investor roadshow: US Building Public Trust Awards 2015 Conference: UBS London Winner of Strategic Reporting Equity sales force meeting x1 in the FTSE 250 January 2016 Building Public Trust Awards 2015 Highly commended Excellence in Conference: JP Morgan Reporting in the FTSE 250 Cazenove London Investor roadshow: Amsterdam Equity sales force meetings x3 February 2016 Investor roadshows: Asia Amsterdam Investor and analyst event London Equity sales force meetings x1 March 2016 Conferences: Citi US, BAML London Equity sales force meetings x3 2016 Governance
