52 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 The Board Non-Executive Director Executive Directors Martin Scicluna Toby Courtauld Nick Sanderson Neil Thompson Chairman Chief Executive Executive Director Finance Director BCom MA, MRICS BA Hons, ACA BSc Hons, MRICS Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Chairman of the Nomination Chairman of the Executive Member of the Executive Member of the Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Date appointed to the Board: Chairman of Environmental Date appointed to the Board: Chairman of Health and Safety, October 2008 Policy Committee July 2011 Environmental and Corporate Responsibility Working Group Independent: Yes, Date appointed to the Board: Independent: No on appointment April 2002 Date appointed to the Board: Skills and experience: August 2006 Skills and experience: Independent: No Joined the Group in July 2011 Chairman of RSA.
Formerly Independent: No Skills and experience: Non-Executive Directorand Partner, Head of Real Estate Joined the Group in April 2002 Skills and experience: Chairman of the Audit Corporate Finance Advisory at as Chief Executive.
Previously Joined the Group in December Committee ofLloyds Banking Deloitte, following ten years of with the property company 2002 and was appointed to the Group following 34 years at real estate investment banking MEPC for 11 years, hegained Board as Development Director Deloitte, including Chairman experience in Europe and Asia broadexperience ranging from inAugust 2006, becoming from 1995 to 2007.
Age 65. with Nomura, Lehman Brothers portfolio management through Portfolio Director inSeptember and UBS Investment Bank.
Current external tocorporate transactions and 2010.
In March 2016, his title was Age43.
commitments: general management as a changed to Executive Director.
Chairman of RSA plc, member of the Group Current external He has worked for more than Non-Executive Director, ExecutiveCommittee.
commitments: 20years in the central London Senior Independent Director Member of the Finance commercial property market.
Current external andChairman of the Audit Committee of the British Formerly with Derwent Valley commitments: Committee of WorldPay.
Property Federation, Member and Legal & General Member of the British Property ofthe Reporting & Accounting Investment Management.
Federation Boardand Policy Committee of EPRA.
Committee, Director of TheNew West End Company, Current external Non-Executive Director commitments: ofLiv-Ex Limited, Member Chairman of the Westminster ofImperial College Property Association.
Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 53 Left to right: Martin Scicluna, Toby Courtauld, Nick Sanderson, Neil Thompson, Jonathan Short, Jonathan Nicholls, Charles Philipps, Elizabeth Holden Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Short Jonathan Nicholls Charles Philipps Elizabeth Holden BSc, ACIB, FRICS BA Hons, ACA, FCT ACA MA Hons Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Chairman of the Remuneration Senior Independent Director Member of the Audit Member of the Audit Committee Committee from 1July 2014 Committee Chairman of the Audit Member of the Audit Committee Committee Member of the Nomination Member of the Remuneration Committee from 1July 2014 Committee Member of the Nomination Member of the Remuneration Committee Committee Date appointed to the Board: Member of the Nomination April 2014 Committee Date appointed to the Board: Member of the March 2007 NominationCommittee Independent: Yes Date appointed to the Board: September 2012 Independent: Yes Date appointed to the Board: Skills and experience: July 2009 Chief Executive officer of Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Amlin plc and formerly a Founding Partner of Internos Independent: Yes Skills and experience: director of NatWest Markets.
Global Investors LLP, Formerly a corporate partner Skills and experience: Age 57. apan-European real estate at Slaughter and May Formerly Group Finance investment management Current external specialising in mergers and Director of Old Mutual plc and business.
PreviouslyCEO of commitments: acquisitions, corporate Hanson plc, and previously Pramericas real estate private Chief Executive officer of advisory and governance Non-Executive Director of equity business following Amlin plc and Executive matters.
16years in investment banking officer of its parent company Current external Current external at Lazard, Barings and SG Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance, commitments: commitments: Warburg.
Formerly a NonTrustee of the Outward Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director and Executive Director of Big BoundTrust.
YourLifespace Ltd and HML Chairman of theAudit YellowGroup plc.
Committee of SIG Plc, Current external Non-Executive Director, Senior commitments: Independent Director and Executive Chairman of Chairman of theAudit Internos Global Investors LLP, Committee of DSSmithPlc, Independent Director to the Non-Executive Director and Grosvenor Shopping Centre Senior Independent Director Fund, Non-Executive Director ofIbstock plc.
and Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee of Gatehouse Bank.
