64 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Our approach to risk The successful management of risk is How the Board monitors the Groups principalrisks essential for the Grouptodeliver its The Groups principal risks and the processes through which strategic priorities.
Whilst the ultimate the Company aims to manage these risks are outlined on  rests pages 66 to 73.
Ongoing monitoring of our principal risks with the Board,  and controls by the Board is undertaken by: management of risk is in the way we relatively low levels of authority for transactions requiring dobusiness and the cultureofour team.
Board approval see pages 76 and 77, with investment transactions and development approvals requiring, amongst others, consideration of impact on financial leverage, interest cover and portfolio risk composition: Our at organisational structure, with close involvement of the three Executive Directors oversight of all senior management in all significant decisions combined day-to-day significant decisions with a copy of the with our prudent and analytical approach, is designed to weeklyExecutive Committee minutes provided to align the Groups interests with those of shareholders.
theNon-Executive Directors: the Chief Executive reporting on the market conditions Setting and monitoring our risk appetite dashboard, operational parameters and people at each The Groups overarching risk appetite is set in the context ofthe scheduled Board meetings: that we focus on only one market that we know inside out the Executive Director providing a review on the central London.
However, because our market is cyclical, we development programme, occupational markets, key apply a disciplined approach to managing our operational property matters and health and safety at each of the risk, in particular our development exposure, in tune with scheduled Board meetings: market conditions whilst always maintaining low financial riskthrough conservative financial leverage.
the Finance Director reporting on the Group forecasts including actual and prospective leverage metrics, We use a suite of key operational parameters as an the tenant watch list and delinquencies at each of the important tool to set and then measure the Groups risk scheduled Board meetings: prole.
These parameters consider, amongst others, the the Audit Committee meeting with the valuers twice Groups size, financial gearing, interest cover, level of a year to better understand market conditions and speculative and total development exposure, and single challenge the assumptions underlying the valuation.
These parameters are revisited annually as part of the Groups Strategy Review and Risk Assessment reviewed at each Board meeting.
Both the Groups actual During the year ended 31 March 2016, as part of a robust and forecast position over the next five years against these assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, at parameters are monitored.
the half year and year end, the Groups principal risks See our operational measures on pages 20 and 21 including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity, the controls in How we manage our risks place to mitigate them and how key controls operated in the preceding six months were reviewed by the Executive We believe that effective management of risk is based on a Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board.
top down and bottom-up approach outlined on page 65 A description of the Groups principal risks, steps taken which includes: to mitigate those risks, together with an assessment of our strategy setting process: the impact and likelihood of each and how the risks have the quality of our people and culture: changed in the year is shown on pages 66 to 73.
This year, as established procedures and internal controls: a result of the heightened political uncertainty arising from the upcoming referendum on the UK EU relationship, this policies for highlighting and controlling risks: has been identied as a separate new risk.
regular oversight by the relevant Committees: and See our viability statement on page 74 a clear reading of market conditions and the cycle.
Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 65 Board oversight Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Operational Committees Executive Committee weekly Development Investment Strategy update Corporate Asset management management management quarterly responsibility review weekly weekly quarterly quarterly Asset management Financial Development Environmental weekly management management review policy weekly quarterly quarterly Policies for highlighting and controlling risk Investment return Regular review of business plans, Development appraisal benchmarks dashboard lead indicators and parameters operational parameters Debt leverage, covenant Leasing objectives and tenant compliance and liquidity limits Occupancy targets covenant testing Procedures and internal controls High level risk Extensive documentation to Dened performance indicators assessment framework support decisions with sensitivity analysis Strict approval Formal policies and procedures External review of requirements consistently applied key controls People and culture Focused market expertise Integrity in business conduct Conservative attitude to capital deployment Open communication Interests aligned with shareholders Analytical rigour Transparent disclosure Qualied and experienced with stakeholders personnel with specic roles Business risk Strategic Report Annual review 66 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Our approach to risk How we manage risk Market risk Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Central London real estate Reduced The execution of the Groups strategy covering the key areas of investment, market underperforms other UK performance.
development and asset management is adjusted and updated throughout property sectors.
the year, informed by regular research into the economy, the investment and occupational markets.
The Groups strategic priorities and transactions are considered in light of regular review ofdashboard lead indicators and operational parameters.
The Group aims to maintain low financial leverage throughout the property cycle.
Worse than expected Regular economic updates are received and scenario planning is undertaken for performance of the different economic cycles, including potential UK exit from the EU.
The Group aims to maintain low financial leverage throughout the propertycycle.
Heightened political uncertainty Reluctance by The Groups strategic priorities and transactions are considered in light of these including upcoming UK investors and uncertainties.
occupiers to make Lobbying property industry matters is undertaken by active participation of the investment decisions Executive Directors through relevant industry bodies.
Investment management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Incorrect reading of the Not sufciently The Group has dedicated resources whose remit is to constantly research each of property cycle through poor capitalising on market the sub-markets within central London seeking the right balance of investment and investment decisions and or investment conditions.
development opportunities suitable for current and anticipated market conditions.
Regular review of property cycle by reference to dashboard of lead indicators.
Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all acquisitions prior to purchase to ensure appropriate returns.
Business plans are produced on an individual asset basis to ensure the appropriate rotation of those buildings with limited relative potential performance.
Regular review of the prospective performance of individual assets and their business plans with joint venture partners.
Inappropriate asset Reduced liquidity Regular review of portfolio mix and asset concentration.
Adjustment of the concentration, building mix, and relative property portfolio as appropriate through undertaking acquisitions and or development tenant covenant quality and performance.
projects in joint venture or forward funding.
The Group has a diverse tenant base with its ten largest tenants representing only30.5% of rent roll.
Tenants covenants are analysed and security sought as appropriate as partof the lease approval process.
Regular contact with tenants is maintained to identify if tenants are suffering financial difficulties and their proposed actions.
Asset management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Poor management of voids, Failure to maximise The Groups in-house asset management and leasing teams proactively manage rental mis-pricing, low tenant income from tenants to ensure changing needs are met with a focus on retaining income in retention, sub-optimal rent investment properties.
light of vacant possession requirements for refurbishments anddevelopments reviews, tenant failures and and liaise regularly with external advisers toensure correct pricing of lease inappropriate refurbishments.
Regular contact with tenants is maintained to identify if tenants are suffering financial difficulties and theirproposed actions.
Although tenants all-in occupational costs are expected to increase in 2017 given an anticipated increase in business rates, our low average ofce rents of only 45.30 per sq ft are expected to provide some protection to our tenants.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 67 Impact Likelihood change change fromlast from last year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The central London real estate market continued to outperform the wider UK market during the year ended 31March2016, demonstrated by IPDs central London TPR exceeding IPDs universe by 5.4 percentage points on an absolutebasis.
Following an extended period of outperformance by central London real estate, the likelihood of this risk has marginally increased.
Our market on pages 25 to 29 Over the past 12 months, the positive growth outlook for the London economy has been maintained.
However, uncertainties around the economic outlook persist given continued stock market volatility, ongoing concerns on China and other emerging market economies weakness and the outlook for global interest rates.
Our market on pages 25 to 29 The upcoming UK referendum on EU membership appears to be weighing on broader business confidence and investment appetite.
While it is too early to tell what the impact will be on the London property market, in the event of a UK vote to leave the EU, property valuations, capital markets and occupier demand could be impacted during the subsequent transition period while the terms of exit and future relationships are negotiated.
Our market on pages 25 to 29 Impact Likelihood change change fromlast from last year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group has continued to invest and recycle capital against abackdrop ofstrong capital value growth in central London andasurfeit of buyers tosellers in the investment market.
Lack of available stock mitigated by depth of opportunity in currentportfolio.
During the year, three acquisitions totalling 214.3 million were made together with four disposals of 469.7 million atpremium to book value of10.0%.
Case studies on pages 12 to 15 Investment management operational measures on page 20 Our market on pages 25 to 29 Investment management on pages 32 and 33 The Group continues to monitor its portfolio mix and asset concentration risk.
Our largest asset is only 14.0% of the total portfolio and 16.9% of the portfolio was held in joint ventures at 31 March 2016.
Valuation on pages 30 and 31 Impact Likelihood change change fromlast from last year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group continues to monitor a low void rate which was 3.1% at 31March2016.
Tenantdelinquencies were 0.3% of the rent roll for theyearto 31 March 2016.
The Group continues to actively manage the portfolio to maximise occupancy and drive rental growth.
During the year, we secured 31.8 million of new rental income including 23.7million ofdevelopment lettings.
Case studies on pages 16 to 19 Asset management operational measures on page 21 Asset management on pages 38 and 39 Our approach to sustainability on page 56 2016 2015 Strategic Report Annual review 68 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Our approach to risk How we manage risk Development management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Poor execution of development Poor development See Market risk on page 66. programme through: returns.
Prior to committing to a development the Group conducts a detailed Financial incorrect reading of the and Operational appraisal process which evaluates the expected returns from a property cycle: development in light of likely risks.
During the course of a development, the actual costs and estimated returns are regularly monitoredto signpost prompt decisions inappropriate location: on project management, leasingand ownership.
failure to gain viable planning Early engagement and strong relationships with planning authorities.
consents: Early engagement with adjoining owners.
failure to reach agreement with adjoining owners on acceptable Benchmarking of costs with comparative schemes.
terms: In-house Project Management team utilise appropriate procurement methods to level of speculative optimise thebalance of price certainty and risk with construction costs now xed development: on over 98% of committed schemes capital expenditure.
incorrect cost estimation: Internal and external resourcing requirements regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee, Development Director and Head of Projects.
Third party resource construction cost ination: expertise used to support in-house teams, whereappropriate.
contractor availability and Due diligence is undertaken of the financial stability of demolition, main insolvency risk: contractors and material sub-contractors prior to awarding of contracts.
insufficient human resources: Working with agents, potential occupiers and purchasers needs and aspirations a building being inappropriate are identied during the planning application and design stages.
to tenant demand: In-house Leasing Marketing team liaise with external advisers on a regular weak demand for residential basis and marketing timetables designed in accordance with leasing marketing apartments: objectives.
quality and benchmarks of the All our major developments are subject to BREEAM ratings with a target to achieve completed buildings: a rating ofVery Good on major refurbishments and Excellent on new build properties.
construction and procurement delays: Pro-active liaison with existing tenants before and during the development ineffective marketing to process.
prospective tenants: and Selection of contractors and suppliers based on track record of delivery and credit poor development worthiness.
In-house Project Management team closely monitor construction and manage contractors toensure adequate resourcing to meet programme.
Post-completion reviews undertaken on all developments to identify best practice and areas for improvement.
An inappropriate level of Underperformance Regular review of the level of development undertaken as a percentage of development undertaken as a against KPIs.
portfolio, including the impact on the Groups income prole and financial percentage of the portfolio.
Developments only committed to when pre-lets obtained and or market supply considered to be sufciently constrained.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 69 Impact Likelihood change change fromlast from last year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group has increased its development commitments with eight schemes currently on-site with a gross development value GDV of 1,430.3 million compared to six schemes with a GDV of 1,096.2 million a year ago.
However, the Group has continued to fide-risk its development programme and, as a result, the risk likelihood after mitigation is unchanged over the year.
Key initiatives during the year included: the pre-letting of the entire ofce space at Rathbone Square, W1 to Facebook on a 15 year lease for 17.8 million p. a. : the pre-letting of all the retail space at 73 89 Oxford Street, W1: the continued sales programme of the residential element of Rathbone Square, W1 with 39.0 million of sales during the year and today only three private units remain to be sold: and placing construction contracts on three further schemes since 31 March 2015, meaning that we now have cost certainty on over 98% of our committed capex.
Case study on pages 16 and 17 Development management operational measures on page 20 Development management on pages 34 to 37 Our approach to sustainability on pages 58 to 60 With forecast supply of central London ofce space expected to remain low in the near to medium term, the Group has expanded its development exposure to capitalise on the expected resulting rental growth given improving tenant demand.
Our increased development activity has increased the potential impact of this risk.
However, 61.1% of income or gross development value of the committed developments has already been secured and, given the level of current development commitments, the Group has further reduced its already conservative financial leverage.
Case study on pages 16 and 17 Development management on pages 34 to 37 2016 2015 Strategic Report Annual review 70 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Our approach to risk How we manage risk Financial risks Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Limited availability of Growth of business is Cash ow and funding needs are regularly monitored to ensure sufficient furthercapital.
constrained or unable undrawn facilities are in place.
to execute business Funding maturities are managed across the short, medium and long-term.
The Groups funding measures are diversied across a range of bank and bondmarkets.
Strict counterparty limits are operated on deposits.
Increased interest rates and or a Adverse market Consistent policy of conservative financial leverage.
movements negatively Regular review of current and forecast debt levels and nancing ratios.
impact on debt Our annual Business Plan which is regularly updated includes stress tests covenants.
considering the impact of a significant deterioration in the markets in which weoperate.
Formal policy to manage interest rate exposure by having a high proportion of debt with xed or capped interest rates through derivatives.
significant headroom over all financial covenants at 31 March 2016.
We estimate that, absent any mitigating management actions, values could fall by around 67% from their 31 March 2016 levelsbefore Group debt covenants could be endangered.
Sub-optimal NAV per Regular review of current and forecast capital requirements and gearing levels share growth.
People Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Incorrect level and mix retention Strategic priorities not Regular review is undertaken of the Groups resource requirements and of people to execute our achieved.
business plan, combined with The Company has a remuneration system that is strongly linked to performance inability to attract, develop, and a formal six-monthly appraisal system to provide regular assessment of motivate and retain talent.
individual performance and identication of training and development needs.
Benchmarking of remuneration packages of all employees is undertakenannually.
High prole, attractive development programme and high quality assets tomanage.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 71 Impact Likelihood change change fromlast from last year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group has continued to extend the maturity ladder of its debt nancing and maintain diverse funding sources.
During the year, the Group extended the maturity of its 450 million revolving credit facility to October 2020 and renanced the secured bank debt in the Great Ropemaker Partnership, taking the maturity to December 2020.
Cash and undrawn credit facilities were 472 million at 31 March 2016.
Financial management on pages 40 and 41 Our financial results on pages 42 to 44 Notes 16 and 17 forming part of the Group financial statements on pages 146 to 150 Following continued strong rental growth and further compression of already record low yields during the year, we expect the pace of rental growth to moderate and some modest expansion of yields over the coming year.
Whilst broader economic and political uncertainties have kept global interest rates at very low levels, there remains an expectation of modest increase in UK interest rates in the medium-term.
However, this risk likelihood after mitigation is unchanged given our significant headroom against debt covenants and 100% of the Groups debt being at xed or hedged interest rates.
Financial management operational measures on page 21 Financial management on pages 40 and 41 Our financial results on pages 42 to 44 Notes 16 and 17 forming part of the Group financial statements on pages 146 to 150 The Groups existing capital structure is well placed to take advantage of opportunities as they arise and to deliver our development programme.
Financial management on pages 40 and 41 Our financial results on pages 42 to 44 Impact Likelihood change change fromlast from last year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary With the Group in the execution phase of the cycle and increased levels of development activity, the motivation of our people remains fundamental to the delivery ofourstrategic priorities.
However, staff retention is high at 88% against a backdrop of an increasingly competitive employment market and the risk likelihood after mitigation has marginally reduced overthe year given our recruitment activities with four net new hires, various internal promotions including expansion of our Executive Committee and other Human Resources initiatives.
People operational measures on page 21 Our people on pages 48 to 51 Remuneration report on pages 96 to 120 2016 2015 Strategic Report Annual review 72 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Our approach to risk How we manage risk Regulatory Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Adverse regulatory risk, Reduces exibility and Senior Group representatives spend considerable time, using experienced particularly following the recent may influence potential advisers asappropriate, to ensure compliance with current and potential future appointment of the new London investor and occupier regulations.
Mayor, including tax, planning, interest in buildings.
Lobbying property industry matters is undertaken by active participation of the environmental legislation and Executive Directors through relevant industry bodies.
Environmental Policy Committee meets at least quarterly to consider strategy in respect ofenvironmental legislation.
Resultant reputational The Group has dedicated Health and Safety personnel to oversee the Groups damage.
management systems which include regular risk assessments and annual Loss of life or injury to employees, audits to proactively address key Health and Safety areas including employee, contractors, members of the contractor, members of the public and tenant safety.
On developments, the Group operates a pre-qualication process to ensure selection of competent consultants and contractors which includes a Health and Safety assessment.
Contractors responses to accidents and near misses are actively monitored and followed-up by our Project Managers and Head of Sustainability, with reporting to the Executive Committee and Board as appropriate.
Business interruption risk Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation An external event such as a significant damage, The Group has a Business Continuity Plan with predetermined processes and power shortage, extreme disruption and or escalation for the Crisis Management Team.
Asset emergency plans exist for weather, environmental incident, reputational damage individual properties.
civil unrestor terrorist or to the Groups portfolio Physical security measures are in place at properties and security threats are cyber attack that signicantly andoperations.
regularly assessed through links with security agencies.
affects the Groups operations, Regular testing of IT security is undertaken.
particularly given our portfolio concentration in central London.
The Groups insurance policies include cover for catastrophic events including re, storm, riots and terrorism.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 73 Impact Likelihood change change fromlast from last year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The likelihood of this risk marginally increased during the year given increased uncertainty around our future relationship with the EU, increases to SDLT rates on property and the recent election of a new London mayor which may lead to policy changes, including investment in public transport infrastructure.
In 2015, Minimum Energy efficiency Standards came into force whichwill impact the ability to let less energy efficient buildings from 2018.
A watch list of all buildings EPC ratings and proposed actions is, therefore, maintained.
Uncertainty remains as to the taxation and regulatory environment, with the real estate sector sometimes perceived by regulators to be part of the financial services sector rather than as an operating business.
As a result, the industry could be adversely affected by regulation designed to stabilise financial markets, such as the proposed OECD BEPS project.
Our market on page 25 Property industry representation on pages 52, 54 and 55 and 61 Sustainability on pages 56 and 57 With heightened levels of development activity, the likelihood of this risk marginally increased over the year.
The Group had no reportable accidents and no reportable incidents during the year.
Health and safety on page 62 Impact Likelihood change change fromlast from last year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The UK Government maintained the UKs external terrorism threat at severeduring the year, and while the likelihood of a major incident remains low, the risk has marginally increased following recent incidents in other major European cities.
2016 2015 Strategic Report Annual review 74 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Our approach to risk Assessment of viability Viability Statement Further sensitivity analysis was undertaken to ex the Assessment of the Groups prospects financial forecasts under a variety of macro-economic In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 Revision scenarios, both positive and negative.
The negative of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has scenarios included stress testing the resilience of the assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period Group, and its business model, to the potential impact of than the 12 months that has been required by the Going the Groups principal risks, or a combination of these risks.
This longer-term assessment supports specifically, the Board considered the impact of a significant the Boards statements on both viability, as set out below, economic downturn leading to asset value declines: similar and going concern as set out on page 122. to the market movements of 2008 9.
In addition, a further The Groups future prospects are assessed primarily reverse stress test was carried out to understand how far through its annual Strategy Review.
This review is led by property yields would need to rise, or rental values fall, the Chief Executive drawing on expertise from across our before the Group was at risk of breaching the financial integrated team.
It includes an assessment of the macrocovenants contained in its various loan arrangements.
economic environment, forecasts of key property market The results of this sensitivity analysis showed that the Group metrics including yields and rental value growth, annual would be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios valuation progressions for each of its assets and full forecast over the period of the financial forecast.
financial statements for a five year period, with a primary focus on the first three years.
The three year period is Viability statement considered an optimum balance between our need to plan Whilst the directors have no reason to believe that the for the long-term and the shorter-term nature of our active Group will not be viable over a longer period, based on this business model, which includes high levels of recycling assessment of the prospects and viability of the Group the of our property portfolio and a significant committed directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation development programme which completes over the that the Group will be able to continue in operation and next18 months.
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period ending 31 March 2019.
The key outputs from this process are financial forecasts, summarised in a dashboard, which analyse profits, cash ows, funding requirements, key financial ratios and headroom in respect of the financial covenants contained in the Groups various loan arrangements.
The Strategy Review is considered by the Board in late March and thereafter the financial forecasts are updated and presented for review by the Board six times a year.
The Groups financial forecasts contain a number of assumptions, including: Estimated year-on-year movements in rental values and yields for each of our key sub-markets: The renancing of the Groups debt facilities as they fall due within the forecast period: The completion of the Groups committed development programme and the commencement of its nearterm projects: The Group maintains its preference for low financial leverage: and Forecast interest rates.
