06 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Why London Our truly global city is thriving with a commercial property market which has enduring appeal for occupiers and investors.
London continues to grow with a deep and liquid commercial With the largest economy of any city in Europe and propertymarket generating around 22% of UK GDP, London is one of the Central London has one of the worlds largest commercial worlds leading commercial, creative and financial centres, real estate markets, with more than 238 million sq ft of and further growth is forecast as Londons population is ofce and retail property attracting a deep and diverse mix expected to increase from 8.6 million today to more than of occupiers and property investors, many from overseas.
Its combination of a strong legal system, With our 3.6 million sq ft portfolio, our total market share time zone advantages, international connectivity and a is less than 2%, giving us ample scope to pursue attractive welcoming attitude to international businesses has resulted opportunities to buy and sell at favourable times in the in over a third of Fortune 500 companies now having their cycle.
Investment market activity continues to be healthy global headquarters in London.
with16.2 billion of transactions in 2015, providing good liquidity for us when looking to sell properties.
See our market section on pages 25 to 29 See our case study on pages 14 and 15 attracting talent and visitors from aroundthe world which we expect to remain cyclical.
These businesses are also attracted by Londons high calibre Notwithstanding these attractions, the Capitals commercial labour pool, with 1.7 million of Londons workforce employed property markets will always be cyclical.
However, with our in high skilled roles nearly 50% higher than New York, its 100% central London focus and disciplined approach, we nearest rival and London being home to 15 top ranked are well positioned to capture the opportunities that this universities and business schools, more than any other global cyclicality creates through exing our operational risk in tune city.
Moreover, London was ranked the worlds most popular with market conditions, whilst always maintaining low levels tourist destination in 2015, supporting retailer demand for ofnancial gearing.
See our business model on pages 8 and 9 See our market section on pages 25 to 29 Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 07 22% Londons share of UK GDP The historic heartland of London is the and we are driving regeneration WestEnd where andrentalgrowth.
With more than 390 million visitors a year, the West End The combination of our teams expertise, strong provides a unique mix of commercial, retail, residential, relationships and local experience are central to unlocking cultural and tourist attractions, attracting businesses from development potential and our activities are contributing a diverse range of industries to locate here.
We own one of to major regeneration and rental growth, such as at the the largest commercial property portfolios ofce and retail east end ofOxford Street around the new Crossrail station.
With no two properties the same, our Crossrail isdue to open in 2018 and no other ofce focused deep local knowledge remains a key competitive advantage REIT has as much exposure as we do with 86% of our portfolio in this complex market.
within 800 metres of a Crossrail station.
See our properties and tenants on pages 167 to 169 See our mini case study on page 36 the barriers to entry continue to rise With tenant demand strengthening but around 70% of the core West End in a conservation area and the planning environment continuing to tighten, available space remains in short supply.
Successfully navigating these barriers to development whilst delivering efficient and sustainable properties in attractive locations that meet tenants needsremains critical to profitable real estate activities, as demonstrated by our record pre-letting to Facebook inthe year.
See our case study on pages 16 and 17 Our 100% focus on central London means itsa market that we knowinside out.
Toby Courtauld Chief Executive Strategic Report Overview
