60 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Working collaboratively with our contractors Forging links with the community In order to deliver successful developments, it is essential Through our developments we work hard to forge links that we build positive relationships with our contractors.
with the local community and we encourage and support We take a collaborative approach on health and safety.
our contractors and professional teams to identify and Our principal contractors provide monthly reports on commit resources to local projects.
At our 30 Broadwick health and safety at our construction sites and, where Street development, we have worked with the University reportable incidents occur, these are reported to our of Westminster to provide a number of presentations project management team to ensure prompt investigation and property tours for their students to coincide with key of the incident.
elements of their Construction Management and Project Management courses.
In addition to engaging with our contractors at site level, we also liaise with our contractors at senior management At Rathbone Square, W1 students from Reading University level to discuss health and safety trends across the toured the site and received presentations from the team industry.
During the year, we engaged with a number of involved with the development and letting of the property.
our smaller principal contractor companies to discuss the As part of the project the schemes architect and principal impact of health and safety legislation and sustainability on contractor have engaged with All Souls Community Centre their business.
to assist with works undertaken to the community centre and also serving Christmas lunch to the elderly.
We take this same collaborative approach with our contractors on sustainability to ensure that: waste arising from the construction process is minimised with designing out waste workshops undertaken early in the process: The art of Soho in 50 years waste generated is diverted from landll where possible: An art competition, jointly organised with our principal carbon emissions from our construction sites contractor at 30 Broadwick Street, W1, was held with are monitored: Westminster Kingsway College to design hoardings with a soft landings approach is adopted by the contractors the brief of Soho in 50years.
The students came to our to ensure a successful building handover at ofces to present their artwork in front of key members practical completion: of the project team.
The artist designing the public art responsible sourcing standards are supported: installation for the property also joined the judging panel.
In addition, a donation was made on behalf of the project responsible employment standards are supported: to the West End Community Trust which holds events for payment is made promptly to contractors with 14 day isolated members of the local community.
payment terms and twice monthly valuations: and community initiatives are instigated to maximise local employment opportunities and to support local schools and colleges.
Over the coming months, we will work with our suppliers across our development and asset management activities to make sure our suppliers understand and evolve, where appropriate, their own standards and practices in relation to their supply chains to meet our supplier stewardship expectations in relation to the environment, health and safety, treatment of people working on our buildings, the community and ethical working practices.
For more details on our relationships with our contractors see page 47
