Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 57 Investing in assets we can reposition which can be improved through our activities.
Where EPC ratings are below an E rating, consideration is given to the We recognise the importance of including sustainability level of further investment required to improve the EPC.
considerations within our investment decisions.
Costs related to introducing energy efficiencies are included Our investment team ensures that key sustainability within our refurbishment plans.
information related to the management of the building is collected through a sustainability checklist which is provided Where the scope of a planned refurbishment following to the asset management team prior to completion on the purchase is less extensive and BREEAM is not appropriate building.
As part of our ready for sale procedures, similar for the size and scope of the works, we use the SKA Ratings information is prepared for purchasers.
system to provide a framework for our contractors to ensure that sustainability requirements are included within the A key aspect of our business is to purchase unloved refurbishment.
buildings in prime locations with a view to repositioning them through redevelopment or refurbishment.
As a result, we often purchase properties with lower rated EPCs, Breathing new life into 31 32 Alfred Place, W1 In March 2015, we purchased 31 32 Alfred Place, W1, an unloved building with a low EPC F rating.
Whilst the scope of the refurbishment did not justify a full BREEAM assessment we have targeted a SKA silver rating and improving the EPC rating to a C. Pre-let to a publishing company, the property will benefit from new energy efficient, heat recovery air-conditioning systems controlled through a central building management system with local zonal controls.
New LED lighting with presence detectors has been installed and the energy monitoring and metering system will meet current best practice to allow our tenants and building managers to review the energy performance of the property once our tenant moves in.
Improvements to the thermal insulation of the building envelope including new roof coverings and double-glazed shop fronts have also been undertaken to reduce energy consumption.
Water efficient ttings have been installed within bathrooms throughout the property.
Where possible, we have reused existing materials, such as the terrazzo staircase and ensured that other materials such as timber have been sourced sustainably.
Seventy new cycle storage spaces with associated showers and lockers have also been provided to facilitateactive commuting.
Additionally, our contractor has been targeted with achieving best practice sustainability requirements during the refurbishment works, including the diversion of 95% James Burrage, Development Manager and Chris Lawrence, of their waste from landll, responsible sourcing of raw 8Build outside 31 32 Alfred Place, W1 materials and the implementation of our commissioning and soft landings requirements.
Our contractor registered with the Considerate Constructors Scheme in line with our Sustainable Development Brief and was successful in achieving a score of 40 out of 50 and an Excellent rating in all categories: Appearance, Community, Environment, Safety and Workforce.
Strategic Report Annual review 58 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Creating sustainable buildings meeting and As 30 Broadwick Street, W1 nears completion, regular exceedingregulatory requirements soft landings meetings are underway so that our building management and building services team are fully briefed Our Sustainable Development Brief, a guidance note on on the mechanical and electrical services installed at the sustainability best practice, assists our teams in achieving property by the design team.
Our design team is also the best practical environmental option when considering liaising with our building management team on operational energy, water, waste and biodiversity strategies for our issues such as the servicing strategy for the property and developments.
The brief also provides guidance on how tenant t-out works will be managed to ensure that applying measures to reduce the embodied carbon of tenant services are well integrated with landlord services our developments, wellbeing standards and the handover upon completion.
process to tenants at our new developments and major refurbishments.
At Rathbone Square, W1 whilst we have some way to go until practical completion in 2017, our building management As a matter of course we target BREEAM Excellent for all team attend monthly soft landing meetings.
To date, these new build developments and Very Good or Excellent for have included issues such as operation of the public realm, refurbishments depending on the nature and scope of security strategy for the building and the installation of the project.
This year our emphasis has been on integrating our We recognise the need to learn lessons from our projects sustainability objectives into contract documentation for post occupancy evaluations assist in closing the feedback consultants and contractors to ensure that our buildings are loop, providing us with a valuable source of information delivered with excellent sustainability credentials.
about how the building is performing against design During the year, we achieved a BREEAM Excellent rating expectations.
Equally valuable feedback from tenants is at our 12 14 New Fetter Lane, EC4 development and a provided through questionnaires or interviews conducted Very Good rating at our refurbishment of Walmar House.
During the year, we held Our developments at 30 Broadwick Street, W1, 73 89Oxford a feedback session with our project managers and asset Street, W1 and Rathbone Square, W1 all achieved a managers, regarding the programme of post occupancy BREEAM Excellent rating at design stage.
evaluation studies we have undertaken to date to incorporate lessons learned into our current and future Delivering buildings to meet tenant needs projects and refurbishments.
Common issues identied It is essential that our developments meet tenants high were: an increased need for active commuter facilities: a expectations.
We are, therefore, actively implementing desire from some tenants for more active engagement our Soft Landings Framework across all our projects so on their t-out process, so that landlord knowledge of that ourdesign team and building management team the property is shared earlier with the tenants: and the work together at key points in the design process and need to work with the tenants to ensure that all metering then closely together as the project nears handover.
systems are commissioned early on in order to provide The approach ensures that the transition of our buildings accurate data monitoring from day one.
A number of through the construction phase, commissioning, t-out these issues have already been included within our new and into occupation is managed effectively.
Our services developments, with increased cycle storage at 30 Broadwick consultant and our Building Services Manager provide Street, W1 and Rathbone Square, W1.
At 240 Blackfriars essential information from the commissioning process Road, SE1, we employed a tenant t-out co-ordinator to the building management team in the run-up to and the Soft Landings Framework was rolled out to assist practical completion.
The post occupancy evaluation process at our completed developments is providing us with valuable feedback to enable us to further develop our soft landings process and improve the handover ofour buildings to our tenants.
Peter Nolan Building Services Manager
