Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 117 Service agreements and payments for loss of ofce The policy of the Company is to have service contracts for Executive Directors with notice periods of one year.
Itis sometimes necessary when recruiting a new Executive Director to give a service contract with an initial term of up to 18 months in which case a 12 month notice period may be given no earlier than six months from the start date of the contract.
Non-Executive Directors who have letters of appointment, are subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association dealing with appointment and rotation every three years, however, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code they are subject to annual re-election and have a notice period of three months by either party.
They are not eligible for payment in lieu of notice or any other payment on termination.
The following table sets out the dates of each of the Executive Directors service agreements and their unexpired term, the dates of theNon-Executive Directors letters of appointment and the date on which the Non-Executive Director is next subject to reappointment orre-election.
Executive Date of service agreement Unexpired term months Toby Courtauld 18 March 2002 12 Nick Sanderson 7 June 2011 12 Neil Thompson 1 August 2006 12 Non-Executive Date of appointment letter Date when next subject to appointment or re-election Martin Scicluna 1 October 2008 7 July 2016 Elizabeth Holden 3 September 2012 7 July 2016 Jonathan Nicholls 10 July 2009 Retiring from the Board on 7 July 2016 Charles Philipps 10 January 2014 7 July 2016 Jonathan Short 22 March 2007 7 July 2016 Executive Directors may, with the consent of the Committee, retain fees paid to them for acting as a Non-Executive Director of a company outside the Group, except where the directorship is a representative of the Group.
The Companys policy on termination payments for Executive Directors is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms, the circumstances of the termination and any applicable duty to mitigate.
It is the Committees policy not to reward poor performance.
The Committee will always seek to minimise the cost to the Company whilst seeking to reect the circumstances in place at the time.
The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising on connection with the termination of an Executive Directors ofce or employment.
Base salary, benets and pension Toby Courtaulds compensation in lieu of notice payable at the Companys discretion is 12 months basic salary.
Compensation in lieu of notice to Nick Sanderson and Neil Thompson, payable at the Companys discretion, is 12months basic salary, pension allowance and the value of benets in kind provided in the previous year, or the actual provision of those benets.
