Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 121 Report of the directors Strategic Report Directors shareholdings At 31 March At 31 March The Groups Strategic Report on pages 1 to 74 includes the 2016 Number 2015 Number Companys business model and strategy, principal risks and 1 1 of shares of shares uncertainties facing the Group and how these are managed Martin Scicluna 8,636 8,636 and mitigated, an indication of future likely developments in Toby Courtauld 1,504,649 1,339,248 the Company and details of important events since the year Nick Sanderson 208,938 185,443 ended 31 March 2016.
Neil Thompson 785,194 653,346 Elizabeth Holden 4,740 4,740 The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information Charles Philipps 5,000 5,000 to the members of the Company, as a body.
The Company, Jonathan Nicholls 10,000 10,000 its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept Jonathan Short 13,455 13,455 or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and 1.
Includes shares held by the Executive Directors in the Groups 2010 Share any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking All directors shareholdings are in ordinary shares and are statements with respect to the operations, performance beneficial, unless otherwise stated.
There have been no and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these changes in the shareholdings of any director between statements involve uncertainty since future events and 1 April 2016 and 25 May 2016 apart from shares bought circumstances can cause results and developments to differ or received by the Executive Directors participating in from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
No director had any reect knowledge and information available at the date of interest in or contract with the Company or any subsidiary preparation of this Annual Report.
Nothing in this Annual undertaking other than service contracts during the year.
Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors indemnities and insurance Results and dividends for the year On 14 September 2007, an indemnity was given by the The Group results for the year are set out on pages 128 to Company to the directors in terms which comply with 154.
An interim dividend of 3.6 pence per share 2015: 3.5 Company law and remains in force at the date of this Report.
pence was paid on 4 January 2016, and the directors propose to pay a final dividend of 5.6 pence per share on The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability 11 July 2016 to shareholders on the register of members as insurance and pension trustee liability insurance, both of at the close of business on 3 June 2016.
This makes a total which are reviewed annually.
of 9.2 pence per share 2015: 9.0 pence for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Corporate governance statement The information fullling the requirements of the Corporate Directors governance statement can be found in this Report of Biographical details of the current directors of the Company the directors and on pages 76 to 109, all of which are are shown onpages 52 and 53. incorporated into this Report ofthe directors by reference.
The Companys Articles of Association require that a Financial instruments and disclosures under director shall retire from ofce if he or she has been Listing Rule9.8.
4 appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting or if it is the third Annual General Meeting following that at which Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are he was elected or last re-elected.
However, in accordance set out in notes 1 and 17 forming part of the Group financial with the UK Corporate Governance Code the directors statements on page 134 and pages 147 to 150, which are will all retire and will offer themselves for re-election at the incorporated into this Report of the directors by reference.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting with the exception Notes 1 and 7 on pages 134 and 137 also include details of of Jonathan Nicholls who is retiring from the Board at the interest capitalised by the Group.
The Groups financial risk Annual General Meeting and, therefore, will not stand for management objectives and policies are included in the re-election.
The Chairman has confirmed that following Risk management overview on pages 64 and 65, in Financial the Board effectiveness evaluation process, all of the management on pages 40 and 41 and in Our financial results directors continue to demonstrate their commitment and onpages 42 to 44. independence in their roles.
Governance 122 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Report of the directors Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement Change of control The Groups Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement is The Company has a number of unsecured borrowing facilities included in the Sustainability section within the Strategic provided by various lenders.
These facilities generally include Report on page 63. provisions that may require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the alteration or termination of the facilities upon significant shareholdings the occurrence of a change of control of the Company.
As at 16 May 2016, the Company had been notied of the The Companys 2010 LTIP and Executive Annual Bonus Plan following beneficial or discretionary interests amounting to contain provisions relating to the vesting of awards in the 3%ormore of the voting rights of the issued share capital: event ofachange of control.
Number of shares % Going concern Norges Bank Investment Management 33,092,552 9.62 The Groups business activities, together with the factors BlackRock Inc 28,794,646 8.37 affecting its performance, position and future development Legal & General Investment are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 74.
ManagementLimited 15,130,390 4.40 Details of the nances of the Group, including its strong Morgan Stanley Investment Management 13,352,330 3.88 liquidity position, attractively priced borrowing facilities and Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 11,615,647 3.38 favourable debt maturity prole are set out in our financial State Street Global Advisors Limited 10,719,772 3.12 results on pages 42 to 44 and in notes 16 and 17 ofthe accounts on pages 146 to 150.
Share capital and control On 31 March 2016, there were 343,926,149 ordinary shares The directors have reviewed the current and projected of 12.5 pence in issue.
There are no restrictions on transfer financial position of the Group, making reasonable or limitations on the holding of the ordinary shares.
None of assumptions about future trading performance.
As part of the shares carries any special rights with regard to the the review, the directors have considered the Groups cash control of the Company.
There are no known arrangements balances, its capital commitments, itsdebt maturity prole, under which financial rights are held by a person other than including undrawn facilities, and the long-term nature of the holder of the shares and no known agreements on tenant leases.
On the basis of this review, and after making restrictions on share transfers andvoting rights.
The Great due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation Portland Estates plc LTIP Employee Share Trust theTrust that the Company and the Group have adequate resources is an employees share scheme which holds ordinary shares to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable in the Company on trust for the benefit of employees future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going within the Group.
The Trustee of the Trust has the power concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
to exercise all the rights and powers including rights with Viability statement regard to control of the Company incidental to, and to generally act in relation to, theordinary shares subject The Companys Viability statement is on page 74. to the Trust in such manner as the Trustee in its absolute discretion thinks t as if it were absolutely entitled tothose Basis of accounting ordinary shares.
As described on page 161, the Companys basis of accounting is FRS101.
Under FRS101, paragraph 5 a As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with requires the Company to give its shareholders notice of significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other the continued application of FRS101, and to proceed with than those noted above.
this provided that a shareholder or shareholders holding in aggregate 5% or more of the Companys issued shares do The powers of the directors are contained in the Companys not object to the proposal, which they may do in writing to Articles.
These include powers, subject to relevant the Company at its Registered Ofce.
legislation, toauthorise the issue and buy-back of the Companys shares bythe Company, subject to authority Statement as to disclosure of information being given to the directors bythe shareholders in a totheauditor general meeting.
So far as the directors who held ofce at the date of The rules about the appointment and replacement of approval of this Report are aware, there is no relevant directors are contained in the Companys Articles of audit information of which the auditor is unaware and each Association.
Changes to theArticles of Association must be director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have approved by the shareholders in accordance with legislation taken as a director to make himself orherself aware of any in force from time to time.
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 123 Auditor General authority to disapply A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the pre-emptionrights Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
At last years meeting, a special resolution was passed, under sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006, Annual General Meeting empowering the directors to allot equity securities for cash The Notice of Meeting on pages 171 and 172 sets out the without first being required to offer such shares to existing resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting shareholders.
Resolution 14 will seek to renew this authority, and gives details of the voting record date and proxy which is set out to expire at the Annual General Meeting, appointment deadline for that meeting.
Resolutions 1to inline with the latest institutional guidelines.
12 comprise ordinary business and resolutions 13 to 17 If approved, the resolution will authorise the directors, in special business.
accordance with the Articles of Association, to issue shares in connection with a Rights Issue or other pre-emptive offer Remuneration report and otherwise to issue shares for cash including the sale Resolution 3 will seek approval of the directors remuneration for cash on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares held in report for the year ended 31 March 2016 as set out on treasury up to a maximum nominal amount of 2,149,538, pages 96 to 109.
This vote is advisory, and the directors which represents approximately 5% of the issued share entitlement toremuneration is not conditional on it.
capital of the Company as at 24 May 2016 being the latest No changes are proposed to the directors remuneration practicable date prior to publication of this Report.
policy approved at the Annual General Meeting held on The directors do not intend to issue, under a general 3 July 2014. authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights, more than 7.5% ofthe issued share capital of the Company for cash on a non Authority to allot shares and grant rights pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period without At the Annual General Meeting held on 8 July 2015, prior consultation with shareholders.
shareholders authorised the directors, under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares without Resolution 14 will be proposed as a special resolution to the prior consent of shareholders for a period expiring at renew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2017. in 2016 or, if earlier, on 1 October 2016.
Resolution 13 will seek to renew this authority and to authorise the directors Additional authority to disapply under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot pre-emptionrights ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert Resolution 15 requests further shareholder approval, by any securities into shares for a period expiring no later way of a separate special resolution in line with the best than1 October 2017. practice guidance issued by the Pre-Emption Group, for the directors to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares Paragraph a i of Resolution 13 will allow the directors to for cash without first being required to offer such securities allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of to existing shareholders.
The proposed resolution reects 14,330,256 representing approximately one-third 33.3% of the Pre-emption Group 2015 Statement of Principles for the Companys existing issued share capital and calculated the disapplication of pre-emption rights and will expire on as at 24 May 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to 1 October 2017 or at the conclusion of the AGM in 2017, publication of this Report.
In accordance with institutional whichever is the earlier.
guidelines issued by TheInvestment Association, paragraph a ii of Resolution 13 will allow directors to allot, including The authority granted by this resolution, if passed: the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a i of Resolution 13, further of the Companys ordinary shares in a will be limited to the allotment of equity securities and connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a Rights Issue sale of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount nominal value of 2,149,538, which represents of 28,660,512, representing approximately two-thirds approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the 66.6% ofthe Companys existing issued share capital and Company as at 24 May 2016 being the latest practicable calculated as at 24 May 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Report : and date prior to publication of this Report.
The directors have b will only be used in connection with an acquisition no present intention of exercising this authority.
However, if orother capital investment, including development they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow and or refurbishment expenditure, which is announced best practice as regards its use as recommended by The contemporaneously with the allotment, or has taken Investment Association.
place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed Resolution 13 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to in the announcement of the allotment.
renew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, theclose of business on 1 October 2017.
Governance 124 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Report of the directors The authority granted by this resolution would be in higher than the amount specified above.
Any of the bonds addition to the general authority to disapply pre-emption can be converted, at the Companys election, into a cash rights under Resolution 14.
The maximum nominal alternative amount.
value of equity securities which could be allotted if both If the outstanding bonds were fully converted, they would authorities were used would be 4,299,076, which represents represent 5.8% of the issued share capital as at 24 May 2016. approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the If the authorities to purchase shares existing and being Company as at 24 May 2016 being the latest practicable sought were exercised in full, that percentage would be date prior to publication of this Report.
Authority to purchase own shares There were no purchases of shares by the Company during A special resolution was also passed at last years meeting the year.
At 31 March 2016, the number of shares which may enabling the Company to purchase its own shares in the be purchased under the shareholders authority given at the market.
Resolution 16 will seek to renew this authority.
The maximum number of shares to which the authority At 24 May 2016, the Company held no shares in treasury.
This represents 14.99% of the share capital of the Company in issue as at 24 May 2016.
Resolution 16 will be proposed as a special resolution to The directors intend only to exercise this authority if to renew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM or, do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2017.
If Resolution 16 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, the Company will have the option of holding as treasury Notice of general meetings shares any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 the authority conferred by this resolution.
This would give for general meetings of the Company is 21 days, unless the Company the ability to sell treasury shares or use them shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which to satisfy share awards under employee share schemes, cannot however be less than 14clear days Annual General providing the Company with additional exibility in the Meetings must always be held onat least 21 clear days management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid notice.
on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to the treasury shares.
Any shares purchased by the At last years Annual General Meeting, shareholders Company under this authority would be cancelled unless authorised the calling of general meetings other than an the shares are being purchased by the Company to hold Annual General Meeting on not less than 14 clear days astreasury shares.
notice and Resolution 17 seeks to renew this authority.
The authority granted by this resolution, if passed, will be The price paid for ordinary shares will not be less than the effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, nominal value of 12.5 pence per share and not more than when it is intended that a similar resolution willbe proposed.
the higher of 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a five business days preceding the day on which the ordinary means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for shares are purchased and an amount equal to the higher of that meeting.
the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share The exibility offered by this resolution will be used where, and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary taking into account the circumstances and noting the share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code System.
In relation to the maximum price, the directors note 2014, the directors consider this appropriate in relation to that the Listing Rules will be amended when Article 5 of the the business to be considered at the meeting and in the Market Abuse Regulation EU No.
596 2014 comes into force interests of the Company andshareholders as a whole.
Any share buy-backs on or after the date of the AGM would comply with the terms of Resolution 16 and Recommendation with the Listing Rules in force at the relevant time.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to At 24 May 2016, there were 150 million 1% convertible the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and bonds due 2018 in issue which, if fully converted, would its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in result in the issue of a maximum of 20,993,701 ordinary favour of them and unanimously recommends that you do shares based on the conversion price of 714.5 pence so as well.
By order of the Board Under the terms and conditions of the convertible bonds, Desna Martin the conversion price is subject to adjustment upon the Company Secretary occurrence of certain corporate events and in such Great Portland Estates plc circumstances the maximum number of ordinary shares Company number: 596137 to be issued upon full conversion of the bonds may be 25 May 2016
