Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 89 Accountability The Committee formally considers the scope and Internal controls and ongoing risk effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and management reports to the Board.
This involves the identication of risks The Board recognises that it is responsible for maintaining specic to the areas of property and financial markets which and monitoring the Groups system of internal control and impact on the Groups objectives, together with the controls for reviewing its effectiveness, at least annually.
and reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks, which are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout the Such a system can only provide reasonable, and not year, as appropriate.
These include business risks, financial absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss, controls, social, ethical and environmental issues and policy, as it is designed tomanage rather than eliminate the risk of and theregulatory environment.
A review is also carried failure to achieve businessobjectives.
out as to how the controls and reporting procedures have There are ongoing processes and procedures for operated during the year.
Key risks to the business, how identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks these have changed during the year and the processes in faced by the Group.
These processes and procedures place by which the Company aims to manage those risksare were in place throughout the year under review and up to described in more detail on pages 64 to 74. the date of the approval of the AnnualReport, and accord with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Fair, balanced and understandable a matter Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and for the whole Board Business Reporting.
The Directors statement on fair, balanced and understandable is made on page 125.
When considering Key features of the system of internal control include: whether the 2016 Annual Report and financial statements a comprehensive system of financial reporting and are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide business planning: information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and a dened schedule of matters for decision by the Board: strategy, the Board takes into account the following: an organisational structure with clearly dened levels of authority and division of responsibilities: the Chairman and Chief Executive provide input to and agree on the overall messages and tone of the Annual formal documentation procedures: Report at an early stage: the close involvement of the Executive Directors in all aspects of day-to-day operations, including individual sections of the Annual Report and financial regular meetings with Senior Management to review statements are drafted by appropriate Senior all operational aspects of the business and risk Management, with regular review meetings to ensure management systems: consistency of the whole document: Board review of Group strategy and progress on detailed reviews of appropriate draft sections of the developments at each scheduled Board meeting: and Annual Report and financial statements are undertaken bythe Executive Directors: formal sign-off on the Groups Ethics and Whistleblowing policies by all employees annually.
a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the auditors on a timely basis to allow sufficient consideration Twice a year, the Audit Committee carries out a review and is discussed with the Finance Director and Senior of theframework of how the Groups risks are managed Management prior to consideration by the Board: and through operational management procedures the Finance Director, in his May Board paper, includes authorisations, ongoing review by the Executive Committee, a checklist of areas that the Board should take into and ongoing Board review and oversight of key controls.
consideration when reviewing the fairness, consistency and balance of the final draft of the Annual Report and financial statements, including whether the Board considers that there are any omissions in information.
Governance 90 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Accountability Dear fellow shareholder The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board on Welcome to the Report of the Audit Committee.
the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board management systems and the on the Groups financial reporting, internal control and independence and effectiveness risk management systems and the independence and of the auditors.
Jonathan Nicholls Chairman of the Audit Committee Accounting and key areas of judgement A key factor in the integrity of financial statements is ensuring that suitable accounting policies are adopted Audit Committee andapplied consistently on ayear on year basis.
Audit Committee and advisers The Audit Committee uses the Audit Planning meetings Chairman 4 meetings in September and March each year to consider proposed Jonathan Nicholls accounting treatments for major transactions, significant Members reporting judgements and key assumptions related to those Elizabeth Holden judgements in advance of the half year and year-endresults.
Charles Philipps Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that they Jonathan Short were not aware of any misstatements, either material or In attendance immaterial, made to achieve a particular presentation.
Martin Scicluna Nick Sanderson After reviewing the reports from management and consulting wherenecessary with the auditors and Neil Thompson valuers, the Audit Committee is satisfied that the financial Part attendance statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied Our approach that theprocesses used for determining the value of the During the year, the Audit Committee comprised assets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, ElizabethHolden, Charles Philipps, Jonathan Short challenged and aresufcientlyrobust.
The Audit Committee provides a forum Fair, balanced and understandable for reporting and discussion with the Groups external auditors in respect of the Groups half year and year-end Whether the 2016 Annual Report and nancialstatements results and meetings are also attended by the valuers, are fair, balanced and understandable is considered to be a certain Executive Directors and senior managers, by matterfor the whole Board and the Audit Committees role invitation.
Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, also attends the is covered onpage 89.
Committee meetings in connection with the half year and year-end results.
By invitation, Nick Sanderson as Finance Internal controls and risk management Director attends thehalf year and year-end planning The Audit Committees role in supporting the Boards meetings.
Neil Thompson and Nick Sanderson also attend oversight and review of principal risks, internal controls the half year and year-end Audit Committee meetings and risk management processes is covered on pages with the valuers and auditors to provide their views 64and 65. ontheevaluation and year-end results respectively.
Internal audit The Committee meets regularly during the year, in Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an alignment with the financial reporting timetable.
internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the Committee.
Although there is no formal internal audit function, a rolling programme of review of key controls is conducted through acombination of the external audit process or through reviews by members of the finance team and or external advisers as appropriate.
Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 91 Accounting and key areas of judgement significant matter Action taken Valuation of the As the valuation of the Groups portfolio is fundamental to the Groups balance sheet, the Audit Committee, together with Martin Groups portfolio Scicluna, meets with the valuers along with the auditors to discuss thevaluation included within the half year and year-end financial statements.
This includes the valuation process undertaken, changes in market conditions and recent transactions in the market and how these have impacted upon GPEs valuation, valuation movements on individual buildings and the valuers expectations in relation to future rental growth and yield movement.
The external auditors, Deloitte, independently meet with the valuers using real estate specialists and provide the Audit Committee with a summary of their review as part of their report on the half year and yearend results.
During the year, changes were made to improve the controls relating to the supply of development cost information to the valuers.
These controls were reviewed by Deloitte who concluded that these were operating effectively.
For details of the Groups properties and related accounting policies see notes 1, 10 and 11.
Acquisitions, Acquisitions, disposals and revenue recognition from significant lease transactions or development management agreements disposals and areconsidered to the extent that there are any unusual terms and conditions or judgements made inrelation to timing.
revenue recognition In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Committee in conjunction with Deloitte reviewed and challenged managements accountingproposals in relation to the sale of 33 Margaret Street for 216 million in exchange for cash of 97 million and 50 Finsbury Square for119 million.
The Audit Committee concurred with the accounting treatment of thismatter.
REIT status The Audit Committee reviews current year and forecast compliance with the REIT tests every six months.
Viability statement Although the viability statement and going concern are a matter for the whole Board, see pages 74 and 122 respectively, a review and going concern ismade by the Audit Committee of the Groups headroom under its covenants andundrawn facilities in relation to the Groups financial forecasts andsensitivity analyses.
Rathbone Square On the purchase of Rathbone Square from the Royal Mail Group RMG in September 2011, the Company entered into an overage overageagreement which enables RMG to participate in the development profits should certain performance metrics be met.
Asthepotential amount payable is a matter of judgement, the Audit Committee, in conjunction with Deloitte, have reviewed the amount proposed by management as at 31 March 2016.
The Audit Committee concurred with the accounting treatment ofthismatter.
governance and independence internal governance The external audit, review of its effectiveness, arrangements, lines of communication with the Audit non-audit services and auditor reappointment Committee, integrity of the audit team, Audit Committee The Audit Committee advises the Board on the confidence in the audit team and transparency: appointment of the external auditors, their remuneration for ethical standards including conicts of interest, audit and non-audit work agreed by the Audit Committee, non-audit work and partner rotation: and and their effectiveness, independence and objectivity, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the potential impairment of independence by non-audit external auditors.
As part of the review of the effectiveness fee income.
of the external audit process, a formal evaluation process The Committee also considers the effectiveness of incorporating views from the Audit Committee and relevant management in the external audit process in respect of the members of management is considered by the Audit timely identication and resolution of areas of accounting Committee and feedback is provided to theauditors.
judgement with input from the auditors and the Audit Areas covered by this review include: Committee as appropriate: and the timely provision of the the calibre of the external audit rm including draft half year results announcement and Annual Report and reputation, coverage and industry presence: Accounts for review by the auditors and the Committee.
quality controls including review processes, partner In addition to the review of the formal management letter oversight, reports from the Audit Quality Review Team from the auditors which outlines how points raised by the and regulators, and use ofspecialists: auditors have been addressed by management, feedback the audit team covering quality of individuals, issought from the auditors on the conduct of members knowledge, resources, partner involvement, team ofthe finance team during theaudit process.
rotation, the audit scope including planning and In addition, I meet with the lead audit partner outside execution, scope adequacy and specialistareas: the formal Committee process during the year on audit fee reasonableness and scope changes: aregular basis.
audit communications and effectiveness planning, The auditors are responsible for the annual statutory audit new developments regulations, approach to critical and other services which the Audit Committee believe accounting policies, issues and risks, quality of they are best placed to undertake due to their position as processes, timely resolution of issues, freedom auditors under the Groups policyin respect of non-audit ofcommunicationwith the Audit Committee and services permitted to be provided bythe external auditor.
feedback on management performance: Governance 92 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Accountability The purpose of this policy available from theCompanys In addition to ensuring compliance with the Groups policy website at www.
co. uk investors governance is in respect of non-audit services provided by the external toensure auditor independence and objectivity is auditor, the Audit Committee also receives conrmation maintained.
Under the policy, prior approval is required from Deloitte LLP that it remains independent and has bythe AuditCommittee for any non-statutory assignments maintained internal safeguards to ensure its objectivity.
over 50,000, or where such anassignment would take Following a tender process, Deloitte LLP has been the the cumulative total of non-audit fees paid tothe external Groups auditor since 2003.
Itis a requirement that the audit auditors over 50% of that years audit fees.
Deloitte Real partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits Estate on occasions provides the Group and the Groups is rotated every five years and a new lead audit partner joint ventures with advice on rights of light, party walls took responsibility for the audit in June 2013.
Under the and other items involving adjoining owners or third parties Companys interpretation of the transitional arrangements neighbourly matters.
Fees paid to Deloitte Real Estate by for mandatory audit rotation, the Company will be required both the Group and the joint ventures are, therefore, also to rotate the audit for the financial year ended 2024 and monitored by the Audit Committee.
The appointment of plans to complete a competitive tender process by this time.
Deloitte to undertake any non-audit services also requires Notwithstanding these requirements and current plans, the prior approval of the Finance Director.
in the best interests of shareholders, the Committee will During the year, activities undertaken by the auditors continue to consider the tender ofthe audit: fortheGroup outside of the main audit included: annually depending on the auditors performance: and reporting on the income cover in connection with the in light of the need for audit partner rotation for the year debenture trust deed compliance certicate: ending 2019. advice on the tax legislation on property transactions: Having undertaken its review for this year, in the opinion advice on the tax treatment of the 150 million of the Audit Committee, the relationship with the auditors Convertible Bond: works well and theCommittee remains satisfied with their independence and effectiveness.
The Committee has, assurance on achievement against 2015 16 sustainability therefore, recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP objectives and targets and energy consumption data: and be reappointed as auditor at the 2016 Annual General ad hoc accounting advice.
There are no contractual obligations restricting theCompanys choice of external auditor.
Payments made by the Group for audit and non-audit fees for the year are disclosed on page 136.
In addition, audit The Company has complied during the year ended and non-audit fees paid to Deloitte LLP in respect of joint 31 March 2016, and up to the date of this report, with ventures totalled 27,500 GPEshare 2015: 38,500 and the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large nil 2015: nil respectively.
The three-year average of nonCompanies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of audit fees as a percentage of audit fees to the year ended Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee 31 March 2016 assetout below is 29.6%.
2016 2015 2014 Jonathan Nicholls 000s 000s 000s Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit fees including related audit assurance 25 May 2016 services including fees for joint ventures managed by GPE GPE share 299 282 281 Non-audit fees including fees for jointventures managed by GPE GPE share 11 127 117 Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees 4% 45% 42% Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 93 What we did in 2015 16 2015 September 2015 Annual planning meeting Meeting with the auditors Review of: effectiveness and independence of the auditors seepages 91 and 92 significant accounting, reporting and judgement matters see page 91 Deloittes 2016 Audit Plan controls introduced into the development November 2015 valuationprocess Review of half year results Meeting with the valuers Meeting with the auditors Review of: September 2015 valuation significant accounting, reporting and judgement matters, including going concern see page 91 principal risks, monitoring of internal controls and risk March 2016 management processes Year-end planning update half year results announcement Meeting with the auditors 2015 sustainability management letter Review of: significant accounting, reporting and judgement matters see page 91 developments in corporate governance and reporting requirements including the Modern Slavery Act and proposed disclosure in the 2016 Annual Report in relation to the UK Corporate Governance Code Audit Plan update May 2016 Ethics policy and Whistleblowing policy see page82 Review of year-end results Agreement of 2016 audit fee Meeting with the valuers Meeting with the auditors Review of: March 2016 valuation see pages 30 and 31 significant accounting, reporting and judgement matters including going concern see page 91 Group tax matters with the Head of Corporate Finance principal risks, monitoring of internal controls and risk management processes see pages 64 to 74 the potential need for internal audit Annual Report results announcement the Committees effectiveness relationship between the auditors and GPEmanagement audit retendering and reappointment of the auditors 2016 Governance
