54 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Senior Management Team Richard Moran Martin Leighton James Mitchell Head of Information Technology Head of Corporate Finance Head of Asset Management LLB, ACA, CTA MA, MRICS Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in January 2000 as IT Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Manager and appointed Head of Joined the Group in January 2003 Joined the Group in November 2003 as Information Technology in 2015. asCorporate Finance Manager and AssetManager and appointed Head of appointed Head of Corporate Finance Asset Management in 2005.
Formerly IT Manager for Dalau Ltd.
Experience and responsibilities: Responsible for operational and strategic Experience and responsibilities: Formerly an Associate withCushman & aspects of technology across the Group.
Formerly a Corporate Finance Assistant Wakeeld, and previously withMEPC and Director with Ernst & Young.
Responsible for the day-to-day management of all tax for the net income return of the portfolio Sally Learoyd affairs, transaction structuring, raising across the Group.
Head of Human Resources debt finance and interest rate risk MBA, FCIPD A member of the British Property management across the Group.
Federation Commercial Committee Date joined the Group: A member of the British Property Joined the Group in 2015 as Head of Federation Tax Committee HumanResources.
Experience and responsibilities: Janine Cole Formerly HR Director forKing & Wood Head of Sustainability Mallesons and previously with MIOSH, AIEMA Hammerson.
Responsible for human resource management and development Date joined the Group: across theGroup.
Joined the Group in November 1998 asHealth andSafety Administrator.
Promoted to Safety, Healthand Environmental Manager in 2002 andappointed Head of Sustainability in2011.
Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Professional Services Administrator with National Britannia.
Responsible for environment and health and safety management across the Group.
A member of the British Property Federation Sustainability Committee.
Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 55 Left to right: Richard Moran, Sally Learoyd, Martin Leighton, Janine Cole, James Mitchell, Stephen Burrows, Desna Martin, Marc Wilder, Hugh Morgan, Andrew White, James Pellatt Stephen Burrows Marc Wilder Andrew White Head of Financial Reporting and IR Leasing Director Development Director BA Hons, MA, ACA BSc Hons, MRICS BSc Hons, Dip IPF, MRICS Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in September 2003 Joined the Group in June 2005 as Joined the Group in March 2013 as asFinancial Accountant and appointed LeasingManager and appointed Head Headof Development.
Appointed to Head of Financial Reporting and Investor ofLeasing in2009.
Appointed to the theExecutive Committee in July 2015 Relations in 2011.
Executive Committee in July 2015 asDevelopment Director.
Experience and responsibilities: Experience and responsibilities: Formerlyan Audit Manager in Ernst Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Divisional Director at Kier &Youngs Real Estate Group and Formerly Head of Leasing atBenchmark Property and previously with BAA Lynton previously with the National Audit Ofce.
plc, and previously with Threadneedle and Development Securities.
Responsible Responsible for financial reporting, Asset Management and Hemingway for the total return of the development forecasting and investor relations across Properties Limited.
Responsible for portfolio including the successful delivery of theGroup.
leasing across the Groupsinvestment all development projects across the Group.
A member of the British Property A member of the GHS Limited Partnership Federation Technical Accounting Group Operational Committee.
Hugh Morgan and the EPRA IRCommittee.
Head of Investment Management James Pellatt BSc Hons, MRICS Desna Martin Head of Projects Company Secretary BSc Hons, MRICS Date joined the Group: BCom, FCA Aust, ACIS Joined the Group in September 2007 as Date joined the Group: Investment Manager and appointed Head Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in March 2011 as Head of Investment Management in 2010.
Joined the Group as Company Secretary ofProjects.
Experience and responsibilities: Experience and responsibilities: Formerly aDirector with Savills and Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Senior Director with previously with Nelson Bakewell.
Formerly an Audit Senior Manager with Tishman Speyer and previously with Responsible for generating and Ernst& Young.
Responsible for corporate More London Development and executingasset strategies for existing governance acrossthe Group.
Responsible for setting assets within the Groups portfolio procurement strategy and ensuring Company Secretary for all joint including hold sell decisions.
capital expenditure on all projects venturecompanies.
A member of the GHS Limited Partnership is completed in accordance with individual Operational Committee.
asset business plans across the Group.
