Corporate Governance report continued Board activity: an insight into the year In order to ensure good quality decision-making the Directors need to keep up to date with what is happening in the business, shareholder views, changing governance requirements and the economic environment in which the business operates.
Around the business How the Board kept up to date The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit the during the year Companys assets and meet colleagues to provide additional In the boardroom information and insight into the business.
During the year Board meetings were held in Paris and Dublin to enable presentations During the year the Board received a number of regular internal from local management, tours of assets and informal opportunities reports which helped to keep the Directors well informed to meet with local teams.
Non-Executive Directors also take about the business generally.
Regular reports from the Chief opportunities to visit the business themselves.
Terry Duddys Executive provided an overview of progress in the business, the account of his programme of informal visits around the business is current economic environment and the market in which the on page 68.
The Chief Financial Officer reported regularly on the Groups financial One-to-one performance, current treasury financing projects and updates on The Non-Executive Directors are able to meet any colleagues net debt and liquidity.
There were also regular reports from him on to provide additional information.
The Chairman and all Board the performance of the premium outlets sector.
Portfolio reports members are regularly in touch between meetings to keep abreast throughout the year updated the Board on progress with letting of developments in the business.
A number of Board dinners were activity and asset managementat shopping centres and retail parks held throughout the year which enabled Board discussion on a in the UK, Ireland and France.
A regular investment report kept range of topics.
the Board abreast of current activity concerning acquisitions and disposals.
The trading and marketing update provided the Board Board Strategy Day with regular information on retailers trading performance in the Groups assets.
The General Counsel and Company Secretarys The Board holds a Strategy Day each year in the autumn.
The Governance Report updated the Board periodically on regulatory strategy of the business is always at the forefront of the Boards changes and, in particular, the implementation of the Market thinking and discussion throughout the year.
However, the Abuse Regulations which necessitated a review of policies on Strategy Day allows the Board to spend extended time reflecting confidential and inside information and a refreshed Share on the future direction of the business in the context of progress Dealing Policy.
Internal presentations were also given by senior against strategy to date.
It is also an opportunity to debate and management on Health and Safety, Information Technology, refine ideas which will inform the Business Plan andstrategy.
Human Resources, Marketing and Investor Relations.
The Board had opportunities to engage with experts outside the Company to help the Directors shape their views and provide exposure to a range of opinions and expertise to aid betterinformed decision-making.
There was a presentation fromthe Companys brokers.
The Groups Valuer, Cushman & Wakefield, also presented twice during the year at an Audit Committee meeting to which all the Board were invited.
Their presentations coveredthe valuation of the property portfolio including a wider review of the investment market in which the Company operates.
The Board received analysts reports on a regular basis.
External presentations The Institute of Business Ethics gave the Board a talk on culture and ethics as part of the Boards consideration of culture within Hammerson.
The Board met senior executives from Value Retail, in which the Company has a very significant investment, to discuss the progress of the premium outlets sector.
Dundrum Town Centre, Dublin 64 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Prior to the day the Board received a background reading pack Each section was accompanied by key questions for the Board to containing amongst others, financial data on Hammerson, debate which focused on different areas of strategy, including: comments from institutional investor meetings held with the Are any refinements needed to the strategy?
Chairman and Chief Executive, economic data on Ireland and What opportunities and constraints are created by the current a review of the economic environment and outlook for 2017. economic backdrop?
The background reading helped the Directors prepare for the What can be learnt from the Companys peers?
This years agenda included: What is the impact of the EU referendum?
A review of progress against strategic goals: What is the appetite for risk against the current Benchmarking Hammerson against its peers: economic backdrop?
Review of the markets in which Hammerson operates: The Strategy Dayallowed the Board time to reflect in depth on Review of risk factors: current strategy and discuss and reflect on ideas for the future.
Trends in retail behaviour: Ideas and suggestions were further discussed following the day Economic outlook: and and incorporated into the Companys Business Plan.
Peter Coles Potential strategic options.
reflections on the day are below.
My view on the Board Strategy Day Peter Cole, Chief Investment Officer very useful.
The participation of third partiesstimulates new ideas in our debate and helps the Directors to reflect on their perspective of the business.
The wide range of views expressed by the Non-Executive Directors, stemming from their own experiences and business sectors, also adds greatly to the debate.
In addition to considering potential future scenarios in the light of the EU referendum decision, we also debated macro-economic indicators, internal risk factors and the retail market.
Our discussion also covered the continuing evolution of retail in a multichannel environment and a comparison of the retail investment areas and territories in which the Group operates.
We also reviewed strategic priorities for asset and investment management, developing our people and our corporate culture and values.
Being in Dublin allowed the Board to see first-hand the successful integration of the new Irish business and to reflect on the Companys acquisition of Dundrum Town Centre in the context of the Groups strategy.
It was useful to consider the progress the business has made over the last six years with gross assets nearly doubling to around 10bn.
With that in mind, future potential key developments and options for growing the business further were debated extensively with all Directors contributing their views.
This years Strategy Day in Dublin allowed the Board to reflect on the strategic position of the Company and debate a wide I find Strategy Days are an excellent opportunity for the Board range of issues.
Background information sent to the Board to review, challenge and debate the strategy, and consider the prior to the session was helpful in providing a framework risk environment in which the Company operates.
the freedom to explore ideas in depth which enhances our formal Board meetingdiscussions.
The Strategy Day included a presentation by Lazard, the Companys investment bank.
I found their detailed review of peer benchmarking and commentary on key risks such as those posed by the result of the EU referendum decision HAMMERSON.
COM 65 Corporate Governance report continued helpful.
The reduction of meeting frequency to six meetings per External Board effectiveness review year, supplemented by Board conference calls as required, which The 2016 Board effectiveness review was externally facilitated was introduced following the last external effectiveness review, by Clare Chalmers of Independent Audit Limited.
Ms Chalmers, has ensured a more strategic focus in meetings.
The Board felt well who undertook the previous external review in 2013, has no served by the Secretariat, led by the General Counsel and Company other business relationship with the Company or any member Secretary.
The quality of Board papers is high and the Board portal of the Board.
Following an initial planning meeting with the is used effectively.
The induction process for Directors is thorough Chairman and the General Counsel and Company Secretary, and involves understanding the culture and values of the business Ms Chalmersinterviewed each Board member, the General as well as asset visits.
There is scope however, to revisit the annual Counsel and Company Secretary, the External Auditor and meetings programme and consider its scheduling and the use of Remuneration Consultant and several members of senior Board conference calls.
The Board has made significant progress in management who regularly interact with the Committees.
executive succession planning since the last external effectiveness Ms Chalmers also conducted a review of Board minutes and Board review.
However, there is more work to be done on talent and Committee papers from the year.
Observations from the development within the business.
Relationships on the Board are interviews, together with Ms Chalmers findings, were compiled very positive and the Chairman achieves a good balance in debate.
into a report which was circulated to the Board and she attended to Following discussion the Board agreed a number of proposed present her findings and contribute to the discussion on actions.
actions for 2017, which are set out in the table below.
Ms Chalmers concluded that the Board is functioning well.
The 2015 Board effectiveness review was conducted internally The Directors enjoy serving on the Board and are proud to be and recommendations from that exercise were agreed and associated with Hammerson.
Diversity in professional skills incorporated where appropriate into the 2016 Board work plan.
and backgrounds is good and the culturally different approaches The outcome ofthese recommendations is also detailed below.
brought by the Directors of French and Australian nationality are Table 43 Board effectiveness review Recommendation from 2015 review Progress against 2015 recommendations Further enhancements to the strategic planning process See the reports on the Board Strategy Day on pages 64 to 65 Continued focus on the talent-development aspects of succession planning See the Nomination Committee report on page 72 An ongoing programme of engagement and site visits See Terry Duddys account on page 68 Preparation of a list of discussion topics for Board dinners Discussion topics were identified on a rolling basis to ensure focus on topical issues.
These included, for example, discussions on the EU referendum Recommendation from 2016 review Agreed actions for 2017 Review the annual Board and Committee meetings calendar and schedule Following discussion with the Directors and General of Board calls Counsel and Company Secretary to canvass views, the Chairman will propose a revised schedule of meetings.
An additional Board call will be scheduled in August Keep monitoring the culture of the business Continued focus on annual visits to assets.
In 2017 visits to Victoria Gate, Leeds and Westquay, Southampton are planned Review the Board papers to ensure they continue to be forward looking and The General Counsel and Company Secretary will work avoid duplication between reports with colleagues on guidance to help achieve this and greater consistency in Board papers Non-Executive Directors visibility around the Company The Non-Executive Directors will identify opportunities for visiting the business for themselves during the year 66 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Reflections on my first year Andrew Formica, Non-Executive Director for me to spend time looking at the potential development opportunities, especially Brent Cross and Croydon, as these become a greater focus for the Board in the years ahead.
The segment of the business which has surprised me most is retail parks.
Many have had the wrong impression of this retail format.
Having visited a number of Hammersons assets I can see how they serve a critical role for consumers who want a convenient shop.
Furthermore, Hammersons parks in particular are large and modern, featuring leading retailers as tenants.
Retail parks have been a huge success and continue to do well for shareholders.
I have been impressed by the robustness of the audit tender process conducted bya sub-committee of the Audit Committee and assisted by the finance team.
I was invited to be a member of the sub-committee and it has been interesting to be involved in the selection process.
Discussions to arrive at the final choice of  LLP as the preferred candidate for recommendation to the Board were thorough and I felt that the sub-committee was provided with ample high-quality evidence and information on which to base its decision.
It has been a great pleasure to work with the Hammerson Finally, I have been extremely impressed with the associated Board and other colleagues in the business this past investments Hammerson has made in the premium outlets year.
From my initial conversations about joining the Board sector through both Value Retail and VIA Outlets.
As a I was impressed with the strong culture that has been business Hammerson understands the needs of the consumer developed, from Board level right the way down.
and has positioned itself well to be the destination of choice in its key locations.
From my initial conversations about I have been extremely impressed with joining the Board I was impressed with the associated investments the strong culture that has been Hammerson has made in the premium developed, from Board level right the outlets sector through both Value way down.
Having been working with the business for over a year now, my early impressions have only been reinforced and I would also like to extend a thank you to David Tyler and all strengthened.
The Board is in the enviable position of having my fellow Directors who have made me extremely welcome significant interactions with a large part of the business.
in my first year, tolerated my nave questions and encouraged This is both at the regular Board meetings and also on the me both to bring my experience to bear and to learn from their various trips and training sessions organised for Directors.
Each of these interactions shows how deeply passionate all the Hammerson colleagues are about the business and its focus on the retailers and customers they represent as well as shareholders.
As a new Board member I have had the opportunity to visit much of the Hammerson portfolio, ranging from the retail parksto the operations in France and the recently acquired Irish portfolio.
Looking at Hammersons prime shopping centres for example Bullring andGrand Central, Birmingham it is really impressive to see how the teams vision has been made into reality.
It has been important HAMMERSON.
COM 67 Corporate Governance report continued Getting around the business Terry Duddy, Senior Independent Director In June I visited three of Hammersons retail parks.
At Elliotts Field, Rugby I saw how Hammerson is developing its vision of out of town retailing.
It was inspiring to experience first-hand the results of one of Hammersons objectives with this development project, to create a high-quality retail park with an innovative mix of retailers.
It was interesting to compare this development with St Oswalds, Gloucester and the Orchard Centre, Didcot.
The Director, UK Retail Parks who accompanied me, helped me gain further insight into how these businesses are managed.
It was also interesting to look at potential development opportunities at these assets and to learn more about how these businesses are developed in coordination with the local community.
Through meeting colleagues informally across the business I have seen how Hammersons culture and values: ambition, respect, collaboration, responsibility, influence what we do.
My visit to Bullring, Birmingham allowed me to spend some time with theCentre Manager there and to gain insight into I was appointed to the Board in 2009 and since then, through the challenges of running an asset from an operational point my role as a Non-Executive Director of Hammerson, I have of view.
I also took the opportunity to visit Grand Central and built up my knowledge of the business through both the experience the shopping environment there.
formal programme of Board business and events and regular Board visits to the Companys assets.
My informal visits this year have given me greater insight into the geographical context and retail environment in which we When I was appointed as Senior Independent Director in operate, including what our competitors are doing.
Through 2015, one of the objectives I set myself was to get out and meeting colleagues informally across the business I have seen about in Hammerson as much as I could outside the formal how Hammersons culture and values: ambition, respect, Board schedule.
This would enable me to refresh my personal collaboration, responsibility, influence what we do.
In terms of perspective on the business and better understand the local succession planning, it is invaluable to engage with colleagues context of our shopping centres and retail parks.
Meeting across the business below boardroom level and appreciate colleagues informally, who work at different levels in the first-hand the talent, energy and commitment that exists business, is also invaluable.
This year I have made a number in Hammerson.
it is invaluable to engage with Visits to Italie Deux, Paris: SQY Ouest, Saint March Quentin-en-Yvelines and Les Trois Fontaines, colleagues across the business 2016 Cergy Pontoise with the Managing Director and appreciate first-hand the talent, of Hammerson France energy and commitment that exists Visits to Victoria Gate and Victoria Quarter, April in Hammerson.
Leeds with the Development Manager 2016 For example, I spent a very informative day at our Victoria Gate, Leeds development, accompanied by the Development Visits to retail parks at Elliotts Field, Rugby: St Manager.
I was able to understand the Development June Oswalds, Gloucester and the Orchard Centre, 2016 Managers perspective of the development, witness his Didcot with the Director, UK Retail Parks enthusiasm and learn about the frustrations of the role.
We also toured other development opportunities for Hammerson Visits to Bullring and Grand Central, in Leeds.
I was particularly interested to see the work being July Birmingham with the Bullring Centre Manager 2016 done to provide local retailers with opportunities in the centre.
This is a good example of our strategy in action creating destinations which involve the local community.
68 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Enhancing the global public profile of Hammerson with its Secondary listing on the stakeholders, including investors, retailers and consumers Johannesburg Stock Exchange and especially those based in South Africa and on the African continent.
The Board monitors investor relations closely through regular updates from the Investor Relations team.
In April the Board Management consulted with the Companys major shareholders began considering the potential opportunity for a secondary listing and the investment community more widely, who were supportive on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE.
The Companys South of the proposition.
The Board considered the political risk of the African shareholdersand potential investors were constrained removal of exchange controls in South Africa and concluded that by foreign exchange controls which limited them to investing no any potential risk was outweighed by the benefits of proceeding more than 25% of the funds they managed in overseas companies.
The Board approved the recommendations to: They had shown considerable interest in investing further in Approach existing South African shareholders to discuss their Hammerson.
A secondary listing on the JSE would remove any shareholding structure and willingness to transfer to the JSE: constraint on South African investors and enable them to invest up to 100% of their funds under management in Hammersons shares.
Appoint a South African Sponsor to advise and assist withthe implementation of the transaction: and The Board considered the advantages of a secondary listing on the JSE, which included: Liaise with the JSE and the South African Reserve Bank on the Companys behalf regarding the application process.
Greater shareholder diversity, which would increase liquidity and demand for Hammersons shares: In June and July the Board received progress reports from the Accessing a wider pool of international capital: Investor Relations team, as well as an update from the Companys lawyers regarding the legal implications of the listing and the Supporting the Companys existing and prospective South ongoing obligations placed on the Company by the JSE.
The Board African shareholders by providing an additional market for also considered the impact of the referendum decision to leave the trading the Companys shares: European Union on the future viability of the listing.
Providing South African investors, both institutional and private, with an opportunity to participate over the long term in The Board approved the decision to progress the secondary listing the future growth and capital performance of the Company: in July and on 1 September 2016 trading commenced on the JSE.
Providing the Company with an additional opportunity to raise The Board has continued to monitor the progress of the listing equity funding to pursue growth and investment opportunities since September and as at December 2016 it was pleased with in the future: and the success of the listing and considered that it had achieved its objectives.
Rebecca Patton, Head of Investor Relations, David Atkins, Chief Executive, and Timon Drakesmith, Chief Financial Officer, holding a kudo horn at the Listing Ceremony for Hammerson at the Johannesburg Stock Exchange HAMMERSON.
COM 69 Corporate Governance report continued This year the Company increased its engagement with the Shareholder engagement in 2016 environmental, social and governance ESG investment Hammersons approach to shareholder community by attending dedicated conferences and organising one-to-one meetings with socially responsible investing SRI fund engagement managers, attended by the Investor Relations team and the Head The Board is committed to engaging closely with the Companys of Sustainability.
shareholders and keeping abreast of their views and those of other key market participants.
Hammersons corporate website remains one of the key ways of communicating with existing shareholders and informing new Hammerson has a comprehensive investor relations programme or potential investors about the Company.
The website contains through which the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the regulatory RNS announcements and an archive of published Head of Investor Relations meet regularly with the Companys results and reports, press releases, factual details about the shareholders to discuss strategic issues as well as present the Companys assets and contact information for the operational Companys results.
The Company also provides shareholders teams within the Company.
with opportunities to meet members of the Board and members of the operational management team at salesforce briefings and the annual Capital Markets Day.
Further shareholder engagement activities are also discussed in the Chairmans introduction on Calendar of events page 60.
JPM conference London Investor relations programme January 2016 The Company has continued to maintain full and transparent disclosure throughout 2016: as well as the full-year and half-year results Hammerson has published more than 100 regulatory 2016 full-year results RNS announcements, and continued a comprehensive investor February Investor roadshows London, Paris, 2016 relations programme which included this year: Amsterdam, Edinburgh, Zurich Bi-annual investor road shows following the full-year and halfyear results: Citi conference United States March HSBC conference Frankfurt Industry conferences in the United Kingdom, Europe, America 2016 JPM SRI conference Paris and South Africa: One-to-one meetings with management at the request of Chairmans meetings with investors institutional shareholders: April London, Amsterdam Salesforce briefings at leading equities brokers: 2016 Ad hoc investor tours around the Companys assets, accompanied by centre general managers: Kempen conference Amsterdam Panel discussions with executive management at investor May Investor roundtable event 2016 conferences and events: Annual Capital Markets Day: and Annual sustainability report supported by one-to-one meetings VIA Outlets investor site visit Prague June and attendance at industry conferences.
ODDO SRI conference Paris 2016 During the Companys annual Capital Markets Day in 2016 Hammerson hosted a site visit to Dublin, which also included a 2016 half-year results tour of Dundrum Town Centre and other retail assets secured by a July Investor roadshows London, Amsterdam loan portfolio held in joint venture with Allianz, presentations on 2016 the economic backdrop, property markets and Hammersons plans for the Ireland portfolio.
The feedback from attendees was very Investor roadshows South Africa positive and reinforced the markets understanding of the rental Sep growth prospects in Dublin and Hammersons ability to deliver 2016 financial returns.
Following the Companys secondary listing on the Johannesburg UBS conference London Stock Exchange in September 2016, the Company is committed to Nov 2016 fostering relationships with existing South African shareholders while attracting new investment in South Africa.
In 2016 the Company held road shows in Johannesburg and Cape Town, HSBC conference South Africa hosted one-to-one meetings with senior management and Dec 2016 facilitated tours of Hammersons assets in the United Kingdom, France and Ireland.
On 27 January 2017 Rockcastle Global Securities Limited notified the Company that it had decreased its shareholding to 6.82%.
On 24 January 2017 Morgan Stanley Institutional Securities Group and Global Wealth Management notified the Company that it had decreased its shareholding to below 3%.
No other changes to table 45 have been disclosed to the Company between 31 December 2016 and 17 February 2017.
