OUR BUSINESS MODEL Creating long-term value Our vision We create desirability for consumers, brands, commercial partners and communities.
We utilise key resources Through clear operational activities The success of our business depends on a number of principal inputs.
The main activities that we undertake towards delivering our strategy.
High-quality property Focus on growing consumer High-quality property in prime locations across markets selected European retail markets Investment management We employ market expertise to recycle our portfolio, Talented people taking advantage of acquisition opportunities Skilful and motivated people and teams united in growing consumer markets which enhance the around a clear set of values quality of our portfolio and future returns and Retail insight disposing of assets at the right time.
Deep retail knowledge captured through long-standing commercial relationships, data insight Create differentiated destinations and consumer research Developing venues Financial capital We have a proven track record in creating Dependable access to, and continued trust of, sustainable retail and leisure destinations which anticipate future consumer needs and ensure global capital providers and international joint venture partners that retailers will thrive for years to come.
Asset management We skilfully manage our portfolio in a sustainable way to generate income growth and to attract tenants and shoppers.
Promote financial efficiency and partnerships Financing and capital providers We manage and control our costs, both operational and financial, and optimise our capital base to support the delivery of our strategy.
We make use of relationships to source capital, to access growth markets, to create a larger operated platform, as well as generate asset management income.
For information on Our People strategy see pages 40-42 and for For information on how we are delivering on our strategy, see information on financial capital see Financial Review pages 43-52 pages 12-17 and for performance against our KPIs see pages 18-19 6 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR BUSINESS MODEL Uniquely differentiated by our To deliver value Product Experience Framework for our stakeholders Our Product Experience Framework is embedded By successfully employing our business across everything we do, providing a unique point model we aim to deliver a positive result of differentiation.
We constantly challenge ourselves to for all our stakeholder groups.
apply best practice in retail design and digital solutions, customer engagement and sustainability.
Iconic destinations Shareholders We create outstanding architecture to enhance We create consistent earnings growth which benefits locations.
We place our centres at the heart of local shareholders through growing dividend payments and communities, connected by seamless technology increased share value and transportation links.
Retailers Offering our retail tenants innovative formats Best at retail that are responsive to customer demands We deliver the optimal retail mix, consistently Shoppers refreshed and showcasing new concepts.
Offering our shoppers entertaining and exciting experiences, as well as great retail destinations Convenient & easy We make shopping simple and stress-free, with Our people enhanced customer facilities and services such as Developing, recognising and rewarding our people click & collect, encouraging regular shopper visits.
secures a skilled and motivated workforce Communities Interactive & engaging We create positive social impacts through Our outstanding customer service and leading our activities, including the creation of local jobs digital infrastructure drive engagement and loyalty, and encourage shoppers to spend longer at our destinations.
Entertaining & exciting We constantly evaluate and refresh our food and leisure offers, and provide a local and national calendar of events to surprise and delight our customers, and keep them coming back.
Positive places We create destinations that deliver positive impacts economically, socially and environmentally.
For examples of our Product Experience Framework in action For information on delivering for shareholders see see page 11 and pages 12-17 Financial Review pages 43-52, delivering for Our People pages 40-42 and delivering Positive Places pages 34-39 HAMMERSON.
