DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES David Tyler Peter Cole Chairman age 64 Chief Investment Officer age 58 Appointed to the Board: 12 January 2013 and appointed Appointed to the Board: 1 October 1999.
Skills and experience: Committee membership: Remuneration Committee and Peter Cole is a Chartered Surveyor who joined the Company in Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He was appointed to the board of the Companys UK business in 1992.
In 1999 he assumed Skills and experience: responsibility for Hammersons development, acquisition and David Tyler is an experienced chairman having served in that disposal programme.
He implemented the disposal of the London role previously at Logica plc and 3i Quoted Private Equity plc and offices in 2012 and he has led the Companys major regeneration currently at J Sainsbury plc and Domestic & General Insurance and investment projects.
He has over 40 years experience in both executive and nonPreviously he was president and general council member of the executive roles in a variety of businesses spanning the consumer, City Property Association.
retail, business services and financial services sectors.
He is the Co-Chair of the Parker Review Committee.
Timon Drakesmith His previous roles include finance director of GUS plc andof Christies International plc, and senior financial and general Chief Financial Officer age 51 management roles withCounty NatWest Limited and Unilever Appointed to the Board: 30 June 2011.
He has also been a non-executive director of Burberry Group plc, Experian plc and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Skills and experience: Timon Drakesmith is a Chartered Accountant who joined the Company in 2011 as Chief Financial Officer.
He has David Atkins experience of working in commercial property having spent Chief Executive age 50 six years as finance director at Great Portland Estates plc.
He is Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2007 and appointed Chief currently a non-executive director of Value Retail PLC and The Executive on 1 October 2009.
Merchants Trust plc, and chairman of VIA Outlets advisory and investment committees.
Skills and experience: His previous roles include finance director of the MK Electric David Atkins is a Chartered Surveyor who joined the Company division of Novar plc, group director of financial operations of in 1998.
His career at Hammerson began as Group Property Novar plc, chairman of the British Property Federations finance Executive, responsible for strategy and investment performance, committee and other financial roles at Credit Suisse, Barclays and where he worked on a number of overseas transactions, Deloitte Haskins and Sells.
In 2002 he took responsibility for the UK retail parks portfolio and, in 2006, for the wider UK retail portfolio.
Jean-Philippe Mouton In 2016 he was appointed as a non-executive director of Whitbread PLC.
He is a member of the policy committee of the British Executive Director age 55 Property Federation, a director and trustee of the Reading Real Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013.
Estate Foundation and a governor and trustee of Berkhamsted Schools Group.
Skills and experience: Previously he was a member of the executive boards of the Jean-Philippe Mouton joined Hammerson in 2003 with responsibility for property leasing, development and asset European Public Real Estate Association and Revo previously known as BCSC and a member of the Revo Educational Trust.
In 2006, he assumed responsibility for managing the French portfolio as Director of Operations and in 2009 became the Managing Director of Hammersons French business.
He also has Board responsibility for marketing where he can draw on years of experience working for Disneyland Paris.
His previous roles include director of strategic planning at Disneyland Paris and positions at The Walt Disney Company and Standard Chartered Bank.
120 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES Pierre Bouchut Andrew Formica Non-Executive Director age 61 Non-Executive Director age 45 Appointed to the Board: 13 February 2015.
Appointed to the Board: 26 November 2015.
Committee membership: Nomination Committee and Chairman Committee membership: Audit Committee and of the Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Pierre Bouchut has considerable senior management experience Andrew Formica is an Actuary, having qualified in Australia and the in finance, European retail and European property.
He has considerable experience in capital markets and fund the chief operating officer, Europe and Indonesia for Ahold management, including property management, and has managed Delhaize and a non-executive director and chairman of the audit portfolios and businesses across Europe and globally.
In 1993 he committee of Firmenich SA.
joined the Henderson Group, where he has held various senior positions, and in 2008 became the chief executive of Henderson His previous roles include executive vice president and chief Group plc.
He is also a director of the Investment Association.
financial officer of Delhaize Group SA, executive director growth markets zone and chief financial officer of Carrefour SA, chief Previously he was non-executive director of TIAA Henderson Real financial officer and member of the management board of Estate Limited.
Schneider Electric SA and chief executive officer and member of the Board of Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA.
He has also been a Judy Gibbons non-executive director of La Rinascente SpA and a non-executive Non-Executive Director age 60 member of the advisory boards of Qualium Investissement and Lombard Odier Asset Management Switzerland SA.
Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2011.
Committee membership: Audit Committee, Nomination Gwyn Burr Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Director age 54 Skills and experience: Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2012.
Judy Gibbons has a background in e-commerce, software, internet technologies, digital media and mobile applications.
She also has Committee membership: Audit Committee, Nomination extensive experience in marketing and international business.
She Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
is currently a non-executive director of Guardian Media Group plc, Skills and experience: Michael Kors Holdings Limited and Virgin Money Giving Limited.
Gwyn Burr has expertise in marketing and leading customer Her previous roles include non-executive director of O2 plc, service processes for major retail brands.
She is currently a member corporate vice-president of Microsoft Corporation, venture of the board and the remuneration committee, and chairman of the partner of Accel Partners and senior roles in marketing and nominations committee of Sainsburys Bank plc.
She is also a nonproduct development at Apple Inc. and Hewlett-Packard.
executive director of Just Eat plc, Metro AG, DFS Trading Limited and Ingleby Farms and Forrests ApS.
Sarah Booth Previously she held senior roles in marketing, customer service and General Counsel and Company Secretary age 50 financial services at Asda plc.
She was also customer service and colleague director at J Sainsbury plc, non-executive director of the Appointed: as General Counsel on 29March 2010 and as Principality Building Society, director of the Incorporated Society Company Secretary on 22 September 2011. of British Advertisers and chair of Business in the Community, Sarah Booths previous appointments include general counsel at community investment board.
Sodexo and legal and corporate development director at Christian Salvesen PLC.
She began her career at Dickson Minto WS where Terry Duddy she trained as a solicitor.
Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director age 60 Appointed to the Board: 3 December 2009.
Committee membership: Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: In addition to the capabilities and experience related to managing a large public company, Terry Duddy brings specific insight into customer behaviour and retail markets.
He is currently the chairman of Retail Trust and a non-executive director of Debenhams plc.
His previous roles include chief executive of Home Retail Group plc, director of DSG Retail Limited and trustee of Education and Employers Taskforce.
