STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE This section of the Corporate Governance Report details the All Directors are expected to: Companys compliance with the Principles set out in the UK Attend all meetings of the Board, and of those Committees on Corporate Governance Code the Code published on 27 April 2016 which they serve: which is available at www.
This section should be read Attend the Annual General Meeting AGM : and in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report as a whole, Devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to which is set out on pages 60 to 71. fulfil their duties as Directors.
The Company has complied in full with the requirements of the A.
2 Division of responsibilities Code during 2016.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have separate roles and A.
Leadership responsibilities which are clearly defined, documented and A.
1 The role of the Board approved by the Board.
The Chairman, David Tyler, is responsible for the operation of the Board.
The Chief Executive, David Atkins, The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the Companys long-term success and the delivery is responsible for leading and managing the business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
of its long-term strategic and operational objectives.
The Board sets the strategic direction, governance and values of A.
3 The Chairman the Group and has ultimate responsibility for its management, The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and ensures that important direction and performance.
matters strategic issues in particular receive adequate time and attention at meetings.
The Chairman encourages a collegiate The Board operates through a sound risk management environment on the Board which facilitates open discussion.
and internal control system, details of which are on pages 53 to 58 and 117.
When he became Chairman in 2013, David Tyler was considered independent.
In accordance with the Code, the continuing test of The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved independence for the Chairman is not necessary.
for its decision which can be accessed at www.
The Board has regular meetings throughout the year.
It held The Chairman ensures that he engages regularly with major shareholders.
Additional Board conference calls are held between the formal Board meetings as required.
The table below Further details of shareholder engagement are on page 70. includes details of attendance at Board meetings and scheduled Board conference calls during 2016.
4 Non-Executive Directors encouraged to communicate directly with Executive Directors and The Non-Executive Directors challenge and help develop senior management between Board meetings.
The annual Board Strategy Day is dedicated to considering the future direction of the Company at the start of Table 90 the business-planning process.
Board and Committee meetings attendance Further details of the 2016 Board Strategy Day are Board Audit Remuneration Nomination on pages 64 to 65.
4.1 Senior Independent Director David Atkins 8 8 The Senior Independent Director, Terry Duddy, is available to 2 Peter Cole 7 8 address shareholders concerns on governance.
When and if Timon Drakesmith 8 8 necessary, he can also address concerns on other issues that have Jean-Philippe Mouton 8 8 not been resolved through the normal channels of communication Gwyn Burr 8 8 4 4 5 5 3 3 with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer, 3 or in cases when such communications would be inappropriate.
Pierre Bouchut 7 8 4 4 3 3 He can also deputise for the Chairman in his absence, act as a Terry Duddy 8 8 5 5 3 3 sounding board for the Chairman and advise and counsel all 4 Jacques Espinasse 3 3 2 2 Board colleagues.
5 Andrew Formica 8 8 3 4 3 3 The Senior Independent Director also chairs an annual meeting 6 Judy Gibbons 7 8 4 4 5 5 3 3 of Executive and Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman 1.
David Tyler was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting due to appraise the Chairmans performance and address any other to a prior commitment.
matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
Peter Cole was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a clash of Independent Director conveys the outcome of these discussions Board meetings.
Pierre Bouchut was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a clash of to the Chairman.
The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive meetings with another board.
Directors as necessary, but at least twice a year without the 4.
Jacques Espinasse resigned following the Annual General Meeting on Executive Directors present.
Andrew Formica was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting due to If any Director has concerns about the running of the Company or travel disruption.
a proposed action which cannot be resolved, these will be recorded 6.
Judy Gibbons was unable to attend one Board meeting due to family commitments.
No such concerns arose in 2016.
COM 115 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued B.
Effectiveness All Directors receive an induction programme when appointed B.
1 The composition of the Board to the Board, which takes into account their qualifications and During the year the Board reviewed the overall balance of skills, experience.
Where appropriate Non-Executive Directors are experience, independence and knowledge of the Board and offered opportunities to meet major shareholders.
All Directors are Committee members.
It was satisfied that the Board was of an kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and regulations appropriate size and that the requirements of the business can and of changing financial and commercial risks.
the Companys legal advisors and External Auditor assist in this The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, each of regard.
Executive Directors are also subject to the Companys whom is independent from management and has no material annual performance development review process in which their or other connection with the Company, are able to exercise performance is reviewed against pre-determined objectives and independent judgement.
their personal and professional development needs are considered.
The Board reviews the independence of its Non-Executive The Chairman undertakes an annual appraisal of Non-Executive Directors each year in accordance with the criteria set out within Directors performance, in which their training and personal the Code.
development requirements are reviewed and agreed.
NonExecutive Directors are also encouraged to attend seminars and There are currently six Non-Executive Directors including the undertake external training at the Companys expense in areas Chairman and four Executive Directors on the Board.
considered appropriate for their professional development.
2 Appointments to the Board include issues relevant to the Board and the Committees to which they belong.
The Nomination Committee, which is chaired by the Chairman and comprises all Non-Executive Directors, leads the process B.
5 Information and support for Board appointments, which are made on merit, against The Directors have access to independent professional advice at objective criteria, and makes recommendations to the Board.
the Companys expense, as well as to the advice and services of the The Committees terms of reference can be found at General Counsel and Company Secretary who advises the Board www.
The Board and its Committees Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms and receive high-quality, up to date information for them to review stand for re-election at each AGM.
Any term beyond six years in good time before each meeting.
The General Counsel and is subject to a rigorous review, taking into account the need for Company Secretary ensures that Board procedures are followed progressive refreshmentof the Board.
and that the Company and the Board operate within applicable legislation.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary is Further details of the work of the Nomination Committee are on also responsible for facilitating Directors induction, assisting pages 72 to 73. with identifying and enabling appropriate training and Board Disclosures on diversity are on pages 42 and 73. performance evaluation.
The appointment and removal of the General Counsel and B.
3 Commitment Company Secretary is a matter requiring Board approval.
The Board is satisfied that all the Non-Executive Directors are able to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
6 Evaluation Executive Directors are advised when appointed of the time An externally facilitated performance evaluation of the Board was required to fulfil the role and asked to confirm that they can make carried out by Independent Audit in 2016.
The General Counsel the required commitment.
Each individuals commitment to their and Company Secretary will undertake an internal performance role is reviewed annually as part of their annual appraisal.
Letters evaluation of the Board and its Committees in 2017. of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the AGM.
The Chairman carries out a formal performance evaluation individually with each Non-Executive Director every year Positions held by Non-Executive Directors are set out to review whether the Non-Executive Director continues to on pages 120 and 121. contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
All Executive Directors are encouraged to take a non-executive The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent position in another company or organisation.
These appointments Director, are responsible for the annual evaluation of the are subject to the approval of the Board which considers Chairmans performance.
The Chairmans performance evaluation particularly the time commitment required.
for 2016 was carried out in early 2017 and the Board was subsequently updated.
Non-Executive Director positions held by Executive Directors are set out on page 120.
Following the external Board effectiveness review in 2016, the Directors concluded that the Board and its Committees operate effectively and that each Director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
More details of the external Board effectiveness review are on page 66.
116 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Management has established a risk management framework and B.
7 Election and re-election put in place sufficient procedures necessary to enable the Directors All Directors are subject to election at the first AGM following to report in compliance with the Code on internal controls.
These their appointment and annual re-election at each AGM thereafter.
involve the analysis, evaluation and management of the key risks Directors who are subject to annual re-election are submitting to the Group, including a review of all material controls.
They also themselves for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
include plans for the continuity of the Companys business in the Directors biographies are on pages 120 and 121 and also in the event of unforeseen interruption.
Having monitored the Groups Notice of Meeting for the 2017 AGM.
risk management and internal controls, and having reviewed the effectiveness of material controls, the Audit Committee has not Further discussion on the balance of skills and experience on the identified any significant failings or weaknesses in the Groups Board is on page 72. internal control structure during the year.
C. Accountability The Risk and Controls Committee supports the Audit Committee.
C. 1 Financial and business reporting It is not a committee of the Board but of executives from across The Board considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is the business and is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information The committee reports its activities to the Group Executive necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and Committee.
The committees role is to: performance, business model and strategy.
Promote the application of the risk management framework An explanation of the Groups strategy and business model is on throughout the business: pages 4 to 7.
Encourage proactive discussion of risk around the business: Manage the annual internal audit programme: A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the financial statements is on page 125.
Consider the results and recommendations of reviews: and Monitor the implementation of recommendations.
C. 2 Risk management and internal control The Board has established processes for monitoring sound risk The Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on key risks to management and internal control which allow it to review the the Group.
The Board allocates responsibility for the management effectiveness of the systems in place within the Group.
A robust of each key risk to the Executive Directors and senior executives assessment of the principal risks facing the Company has been across the Group.
carried out during the year.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its The Board has established processes to ensure the Companys responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the position and prospects and all reports and information which it is control environment and the Groups compliance.
required to present in accordance with regulatory requirements Throughout the year the Audit Committee monitored the are fair, balanced and understandable.
effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems, including material financial, operational and compliance Further details about the fair, balanced and understandable process for the Annual Report are on page 76. controls.
In particular the Audit Committee reviewed: The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company The External Auditors management letters: over a five-year period and have a reasonable expectation that Internal audit reports including monitoring the implementation the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its of recommendations arising from them: liabilities as they fall due over the period of this assessment.
Reports on the system of internal controls and the risk management framework: The Viability Statement and Going Concern Statement are on page 59.
The Companys approach to compliance with legislation and the prevention of fraud: An assessment of the principal risks facing the Company is on Business continuity and cyber risk: and pages 55 to 58 and Key Performance Indicators are on pages Gifts and entertainment and expenses registers.
The Groups risk management and internal control systems are Further explanation of the Companys approach to risk management is on pages 53 to 58. designed to: Safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition: Ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records: Provide reliable information: Identify and, as far as possible, mitigate potential impediments to the Group achieving its objectives: and Ensure compliance with relevant legislation, rules and regulations.
It must be recognised that the Groups internal controls provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
COM 117 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued The Committee is responsible for developing, implementing and C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditor monitoring the Groups policy on the engagement of the External The Audit Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive Auditor to supply non-audit services.
It holds fourmeetings per year, organised around the of the policy are that: Companys reporting schedule.
The External Auditor may not provide a service which places it The Audit Committee Chairman regularly reports details of in a position where it may be required to audit its own work, such the work carried out by the Audit Committee to the Board in as book keeping or valuation services: and accordance with its terms of reference.
Some services may be provided in specific or exceptional The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are available at circumstances and may include tax compliance work, due www.
com diligence and property-related consultancy.
Each occasion is specifically assessed and authorised by an Executive Director up Pierre Bouchut, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, has been to a limit of 50,000 and above that level by the Chairman of the determined by the Board to have recent and relevant financial Audit Committee.
experience as required by the Code.
The Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Further details are in the terms of reference for the Audit Company operates.
Committee and the full policy on non-audit services is available at www.
Details of the composition of the Audit Committee are on page 74.
The biographies of members of the Audit Committee are on Deloittes remuneration as External Auditor for the year ended pages 120 to 121.
Consideration is given to the nature of and remuneration received for other services provided The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief by Deloitte to the Company.
Confirmation is also sought that the Financial Officer and other members of the senior finance fee payable for the annual audit is sufficient to enable Deloitte to management team together with senior representatives of the perform its obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
Companys External Auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, are invited to attend all or part of meetings as appropriate.
In order to fulfil its During 2016 non-audit services provided by Deloitte to the duties as defined in its terms of reference, the Audit Committee Company included acting as reporting accountants for tax-related receives presentations and reviews reports from the Groups senior work and reviewing the Groups sustainability reporting.
Fees for management, consulting as necessary with Deloitte.
non-audit services provided to the Company by Deloitte for the year ended 31 December 2016 were 0.2 million.
The Audit Committee meets at least once a year with Deloitte and with the head of the internal audit functionwhich undertakes Further information on Deloittes remuneration is in note 4 to the the majority of the Companys internal audit reviews, with no accounts on page 144.
Following a tender process for the appointment of the External Cushman & Wakefield LLP the Valuer and Deloitte have full Auditor, the Audit Committee recommended to the Boardthe access to one another and the Chairman of the Committee meets appointment of  LLP PwC.
Deloitte has with the Valuer and Deloitte as part of the half-year and year end tendered its resignation with effect from the date of the 2017 AGM, valuations to ensure each is satisfied that there has been a full and at which a resolution to appoint PwC will be proposed.
open exchange of information and views.
Further details about the tender process for the External Auditor The Audit Committee has regard to the recommendations are on page 75. of the Financial Reporting Council on regular and open The Committee oversees and monitors the policies and procedures communications between audit committees and external auditors which form the core components of the Groups adequate and it has concluded that the relationship with Deloitte meets procedures under the Bribery Act including the Code of Conduct these recommendations.
The Code of Conduct explains how The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its employees are expected to fulfil their responsibilities by acting in responsibilities in relation to: the best interests of the Group and in line with its corporate and financial objectives.
Ensuring that management has systems and procedures in place to ensure the integrity of financial information: A summary of the Code of Conduct is available at Reviewing the Companys internal audit arrangements: www.
Maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups The Whistleblowing Policy sets out the procedures for employees External Auditor Deloitte: and to report any suspicions of fraud, financial irregularity or other Reviewing the effectiveness, objectivity and independence malpractice.
No reports of any such matters were received during of Deloitte including the scope of work and the fees paid the year.
The Company subscribes to the independent charity to Deloitte.
Public Concern at Work so that employees may have free access to its helpline.
Details of how the Audit Committee has discharged its responsibilities during the year are in the Audit Committee Report on pages 74 to 77.
118 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE E. 2 Constructive use of general meetings D. Remuneration At general meetings, the proxy appointment form gives D. 1 The level and components of remuneration shareholders options either to direct their proxy vote for each The principal responsibility of the Remuneration Committee is resolution or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
to determine and agree with the Board the overall remuneration The Company will ensure that the proxy appointment form principles and the framework for remuneration of the Executive and any announcement of the results of a vote will make it clear Directors, the General Counsel and Company Secretary and the that a vote withheld is not a vote in law: it will therefore not be other members of the Group Executive Committee.
The terms of counted when calculating the proportions of votes that were for reference for the Committee are reviewed annually.
All valid proxy appointment forms are The Chairman of the Committee reports regularly on the properly recorded and counted.
After the vote has been counted, Committees activities at Board meetings.
information is given on the number of proxy votes for and against each resolution and the number of shares representing withheld The Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 78 to 114. votes, both at the general meeting and on the Companys website.
Notice of a general meeting is despatched to shareholders at least D. 2 Procedure 14 days in advance.
When determining policy on executive remuneration the Remuneration Committee takes into account all factors which it Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially deems necessary.
Relevant legal and regulatory requirements: When the Board is of the opinion that a significant proportion of The provisions of the Code: the votes at any general meeting is cast against a resolution, the Associated guidance: and Company will explain when announcing the results of the vote, the actions it intends to take to gain an understanding of the reasons Views of principal shareholders.
Further details are in the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee which are available at www.
Details of the composition of the Remuneration Committee are on page 78.
Details of advisors who provided services to the Remuneration Committee during the year are on page 111.
During 2016 no individual was present when his or her own remuneration was being determined.
E. Relations with shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The Company actively engages with its shareholders.
Throughout 2016 the Company attended a wide variety of meetings, presentations and road shows.
The Chairman and the Executives meet regularly with institutional shareholders.
Views are communicated to the Board as a whole.
Major shareholders are offered the opportunity to attend shareholder meetings, with the Senior Independent Director or other Non-Executive Directors, or may request such meetings.
The Board receives reports of meetings with institutional shareholders together with regular market reports and brokers reports which enable the Directors to understand the views of shareholders.
The Board takes account of corporate governance guidelines of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies such as the Investment Association and the Pensions and Life Savings Association.
Hammersons website contains information of interest to both institutional and private shareholders.
Further details about relations with shareholders are in the Corporate Governance Report on page 70 and in the Directors Remuneration Policy on page 112 and available at www.
