OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Focus on growing consumer markets Our portfolio is concentrated around retail property which is aligned to consumer requirements in a multichannel world: the experience of large prime shopping centres: the convenience of retail parks: and the draw of luxury brand premium outlets.
We choose locations by identifying significant, growing cities and catchments in selected European countries, and where we can gain market share.
Why its important We specialise in retail property because it offers attractive and sustainable long-term returns, with lower volatility than other commercial property due to a granular and diverse tenant mix.
As consumer behaviour evolves, in particular incorporating digital technology into the shopping experience, consumer preferences are polarising.
As a result, occupier demand for retail space is concentrating on selected prime locations and specific formats.
Our strategy is to align our portfolio in order to benefit from this polarisation in demand.
Our investment scope covers Western Europe.
We assess new investment opportunities on a case-by-case basis influenced by the quality of the property and the economic prospects of the city or region.
We have a strong track-record of successfully developing retail destinations.
Our strategy also involves rotating investments by selling lower-growth assets and acquiring or developing in faster-growth markets, which also ensures the quality of the portfolio is constantly enhanced.
We will grow our portfolio through further developments or selective acquisitions: these will be part-funded by releasing capital from lower-return assets.
What we did in 2016 Our near-term strategic priorities Added a retail platform in Ireland, Europes fastest Integrate the assets added in growth-markets: growing economy, by converting the acquired loan Birmingham, Dublin, Leeds portfolio into asset ownership Dispose of assets which do not meet our performance Sold 635 million of assets, selection based on lower criteria: expect to be net-sellers in 2017 future returns profile Invest to extend selected core shopping centres in the 2 Added 54,500m new prime space at developments polarising French market in Leeds and Southampton Advance major London developments Enlarged our presence in Birmingham, UKs second Deliver high-return retail park extensions city, with acquisition of Grand Central and reconfigurations Acquired five outlets, significantly building the scale Support premium outlet extensions and assess of VIA Outlets, creating a leading player in the fastopportunities to increase exposure growing European outlet market Key performance indicators Delivering against strategy Total property return Added Dundrum Town Centre, an Growth in adjusted EPS exceptional super-prime shopping Growth in like-for-like NRI centre, through acquisition and Occupancy conversion of a loan portfolio.
Leasing activity See pages 18 to 19 for more detail Delivering the Product Experience Framework Iconic Best Entertaining destinations at retail & exciting 12 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Dundrum Strategic rationale Invested in Dublin Ireland is Europes fastest growing economy: 2016 GDP growth c. 4%: retail sales volume growth 4% 995m Dundrum Town Centre is Irelands largest and foremost super-prime retail and leisure scheme Opportunity to realise significant value by applying our best-in-class Dundrum ERV growth 2016 asset management 2 Platform acquisition gives us a national leading market share of 220,000m 9% of prime retail space Pipeline of development opportunities across Dublin city will deliver next generation of differentiated destinations HAMMERSON.
COM 13 OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Create differentiated destinations Our talented people apply insight and market expertise to create and operate destinations which offer exceptional experiences to attract retailers and shoppers.
Our Product Experience Framework purposefully guides our asset and development management to consistently enhance our destinations and realise their income potential.
Why its important Our strategy is to proactively manage our assets to drive consistent rental growth.
Income returns are a key part of our investment case.
We have a successful leasing strategy based on building close relationships with retailers, insight, leveraging the scale and breadth of our platform and astute negotiation skills.
The framework methodology ensures a consistent and rigorous approach to creating differentiated destinations across the portfolio.
Further details of the Product Experience Framework are set out on pages 7 and 11.
Over the last three years we have upgraded all of our shopping centres, adding restaurant and leisure extensions.
We were among the first to identify the trend for incorporating a critical-mass of leisure within a centre and invested to elevate our centres to best-in-class.
We have built teams with a range of talents and experience gained beyond the property sector to ensure we understand the latest retail trends, technological developments and design innovations.
What we did in 2016 Our near-term strategic priorities Launched iconic Victoria Gate development Introduce the latest retail and leisure brands and new store concepts across the portfolio Developed Westquay leisure extension: 20 new restaurants, cinema, bowling and outdoor events space Deliver value-add projects such as kiosks, digital screens, pop-up retail units Transformed Bullring LinkStreet with pop-ups and innovative retail concepts Build digital capabilities to support multichannel retail Introduced more international brands in France Benefit from customer data collected from the Apple, Armani Exchange, Coach, MAC Plus App Introduced first-to-Ireland brands at Dundrum Capitalise on strong occupier demand at retail parks to drive remerchandising and income growth Opened first Polo Ralph Lauren store in Central and Eastern Europe at Fashion Arena, Prague Leverage the brand relationships and tourism insights across premium outlets portfolio Click & collect kiosks in all centres Unlock opportunities to drive environmental Commercial trial for new digital app functionality improvements across the portfolio Key performance indicators Delivering against strategy Total property returns Developed an exceptional retail arcade Growth in like-for-like NRI at Victoria Gate, praised for its design, Growth in adjusted EPS enhancing the wider Leeds retail offer.
Cost ratio Occupancy Delivering the Product Leasing activity Voluntary staff turnover Experience Framework Global emissions intensity ratio See pages 18-19 for more detail Iconic Positive Interactive destinations places & engaging 14 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 S S STRA TRA TRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR S OUR STRA TRATEG TEGY Y IN ACTION Victoria Gate Strategic rationale New brands to Leeds Leeds is the UKs third-largest city with an affluent catchment which was under-served by the retail offer 17 The Victoria Gate development augmented the existing Victoria Quarter arcade to create the north of Englands hub for luxury and aspirational retail brands Luxury and aspirational retail space in UKs most upmarket The design is inspired by many of the existing local features regional catchment John Lewis opened its largest full-line store outside London Cutting-edge restaurant operator, D&D, will open two new concepts in 2017, 2 and a casino opened in January 2017 56,300m HAMMERSON.
COM 15 OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Promote financial efficiency and partnerships A singular retail focus, strong and efficient capital structure and operational excellence enables us to attract valuable partners.
These include global capital providers, international joint venture partners and expert operating collaborators who help us broaden our market reach, increase scale and strengthen our business.
Why its important Prudent capital management ensures our risk profile remains conservative.
We set internal guidelines well below the levels of technical covenants.
The guidelines are matched to the more resilient nature of our diversified pure retail portfolio and are set at conservative levels, which provide headroom to comfortably grow the portfolio.
We diversify our sources of capital to limit concentration risk and provide funding flexibility.
The preferred source of debt is Group-level, unsecured funding.
This provides flexibility to quickly and easily rotate assets in-line with an active approach to capital recycling.
We use a natural foreign exchange hedging policy to avoid counteracting the underlying performance of the assets.
JV partners provide capital for the assets we operate.
This is a successful strategy creating a larger operating platform relative to invested capital and which generates asset management fee income.
We have a long-standing close relationship with Value Retail and APG and have worked alongside them to grow the European outlets portfolio.
We are the only European listed company with meaningful exposure to this fast-growing market.
High barriers to entry in the sector and access to specialist skills mean these relationships are very valuable to us.
What we did in 2016 Our near-term strategic priorities Over 1.2 billion of new debt capital raised Maintain financial leverage in line with 40% loanto-value guidance and strong investment-grade Successfully refinanced acquisition facility and credit ratings reduced cost of debt to 3.1% Monitor currency hedge during period of JSE listing to access wider pool of international capital greater volatility New JV at Grand Central with CPPIB and extended JV Work with our selected JV partners and monitor our with GIC at Westquay total JV exposure Negotiated 500 million off-market transaction to Enhance the operating structure of VIA Outlets to enlarge VIA Outlets 145 million Hammerson share match its enlarged size Evaluate opportunities for refinancing in low interest rate environment Key performance indicators Delivering against strategy Growth in adjusted EPS Enlarging our premium outlets Cost ratio exposure utilising our close See pages 18-19 for more detail relationships with Value Retail and APG.
Delivering the Product Experience Framework Best Convenient Entertaining at retail & easy & exciting 16 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 S STRA TRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION VIA Outlets Strategic rationale Forecast centre IRR on latest VIA Outlets acquisitions Premium outlets is one of the highest total return European retail property sub-sectors with consistent market sales growth around 10% p. a. and yield compression from market consolidation 11% Enhances Hammersons pan-European exposure We established VIA Outlets in 2014 with a strategy to acquire and improve Number of centres in centres.
It is proving successful, sales densities at existing centres grew by VIA Outlets 19% in 2016 In December we executed a rare opportunity to acquire four strong outlet centres, including one of the best outlets in Germany, Zweibrcken, all with 10 remerchandising opportunities VIA Outlets team has been expanded to include specialists in leasing, marketing and tourism HAMMERSON.
