DIRECTORS REPORT This report Directors Report forms part of the management Going Concern and Viability Statements report as required under the Disclosure Guidance and The Companys Going Concern Statement and Viability Statement Transparency Rules.
The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 59 includes can be found on page 59. an indication of future likely developments in the Company, details Greenhouse gas emissions reporting of important events since the year ended 31 December 2016, the Companys business model and strategy.
The Corporate Information regarding the Companys greenhouse gas emissions Governance Report on pages 60 to 121 is incorporated in this can be found on page 37.
Indemnification of and insurance for directors Companys Articles of Association Articles and officers The Articles may be amended by special resolution in accordance The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance, with the Companies Act 2006 Act and are available at which is reviewed annually.
The Companys Directors and officers www.
are adequately insured in accordance with best practice.
Directors are indemnified under the Articles.
Branches Details of the Companys French and Irish branches are provided Listing Rule 9.8.
Table 91 sets out where disclosures required in compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.
Directors Table 91 Details of the Directors who served during the year are set out on Page pages 120 to 121.
Jacques Espinasse served as a Non-Executive Interest capitalised and tax relief 146 Director until 25 April 2016 when he retired.
Directors are appointed and replaced in accordance with the Articles, the Act Publication of unaudited financial n a and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The powers of the information Directors are set out in the Articles and the Act.
Details of long-term incentive schemes 78 114 Waiver of emoluments by a director n a Directors interests Waiver of future emoluments by a director n a Details of the Directors share interests can be found on page 104.
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash n a Disclosure of information to auditors Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by n a Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of the major subsidiary undertakings Directors Report has confirmed that: Parent company participation in a placing by a n a So far as she or he is aware, there is no relevant information of listed subsidiary which the Companys External Auditor is unaware: and Contracts of significance n a She or he has taken all the steps that she or he ought to have Provision of services by a controlling n a taken as a Director in order to make herself or himself aware shareholder of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Shareholder waivers of dividends 123 Companys External Auditor is aware of that information.
Shareholder waivers of future dividends 123 Dividend Agreements with controlling shareholders n a Details of the recommended final dividend can be found on pages 47 and 147.
Provisions on change of control Six of the seven outstanding bonds issued by the Company contain Employees covenants specifying that the bondholders may request repayment Details of the Companys policies regarding the employment of at par, if the Companys credit rating is downgraded to below disabled persons are provided on pages 40 and 42.
The Company investment grade due to a change of control, and the rating remains places considerable importance on good internal communications below investment grade for a period of six months thereafter.
with its employees and invests time in consulting on matters In addition, under the Companys credit facilities and private which affect them including: reward practices, work life balance placement notes, the lending banks or holders may request initiatives, corporate responsibility activities and approaches to repayment of outstanding amounts within 30 and 52 days internal communications.
Consultation predominantly takes the respectively, of any change of control.
form of facilitated discussion groups and employee involvement on relevant committees.
The Company provides regular updates on its performance through presentations and announcements.
Financial instruments Details of the Groups financial risk management in relation to its financial instruments are available on pages 161 to 167.
122 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT Purchase of own shares At the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM, the Company was granted authority by shareholders to purchase up to 78,443,270 ordinary shares 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 24 February 2016.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM, at which a resolution will be proposed for its renewal, or, if earlier, 25 July 2017.
Appointment of External Auditor Details of the appointment of the External Auditor are provided on page 75.
Responsibility statement The Directors responsibility statement is set out on page 125.
Share capital and substantial shareholders Details of the Companys capital structure are set out on pages 167 to 168.
The rights and obligations attached to the Companys shares are set out in the Articles.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares except the UK Real Estate Investment Trust restrictions.
Interests in voting rights over the issued share capital of the Companydisclosed in accordance with DTR 5 can be found on page 71.
Shares held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan The Trustees of the Hammerson Employee Share Ownership Plan hold Hammerson plc shares in trust to satisfy awards under the Companys employee share plans.
The Trustees have waived their right to receive dividends on shares held in the Company.
As at 31 December 2016 1,558,212 shares were held in trust for employee share plans purposes.
Statement of compliance with the Competition and Markets Authority CMA order The Company confirms that it has complied with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 Article 7.1, published by the CMA on 26 September 2014.
Sarah Booth General Counsel and Company Secretary 17 February 2017 HAMMERSON.
COM 123 Financial statements Directors responsibilities 125 Independent auditors report 126 Primary financial statements 130 Notes to the accounts 136 Company primary statements 170 Notes to the Company accounts 172 Other Information Additional disclosures 178 Development pipeline 187 Property listing 188 Ten-year financial summary 190 Shareholder information 191 Glossary 194 Index 196 124 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
