OUR STRATEGY Within an evolving landscape Trends in our markets We lead the way in identifying trends in the retail property market.
The structural trends below influence our strategy, drive our priorities and guide our performance.
Multichannel Convenience Urbanisation Consumers are digitising their lives.
The Time-short lifestyles and Successful city accelerating use of mobile technology and multichannel retail are raising economies are seeing online social interaction is driving the the expectations for convenient population growth, growth of multichannel retail.
Within retail, driving demand for easier, drawing investment in a multichannel world, the shopping faster access to goods: better and infrastructure, transport experience remains anchored around more accurate information: and and culture.
The store provides enhanced services.
The rise of retail and leisure 43% direct brand engagement and acts click & collect is a key indicator destinations are a core part as the showroom.
Retailers use their of consumers research of this trend and allows shoppers of the urban environment physical space and online platformsin a products online on to research and purchase goods and benefit from the complementary way to drive increased a smartphone while on-the-move or at home and increasing wealth of sales across all channels.
in-store collect in-store or in-centre.
Polarisation Shoppers are becoming increasingly discerning about their choice of retail destination and the 23% 3.9bn level of service expected see Experience and Convenience.
As a result, retailers place a of online purchases are people, 53% of the worlds premium on those retail destinations which deliver collected from a store population, live in an shoppers needs.
Therefore the best locations are urban environment becoming relatively more valuable and the retail property market is polarising.
Experience There is an increasing blurring between retail and entertainment.
Responsibility Shoppers expect retail destinations to provide a broader blend of retail, entertainment and dining options and hence successful Consumers, retailers and investors are more discriminatingof retail destinations are evolving into social hubs.
the way companies conduct themselves.
Stakeholders recognise their role in challenging companies and hence consumers demand transparency from the brands they endorse.
Communities expect property owners and developers to bring a wider positive 36% social impact and shareholders demand best practice corporate of Millennials prioritise a shopping centrewith a governance in return for investment.
good selection of coffee shops and cafs, over retail of shoppers actively brand mix 34% choose to buy brands 1 they believe are having 3 a positive social or Retail tourism environmental impact Shopping is increasingly enjoyed by international tourists as part of a travel experience.
Discounted premium brands at attractive retail outlets make the journey even more memorable.
Global markets Shopping rated the number one activity for overseas travellers The internationalisation of consumer brands, retailers and capital 88% versus sight-seeing 77% and fine dining 39% providers has increased in recent years, in part due to improved #1 communication.
Property companies compete for capital, occupiers and employees in a global marketplace, raising the standard for success.
For further detail on markets and trends for our property sectors see the Business Review pages 22-33 4 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR STRATEGY our strategy is designed to benefit Our strategy Set out below are the three elements of our strategy which are designed to benefit from these market trends.
Focus on growing consumer markets Our portfolio is concentrated around retail property which is aligned to consumer requirements in a multichannel world: the experience of large prime shopping centres: the convenience of retail parks: and the draw of luxury-brand premium outlets.
We choose locations by identifying significant, growing cities and catchments in selected European countries, and where we can gain market share.
Response to trends Multichannel, Polarisation, Experience, Convenience, Urbanisation, Retail Tourism Our vision We create desirability for consumers, brands, commercial partners and communities.
Create differentiated Promote financial efficiency destinations and partnerships Our talented people apply insight and market expertise to create A singular retail focus, strong and efficient capital structure and operate destinations which offer exceptional experiences to and operational excellence enables us to attract valuable attract retailers and shoppers.
These include global capital providers, international Framework purposefully guides our asset and development joint venture partners and expert operating collaborators who management to consistently enhance our destinations and help us broaden our market reach, increase scale and strengthen realise their income potential.
Response to trends Response to trends Experience, Convenience, Retail Tourism, Polarisation, Urbanisation, Multichannel, Polarisation, Responsibility Global Markets, Responsibility For further information on how we are delivering on our strategy, see pages 12-17 HAMMERSON.
