S STRA TRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our Product Experience Framework in action Iconic destinations Best at retail Victoria Gate, Leeds LinkStreet, Birmingham We pushed the boundaries to create an exceptional new retail arcade in LinkStreet is a truly unique Leeds.
Victoria Gate opened in October and is already receiving expert destination outside London for recognition for its impressive design.
The luxury and aspirational retail small independent businesses mix is housed in a naturally lit arcade embellished with curved glass, to debut or expand.
LinkStreet grey granite and pendant lighting.
The building structure reflects the has seen the opening of 22 historic terracotta design and textile heritage of the city.
independent brands, many of them taking their first step into retail, or opening for the first time outside London.
This is where consumers can find Convenient & easy something fresh, unique and Click & collect services different.
Retailers range from Click & collect facilities are now available in all of our European Cereal Killer Caf to VirtualX, shopping centres, with lockers and fully-staffed customer service a cutting-edge virtual reality desks for returning or sending parcels.
This supports a seamless experience launched by a local multichannel offer allowing customers to pick up their online developer, and pop-ups from purchases while visiting other shops or enjoying our leisure facilities.
Over the Christmas period we saw our highest volume of parcels ever, proving the popularity of this convenient service.
Interactive & engaging Entertaining & exciting Developing the Plus app Westquay Watermark development In December we launched the The opening of Westquay Watermark delivers 20 new restaurants trial of a new Find Similar app to Southampton: many of which are firsts outside London including at Brent Cross shopping centre.
The 10-screen Cinema fide Lux is a UK first for Designed to inspire and help find Showcase, with laser projection and Dolby Atmos sound technology.
products, the app allows shoppers The Esplanade is an outdoor space framed by the historic city walls to take a picture of a piece of for events and live entertainment and Hollywood Bowl completes the clothing, a pattern or colour and leisure mix.
then finds similar products from the retailers in the centre.
92% of shoppers who took part in the trial said they would use the app Positive places again and we are now working Victoria Gate community interaction to integrate the technology with Through the Victoria Gate development, we deepened our ourPlusapp, which has more community investment across the city of Leeds.
the Teenage Market at Kirkgate which saw 26 enthusiastic young businesses and start-ups run their own stalls at the market.
Victoria Gate has delivered over 1,500 employment opportunities in retail, hospitality and construction.
