Board of Directors The Board currently comprises four Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, three of whom are independent, and three Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders of the Company for the strategy and future development of the Group and the efficient management of its resources.
Executive Directors Ian Watson Morgan Jones Richard Lowes Joint Chief Executive Joint Chief Executive Finance Director Qualified as a solicitor with Qualified as a Chartered Joined Hansteen on 1 January Gouldens.
Founder Director and Accountant with Touche Ross.
2006 as Chief Financial Officer Joint Chief Executive of Ashtenne Founder Director and Joint Chief and appointed Finance Director in from 1989 to 2005.
Founder Executive of Ashtenne from 1989 October 2011.
Prior to this he Director of Hansteen.
Founder Director of worked in a similar role for the Nomination Committee.
Member of the Ashtenne between 1997 and Nomination Committee.
2005 and as Finance Director of Trafalgar House Property Limited and a Director of Ideal Homes Holdings PLC from 1988 to 1995.
Audit Committee Committee Chair Nomination Committee Senior Independent Director Remuneration Committee 24 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Non-Executive Directors Melvyn Egglenton Rebecca Worthington Margaret Young David Rough Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in June Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in October June2014 and appointed 2014.
Currently a Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman of Financial Officer of Countryside Non-Executive Director of Director and Senior Independent Hansteen on 23 August 2016.
Formerly BlackRock Group Limited and was Director at John Laing Group PLC.
Currently also Chairman of Founder and Chief Executive formerly a Non-Executive Formerly a Non-Executive Pendragon PLC, a Director Officer of Lodestone Capital Director of BNY Mellon Director at Land Securities PLC of the James Family Trusts, Partners LLP, a Non-Executive International Asset Management and Xstrata PLC.
Senior aNon-Executive Director of Soho Director of Aga Rangemaster PLC Limited and AA PLC.
Chair of the Independent Director and a Estates Holdings Limited and and Finance Director and Deputy Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit, Nomination Irwin Mitchell Holdings Limited.
Chief Executive of Quintain member of the Audit and and Remuneration Committees.
Formerly Regional Chairman of Estates and Development PLC.
Fellow of the Fellow of the ICAEW.
Chair of the Nomination Audit Committee and a member Committee and a member of the of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25
