Business model How we add value 01.
Buy Manage Sell Disciplined investment Local expertise Realise value We pick our investments based on a We have 15 offices with experienced Returns come from rental income and thorough assessment of the opportunities management teams across the UK and our selling at increased value.
in order to create a high-yielding portfolio regions in Continental Europe.
with potential to add value.
We supplement our buy, manage, sell We work hard at creating the right business model with other opportunity Our balance sheet is strong and we remain relationships with our stakeholders so types where we think good profits committed to financing on a prudent basis.
that we are in the prime position to react can be made, including deals in other when opportunities arise.
We apply sectors, especially land where we an active asset management strategy believe we can make planning gains.
to our properties in order to improve occupancy and drive rental income which should lead to increased values.
08 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Group buys undervalued portfolios, often with high levels ofvacancy or other tangible opportunities to add value, applies an intensive programme of improvement using its local management teams, and sells to realise the value added.
Established strengths We target two types of investments, one that provides a high yield, and Industrial property The fundamental the other that, although isthe most flexible value dynamics and economical arestrong lower yielding, offers the commercial property Our properties are valued type with the widest at significantly below occupational audience potential for capital growth replacement cost, which limits new supply.
Our properties appeal to a huge range of occupiers through intense asset which means we have an extremely diverse tenant management initiatives.
base without reliance on any particular tenants or industries.
Occupational demand in all three core We seek to produce regions is currently strong.
With over 40 million sq ft of sustainable growth in our predominantly industrial Opportunities exist property, we have a wide range of space to meet for adding value rental income and the requirements of a Even in a low growth diverse mix of tenants.
environment, we have occupancy, which should opportunities to add value.
We have a material vacant lead to increased values.
element of the portfolio that can be let and we have a significant bank of land to add additional value.
We then aim to realise anddistribute the profits to our shareholders.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 09
