Implementation and compliance responsibility 36 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Focus on risk The effective assessment and management of risk is key to the delivery of the Groups strategy The effective assessment and peers in property and retail.
Risk In nancing we set a target Group debt to management of risk is key to the delivery processes were found to be sound and assets ratio of 40-50 per cent and require of the Groups strategy.
intus Board has the business was found to be engaged in interest cover of more than 160 per cent, responsibility for establishing the Groups managing risk.
The key recommendations giving us significant headroom against appetite for risk based on the balance of of the review have been implemented our loan covenants to ensure that we are potential risks and returns in achieving during 2016. in a strong position in the event of any its strategic objectives, and has overall substantial falls in property values.
responsibility for identifying and Risk appetite We continue to look to minimise interest managing risk.
Risk management The Groups risk appetite remained rate risk with a policy of hedging at least is embedded in our culture, with all broadly unchanged in 2016 and is set in 75 per cent of the exposure and seek to employees aware of the role they play.
the context of our focus on one sector renance debt early to reduce risk.
As experts in does not, however, prevent us looking at An independent review of the maturity this sector we are able to mitigate the innovative debt structures that provide of the intu risk processes was performed risk involved in growing the business by the Group with diverse funding options.
at the end of 2015. intus risk acquisition, development and our active management was benchmarked as asset management strategy.
This focus on equivalent to or better than that of our core strengths is balanced by a more cautious approach to risk in other areas.
Risk Ri k manag gement t framew f ork k ensure that risk is managed across the business define the Groups appetite for risk Board with the Executive Committee, assess the Groups principal risks monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system Audit Committee monitor and review the Groups overall approach to monitoring areas of risk lead the development of risk management collate outputs of risk management exercises including risk registers for presentation Risk and internal audit to Audit Committee, Executive Committee and Board identify emerging risks across the business input into Boards process for setting risk appetite implement strategy in line with the Groups risk appetite Executive Committee lead operational managements approach to risk with the Board, assess the Groups principal risks create an environment where risk management is embraced and the responsibility of risk management is accepted by all employees implement and maintain risk management processes Operational management produce and maintain risk registers including identication of risks, mitigating controls and actions required active in the day-to-day management of risk Employees Monitoring and reporting responsibility Strategic report Focus on risk 37 Risk management process The risk prole for 2016 has remained long-term lease structures and intus Board has overall responsibility broadly in line with 2015 with no exibility to adjust uncommitted for risk management.
The effectiveness significant new risks identied nor investment.
The period of uncertainty of the risk management system is substantial changes in existing risks.
is likely to increase financial market monitored and reviewed by the Audit The main change from 2015 is the volatility and may affect sentiment in Committee and through periodic external increased uncertainty in the UK economy the investment and occupier markets in review.
Our ongoing assessment of risk and real estate markets following the which we operate, the range of funding is underpinned by a formal risk review EU referendum vote.
Prior to the vote sources available to us and broader process conducted for each area and we reviewed the potential impacts in consumer confidence and expenditure.
every level of the business including each the context of our long-term funding, centre, each department or committee, the executive team and the Board.
These R Ri isk sk pr prole ole reviews identify risks and assess them for impact, likelihood, controllability and stability.
An assessment is also made of how quickly the risks would impact and Change in level of risk how long they would impact for.
Increased Remained the same The risk registers created through this process are subject to at least an annual review, facilitated by the risk and internal 1 audit team.
Operational management is responsible for managing the risks 5 and for updating the risk registers.
The Audit Committee oversees the risk management process, receiving risk 2 updates at least four times a year.
Principal risks and uncertainties 7 6 Fully integrated and thorough risk 8 analysis underpins our ability to achieve strategic objectives.
The Board has 9 undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks we face, including those 3 that would impact the business model, 4 future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have identied principal risks and uncertainties under five key headings: property market: operations: nancing: developments and acquisitions: and Likelihood brand.
These are discussed in detail on the following pages.
A principal risk is one 6 Financing availability of funds which has the potential to signicantly 1 Property market macro-economic affect our strategic objectives, financial 7 Developments and 2 Property market retail environment position or future performance and acquisitions developments includes both internal and external 3 Operations health and safety 8 Developments and factors.
We monitor movements in 4 Operations cybersecurity acquisitions acquisitions likelihood and severity such that the risks are appropriately mitigated in 5 Operations terrorism 9 Brand integrity of the brand line with the Groups risk appetite.
