18 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Optimising asset performance Getting the right t Our centres are vibrant environments where shoppers Building on success want to be and retailers need to be.
With the trend towards larger stores for fashion brands and to miniaturisation for big ith our national scale, Whigh footfall and world box retailers we manage our assets to provide retailers with class service we offer smaller the right spaces in the right places to attract customers entrants to the market a one-stop shop for building a successful portfolio of stores.
or many retailers the trend is toward Also at intu Trafford Centre, the new Overseas brands like Tiger, Kiko Fbigger and better, with leading fashion 60,000 sq ft Topshop is now the biggest and Smiggle have used intu to brands looking to showcase their whole store in the chain outside Oxford Circus.
enter the UK market and have product ranges in large agship stores in been able to rapidly expand to top locations around the country.
With And at intu Metrocentre, Next has become national names.
This many of the top centres in the country, recently exchanged on an 85,000 sq ft year we have seen accessories intu can make sure these brands secure two-level agship store, in space vacated retailer Lovisa follow the the right space in the right location, and by BHS.
footsteps of fellow Australian get access to tens of millions of their company Smiggle into the UK, target customers.
As they upsize retailers make considerable with two of their first five stores investment in these new agships, at intu centres.
Recent examples include the new making them go-to destinations and 32,000 sq ft store that Zara has opened giving shoppers yet another reason to at intu Trafford Centre, making it one visit their favourite intu centre.
And the of the retailers top UK stores.
space that the retailers used to occupy is in high demand from other brands coming into our centres at St Davids, Cardiff, H&M has moved to a new 46,000 sq ft store which has freed up space for Victorias Secret and Michael Kors, giving the Welsh centre a considerable boost.
The intu difference 19 Growing the family etailers that have had great success with intu are now Rbringing in other brands from their stable.
New Look has started to roll out its brother brand New Look Men across our portfolio, with seven of its 19 stores across the country in intu centres.
At intu Trafford Centre, Zaras parent Inditex is using its former 18,000 sq ft Zara space to open its first Stradivarius store outside London, and to bring in two of its other successful brands, Pull&Bear and Zara Home.
Going smaller shopping centres offer to engage with potential customers in a completely is getting bigger different way.
n the future we will be buying our cars Customer feedback shows they enjoy Ialongside a new pair of shoes and a visiting the SEAT store far more than trip to the cinema, as the trend for car a traditional car showroom.
These manufacturers to take space at intu new concept retail stores and experience takes off.
Having successfully tested the centres make the purchase of these shopping centre market with pop-up large-ticket items a much more stores the likes of BMW, SEAT and Tesla enjoyable experience and give From trial to long-term are now taking more permanent space for customers more great reasons to marketing and selling their cars in centre.
visit the centre from further and ith control of all retail elements of And it is not just cars other big box for longer, says Rebecca Ryman, Wour centres, from the promotional retailers like DFS and Sharps Bedrooms Regional Director of intu.
stands on malls to pop-up shops have also opened small format stores and permanent stores, we can help in our centres.
brands test and roll out new concepts.
Cath Kidston tended to trade from At intu Lakeside, site of SEATs first concessions within larger stores and shopping centre store, the annual footfall had a low prole in shopping centres 68% of 25 million includes a high proportion until we tempted them with space of intu Lakesides 25 million of female and affluent shoppers.
Recent in the mall at intu Lakeside, intu visitors are women research shows that over 70 per cent of Metrocentre and intu Braehead.
all major car purchase decisions are made These led them to take a trial by females which ts perfectly with pop-up store and they intu Lakesides key demographics.
have since opened full stores at intu By shrinking their footprints and making Trafford Centre, use of instore technology, these retailers 70% intu Metrocentre, nd they are able to take advantage of of car purchase decisions intu Watford and the high footfall and dwell time our made by women intu Derby.
