16 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Understanding our markets Getting to know you, getting to know all about you We know and understand our shoppers and what shopping means to different people thats all part of what makes us different s the UKs leading shopping We collate data through three main Acentre owner we are able to quickly routes: our Tell intu programme, understand changes in the nations customer exit surveys completed, shopping behaviours and what people by CACI and shopper view, our 20000 want.
This unique insight allows us to customer research panel.
Thanks to Tell intu surveys completed annually work with retailers to deliver what the our multichannel expertise we can customer wants.
also feed in data from online activity on intu.
co. uk and our marketing emails.
Tapping into the 400 million customer visits to our centres each year, from an As we develop our ability to join up estimated 35 million individuals, and the information from all these sources 10m around 28 million website visits, we are and other interaction points, the wi connections annually able to collect real time information on detailed picture we build up of our customer shopping habits.
customers shopping behaviours will enable us to react quickly to their changing requirements.
Upsizing Portfolio of brands Seven Top retailers, such as Topshop, As well as upsizing, larger Zara, New Look and JD Sports, retailers are bringing in new are increasing their space brands.
Inditex are adding retail to create agship stores in Stradivarius and Pull&Bear, our centres.
and New Look Men is trends becoming a standalone fascia.
New international retailers In the last few years we have for 2017 seen Smiggle, Tiger and Kiko enter the UK market and expand rapidly.
This year accessories retailer Lovisa from Australia has opened its first stores.
The intu difference 17 Market overview Its all in the detail e have millions of pieces of data from Wmore than 30 sources that tell us about What does the world our customers shopping habits from 28 million website visits, 700,000 gift card purchases, 10 million look like for the wi connections a year, car parks, footfall, social media which, with data from Tell intu, shopper countrys retailers?
view panel and CACI, contain precious information about what customers want from intu centres.
etail is one of the UKs most dynamic and exible industries A data consolidation project is underway to unearth Rwhich has shown itself able to adapt quickly to what is the buried customer insight which services they a fast-changing environment.
2017 will see retailers facing value and use, how much time they spend with us both structural and economic challenges the winners will be and what they do, in centre and online.
those with the right stores in the right places, who align their online and instore strategies and who give customers an We will be able to better segment our customers, experience they cannot get elsewhere.
enabling more effective marketing and helping retailers to position themselves across our portfolio Economic pressures include the impact on retailers cost bases all of which will improve our customers experience.
from the weakness of sterling, business rates revaluations and increases in the national living wage.
A potential squeeze on disposable income from higher ination may be realised and The UK a global opportunity add more pressure.
Structurally, retailers are still coming to terms with the opportunities and costs of internet shopping.
ur latest research into the retail industry, O produced jointly with Revo, looked at the views On the plus side, going into 2017 consumer confidence has of 130 overseas retailers on the UK as a market for held up since the EU referendum and there is evidence that expansion.
A key nding was the importance of the where customers are offered an enticing mix of retail, catering, physical store to retailer investment plans, with leisure and experiences, they come in large numbers, as our ecommerce an important but complementary raised footfall over the Christmas period shows.
Though some barriers were highlighted responding to this trend by focusing on fewer, often larger, which we are now engaging with Government on, stores in the best locations.
More retailers are taking an the broad view of the UK was positive.
The report integrated multichannel approach and previously online-only also modelled the potential benefit if all interested retailers are now looking at physical space to deliver growth.
businesses entered the UK, from increased rents to job creation.
With our prime portfolio of shopping centres, our focus on compelling customer experiences and our sophisticated online Read more online: intugroup.
co. uk en insights offer we are well positioned to meet the demands of this  changing world.
Miniaturisation Reinvention Traditional large-format Retailers previously expected retailers, car manufacturers to disappear from the high like SEAT for example, are street are reinventing their taking smaller stores at offer with a focus on customer intu centres to get access service.
Travel agencies, such to a higher footfall of their as Kuoni and Virgin Holidays core customers.
are expanding in this market.
Aspirational The rise of the day out Lifestyle brands are seeing With prime shopping centres the benets of shopping now seen by customers as centres which offer high ABC1 a day out destination, new demographics.
Brands such catering and leisure operators as Jack Wills, Joules and are increasing their presence Cath Kidston are all expanding.
