22 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Making the brand count So much more to it Four years since its introduction the intu brand is making a difference in every area of our business from customer service to operations to asset management.
It means we can offer customers and retailers innovative services and experiences they wont nd anywhere else and it delivers tangible benets to our bottom line The best of intu, online ntu is still the only UK shopping icentre landlord to have a multichannel shopping platform that adds even more to the compelling shopping experience we already provide.
Already ranked in the top 10 of affiliate websites, intu.
co. uk can now offer customers the choice of nearly 500 retailers, from John Lewis and Marks & Spencer to Topshop and River Island.
And whether success is gauged by visits, the size of the subscriber base or retailer sales, intu.
co. uk is a winner: 28 million visits, 2.5 million subscribers and 6 million in retail sales this year.
co. uk in numbers 28m 2.5m website visits subscribers 480 affiliate retailers The intu difference 23 customers for their loyalty.
Were delighted to be the first credit card More than just provider in the UK to collaborate with a a shopping trip market-leading shopping centre owner, says Michael Donald, MBNAs Commercial and Payments Executive.
MBNA has worked with intu to take a completely fresh approach for customers.
The result is the first of a new breed of reward-based credit cards bursting with benets and tailored around the things customers have been telling us Putting the intu brand are important to them.
Rewards include intu giftcards for reaching spending in customers wallets thresholds and distinctive and substantial n 2009 we introduced giftcards, four offers from our retailers.
Retailers also ur shopping centres offer huge Imillion of which have been sold, and share in the benets, with increased sales Oopportunities to promote established the intu giftcard business now has an and the ability to have a continuous and new brands using events, advertising annual turnover of 26 million.
An intu conversation with customers.
and promotional stands to draw in the credit card was the natural next step.
crowds and help blue chip brands ourish.
The credit card provides a new way for Rather than go via third party brokers we The credit card, which launched in intu to interact with our customers and set up intu Experiences in 2013 to use our September 2016, is another example early demand, above forecasts, shows brand and scale to attract outstanding of a groundbreaking product that is customers understand and trust the activities and retain more of the income, unique to intu, thanks to our national intu brand.
and we have built up a 20 million a year reach and strong brand.
business, equivalent to the rent from our eighth largest shopping centre.
We worked with MBNA, the countrys largest partnership credit card provider, Our centres are now the first choice for to develop a card that rewards intu UK and international brands looking to take their events round the country they can sign one deal to get access to some of the highest footfall locations in the UK.
This unique online offering means we are able to talk to retailers about From lm tie-ups for family blockbusters both their online and physical store and sports and gaming promotions to strategies, and offer them a package fast-moving consumer and luxury goods, that works for all areas of their we regularly work with lm companies business something no other Warner Bros and 20th Century Fox, shopping centre landlord can do.
global businesses like MasterCard, It is also opening up new opportunities X-box, Coca Cola and Nespresso, and with pureplays the largest retailer Making us a international car brands BMW, SEAT, on intu.
household name The evidence shows that the growth ur 2016 national Christmas This year we signed global toy of online shopping enhances our Oadvertising campaign is driving brand Playmobil to be our first national customers shopping experience.
our brand recognition up 3 per cent Christmas grotto partner.
Over 80,000 The physical store is still a vital year-on-year and helping our footfall children and their parents visited one ingredient in 90 per cent of customer 3.3 per cent above the national of our grottos, and every child received transactions, and footfall is constant average.
Your kind of shopping, based a high-quality Playmobil toy to take or growing in all our centres.
And we on our shopper tribe insight of what home.
Thats the essence of the know that retailers are happy with customers want from their shopping intu difference a lovely experience rising sales, wherever they come from.
trips, is our largest campaign yet, and for customers, a great business appeared on ITV, Sky, radio, YouTube, opportunity for brands.
video on demand and a range of social media.
The impact has been impressive three million watched the ad online, and there were 700,000 completed views on Facebook.
All in all our reach was up 67 per cent on last year, but we spent 27 per cent less thanks to our national scale and better use of digital media.
24 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Seizing the growth opportunity in Spain A sunny outlook With planning for our trailblazing retail resort at intu Costa del Sol still underway, we are focusing We really like on making our existing Spanish centres at intu Asturias change of intu Asturias and Puerto Venecia even better image, especially the new public areas.
The centre intu Asturias: ying high is lighter and brighter eople are talking about the rebranding existing restaurants reporting great and much more inviting Pof intu Asturias and the improvements sales including a 31 per cent rise for we have made to the centre as part German-themed restaurant Krunch.
of that rebrand, which are popular Susana Gonzalez with retailers and customers alike.
We have been realising our vision for the Director, Fnac One customer wrote: Beautiful, I love centre in line with our brand proposition it now.
intu Asturias has everything for projects to bring vacant space into use everyone.
Susana Gonzalez, Director of and give the centre the wow factor, new media store Fnac agrees: We really like shops and services and events with a intu Asturias change of image, especially difference.
We are transforming the lower the new public areas.
The centre is lighter mall into a lively shopping and activity 25% and brighter and much more inviting for area, with a supermarket anchor and rise in net promoter our customers.
creating a new entrance to link the score since 2015 neighbouring IKEA store more closely, And it shows in the KPIs.
Net promoter effectively making it an additional anchor.
score has risen 25 per cent since 2015 and the ERV by 19 per cent since We have improved the mix of retailers, purchase.
The new restaurant terraces, and occupancy is now 99 per cent.
Our that opened at the beginning of 2016, reward is the valuation, which is now 56% are especially popular, with both new and 278 million, a 56 per cent increase increase in property on the 162 million purchase price.
value since purchase The intu difference 25 Fun in the sun at Puerto Venecia ur approach of putting the customer Oat the centre of everything we do is already having a great effect on Puerto Venecia, even before we rebrand.
Footfall has increased from 18 million when we first bought it to over 19 million now, putting Puerto Venecia into the top five shopping centres in Spain.
We have worked on improving the retailer mix and as a result have raised occupancy to 97 per cent, as well as providing compelling experiences that are cementing Puerto Venecia as the go-to destination for a larger catchment area.
The success of our strategy is reected in the 11 per cent rise in net promoter score since 2015 to 82 and a rise in the ERV of 5 per cent.
Valuation 19m has increased from 451 million to footfall a 6% rise 498 million, a rise of 10 per cent.
since purchase We are now on site building a new road to enhance free-owing access to the centre, and we are working on a number of initiatives to further develop Puerto 11% Venecia as a renowned retail and rise in net promoter leisure resort.
score since 2015 Looking to the future We are progressing the necessary planning consents our plans have ur Spanish strategy is to create been successfully incorporated into Oa business of scale through the general plan for Torremolinos and acquisition and development.
are now awaiting ratication by the Concentrating on the top-10 key regional government of Andalucia.
catchments, we aim to establish a market-leading position in the country In the meantime we have bought through ownership and management adjacent land, increasing our of prime shopping resorts.
As well ownership by 32,000 sq m to enable as our two top-10 Spanish centres we greater integration into the resorts have entered an exclusivity agreement surroundings, and commissioned to acquire Xanad shopping centre further detailed design work on in Madrid.
We also have four the external place-making to ensure development projects: intu Costa that the internal and external spaces del Sol, Valencia, Vigo and Palma.
intu Costa del Sol: There has been strong interest a resort like no other from both Spanish retailers and ith its lake and array of leisure international operators looking for Wattractions including open-air a presence in a destination with an skiing, theme park and aquarium, along international catchment.
We are with hotel, conference centre and wildly confident that intu Costa del Sol creative retail units, intu Costa del Sol is will provide compelling leisure and set to redene the model of shopping guest experiences together with centres in Europe.
the highest quality retail offer.
26 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 At the heart of communities intu Eldon Square Changing ntu centres are integral to the vitality iof local towns and cities nowhere more so than in Newcastle where intu Eldon Square has been at the heart of the city for 40 years.
the game in The Tyne and Wear region was once a thriving manufacturing centre, and now has a growing financial and business Newcastle sector.
intu is contributing to the ongoing regeneration of the local economy As a long-term business we take our role in the through our considerable investment in intu Eldon Square over the past 10 years communities where we operate seriously, because 225 million has been invested to create we know that by working with local people we a dynamic and stylish shopping centre.
We have just opened a new 25 million can create real advantages for the local economy restaurant quarter, which is fully let and that benefit communities and our business revving up the citys night-time economy.
The intu difference 27 Our two centres in the north east, intu Eldon Square and intu Metrocentre, provide 15,000 jobs either directly or Introducing the Green Lab through our retailers and suppliers.
We have been taking an active role in e are always looking for new ways to save energy and resources.
upskilling the region with Retail Gold, WGreen Lab is a cross-functional team including asset management, the employability scheme we have operations and shopt, CR and brand, that identies new environmental been running for over 10 years.
Retail initiatives and best practice to pilot and roll out.
Current trials include: Gold ensures local young people have the skills to take advantage of the retail and catering employment opportunities on offer.
Food waste reduction With more people visiting our centres every In 2016, the gross value added by intu Saturday than go to Premier League matches, to the regional economy through salaries, what we do with food waste is high on our priority taxes, business rates and investment list.
We have a number of food waste projects was 556 million a gure which has including dewatering machines at intu Metrocentre grown by over 50 per cent since we first and intu Potteries, which separate water from measured it in 2011 360 million.
food waste to reduce the amount of food sent to anaerobic digestion.
We are also piloting None of this could happen without great a BioWhale system, which collects waste for partnerships with our co-owners the recycling into renewable energy in the form local council and with a wide range of of biogas and organic fertiliser.
community bodies, such as Tyneside Cinema and local charity the Sunshine Fund whose campaign Go Bananas, that we sponsor, brings the city to life every June.
Our contribution to the north east Packaging in 2016 The other major area of waste we look at is packaging.
At intu Uxbridge a new pilot is diverting more general Alternative energy waste to an offsite facility Solar panels installed at intu Chapeleld so we can better utilise our are expected to meet 10 per cent of the onsite resources, and at centres annual energy needs.
The panels 15k 50 k intu Metrocentre an onsite will pay for themselves in nine years, local people employed community materials recycling facility giving us up to 21 years of cost-free in the region contributions for plastics and cardboard and carbon-free energy.
has opened that gives intu a higher value rebate and reduces the amount going 21 years of cost-free to general waste, the most and carbon-free energy expensive type to dispose of.
4 3m 3% business rates paid by reduction Everyone is welcome intu and our tenants in energy used s our purpose is to make people smile, Aputting customers at the heart of intu then making sure we are accessible to everyone is high on our agenda.
We look at both the physical environment and staff training to achieve this.
All 100% 22 5m intu-branded centres will be autismwaste diverted invested over friendly by 2018.
Six intu centres are from landll 10 years already dementia-friendly and intu Braehead has been pioneering training to help staff understand the needs of blind or impaired vision visitors.
The 556m rest of our centres will be following suit.
