20 Delivering UK developments Have a great day!
We want our centres to provide extraordinary experiences for customers that encourage them to come back more often and stay longer.
So the focus of our short and medium-term development pipeline is on developing leisure opportunities and tasty places to eat kiing, golf, bowling, ice skating, We are investing around 300 million Scinemas, curling, swimming with in three major leisure-led projects over sharks we have attracted a vast range the next three years: the 180 million of leisure experiences to our centres and extension that will cement intu Watford as a result have a good understanding as a day out and evening destination and experience of what customers and the 73 million intu Lakeside leisure want from leisure.
development where family-orientated leisure, anchored by Nickelodeon, will All the research points to customers pull in visitors from a wider catchment.
increasing how much they spend on Our 70 million investment at intu leisure goods and services while they Broadmarsh creates new places to eat, shop our Countdown to Christmas shop and play in the heart of Nottingham.
research in 2016 revealed Christmas shoppers expected to spend 110 Our ability to do this is no accident on leisure and dining experiences we have a long-term strategy of while shopping.
acquiring adjacent land that allows us to masterplan our centres and release land With Sea Life and Legoland at for leisure at the optimum time in terms intu Trafford Centre, Snow Factor at of both operator and consumer demand.
intu Braehead and the new restaurant extension at intu Eldon Square, we As established partners at the heart know how important a complementary of many of the communities where we dining and leisure offer is becoming to operate we are able to work with local customers shopping centre experience.
authorities to create schemes that meet local planning strategies and match the aspirations of our customers.
The intu difference 21 Nickelodeon move in irst we hosted Spongebob, now we are Fwelcoming the whole family: Dora the Explorer, PAW Patrol and the Ninja Turtles will be joining Squarepants at the Nickelodeonthemed family entertainment centre that is set to open at intu Lakeside the first ever collaboration with a UK shopping centre.
The partnership with the owners and operators Best food forward of the Nickelodeon brand, Viacom and Parques Reunidos, will provide a new and compelling ating out is becoming an ever more essential element experience that is forecast to increase dwell time, Eof a visit to a shopping centre, inuencing the shopping 1 visit frequency and catchment at intu Lakeside.
destinations of two-thirds of shoppers.
The Nickelodeon experience will be integrated into the existing centre and anchor the new To cater for customers hungry for a mouth-watering food leisure development.
experience we are creating many more terric spaces to eat and drink in our centres.
And wherever we open new restaurant quarters we see higher footfall and dwell time, and an increased dynamism in the local night-time economy.
This investment is good news for retailers: research at intu Metrocentre showed that people who used the restaurants stayed over an hour longer than those just shopping 166 minutes compared to 92, and spent over 2 30 per cent more 168 million compared to 129 million.
2016 saw the grand opening of Greys Quarter at intu Eldon Square 1hr 20 restaurants in the heart extra time spent of Newcastle and next year we will start on plans for 12 new restaurants at Its virtually Christmas!
30% 1 C BRE: Food & beverage in a shopping higher spend he latest innovation from intus digital team centre 2015.
Tis the virtual reality Christmas.
In December 2 CACI 2015 exit survey.
we piloted an intu-branded virtual reality experience at intu Victoria Centre.
Customers took five minutes out of their shopping trip to step into an idyllic snow-covered world to decorate their fantasy Christmas tree and share their creation on social media with family and friends.
This kind of social and interactive experience could become as commonplace for shoppers as stopping for a coffee with friends, says intus head of digital, Karen Harris.
