94 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Directors report The Directors present their annual Under a 600 million revolving-facility Internal control report and the audited financial agreement dated 25 February 2009 as The statement on corporate governance statements of the Group and Company amended and restated on 19 February on pages 58 to 95 includes the Boards for the year ended 31 December 2016.
2010, 18 November 2011 and 30 October assessment following a review of internal Pages 2 to 95 inclusive of this annual 2014 between, among others, the controls and consideration of the FRC report comprise the Directors report Company and HSBC Bank PLC as Guidance on risk management, internal that has been drawn up and presented Agent on a change of control, if directed control and related financial and in accordance with English company by a lender, the Agent may by notice to business reporting.
law and the liabilities of the Directors the Company cancel the commitment of in connection with that report will be that lender and declare the participation Directors subject to the limitations and restrictions of that lender in all outstanding loans, The Directors of intu who held office provided by such law.
together with accrued interest and all during the year were as follows: other amounts accrued and owing to Chairman Use of financial Instruments that lender under the finance documents, The financial review on pages 46 to 51, immediately due and payable.
Patrick Burgess accounting policies on pages 113 to 117 Deputy Chairman 1 and note 33 on pages 140 to 146 Under the terms and conditions of i the John Whittaker contain information on the use of 300 million 2.5 per cent Guaranteed Executive financial instruments.
Convertible Bonds issued on 4 October David Fischel 2012 by Intu Jersey Limited and ii the Matthew Roberts Dividends 375 million 2.875 per cent Guaranteed Non-Executive The Directors declared an interim Convertible Bonds issued on 1 November Adle Anderson ordinary dividend of 4.6 pence 2015: 4.6 2016 by Intu Jersey 2 Limited, each of 1 Richard Gordon pence per share on 28 July 2016, which which are guaranteed by the Company, Andrew Huntley was paid on 22 November 2016, and have on a change of control of the Company Rakhi Goss-Custard recommended a final dividend for 2016 bondholders would have a right for a Louise Patten of 9.4 pence per share 2015: 9.1 pence.
limited period of 60 days to exercise their 2 Neil Sachdev exchange rights at an enhanced exchange John Strachan Share capital and control of price ie lower than the prevailing Andrew Strang the Company exchange price.
In addition, bondholders Details of the Companys share capital would become entitled for a limited 1 J ohn Whittaker and Richard Gordon have appointed Steven Underwood and Raymond Fine respectively including changes during the year in the period of 60 days to require the relevant as their alternates under the terms of the issued share capital and details of the issue to redeem their bonds at their Companys Articles of Association.
rights attaching to the Companys principal amount, together with accrued 2 Neil Sachdev stepped down on 4 May 2016. ordinary shares are set out in note and unpaid interest.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association The Company is not party to any other of the Company, the Company has No shareholder holds securities carrying significant agreements that would take indemnified the Directors to the full special rights with regard to control of the effect, alter or terminate following a extent allowed by law.
Shares held by the Companys change of control of the Company.
maintains directors and officers employee share ownership plan rank pari insurance which is reviewed annually.
passu with the shares in issue and have no The Company does not have any special rights, but voting rights and rights agreements with any Executive Additional information relating to the of acceptance of any offer relating to the Director or employee that would Directors can be found in note 47 on shares rest with the plans Trustee and are provide compensation for loss of office pages 162 and 163 on Directors interests, not exercisable by the employees.
There or employment resulting from a takeover in the governance section on pages 58 to are no restrictions on voting rights or except that provisions of the Company 75, and in the Directors remuneration any arrangements by which, with the share schemes may cause options and report on pages 76 to 93.
Companys co-operation, financial rights awards outstanding under such schemes are held by a person other than the to vest on a takeover.
The terms of shareholder, or any agreements between appointment of the non-executive shareholders known to the Company directors currently provide that in the which may result in restrictions on the event of change of control, the Directors transfer of shares or on voting rights.
will be compensated for any additional time commitment in certain limited circumstances, to be calculated on a per diem basis.
Governance Directors remuneration report 95 The powers of the Directors are these arrangements are given in the The Company recognises the importance determined by UK legislation and the Directors remuneration report on pages of minimising the adverse impact on Articles of Association of the Company, 76 to 93.
Note 47 on pages 162 to 163 the environment of its operations and together with any specic authorities contains details of conditional awards of the obligation to carefully manage that may be given to the Directors by shares under the annual bonus scheme energy and water consumption and shareholders from time to time, such and bonus shares currently outstanding.
as the power to allot shares and the power to make market purchases of intu operates a non-discriminatory The Company strives continuously to the Companys shares which are employment policy and full and fair improve its environmental performance.
described in note 35 on page 148. consideration is given to applications for The environmental management system employment from people with disabilities and associated environmental policy Articles of Association or other protected characteristics under and guide are regularly reviewed to The rules governing the appointment and the Equality Act where they have the ensure that the Company maintains its replacement of Directors are contained appropriate skills and abilities, and to commitment to environmental matters.
in the Companys Articles of Association.
the continued employment of staff Changes to the Articles of Association who become disabled.
Additional disclosures must be approved by shareholders in For the purpose of LR 9.8.
4CR, the only accordance with the legislation in force intu encourages the continuous information required to be disclosed by from time to time.
development and training of its LR 9.8.
4R relates to sub-section 1 employees and the provision of equal thereof interest capitalised where the Substantial shareholdings opportunities for the training and career amount is 2.1 million 2015: 2.1 million The table at the foot of the page development of disabled employees and see note 10.
All other sub-sections of shows the holdings of major shareholders those with protected characteristics.
in accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules Further information relating to employees Directors disclosure of of the FCA at 31 December 2016 is given on pages 55 to 57 and in note 8 information to the auditors and 22 February 2017. on page 120.
The Group provides So far as the Directors are aware, retirement benets for the majority there is no relevant audit information Employees of its employees.
Details of the Group of which the auditors are unaware and intu actively encourages employee pension arrangements are set out in each Director has taken all reasonable involvement and consultation and places note 45 on page 162. steps to make himself or herself aware emphasis on keeping its employees of any relevant audit information and informed of the Groups activities and The environment to establish that the auditors are aware financial performance by such means We have an independent corporate of that information.
as employee briengs and publication responsibility CR strategy and details to all staff of relevant information and of our policies and the Groups aims Auditors corporate announcements.
In 2016, alongside the latest full version of our The auditors,  intu conducted one all-employee survey annual CR report are to be found on the LLP, have indicated their willingness to covering a range of topics.
An overview of the continue in office and a resolution seeking are provided in the our people section Groups CR activity which includes to reappoint them will be proposed at on pages 55 to 57. disclosures relating to greenhouse gas the forthcoming annual general meeting.
emissions is on pages 52 to 54, and a The annual bonus plan arrangements summary booklet is also available for Annual general meeting help develop employees interest in the download from the website or on request The notice convening the 2017 annual Companys performance: full details of from the Company Secretarys office.
general meeting of the Company will be published separately and will be At 31 December 2016 At 22 February 2017 available on the Companys website and Number of % interest in Number of % interest distributed to those shareholders who Shareholder shares notied share capital shares notied in share capital have elected to receive hard copies of The Peel Group 351,082,474 25.91 351,082,474 25.91 shareholder information.
