JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 86 Governance Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Both the Directors Report and the Strategic Report have been financial statements for JRP Group plc JRP, registered in drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance England & Wales No: 8568957, for the period of 1 July 2015 upon, applicable English company law.
The liabilities of the to the year ended 31 December 2016.
Directors in connection with those reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Overview On 4 April 2016, Just Retirement Group plc together with its The Company does not have any overseas branches within the consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings the meaning of the Companies Act 2006.
Just Retirement Group and Partnership Assurance Group plc together with its consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary Going concern and viability statement undertakings the Partnership Assurance Group merged to The Directors are required to assess the prospect of the Group form JRP Group plc.
Prior to the merger, the Just Retirement as a going concern over the next 12 months, and also its longer Groups accounting reference date was 30 June in each year and term viability in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK the Partnership Assurance Groups accounting reference date Corporate Governance Code.
was 31 December in each year.
Following the merger, JRP Group and certain other entities changed their accounting reference Going concern dates to 31 December in each year.
Therefore the statutory Under the annotated version of the UK Corporate Governance results presented in the Annual Report represent an 18 month Code, the Directors are required to state whether in their accounting period.
The results for the 18 months ended assessment the business is a going concern.
In considering 31 December 2016 reflect 18 months of Just Retirement Group this requirement, the Directors have taken into account performance 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2016 and nine the following: months of Partnership Assurance Group performance The Group plan, which was approved by the Board in 1 April 2016 to 31 December 2016.
December 2016, and in particular the forecast regulatory solvency position calculated on a Solvency II basis in which The Annual Report contains forward-looking statements.
the solvency position is assessed after a stress event.
These forward looking statements are not guarantees of The findings of the August 2016 Group Own Risk and Solvency future statements.
Rather they are based on current views Assessment ORSA, and in particular sensitivity to the most and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, significant risks faced by the Group as referred to on pages 44 uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to 47 of this report.
to differ from any future results or developments expressed The projected liquidity position of the Group as at in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements.
Each 31 December 2016, current financing arrangements and forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of that contingent liabilities.
Having due regard to these matters and after making appropriate enquiries, the Directors confirm that they consider The Directors Report of the Group for the year ended it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going 31 December 2016 is set out on pages 86 to 90 inclusive.
Additional information which is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report, including information required Viability statement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing The Directors also confirm that they have a reasonable Rule 9.8.
4R of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, expectation that the Group will continue in operation and meet can be located as follows: its liabilities, as they fall due, over the next three years.
The Disclosure Location Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principle Description of the Groups Throughout the Strategic risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model and Report pages 4 to 47 business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and information relating to the make this assessment with reference to the risk appetite of performance of the Groups the Board and the processes and controls in place to mitigate business during the financial the principal risks and uncertainties as detailed in the year, the position of the Group Strategic Report.
at the end of the year, and likely future developments The Group undertakes stress and scenario testing to consider the Groups capacity to respond to a series of relevant financial, Employee involvement Our people page 19 insurance or operational shocks should future circumstances Financial risk management Note 34 to the financial or events differ from current assumptions.
The review also objectives and policies statements pages 141 to 145 considers mitigating actions available to the Group should including hedging policy and an extreme stress scenario occur.
use of financial instruments The Directors note that the Group is subject to the Prudential Details of long-term incentive Note 11 to the financial Regulatory Regime for Insurance Groups which monitors the schemes statements pages 119 to 122 Groups compliance with Solvency Capital Requirements.
While Directors Responsibilities the Directors have no reason to believe that the Group will not Statement Page 91 be viable over a longer period, given the inherent uncertainty which increases as longer time frames are considered, the Directors consider three years to be an appropriate time frame upon which they can report with a reasonable degree of confidence.
Although a three year time frame has been selected Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 for this statement, the Group, as with any insurance group, has Copies of Executive Directors service contracts and the policyholder liabilities in excess of three years and therefore Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available to performs its modelling and stress and scenario testing on shareholders for inspection at the Companys registered office timeframes extending to the expected settlement of these and at the AGM.
Details of the directors remuneration and liabilities, with results reported in the Groups Own Risk and service contracts and their interests in the shares of the Solvency Assessment.
company are included in the Directors Remuneration Report which is set out on pages 66 to 85.
The Non-Executive Directors Results and dividend do not have service agreements.
The financial statements set out the results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 and are shown on page 100.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The statements describing how the Company has applied the The first interim dividend for the year of 1.1 pence per ordinary main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code are set out in the Companys Corporate Governance share was paid on 20 May 2016 to shareholders on the register Report on pages 55 to 59, and together with the information at the close of business on 6 May 2016 2015: 1.1 pence per in share rights set out in note 11 on pages 119 to 122 forms share.
The second interim dividend for the year of 1.1 pence per part of this Directors Report and is incorporated by reference.
ordinary share was paid on 28 October 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 28 September 2016 The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions 2015: 2.2 pence per share.
of the Code during the year and up to the date of the Directors Report.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 2.4 pence per ordinary share which, together with the first and The Code recommends that at least half the Board, excluding second interim dividends, makes a total dividend for the period the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors of 4.6 pence 2015: 1.1 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to determined by the Board to be independent in character approval by shareholders of the recommended final dividend, and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances the dividend award to shareholders for 2016 will total 43.0m.
which may affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
If approved, the Company will pay the final dividend on 26 May Following the merger in April 2016, more than half of its 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on members including the Chairman comprised of Non-Executive 5 May 2017.
Directors, are independent in the manner required by the Code and the Board feels that there is a right balance of skills and Directors experience to support the Groups challenges ahead.
The current Directors of the Company, including their biographical details, are set out on pages 50 to 53.
Each served Directors insurance and indemnities from the time of their appointment on 4 April 2016 throughout The Directors and Officers of the Company benefit from an the year ended 31 December 2016. indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of Association against any liability they may incur in relation to the Companys Directors on the Board from 4 April 2016 and up to the date of affairs, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 as this report are as follows: amended.
Each Director of the Company benefits from a deed of indemnity in respect of the costs of defending claims against Chris Gibson-Smith, Chairman appointed 4 April 2016 him or her and third party liabilities the terms of which are in Tom Cross Brown, Deputy Chairman accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as amended.
Such Rodney Cook, Group Chief Executive Officer qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force at David Richardson, Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer and MD the date of this report.
Directors and Officers liability insurance UK Corporate Business appointed 4 April 2016 cover was maintained throughout the year at the Companys Simon Thomas, Group Chief Financial Officer expense and remains in force at the date of this report.
Paul Bishop, Non-Executive Director appointed 4 April 2016 Peter Catterall, Non-Executive Director appointed 4 April 2016 Share capital Ian Cormack, Non-Executive Director appointed 4 April 2016 As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued share Michael Deakin, Non-Executive Director capital of 932,921,044 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
No James Fraser, Non-Executive Director shares are held in treasury.
The ordinary shares are listed on Steve Melcher, Non-Executive Director the London Stock Exchange.
Keith Nicholson, Senior Independent Director Clare Spottiswoode, Non-Executive Director The Companys Articles specify that, subject to the appointed 4 April 2016 authorisation of an appropriate resolution passed at a General Meeting of the Company, Directors can allot relevant securities Kate Avery and Shayne Deighton resigned from the Board under Section 551 of the Companies Act up to the aggregate immediately upon completion of the Partnership acquisition.
nominal amount specified by the relevant resolution.
In addition, the Articles state that the Directors can seek the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the authority of shareholders at a General Meeting to allot equity Company is continuing to follow the recommendation that all securities for cash, without first being required to offer such Directors seek their election or re-election, as relevant, at the shares to existing ordinary shareholders in proportion to their 2017 AGM.
The shareholders may by special resolution, remove existing holdings under Section 561 of the Companies Act, any director before the expiration of that directors period in connection with a rights issue and in other circumstances of office.
up to the aggregate nominal amount specified by the relevant resolution.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 88 Governance Directors Report continued Following the merger, the Company changed its accounting During the 18 months to 31 December 2016, 117,234 ordinary reference date from 30 June to 31 December.
As a result, certain shares of 10 pence each were issued in satisfaction of the authorities granted to the Directors at the Companys AGM held exercise of employee share options under the terms of the in November 2015 were due to expire.
At the General Meeting Just Retirement Share Plan 2013 for a total consideration on 7 December 2016 held to renew these authorities, the of 11,723.40.
Directors were i authorised to allot ordinary shares in the Company up to an maximum aggregate nominal amount of Details of the Groups employee share plans are set out on 62,191,405 and ii empowered to allot equity securities for pages 119 to 122. cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,664,355 and further granted an additional power Substantial Shareholdings Interests in the Companys shares The Company has been notified in accordance with DTR 5 of the to disapply pre-emption rights representing a further 5% only to Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests of be used in specified circumstances, and iii authorised to make 3% or more, of its issued ordinary shares.
The information below market purchases of up to an aggregate of 93,287,108 ordinary was correct at the date of notification.
shares, representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as of 16 November 2016.
No shares Ordinary Ordinary were purchased by the Company during the year.
The Directors shareholdings shareholdings at propose to renew these authorities at the 2017 Annual General at 31 December % of 8 March % of Shareholder 2016 capital 2017 capital Meeting for a further year.
In the year ahead, other than in respect of the JRP Groups ability to satisfy rights granted to Avallux S.. r. l. 273,057,001 29.27 273,057,001 29.27 employees under its various share-based incentive Cinven Limited arrangements, the Directors have no present intention of Cinven Funds 182,479,320 19.56 182,479,320 19.56 issuing any share capital of JRP Group plc.
Schroder The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Investment Companys Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at Management 60,332,052 6.47 62,562,388 6.71 Company general meetings including the AGM, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Being the last practical date prior to publication of the Annual Report The share price on 31 December 2016 was 1.4950 pence.
Directors interests The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the Further information relating to the Companys issued share ordinary shares of the Company as disclosed in accordance with capital can be found in note 21 on page 133. the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority are as set out on page 81 of the Directors Remuneration Report and details of Securities carrying special rights the Directors long-term incentive awards are set out on pages No person holds securities in the Company carrying special 82 and 83. rights with regard to control of the Company.
James Fraser is a partner at Permira Advisers LLP which Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Voting advises certain funds that wholly own Avallux S.. r. l. The Companys Articles of Association Articles do not contain one of the Companys principal shareholders controlling any specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the 29.27 % of the voting rights in the Company.
transfer of shares, except that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example Peter Catterall is a partner of Cinven Partners LLP which advises by the Market Abuse Regulations MAR and insider trading certain funds that wholly own Cinven Funds, the Companys law or pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct second principal shareholder controlling 19.56% of the voting Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require rights in the Company.
the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between Save as disclosed for James Fraser and Peter Catterall, there holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions are no potential conflicts of interest between any duties owed on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
by the Directors to the Company and their private interests or other duties.
No other Director had any material interest in No person has any special rights with regard to the control of any significant contract with the Company or with any Group the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles should be consulted if further information is required.
Employees Equal opportunities employment Share Plans JRP Group plc is an equal opportunities employer and decisions The Group operates a number of share-based incentive plans.
on recruitment, development, training and promotion and other For these plans the Group can satisfy entitlements by the employment related issues are made solely on the grounds of acquisition of existing shares or by the issue of new shares.
individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
These Existing shares are held in an employee benefit trust EBT.
principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis, without The trustee of the EBT purchases shares in the open market as regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, required to enable the Group to meet liabilities for the issue of belief, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other shares to satisfy awards that vest.
The trustee does not register reason not related to job performance or prohibited by votes in respect of these shares and has waived the right to applicable law.
If there were to be an instance of an employee receive any dividends.
becoming disabled during their employment with the Group, support for continued employment would be provided and Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 workplace adjustments made as appropriate in respect of their to appoint one Non-Executive Director each to the Board of the duties and working environment.
Employee communication The following reinsurance treaties may be terminated by the reinsurer on a change of control as set out below: Before and following the merger, JRP Group has adopted an open and honest approach to employee communications, supported by regular updates from senior management across The Hannover Re treaty between Just Retirement Limited and all businesses and operations within the Group.
Regular Hannover Rueck SE, Hannover dated 20 September 2012 and communications include email updates on the financial as amended on 16 October 2013, 22 December 2014 and performance of the Company and the market environment 6 January 2016 in relation to Just Retirement Limiteds GIfL in which the Group operates, an employee intranet which non-profit pension annuities policies written from 1 July distributes Company news and events, as well as local 2004 to 31 December 2015 and underwritten using the JR initiatives for employee engagement.
Merica underwriting system: the Hannover Re treaty between Just Retirement Limited and Active employee engagement has been encouraged.
This was Hannover Life Reassurance Bermuda Ltd dated 17 December very well illustrated prior to the launch of the new brand.
The 2015 in relation to Just Retirement Limiteds GIfL non-profit Just brand personality is to be purposeful, clear, assured and pension annuities policies written for the underwriting years conversational both internally and externally.
The new brand 2004 2005, 2005 2006 and 2006 2007: was launched in a way that amplified this personality.
The Just the RGA lead treaty between Just Retirement Limited and In Progress event was an experiential afternoon: empowering RGA International Reinsurance Company Limited acting as colleagues to explore the areas of interest to them and enabling lead reinsurer and the treaty between Just Retirement them to become immersed in the world of Just.
A group of Limited and RGA Americas Reinsurance Company Ltd acting employees called Just Makers were recruited to design and lead as following reinsurer both treaties dated 19 June 2013 and the event.
While the event marked the start of the new brand, as amended on 26 September 2013, 1 January 2014, 23 July colleagues had been involved in the brand strategy creation 2014 and 1 June 2015 in relation to Just Retirement Limiteds since August 2016, so there has been openness and GIfL non-profit pension annuities policies written from 1 July collaboration from the start.
2012 to 31 December 2014 and underwritten using the JR Merica underwriting system: Senior management, supported and facilitated by the HR the Achmea Re treaty between Just Retirement Limited and department, encourages open dialogue and seeks opportunities Achmea Re dated 1 December 2005 and as subsequently to consult with employee representative bodies as appropriate.
amended, most recently on 1 January 2013 in relation to Just A new Employee Liaison Group has been established to promote Retirement Limiteds GIfL non-profit pension annuities an exchange of views between management and Employee policies written from 1 July 2004 to 30 June 2012: and Liaison Group members on issues of mutual trust, including business strategy, policies and procedures, employment the Nomura treaty between Just Retirement Limited and matters, culture and engagement, to test new ideas and Nomura Reinsurance 51C Limited dated 30 September 2015 approaches, and to provide an opportunity for the views in relation to Just Retirement Limiteds GIfL individual of people to be taken into account when making decisions underwritten annuities policies written from 1 July 2009 to relating to the business.
Further information on employee communications, In the case of the RGA reinsurance treaties, the reinsurer can development and diversity is given on page 19. immediately terminate if there is any material change in the ownership, management or control of Just Retirement Limited, Change of Control Provisions its parent or ultimate parent.
In the case of the Achmea Re There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or treaty, the reinsurer can immediately terminate if there is any terminate upon a change of control of the company, such as material change in the ownership, management or control of commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease Just Retirement Limited.
In the case of the Hannover Rueck arrangements and employee share plans.
In the context of the SE and Hannover Life Reassurance Bermuda Ltd treaties Group as a whole, none of these are deemed to be significant Hannover termination may be immediate, and in the case in terms of their potential impact except for the following: of the Nomura treaty on three months prior written notice, if i the new controller has a long term credit rating below BBB The Relationship Agreement with each of Avallux S.. r. l. dated as rated by Standard and Poors or if Standard and Poors does 12 November 2013 and Cinven Limited dated 7 June 2013 the not provide a credit rating, an equivalent rating of Moodys or Companys principal shareholders holding 29.27% and 19.56% Fitch: or ii if the new controller does not have a long-term respectively of the issued ordinary share capital will continue credit rating and such change of control has or is likely to for so long as the Company is premium-listed on the London have a material adverse effect on the creditworthiness of Just Stock Exchanges main market and each is entitled to control Retirement Limited: or in the case of Hannover only the new the exercise of 15% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or controller of Just Retirement Limited is a major competitor.
If substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
such termination occurs, the treaty is terminated in respect of The Company entered into the Relationship Agreements to new business and the reinsurer may exercise an option either ensure that it would be able, at all times, to carry on its business to continue the treaty in respect of business already written independently of Avallux S.. r. l and Cinven Limited and that all or to require recapture of that business, which has the effect transactions and relationships between the Company and of withdrawing the reinsurance in respect of past business Avallux S.. r. l. and Cinven Limited would be at arms length and subject to any repayment by Just Retirement Limited not on a normal commercial basis.
Under the Relationship causing it to breach its PRA minimum capital requirements.
Agreement, both Avallux S.. r. l. and Cinven Limited are entitled JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 90 Governance Directors Report continued The Company does not have any agreements with any NonAuditor Executive Director, Executive Director or employee that would The Companys auditor has indicated its willingness to continue provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting in office.
The Board has agreed, based on the recommendation from a change of control.
of the Audit Committee, that a resolution will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for the appointment Financial instruments of KPMG LLP as Auditor of the Company for the period ending Derivatives are used to manage the Groups capital position 31 December 2017 and to authorise the Boards Audit which is affected by a surplus of long-dated fixed interest assets Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditor.
when liabilities are measured on a realistic basis.
Details of The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Auditor these derivatives are contained in note 16 to the financial and the auditors effectiveness and relationship with the Group, statements.
Disclosure with respect to financial risk is included including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid.
Further on pages 44 to 47 of the Strategic Report and in note 34 to the details on the work of the Audit Committee are set out on pages financial statements.
61 and 63 in the Corporate Governance Report.
Political contributions Annual General Meeting No political contributions were made, or political expenditure The Companys 2017 AGM will be held at 8 Fenchurch Street, incurred, by the Company and its subsidiaries during the year London, EC3M 4PB at 09:30am on 18 May 2017.
being sent separately to shareholders with this Report.
Greenhouse gas emissions The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and is Information on our reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and signed on its behalf by: the methodology used to record these is given on page 41.
Amendment of Articles of Association The Company may make amendments to the Articles by way of special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act.
Simon OHara Disclosure of information to the auditor Group Company Secretary Each of the persons who is a Director of the Company at the 9 March 2017 date of approval of this Directors Report has confirmed that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
