JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 50 Governance Board of Directors Chris Gibson-Smith, Tom Cross Brown, Rodney Cook, Chairman Deputy Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Chris Gibson-Smith was appointed Tom Cross Brown continued to Rodney Cook continued to serve Chairman of JRP Group plc in April serve under the new role of Deputy as Group Chief Executive Officer 2016.
He previously served as Chairman of JRP Group plc in April of JRP Group plc in April 2016.
He Chairman of Partnership Assurance 2016.
He was Chairman of Just was Chief Executive Officer of Just Group plc from April 2013 until Retirement Group plc from August Retirement Group plc from August April 2016.
2013 until April 2016 and was 2013 until April 2016, and was a Non-Executive Director of Just appointed as Chief Executive Chris brings over forty-five years Retirement Holdings Limited Officer of Just Retirement business experience across a wide from 2006 to 2014.
Tom became Holdings Limited in July 2010. range of industries.
This includes Chairman on its admission to over forty years of cumulative FTSE AIM in December 2006, until Previously, Rodney was Managing main board experience, twentyMarch 2014.
Director, Life and Pensions of five of which as Chairman.
Rodney, currently holds the role of Vice Until 2003, Tom was Chief a qualified actuary, has 38 years Chairman of UBS Investment Bank Executive Officer of ABN AMRO experience in financial services, as of July 2016, and was previously Asset Management.
Prior to joining having led businesses in both the Chairman of the London Stock ABN AMRO Asset Management in United Kingdom and Australasia.
Exchange Group plc from 2003 to 1997, he spent 21 years at Lazard He commenced his career with 2015.
He was Chairman of the Brothers & Co. latterly as Chief AMP, which culminated in his British Land Company PLC from Executive Officer of Lazard appointment as Managing Director 2007 until 2012, and was a Brothers Asset Management from of Pearl in 1999.
This was followed Director of the Qatar Financial 1994 to 1997.
He is currently by time at Zurich Financial Services Centre Regulatory Authority from Chairman of Xafinity plc, Artemis as Managing Director of Sterling 2006 to 2012.
Chris was Chairman Alpha Trust plc, and a NonAssurance, Eagle Star Life and as of National Air Traffic Services Executive member of the Zurich Financial Services Customer NATS from 2001 to 2005, Group Management Committee of Artemis Solutions Director, before joining Managing Director of BP from 1997 Investment Management LLP.
to 2001, a Director of Lloyds TSB from 1999 to 2005 and a Director Tom is Chair of the Market Rodney is a member of the Market of Powergen from 2001 to 2002.
Disclosure Committee, a member Disclosure Committee, a Director He has also served on UK of the Risk and Compliance of Just Retirement Limited and Government advisory Committees Committee and Nomination Partnership Life Assurance on aviation and oil and gas and Committee, the Just Retirement Company Limited, and Chair of was awarded the CBE for his Limited Partnership Life Assurance TOMAS Acquisitions Limited.
services to the financial industry.
Company Limited Investment Committee, and a Director of Chris is Chair of the Nomination Partnership Life Assurance Committee and a member of the Company Limited and Just Market Disclosure Committee, Risk Retirement Limited.
and Compliance Committee and Remuneration Committee, and Director of Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited and Just Retirement Limited.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Senior Independent Director David Richardson, Simon Thomas, Keith Nicholson, Group Deputy Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Officer and MD UK Corporate Business David Richardson was appointed Simon Thomas continued to serve Keith Nicholson continued to serve as Group Deputy Chief Executive under the new title of Group Chief as Senior Independent Director of Officer and MD UK Corporate Financial Officer of JRP Group plc in JRP Group plc in April 2016.
He was Business of JRP Group plc in April April 2016.
He was Group Finance Senior Independent Director of 2016.
He was Chief Finance Officer Director of Just Retirement Group Just Retirement Group plc from of Partnership Assurance Group plc from August 2013 until April October 2013 until April 2016. plc from February 2013 until 2016, having been appointed as April 2016.
Group Finance Director of Just Keith is Chairman of Liberty Retirement Holdings Limited in Speciality Markets including the Previously, David was Group Chief July 2006. businesses of Liberty Managing Actuary of the UKs largest closed Agency Limited and Liberty Mutual life assurance fund consolidator, Previously, Simon was Finance Insurance Europe Limited and Phoenix Group, where he was and Customer Services Director Deputy Chairman of The Equitable responsible for restructuring the at Canada Life Limited, the UK Life Assurance Society.
He was groups balance sheet and overall subsidiary of Great West Life.
Prior Deputy Chairman of Wesleyan capital management.
Prior to this, to this, Simon was Head of Finance Assurance Society until he David worked in a number of at HECM Limited formerly resigned from its Board in senior roles at Swiss Re, across Equitable Life and spent ten years September 2014.
He was a partner both its Admin Re and traditional at Nationwide Building Society, at KPMG where he led their UK reinsurance businesses.
Those latterly as Group Financial insurance practice until he retired roles included Chief Actuary of its Controller.
Simon has over 15 from the firm in March 2009.
Life and Health business, Head of years experience in the UK life Products for UK and South Africa assurance industry, and is a Keith is Chairman of the Risk and and Global Head of its Longevity Chartered Accountant.
Compliance Committee and a Pricing teams.
David commenced member of the Audit, Nomination his career at the actuarial Simon is a member of the Market and Market Disclosure Committees, consultancy Tillinghast.
David is Disclosure Committee and the and the Integration Sub-Committee.
a Fellow of the Institute and Integration Sub-Committee, and He is also Senior Independent Faculty of Actuaries and a CFA a Director of Just Retirement Director of Just Retirement Limited Charter holder.
Limited, Partnership Life Assurance and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited and TOMAS Company Limited, and a member David is a member of the Market Acquisitions Limited.
of their Investment Committee, Disclosure Committee and a and Senior Independent Director of Director of Just Retirement Just Retirement Solutions Limited.
Limited, Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited, Just Retirement Money Limited, and Partnership Home Loans Limited.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 52 Governance Board of Directors continued Non-Executive Directors Paul Bishop, Peter Catterall, Ian Cormack, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Paul Bishop was appointed as Peter Catterall was appointed as Ian Cormack was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of JRP a Non-Executive Director of JRP a Non-Executive Director of JRP Group plc in April 2016.
He previously served as a Nonpreviously served as a Nonpreviously served as Senior Executive Director for Partnership Executive Director for Partnership Independent Director for Assurance Group plc from May Assurance Group plc from February Partnership Assurance Group plc 2014 until April 2016.
2013 to April 2016, having been from May 2013 to April 2016. a Director of the predecessor Paul has spent the majority of his company since 2008.
Prior to his appointment, Ian spent career at KPMG, and from 1993 over 30 years at Citibank up until to the end of January 2014 was Peter joined Cinven in 1997 and 2000, latterly as UK Country a partner apart from a brief period is a member of Cinvens Executive Head and Co-Head of the Global when he was employed at Atos Committee.
Peter has been Financial Institutions Group.
KPMG Consulting as a Managing involved in numerous investments From 2000 to 2002, he was Chief Director.
Paul has specialised in the at Cinven.
Executive Officer of AIG Europe.
insurance sector for over 30 years, He was previously a Non-Executive particularly life insurance, and Director of Pearl Group 2005- led KPMGs insurance consulting 2009, Aspen Insurance Holdings practice for much of his time as a 20022012, Qatar Financial Partner.
Paul also spent 18 months Centre Authority 2006 2012, on secondment at Standard Life Bloomsbury Publishing 2011- as Head of Financial Change 2015, Xchanging 2012 2016 in the period leading up to its and previously Chairman of the demutualisation and IPO.
Paul is CHAPS hi-value payment system.
a Chartered Accountant ACA Ian is a former Chairman of the and qualified in 1980.
LSE Taurus Review Committee, and a former member of the Board of Paul is Chair of the Audit Committee, Cedel, the Executive Committee and a member of the Nomination of the European Securities Committee, Integration SubCommittee, the settlement board Committee and the Just Retirement of the London Stock Exchange: Limited Partnership Life Assurance the Council of the British Bankers Company Limited Investment Association and a former member Committee.
He is also a Director of APACS.
In addition to the JRP of Just Retirement Money Limited, Group, Ian is Chairman of Maven Partnership Home Loans Limited, Income & Growth VCT 4, NonPartnership Life Assurance Executive Director of Hastings plc, Past Directors Company Limited and Just Senior Independent Director of Kate Avery and Shayne Deighton Retirement Limited.
Phoenix Group and Chairman of resigned from the JRP Group plc Phoenix Life Holdings Limited Board immediately upon Paul is also a Non-Executive and of the Phoenix Group completion of the merger Director of NHBC, having been Remuneration Committee.
on 4 April 2016. appointed on 1 November 2016.
Ian is Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and a member of the Nomination and Risk and Compliance Committee.
Ian is also a Director of Just Retirement Solutions, Just Retirement Money Limited, Partnership Home Loans Limited, Just Retirement Limited, and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Michael Deakin, James Fraser, Steve Melcher, Clare Spottiswoode, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Michael Deakin continued to James Fraser continued to serve Steve Melcher continued to serve Clare Spottiswoode was appointed serve as a Non-Executive Director as a Non-Executive Director of JRP as a Non-Executive Director of JRP as a Non-Executive Director of JRP of JRP Group plc in April 2016.
She was He previously served as a Non-Executive Director of Just Non-Executive Director of Just Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director for Retirement Group plc from August Retirement Group plc from May Partnership Assurance Group plc Just Retirement Group plc from 2013 until April 2016, having been 2015 until April 2016. from October 2014 to April 2016.
April 2014 until April 2016. appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Just Retirement Steve has worked in financial Clare is a mathematician and Michael is a qualified actuary and Holdings Limited from 2009 services for over 40 years during economist by training: in June has over 25 years investment until March 2014. which time he has held posts at 2010, she was appointed by HM management experience.
He JP Morgan, Marsh & McLennan and Treasury to the Independent joined Clerical Medical in 1974 James is a Partner and Co-Head as Chief Executive Officer of Eagle Commission on Banking The where he was appointed Director of the Financial Services Sector Star, Allied Dunbar and Sun Life Vickers Commission.
Clares career of Investments in 1995 and in at Permira.
Prior to joining Permira of Canada UK.
He now has a portfolio has involved acting as Policyholder 2001 Chief Investment Officer of in 2008, James was Co-Head of the of roles, including as a Non-Executive Advocate for Norwich Unions Clerical Medical Investments, later Global Financial Services practice Director of Allianz Re in Dublin and with-profits policyholders at Aviva, named Insight Investments.
Since at L. E. K. Consulting where he spent as Chairman of Euler Hermes in which role she acted on behalf retiring from Insight in September 21 years, 11 of which as a partner.
He is also an of 1m policyholders tasked with 2003, he has served as a NonHe is currently a Non-Executive executive mentor which takes him reattributing Avivas inherited Executive member of the Board of Director of Tilney Group.
estate, and included time as the Pension Protection Fund and Director General of Ofgas, the was Chairman of its Investment Steve is Chair of the Integration UK gas regulator.
Committee from 2004 to 2010, Sub-Committee, and a member and a Board member of the of the Audit, Risk and Compliance In addition to the JRP Group, London Pension Fund Authority Committee, and the Remuneration Clare is a Non-Executive Director from 2006 to 2012 Deputy Committee.
He is also Chair of Just of BW Offshore Limited, Ilika plc, Chairman from 2009.
Retirement Solutions Limited, and G4S plc, Payments UK and British a Director of Just Retirement Management Data Foundation, Michael is Chair of the Just Limited, Partnership Life Assurance and Chairman of Gas Strategies Retirement Limited Partnership Company Limited, Just Retirement Limited and of FlowGroup plc.
Life Assurance Company Limited Money Limited and Partnership Investment Committee, and Home Loans Limited.
Clare is a member of the Audit a member of the Nomination Committee, Risk and Compliance Committee and Remuneration Committee, and the Integration Committee.
He is also Chair of Sub-Committee, and a Director Just Retirement Money Limited of Just Retirement Solutions, and Partnership Home Loans Just Retirement Limited, and Limited, and Director of Just Partnership Life Assurance Retirement Solutions Limited, Company Limited.
Just Retirement Limited and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited.
