Strategic report The betting year 2016 March May Cheltenham Festival Premiership Cheltenham was a huge success but only for our customers.
The industry witnessed one of the biggest shocks of all time when We saw losses on 18 of the 28 races, the worst of which was Leicester City won the Premier League, having been 5000 1 at the Thistlecracks win in the World Hurdle.
A collection of extra places, start ofthe season.
While the outright market saw their victory price enhancements and ultra-competitive pricing all contributed mean significant pay outs to the loyal and shrewd backers, overall tototal loses of over 5.5 million on the festival across all channels the unpredictable 2015 16 season was one for us to celebrate.
and in all UK facing brands.
January February April June Australian Open Super Bowl Grand National Royal Ascot, A good start to the year for The Denver Broncos victory in Aintree was the only favourable basketball and the ourcustomers with Djokovics the Super Bowl was a welcome major racing festival for us in EU referendum straight sets victory over result, having been almost 2016.
After a poor start for Royal Ascot continued the trend Murray in the Australian Open, friendless in the market at bookmakers, the failure of Un of major racing festivals going where form had weighed more theante-post 14 1 available.
Temps Pour Tout and Vautour against bookmakers.
We saw heavily on the minds of our to oblige on the Friday turned aseries of customer-friendly customers than patriotism.
the tables firmly in our favour.
results in the feature race, While delivering a loss on the After 43 million was staked on butnone worse than the well outright market, the victory the Grand National we were fancied Godolphins Usherette in of Angelique Kerber in the very pleased to see 33 1 Rule the Duke of Cambridge Stakes.
Womens final, was one for the World triumph.
The popularity of basketball Danny Willet collecting his first asabetting product continues green jacket at Augusta was a to grow and the Cleveland par result, as the 80 1 shot had Cavaliers unexpected victory been the second most backed over the heavily backed Golden Englishman after Justin Rose.
State Warriors, who were as short as 1 20 during the NBA finals, was a very welcome result for bookmakers.
The EU referendum was anotherexample of the continued growth of political betting.
In astrange betting market, we saw 70% of stakes on Remain, but 70% of bets on Brexit.
The result was a small winner for us.
com 14 July September The Wimbledon and European Championships The Ryder Cup Despite Andy Murray winning Wimbledon, the tournament was A good month for bookmakers with the USAs convincing victory astrong success for us, Djokovic being the heavily supported inthe Ryder Cup a good result, despite the 8 15 favourites winning.
25 1 Harbour Laws win in the last ever Ladbrokes St Ledger also left us, rather than our customers, smiling.
The UEFA European Championship was extremely kind to bookmakers, particularly seeing only one win forEngland in theirfour matches.
Portugal were the undoubted highlight from abookmakers perspective with only one of their seven matches notending inadraw after 90 minutes.
August October November December The Premier League Prix fide lArc The USA The football season and the York festival fide Triomphe Presidential election A tough month for the bookmakers culminating The start of the Premier League Despite Aiden OBrien saddling The USA Presidential election inadreadful Boxing Day as season saw the continued the first three home in the became the single largest favourites across the divisions impact of the Leicester City Prixde lArc fide Triomphe, non-sports betting event in triumphed.
The day was story with a significant increase thedefeat of well-fancied history.
Having hedged the savedfrom being a complete in bets placed on the outright Posponed saw a good start Trump position acquired at bookmaker wipe out by market on teams that were tothe month for bookmakers.
allrates down from 100 1, the Sheffield Wednesdays 200 1 or bigger.
event ended up a small winner away victory at Newcastle across the Group, completing The Ebor meeting at York that evening.
ayear of significant political continued the trend of major upsets.
A Brexit Trump double, racing festivals in 2016 as struck at the largest prices ever weonce again failed to turn available for each, would have aprofit, becoming the worst paid 1358 1. performing festival in history.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15
