Strategic report Business model We aim to deliver long-term value to shareholders by providing anexciting gambling experience to ourcustomers backed up by excellent service and efficient operations.
We leverage through in our chosen remaining to deliver and to generate all resources all channels markets aware of our our promise returns and responsibilities long-term value Heritage Our business is built on bookmaking We are a brand leader in the UK, Ireland We are a regulated business and take our We aim to be available to the customer Through a growing business, dividends Strong brands expertise delivered through retail, and Belgium.
We hold significant positions regulatory licensing conditions seriously.
attheir convenience and provide a fun toshareholders and investment in our Trading expertise and systems onlineand on the telephone.
In addition, in the markets of Italy, Australia and Ireland Weplace health and safety and responsible experience however, whenever and people, operations and businesses.
Marketing expertise wearepursuing a strategy to maximise and are a growing force in Spain through gambling at the core of our thinking in wherever they choose to play.
Market insight ourability to appeal to customers who our joint venture.
We continue to look to delivering our operations.
An exciting Technology aremulti-channel and shop both on the develop good business opportunities in Regulation and engaging Engaging product high street and online.
other regulated or regulating territories Responsible gambling Best-in-class partners and such as the USA and China.
Health and safety supplier relationships Retail Digital Established Great people UK, Ireland, Belgium New Australia, USA, China, Spain ladbrokescoralplc.
com 12 We leverage through in our chosen remaining to deliver and to generate all resources all channels markets aware of our our promise returns and responsibilities long-term value Heritage Our business is built on bookmaking We are a brand leader in the UK, Ireland We are a regulated business and take our We aim to be available to the customer Through a growing business, dividends Strong brands expertise delivered through retail, and Belgium.
Health and safety supplier relationships Retail Digital Established Great people UK, Ireland, Belgium New Australia, USA, China, Spain Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13
