Strategic report Snapshot of the merged Group Wearethe leading British High Street bookmaker, have a strong online presence with digital sports betting and gaming offerings across our brands.
Internationally we have strong retail and online operations in Italy, Ireland, Spain and Belgium as well as a rapidly growing online operation in Australia.
Our brands Through the Ladbrokes brand we have 141 outlets in the Republic of Ireland and 77 in Northern Ireland.
We also have an online business.
An established force on the UK High Street for over 50 years andwith a growing online and multi-channel presence, the Ladbrokes brand is one of the most recognised in the UK.
Betdaq is the second largest peer-to-peer sports betting exchange in the world, matching an average of 80 million worth of customer stakes each week in 2016.
Operating out of Gibraltar with service operations in Dublin Ireland, Betdaq employs 92 people.
The Coral brand is synonymous with UK betting and hasastronghigh street and online presence.
Stadium Technology Group creates and supports software and technology for race books and sports pools and is based in Nevada.
In China we have a joint venture with AGTech a part of the AlibabaGroup which currently provides virtual sports products tothe ChinaSports Lottery Market.
com 2 Our merger brings new and exciting opportunities for both companies.
Carl Leaver, Executive Deputy Chairman A joint venture with Cirsa, our Spanish business offers both www.
com offers a full range of casino and live casino retailand online operations with a majority of the outlets products including a full suite of proprietary and third-party beingselfservice terminals in bars or street corners.
Launched in 2013, our Australian business operates online Eurobet Retail was created in 2006 and opened its first shop in underthe Ladbrokes, Bookmaker and Betstar brands.
June2007 and is number three in the market for Over the Counter OTC betting inItaly.
Eurobet Online is available to Italian residents and deliversafull range of sports betting, casino and games products, including virtual racing and bet-in-play products.
In Belgium, through the Ladbrokes brand, we have a total of 453 TM Belgian outlets, including both Ladbrokes shops and newsagent outlets as well as an online presence.
com is the second largest player in the online bingo market in the UK.
Customers can participate in scheduled bingo sessions or play slots games and roulette including live roulette.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 3
