56 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Robert Noel Martin Greenslade Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Full biography on page 54 Full biography on page 54 Colette OShea Scott Parsons Diana Breeze Miles Webber Tim Ashby Managing Director, Managing Director, Group Human Resources Director of Corporate Affairs Group General Counsel and London Portfolio Retail Portfolio Director and Sustainability Company Secretary Colette joined Land Securities Scott re-joined Land Securities Diana joined Land Securities Miles joined Land Securities on Tim joined Land Securities on in 2003 and was Head of in 2010 and was Head of inJune 2013 as Group Human 6 May 2015.
Development, London Property, London Portfolio, Resources Director.
Age: 47 Age: 54 Portfolio, before being before being appointed as Age: 48 appointed its Managing Managing Director, Retail Career Before joining Land Career Tim is a solicitor and has Director in April 2014.
Career Diana has over 20 Securities, Miles was Head of more than 20 years of significant years HR and organisational External Affairs, UK & Ireland, legal, compliance and Age: 48 Age: 46 consulting experience, and she for General Electric, having commercial experience gained has previously held a number of Career Colette has over 20 Career Scotts career to previously held other senior across a number of different senior HR roles at J Sainsbury years property experience in date includes three years as external affairs and relations sectors and businesses both in plc, where she led many people London, operating in Managing Partner of Brookfield positions with them since he the UK and overseas.
He joined focused change initiatives.
investment, asset management Asset Management, where he joined in 2005.
Prior to that, Land Securities after five years Prior to that, she was a senior and development.
Prior to led their European business, he spent six years with Merrill as Group General Counsel and manager in the Human Capital joining Land Securities, she more than 10 years at GE Lynch, his first two years as Company Secretary of practice of Accenture.
was Head of Estates at the Capital Real Estate including Vice President, Corporate Mothercare plc.
Before that, he Mercers Company where she as Head of Business Communications, followed by worked at Yum Brands KFC, Responsibilities In her current led the property team whilst Development, and three years four years as Director of Public Pizza Hut and Taco Bell as role, Diana has end-to-end also gaining extensive office, as Business Development Affairs, EMEA.
Region Counsel for Europe and responsibility for the articulation retail and residential Director at Land Securities in Africa, and as a Senior and delivery of a clear people Responsibilities Miles experience.
his first position with the International Counsel at strategy for Land Securities, broad responsibilities cover Company.
PepsiCo working in various including talent, reward, Responsibilities In her current sustainability, public relations businesses in the UK, Eastern organisational design and role, Colette has responsibility Responsibilities In his current both financial and businessEurope and Africa.
Since joining the for Land Securities 8.2bn role, Scott has responsibility for to-business, internal his career in private practice at Company, Diana has led the London Portfolio comprising Land Securities 6.2bn Retail communications, public Dentons, where he specialised redesign of the Land Securities some 6.2million sq ft of London Portfolio of shopping centres, affairs, investor relations and in commercial law.
organisation at both Group and offices, leisure, retail and retail parks and leisure corporate marketing including business unit level, and has residential property both in properties throughout the UK brand and reputational Responsibilities Tim leads implemented a number of key development and asset comprising some 17.8 million management.
the Legal, Company Secretarial HR initiatives, including, latterly, management.
She has led sqft of accommodation.
He is a board director and Real Estate Information the launch and roll out of the theLondon business through Previously, as Head of Property of the Foreign Policy Centre Management teams and is Groups new purpose, vision amajor development for Land Securities London and the Westminster Forum.
responsible for legal, and values.
programme in the City and Portfolio, he led the investment, compliance and governance Diana is a member of the Committees A member of West End, including the asset and property activity across the Group.
He International Advisory Board for the Groups Executive and transformation of Victoria.
management teams for the provides advice and support to Executive Education at the Sad Sustainability Committees.
Colette is Immediate Past Groups office and retail space the Board and its Committees Business School, University of Attends Investment Committee President of the British Council in central London.
and holds the Groups Oxford.
She also advises the meetings.
for Offices and a non-executive Until recently, Scott was a relationships with its external Board of Trustees, and is a director of Genesis Housing member of the Strategic Board law firms, and investor and member of the Personnel and Association.
of the New West End Company shareholder bodies.
Nominations Committees, of and was previously Vice the UK Green Building Council.
Committees A member of the Committees A member of the President of the City Property Groups Executive, Asset and Groups Executive Committee.
He was appointed Liability and Investment Attends all Board and Audit, theGroups Executive and a Property Committee member Committees.
Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Sustainability Committees.
Committee meetings in his Attends Investment Committee Committees A member of the meetings and both the capacity as Company Groups Executive, Asset and Remuneration and Nomination Secretary.
He also attends Liability and Investment Committee meetings at the meetings of the Investment Committees.
Chairman of the invitation of the Committee Committee and the Asset and Retail Executive Committee.
