32 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 RETAIL WE ARE PROVIDING OUR PORTFOLIO CUSTOMERS WITH THE REVIEW SPACE THEY NEED TO THRIVE, BRINGING IN NEW BRANDS TO IMPROVE AND REFRESH THE OFFER FOR VISITORS, AND PLAYING A POSITIVE ROLE IN OUR LOCAL COMMUNITIES.
Scott Parsons, Managing Director, Retail Portfolio Trinity Leeds From shopping to socialising: customers enjoying a great day out.
S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC R RE EPOR PORT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL AL ST STA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S AD ADD DI IT TI IO ONAL final I IN NF FO OR RMA MAT TI IO ON N Strategic Report Land Securities Annual Report 2016 33 OBJECTIVES PROGRESS AT 31 MARCH 2016 OBJECTIVES FOR 2016 17 HIGHLIGHTS Outperform IPD sector The total return of the Outperform IPD sector benchmark Retail Portfolio was 8.6% benchmark outperforming its IPD sector benchmark at 7.1% 3.7% Valuation surplus Progress lettings at No further pre-lettings were made at Progress lettings at Buchanan Galleries, Buchanan Galleries because the Westgate Oxford: Selly Glasgow and Westgate scheme was put on hold: Westgate Oak, Birmingham: and the Oxford Oxford 43% pre-let White Rose, Leeds leisure 20.0m extension of investment lettings Resolution to grant Awaiting committee date Resolution to grant planning consent at planning consent at Worcester Woods Worcester Woods 2.1m of development lettings Achieve planning consent and progress lettings forGlow space at Bluewater, Kent Progress to time and Westgate Oxford on time and budget Progress committed budget at our committed developments to time developments andbudget Progress key disposals Disposals of: Team Valley Retail Park, according to plan Gateshead: Kingsway West Retail Park, Dundee: and 100 High Street, Crawley were made in line with ourplan Implement Community Implemented and secured 22jobs Expand the Community Employment Programme at for people from disadvantaged Employment Programme to Westgate Oxford backgrounds other retail sites Trinity Leeds Providing a great customer experience in the heart of Leeds.
34 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 AT A GLANCE 3.7% Valuation surplus 8.6% Ungeared total property return 7.1% The portfolio outperformed its IPD Quarterly Universe sector benchmark 20.0m of investment lettings 2.1m of development lettings Bluewater, Kent Home to 300 retailers and much, much more.
1.8% Buy Like-for-like voids 2015: 2.4% Following the transformation During the year, we acquired Castle Quarter in ofour portfolio, we are now Oxford for 47.2m our share: 23.6m in joint venture with The Crown Estate.
This asset is focused on further enhancing located next to our Westgate Oxford scheme 0.6% the consumer experience at and is set to benefi t from the improvement Units in administration 2015: 1.1% our development will bring to the city centre.
Through proactive Castle Quarter includes a heritage visitor management, we are providing attraction, a 95-bedroom Malmaison hotel KEY INDICATORS and numerous restaurants and bars.
Footfall in our shopping centres was up customers with the space they 3.4% national benchmark down 1.3% need to thrive, bringing in new Develop Same store non-food retail sales were up brands to improve and refresh Our 800,000 sq ft joint venture redevelopment 1.5% national benchmark for physical store of Westgate Oxford is progressing well and is non-food retail sales down 0.2% the retail, catering and leisure now almost 50% pre-let to occupiers including Same store catering sales were up off er for visitors, and playing a John Lewis, Next, Calvin Klein, Joules, Jo 3.8% national benchmark for catering Malone, Curzon Cinemas and SticksnSushi.
sales up 1.2% positive role in our local When the scheme opens in late 2017, it will Same centre non-food retail sales, taking communities.
transform the retail scene in Oxford providing an into account new lettings and occupier amazing new destination with dozens of retail changes, were up 3.3% and catering brands not currently represented Same centre catering sales, taking into inthe city.
account new lettings and occupier Disappointingly, during the year we changes, were up 6.6% decided to put on hold our plans to extend Retailers rent to sales ratio was 10.2% Buchanan Galleries, Glasgow because of a Total occupancy costs including rent, confl ict between our development programme rates, service charges and insurance and rail improvement works at the adjacent represented 17.8% of sales Queen Street station.
We are continuing to work on our plans to improve the retail, leisure and food off er at the centre though these are unlikely to be at the scale previously envisaged.
At Selly Oak, Birmingham we expect to start on site in the autumn to deliver a mixed-use scheme featuring student housing and 200,000 sq ft of retail and catering space.
Completion is scheduled for late 2018.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strategic Report Land Securities Annual Report 2016 35 AtWorcester Woods, we have submitted a Sell planning application for a 240,000 sq ft retail During the year we made 384.8m of disposals park development which is already at a surplus to the 31 March 2015 valuation of substantially pre-let and would bring a 1.4%.
Properties sold included retail parks in much-anticipated John Lewis store to the Gateshead, Dundee and Derby, a leisure park Worcester consumer.
Frustratingly, the in Maidstone, and a supermarket in Crawley, planning process has been delayed but we which was the last remaining standalone food now hope for a committee date in the summer.
At Filmworks, Ealing where we have detailed planning permission for a leisure and Outlook residential development, approval was The retail environment remains fast-paced received in October for the compulsory andchallenging, with consumers increasingly A delicious o er purchase of remaining land interests on demanding in terms of price, experience and Were seeing increasing demand for food and leisure.
Many of the most successful retailers are those that can maximise sales through Manage multiple channels, from traditional physical Upsized stores were also delivered for H&M Across the portfolio, our proactive approach stores to online and click & collect.
We expect at St Davids, Cardiff, and for Polo Ralph Lauren to management has delivered strong results, the importance of digital channels to continue at Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth.
At Southside, with like-for-like income up and voids down.
Retailers are changing the way Wandsworth we completed new stores for Our retail parks and leisure portfolios are they think about and use their physical space, Debenhams and Decathlon along with several virtually full, with occupancy of 100% and with many investing more in shop design and new restaurants.
layout, and using technology to transform their Refl ecting growing demand from In order to increase net rental income, shops into interactive showrooms for their consumers, we have continued to broaden the wehave secured pre-lettings and planning goods and services.
Physical stores that range of catering and leisure space across our consents to construct new units on a number provide the right space in the right place are portfolio.
We negotiated numerous lease ofour retail parks.
We are delivering additional worth this investment because of the crucial surrender and re-let transactions so we could retail space at Chadwell Heath and Blackpool role they play for retailers in engaging bring fresh and exciting restaurant brands to our and completed the construction of further units consumers with their brands.
For example, we at Lincoln and Dundee prior to disposal.
Within We have worked hard to ensure that our secured planning consent for four new restaurant our hotel portfolio, Accor has exercised a break portfolio is made up of the best space for our units at Fountain Park, Edinburgh which are due notice on seven of their 29 hotels, eff ective customers needs, in the best locations.
This to complete in early 2017.
At Bluewater, we have from 2019.
The seven hotels only represent gives us confi dence in our future performance.
submitted a planning application to convert approximately 9% of the income and we will the Glow entertainment space into new leisure likely look to sell them once Accor has vacated.
and catering units along with an expansion Income on the remaining 22 hotels is now of the popular Showcase Cinema, all aimed at secured until 2031. enhancing the consumer experience.
We will This year we continued to meet demand also be delivering a Cine UK IMAX cinema and for upsized space at our shopping centres six new restaurants at White Rose, Leeds.
froma number of our most popular retailers.
AtBluewater, Kent we completed a new state-of-the-art store for Next and are currently on site delivering a new fl agship store for H&M.
1 NET RENTAL INCOME Table 6 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Change m m m Like-for-like investment properties 263.7 252.3 11.4 Proposed developments 0.2 0.2 Development programme 0.5 1.5 1.0 Completed developments 2.7 1.7 1.0 Acquisitions since 1 April 2014 35.4 25.4 10.0 Sales since 1 April 2014 15.7 50.4 34.7 Non-property related income 10.5 8.5 2.0 Net rental income 328.5 339.6 11.1 1.
Net rental income reduced by 11.1m from 339.6m to 328.5m.
This was largely driven by our disposals which included the three retail parks sold in December 2015.
Disposals in the prior yearinclude The Bridges, Sunderland, as well as our 50% interests in Cabot Circus, Bristol and Princesshay, Exeter.
The 34.7m reduction in net rental income due to disposals is partly off set byour acquisitions, predominantly Bluewater, which contributed an additional 10.0m, and our Fast-moving market like-for-like portfolio which contributed an additional 11.4m of income.
The increase in our like-forWere constantly evolving our like portfolio is largely due to new lettings, rent reviews, an increase in turnover rents from the Accor portfolio to match changing hotels and 4.1m of surrender receipts.
The 1.0m increase in net rental income from completed tastes and needs.
developments relates to The Bishop Centre, Taplow, which completed in July 2014 and is fully let.
