16 16 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 Dynamics LONDON The market in London is cyclical, with OUR pronounced fluctuations in property values PORTFOLIO in response to changing levels of occupier MARKET MARKET supply and demand.
We are currently in supplyconstrained conditions.
There remains a relatively healthy level of occupiers looking to take space We invest in, actively manage in the West End, but the level of letting activity and develop office, retail, UK commercial in the City is slowing.
The level of new building leisureand residential space completions is increasing and we expect the property market supply-constrained conditions to ease from 2017. incentral London.
The market is also driven by the evolving needs and expectations of customers and The commercial property market provides built communities, particularly in areas such as flexible infrastructure for business and offers an alternative for open plan space: occupational density: energy investors to other investment markets, including stocks efficiency: high quality design and facilities: and and bonds.
Historically, the markets performance has imaginative improvements to the environment broadly tracked GDP growth.
Interest rates also influence around buildings, including the public realm.
For example, rising interest rates tend to Our customers are increasingly interested in put downward pressure on property values.
This may sustainable design, recognising that wellbeing be balanced by growth in rental values if higher interest influences staff retention and productivity.
rates are accompanied by a higher level of inflation.
The market is cyclical, particularly the London Enduring appeal office market which currently accounts for 46.4% of Central London has enduring appeal for investors and occupiers offering: our assets by value.
The balance between supply The capabilities and opportunities of a and demand is the single most powerful driver of global financial centre property values see page 23 for more on the market A deep and liquid property investment market cycle.
Structural changes in a sector for example, An international gateway the change in retail consumer shopping habits also For more information on our London Reasonable and relatively stable tax rates influence market behaviour and values.
Portfolio go to: pages 2831 Strong business infrastructure To enhance returns, property companies use financial gearing, for example through bonds and bank debt.
They also use operational gearing by developing or refurbishing properties, which carries more risk than Dynamics investing in completed or let assets.
Access to finance RETAIL The UK retail landscape continues to undergo varies according to the market cycle, and buying and structural change, influenced by the growth of selling property has significant friction costs compared PORTFOLIO online sales, the rise of omnichannel and economic to buying stocks and bonds.
Although consumer MARKET Due to the cyclical nature of the property confidence grew in 2015 and remains ahead of premarket, the timing of investment is critical to future 2007 levels, this has not translated into a strong returns.
Timing is also important in developments, We actively manage, invest and uplift in consumer spend.
There is, however, good and in addition, capacity in the construction market is develop retail and leisure space demand from retailers for the right size space, in particularly key to property companies margins.
Land the right location, available at the right time.
Quality in the best locations.
Securities prefers to be an early cycle developer, acting destinations that provide breadth and depth in retail when others find it harder to access finance, and when and catering offers together with great formats construction contracts can be secured on relatively arebest positioned to drive footfall and sales.
The investment market sees continued In addition to rent, business rates are one of demandfor prime assets, which are relatively scarce.
the main occupancy costs incurred by occupiers of With secondary assets, were seeing mismatches commercial property.
The government will announce between vendor expectations and prices offered.
the results of its current review of rates in 2017.
Whilst Opportunities the overall increase in the business rates should be Experiential showrooms and flagship stores are in line with inflation, the increases in London and the increasingly popular.
Some retailers have also invested South East are likely to be much greater due to the in smaller format stores to geographically infill their significant growth in property values in this region since portfolios and support omnichannel services such the last review.
Conversely, properties in other parts of as click & collect.
Click & collect sales in the UK are the UK may see their rates increase by a lower amount expected to grow by a further 50% from 2016 to or possibly decline.
The physical store plays Across investment and development, costs and a significant role in the click & collect process, and risk can also be affected by a range of other factors driving store visits via this channel also encourages additional purchases by the consumer while they are such as changing customer requirements, the needs there to pick up their items.
Landlords who partner and views of local residents and the wider community, with omnichannel retailers can provide inspiring store the availability of natural resources used in construction environments that drive footfall and both in-store and For more information on our Retail and the effects of climate change on buildings, online sales.
Successful centres with low void rates Portfolio go to: pages 3235 together with new regulation.
Property companies can create rental tension and leasing momentum as arealso increasingly expected to generate wider retailers seek out the right trading space.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strategic Report Land Securities Annual Report 2016 17 CENTRAL LONDON SUPPLY Chart 1 A diverse community Market during the year DEVELOPMENT COMPLETIONS AND VACANCY 23.9 sq ft English-speaking population Take-up of office space in central 18 18 Excellent quality of life London for the 12 months to 31 March 16 16 14 14 Access to top universities 2016 totalled 14.7m sq ft compared to 12 12 Good transport infrastructure.
the 10-year average rate of 12.9m sq ft 10 10 8 8 At 31 March 2016 the vacancy rate 6 6 Strengths stood at 2.6% compared to a long- 4 4 Londons strengths attract a large and 2 2 term trend of 4.3% 0 0 diverse mix of property investors, many Over the 12 months to 31 March 2016, from overseas.
This helps us when prime headline office rents grew by selling assets but increases competition Completed Proposed 7.7% in the City and by 2.1% in Under construction Vacancy rate all grades RHS when buying.
the West End Potential fringe London Average completions The volume of high value residential Source: CBRE, Knight Frank, Land Securities Challenges sales remains subdued.
Challenges for London include: LONDON OFFICE MARKET Chart 2 Limitations on economic growth due Outlook TAKE-UP to restrictions on immigration We expect supply-constrained conditions 20 The impact of a growing population 18 to remain this financial year as the volume leading to high costs, both for 16 of development schemes projected to 14 businesses and residents 12 complete over the next 12 months is not Lack of housing at affordable or 10 expected to satisfy the forecast level of 8 attractive prices demand for new space.
Beyond 2017, 6 Pressure on an ageing infrastructure, 4 the demand supply balance is less clear 2 including power and sewerage as the level of development completions 0 Continued lack of clarity around is rising.
If the UK votes to leave the airport expansion EU in June, this could quickly result in Average take-up Take-up all grades Source: CBRE Increased levels of stamp duty on a significant reduction in demand for residential and commercial transactions London office space and change in the Uncertainty around the UKs demand supply balance leading to falling continued membership of the EU.
rental values and asset prices.
Chart 3 2020: SHARE OF ONLINE SALES Challenges Looking ahead, British Retail Consortium VS PHYSICAL STORE SALES % Although consumers are continuing to forecasts shows double-digit growth for KEY SECTORS enjoy low interest rates and a low inflation online.
Sales growth in physical stores 100 environment, UK economic uncertainty is will remain low although dominant 90 reflected in relatively cautious consumer destinations with flagship stores will see 80 spending figures from the British Retail greater overall sales.
Footfall in the UK 70 Consortium.
continues to lag behind previous years, 71 60 Some famous high street brands, although footfall in prime locations out- 78 83 with well-established and mature store of-town and in regional cities is bucking 50 96 96 portfolios, are finding it hard to keep this trend.
40 up with fast fashion operators, who can 30 Outlook react quicker to consumer trends, and 20 We expect continued demand from both 29 those who embraced omnichannel early.
10 22 international and national operators for 17 Large but inefficient stores, or those in 0 4 4 the best trading destinations across the UK Clothing & Food Health & Homewares marginal locations, are likely to lose out to UK.
Fast-moving fashion brands and footwear beauty consolidation.
omnichannel retailers are expected to Online retail sales growth from 2015 Online sales Physical store sales Source: Verdict capitalise on ever-changing consumer to 2020 is forecast to be slower than shopping habits, setting them apart the previous five years, but it will still RETAIL SECTOR SALES GROWTH 2015 2020 % Chart 4 from mature and established high street account for circa 17% of all retail sales in brands.
The physical store is seen as an 30 2020, up from just 8% in 2010.
A third of integral part of the omnichannel model, UK shoppers are spending more online but it must provide the right consumer 25 24 versus a year ago Verdict Research.
21 20 Market during the year Successful destinations will be those 16 Consumer spending continued to rise that provide a great experience: places 17 15 throughout 2015 and was 2.7% higher in where people can shop, eat, socialise Q4 2015 than in the same period a year and take part in leisure activities, 10 ago Source: ONS.
ONS data also points preferably regularly.
Locations that can 5 towards growing appetite for leisure provide a relevant and dynamic line up of experiences such as eating out and retailers, food and beverage operators, 0 visiting the cinema.
events and an inspiring shopping Clothing & Health & Homewares Food environment will ultimately outperform.
