22 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 Timing Through our strategy we aim We aim to own high quality assets with to realise our vision of being enduring appeal that can generate strong STRATEGY income through the cycle.
We carefully time the best property company the way we buy, develop, manage and sell Our strategy is designed to ensure in the UK in the eyes of our assets within our two core markets.
we are a sustainable business customers, communities, Scale through the market cycle.
We are currently the UKs largest Real Estate Investment Trust REIT on the basis of equity We work hard to anticipate and respond market capitalisation.
Scale enables us to to changes in our markets.
We make make large acquisitions and develop a number understanding the needs of our customers of major assets at the appropriate time.
We can and communities our top priority, so we can acquire sites then wait to deploy our capital at provide the space businesses and people the most advantageous point in the cycle.
OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES need to thrive.
Locations To deliver our strategy we have set We also look beyond our buildings, shaping We choose to buy and develop in thriving clear objectives that relate to specifi c the future for good by ensuring our activities locations, or places with excellent potential, meet the wider requirements and expectations where an under-performing building or plot of fi financial and operational outcomes: of our customers, communities, partners and land can be transformed to generate income employees.
Placemaking the long-term Deliver sustainable long-term regeneration of an area into a thriving location shareholder returns Our approach is to buy assets and start is an increasingly important part of what we do.
Maximise the returns from the development early in the cycle: manage investment portfolio assets actively to ensure they generate strong Finance income: and sell at the right time to maximise We have been following a net debt neutral Manage our balance sheet profi t and recycle capital.
We are risk aware, fi financial approach as we move through eff ectively not risk averse.
Across the portfolio we have the cycle.
So we have broadly balanced Maximise development aclear plan for every asset.
the proceeds we received from disposals performance with outgoings on acquisitions and capital We aim to make sound, long-term investments expenditure for developments.
This approach Ensure high levels of customer in our assets so they continue to attract strong creates strong competition for capital within satisfaction demand from customers, their performance the Group, so only the best options are Attract, develop, retain and meets changing regulation and they generate pursued and fi financial gearing reduces sustainable returns through the market cycle steadilyas values rise through the cycle.
motivate high performance for years to come.
individuals Risk Continually improve We are risk aware, not risk averse.
Our main sustainability performance risk is that space in our developments will be left unlet or let at low rents if the market OUR STRATEGIC CHOICES turns unexpectedly and supply outstrips Relationships demand.
We mitigate this through the quality We work to ensure that our customers and of our new buildings, developing early in partners can trust us to deliver the right space the cycle, and using our excellent market on time and to plan: that our communities knowledge and occupier relationships.
We and partners can trust us to create benefi ts also respond to the long-term risks aff ecting for their area: and that the public can trust our industry, including climate change, us to develop and manage space safely environmental regulation and resource and sustainably, and use natural resources constraints, including energy supply.
Acting with integrity in this way helps us to attract and retain great people.
Market We focus on two geographically defi ned sectors of the UK commercial property market offi ces, retail, leisure and residential in central London, and retail and leisure outside London.
Being active in these two sectors rather than one provides us with greater fi financial stability as they work to diff erent cycles.
S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC R RE EPOR PORT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL AL ST STA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S AD ADD DI IT TI IO ONAL final I IN NF FO OR RMA MAT TI IO ON N RO P P E R T Y V A L U E S Strategic Report Land Securities Annual Report 2016 23 MARKET CYCLE How we aim to match our activity to the movements of the market.
SELL Selling some assets at the right point in a rising market means value can BUY be crystallised and the Falling values portfolio can be biased bring opportunities towards high quality to buy assets at assets with long lease attractive prices.
DEVELOP Starting schemes at the right point in a rising market helps maximise value and minimise risk.
MANAGE Active management of assets through the cycle helps to reduce voids and ensure space meets occupiers changing needs.
cycle so we benefi t from lower We put strong emphasis on construction costs, aiming to creating attractive, welldeliver completed schemes while considered space where people demand from customers is rising will want to spend time and return and levels of available space are frequently.
We generally develop pursue multi-channel strategies speculatively so we monitor and we ensure our environments LONDON RETAIL changing conditions forensically.
use new technology to enhance The London offi ces market sees The retail property market is less We are drawing our major the shoppers experience.
We marked periods of overand volatile than London offi ces and is development programme to a fide-risk developments by seeking undersupply, and demand can fundamentally driven by long-term close for this cycle.
We have plenty substantial pre-lettings before we move from one phase to another structural changes, such as the of options for development within start construction.
And we ensure quite quickly.
We create value by eff ect of the economy on our portfolio and the fi financial we contribute to the environmental, developing space in line with the consumers or the impact of online capacity to acquire development social and economic fabric of the cycle: strengthening income retailing.
We are seeing increasing sites as we move into a new cycle.
local area and community, which through smart asset management: demand for high quality space in With every development we aim helps to make our centres busy and and recycling capital through thriving locations where visitors to create a positive environmental, well regarded.
welltimed disposals and can enjoy a great experience.
We operate in central We create value by providing Manage We are proactive managers, London in areas we know well.
customers with new or more We are constantly in dialogue with constantly looking for opportunities effi cient space that can attract the Everything we do is driven by the our customers throughout their to enhance our space in line with the right shoppers and visitors in the need to meet the needs of our leases.
This gives us fresh insight changing needs of our customers right numbers.
Geographically, we customers, communities and and enables us to be proactive.
We continually are focused in the south east and partners.
We give particular This helps us to retain customers refresh the tenant mix in our centres the best regional destinations.
attention to placemaking, and improve rental values resulting and are particularly focused on designing sustainable buildings, Buy in greater portfolio resilience.
fi nding the most compelling blend enhancing public realm and We acquire when we see an of retail and leisure.
Sell facilities in and around our buildings.
opportunity to transform an We sell assets at appropriate Sell under-managed property or land Buy points in the cycle.
Where possible, We dispose of an asset when we into a great destination for We aim to buy assets when values we aim to add value through asset see opportunities elsewhere to shoppers and visitors.
are falling or low, or when we see a management or refurbishment use capital to create better, more long-term opportunity to enhance Develop ahead of selling an asset.
valuable space with greater appeal.
We use our close relationships with retailers to ensure we Develop For more on our London For more on our Retail understand their changing needs.
We start to develop early in the Portfolio go to: pages 2831 Portfolio go to: pages 3235 P R O P E R T Y V A L S UE
