Waste Construction management Materials Community facilities Water consumption 42 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 or the rich diversity of parkland at Bluewater, we already pay attention to biodiversity and NEW DEVELOPMENTS provide green infrastructure at many of our PHYSICAL We look to build assets that can create value assets: now we want to do more.
for us and our customers, communities and REVIEW partners for years to come.
We are ambitious, imaginative and considered in the way we WELLBEING develop.
A focus on the materials and When designing a new development we We believe sustainable design helps technologies we use to create consider the effect our space will have on make our operations and assets more efficient everyone who encounters it from office and cost-effective, minimises future operational and operate our assets, and occupiers and their employees to retailers, costs, mitigates the business risk of changing the effect our spaces have their employees and their customers: from regulation and creates resilient schemes with visitors to neighbours: from people today to enduring appeal.
Its also what the people who on people and the natural those who may experience the building ten or support us from office occupiers to retailers, environment.
By thinking in smart from Local Authorities to local communities and innovative ways we can create new space expect from us.
Where Part L is applicable, the that enriches peoples lives.
Given the amount building code for carbon emissions, our new of time employees spend at work, and the developments are being designed beyond the OUR TOP TEN ASSETS BY VALUE preciousness of leisure hours, its vital our requirements.
We carry out embodied carbon office and shopping centres are safe, healthy 1 Cardinal Place, SW1 assessments at major developments and and enjoyable places to spend time.
Landmark site home to blue-chip currently divert 98.3% of waste from landfill.
businesses and retailers You can see a timeline of our recent Annualised net rent 33.4m developments on pages 2021 of this Annual Report, and you can read what other people 2 New Street Square, EC4 think about our approach at Oxford and Contemporary offices with retail and Victoria on pages 213.
23.61m restaurants Annualised net rent 32.2m Amount of space we own in sq ft BIODIVERSITY 3 Bluewater, Kent The dominant shopping centre in the We have led our industry in understanding and south east of England 85,000 minimising environmental impact and want to Annualised net rent 29.5m LS share Number of plants in our green walls in continue that leadership in our approach to central London wildlife and natural systems.
These systems 4 One New Change, EC4 sustain our business, our communities and Office and leisure destination in an each of us as individuals.
Wehave a strategic iconic building target to maximise the biodiversity potential of Annualised net rent 29.2m 27 our operational and development sites and 5 Trinity Leeds Number of nationally rare and protected have been working with The Wildlife Trusts to Superb 778,000 sq ft retail understand what this means for us in practice species of plants and animals in destination developed by us and what we need to do to achieve it.
Whether Bluewaters parkland Annualised net rent 27.9m its the new green roofs at 1 & 2 New Ludgate 6 1 Sherwood Street Piccadilly Lights, W1 THE BREADTH OF OUR SUSTAINABLE DESIGN AND INNOVATION AT WESTGATE OXFORD Offices, retail, leisure and a world famous advertising landmark Annualised net rent 19.6m 7 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3 Energy 687,900 sq ft of offices and a unique public Sky Garden Annualised net rent 2.9m 8 Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth Outlet shopping, leisure and WESTGATE entertainment on a waterfront location OXFORD SUSTAINABILITY Annualised net rent 26.4m COMMITMENTS 9 Queen Annes Gate, SW1 BREEAM Excellent offices: built by us in 1977, refurbished in 2008 Annualised net rent 30.9m Transport 10 1 & 2 New Ludgate, EC4 382,300 sq ft of modern, technically resilient office space, restaurant and retail Annualised net rent 1.0m Community engagement Ecology & landscaping Pollution Flood risk Health & wellbeing STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strategic Report Land Securities Annual Report 2016 43 CARBON TARGETS In December 2015, world leaders met in Paris at the UN Conference on Climate Change, known as COP21, to negotiate global cuts to carbon emissions.
The resulting agreement commits countries to limit global warming below 2C and to ideally not go over 1.5C.
In the run up to COP21, Land Securities took part in the conference and was one of hundreds of businesses that made significant pledges to action.
In particular, we committed to: Report climate change information in mainstream reports as a fiduciary duty Engage responsibly in climate policy Procure 100% of electricity from renewable sources.
In response, we have set an ambitious science-based carbon target: to reduce 2 carbon intensity kgCO m by 40% by 2030 2 compared to a 2013 14 baseline for property under our management for at least two years.
This target will set us on the path to achieve ENERGY our long-term ambition of an 80% carbon For many years weve worked to reduce our intensity reduction by 2050. energy requirements through active energy management at our sites.
We focus not only on the energy used within landlord-controlled 100% RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY areas but also the energy used by our customers when sub-metered from landlord From April 2016, our Group electricity contract supplies.
Were sharing the benefits of greater went 100% renewable with the appointment efficiency with our customers, helping them of Smartest Energy as our new provider.
We to meet regulatory obligations and reduce were also the first property company in the their energy bills.
Our aim is to self-generate UK to join RE100, a collaborative initiative of as much of the energy consumed at our influential businesses committed to 100% properties as possible.
We are working to renewable electricity.
The contract helps achieve this at design, by selecting the least secure a competitive price for our customers carbon intensive technologies possible, and by with great service levels, and it also enables retrofitting technologies such as photovoltaics them to reduce their carbon impacts too.
For on some of our shopping centres and other us, the new deal also means better contract assets.
terms including lower management costs, better payment terms and a strong service level agreement.
15% CLIMATE RISKS Reduction in energy consumption in our five largest energy consuming assets Climate change is bringing increasingly against a 2013 14 baseline erratic and severe weather conditions.
In the UK this includes hotter, drier summers: warmer, wetter winters: sea levels rising: and increases in extreme weather events such as heavy 1.84GWH rain and heatwaves.
It is important for us to WASTE review our assets, particularly older buildings, Power capacity generated this year from in relation to future climate projections.
renewables installed across our portfolio More than 10,000 tonnes of waste is Understanding the risks and acting accordingly generated at our properties each year.
We will ensure that our portfolio is sufficiently offer our building occupiers the facilities resilient to climate change, so we can continue needed to dispose of their waste, and its our to provide the right space for our customers 270TONNES responsibility to ensure that this is done safely, and communities.
Annual carbon emissions saving from our securely and sustainably.
Reflecting our drive hydrogen fuel cell at 20 Fenchurch Street to be leaders in our sector, this year we reset our overall recycling target from 70% to a more ambitious 75%, and achieved an average recycling rate of 72%.
