54 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 The Board is NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS responsible for BOARD OF ensuring it has the DIRECTORS appropriate skills, experience, knowledge and independence to perform its role effectively.
It sets the strategy and Dame Alison Carnwath EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Chairman of the Board provides leadership Dame Alison was appointed to the and direction to the Board as a Non-executive Director in September 2004 and became Chairman business as a whole.
Age: 63 Career Dame Alison worked in investment banking and corporate finance for 20 years before pursuing a portfolio career.
During her banking career, she became the first female Robert Noel Martin Greenslade director of J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Co. Dame Alison was also a Senior Partner at Phoenix Securities and a Robert was appointed to the Board in Martin joined the Board as Chief Managing Director at Donaldson, Lufkin January 2010 as Managing Director, Financial Officer in September 2005.
She has served as a London Portfolio, and became Chief non-executive director of Friends Age: 51 Executive in April 2012.
Provident plc, Gallaher Group plc, Glas Career A chartered accountant, having Cymru Cyfyngedig Welsh Water, Age: 52 trained with Coopers & Lybrand, Martin Barclays plc and Man Group plc.
Career A chartered surveyor and was previously Group Finance Director DameAlison is currently a graduate of the University of Reading, of Alvis plc.
He has also worked in non-executive director of Zurich Robert was Property Director at Great corporate finance serving as a member Insurance Group Limited, Paccar Inc a Portland Estates plc between August of the executive committee of Nordeas Fortune 500 company and CICAP 2002 and September 2009.
Prior to investment banking division and Limited, and asenior advisor to Evercore that, he was a director of the property Managing Director of its UK business.
She is also a member of the UK services group, Nelson Bakewell.
He is Martin is a trustee of International Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and a a former director of the New West End Justice Mission UK.
supervisory board member and audit Company and former Chairman of the committee chair of the Frankfurt listed Skills, competencies and experience Westminster Property Association.
Martin brings extensive and wideRobert is currently a director of Dame Alison was appointed a ranging financial experience to the theEuropean Public Real Estate Dame in 2014 for her services to Group from the property, engineering Association EPRA and a member of business.
and financial sectors in the UK and both the Prime Ministers Business overseas.
He also has extensive Advisory Group and the Policy Skills, competencies and experience financial expertise, particularly in Committee of the British Property Dame Alison has very significant board relation to corporate finance and Federation.
He is also a trustee of level experience gained across a range investment arrangements, and LandAid, the property industry charity, of industries and countries.
This enables significant listed company experience and has recently been appointed as a her to create the optimal Board atboard level.
trustee of the Natural History Museum.
environment and get the best out ofher His oversight responsibilities fellow Directors both during and outside Skills, competencies and experience cover the Groups finance, tax, treasury, meetings.
Robert has nearly 30 years experience risk management and internal audit, She has expertise in alternative in a number of sectors within the insurance and information technology asset management, banking and global property market and extensive teams.
knowledge of the London commercial Committees A member of the Groups property market in particular.
He has Committees Chairman of the Executive, Asset and Liability and substantial executive leadership and Nomination Committee and a member Investment Committees.
He attends listed company experience.
Audit Committee meetings at the Shealso attends all Audit Committee Committees Chairman of the Groups invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Executive, Asset and Liability, Health, Safety and Security, Investment and Sustainability Committees.
He attends the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees at the invitation of the Committee Chairmen.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 55 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Former positions include Managing Cressida was previously a member of Director of Haslemere NV, Chairman of the advisory board for Infrastructure UK, Jones Lang Wootton Fund the HM Treasury unit that works on the Management, President of the British UKs long-term infrastructure priorities.
Property Federation and Chairman of She is currently Managing Director, the Bank of England Property Forum.
Head of Infrastructure, of the Canada Chris is currently a Wilkins Pension Plan Investment Board and a Fellow of Downing College, University non-executive director of Anglian Water of Cambridge, and an advisory Group Limited and of Associated British board member to certain overseas Ports Holdings Ltd. entities within the Brack Capital Real Cressida received a CBE in 2014 Estate Group.
for services to infrastructure investment Kevin OByrne Simon Palley and policy.
Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Skills, competencies and experience Chris is a scion of the property industry, Simon was appointed to the Board as a Skills, competencies and experience Kevin was appointed to the Board as a with decades of property investment, Non-executive Director in August 2010.
Cressida has a deep understanding of Non-executive Director in April 2008 fund management and capital allocation large, long-term infrastructure projects and was appointed Senior Independent Age: 58 experience gained across a range of and businesses.
She has considerable Director in April 2012.
Career A senior figure within the private businesses and disciplines within the experience of investment returns, Age: 51 equity industry, Simon has had a successful real estate sector.
He has significant general management and leadership.
and broad ranging career in investment experience of general management as a Career Kevin is a chartered accountant Committees A member of the Audit banking, consulting and private equity.
former Chief Executive and Chairman of who trained with Arthur Andersen.
He Committee until 23 July 2015 and He started his career at Chase Manhattan significant businesses.
was appointed Chief Executive Remuneration Committee from 23 July before moving to Bain & Company.
He left Designate of Poundland Group PLC on Committees A member of the 2015. there in 1988 to join Bankers Trust as a 4April 2016 and will become Chief Nomination, Remuneration until 23 July Vice President and moved to BC Partners, Executive Officer on 1 July 2016.
Prior to 2015 and Audit from 23 July 2015 a private equity firm, in 1990 where he that, he was Group Finance Director of Committees.
worked for 17 years, rising to the position Kingfisher plc from 2008 to 2012 of Managing Partner.
Simon then became following which he became CEO of its Chairman of the private equity firm B&Q and Kota businesses in China, Centerbridge Partners Europe, a post he Turkey, Germany and the UK, until he left held until 2013.
He is now a non-executive that business in May 2015.
His previous director of UK Government Investments, roles include Group Finance Director of a Senior Adviser to TowerBrook Capital Dixons Retail plc and European Finance Partners and an adviser to the private Director of The Quaker Oats Company.
He is an MBA graduate of The Wharton School, Pennsylvania.
Skills, competencies and experience Edward Bonham Carter Simon is a trustee of the University Kevin has extensive understanding of Non-executive Director of Pennsylvania and The Tate Foundation.
retail trends, operations and insights gained during a number of senior Stacey Rauch Edward joined the Board as a NonSkills, competencies and experience financial and general management Non-executive Director executive Director in January 2014.
Simon has extensive understanding of positions at large listed retailers.
He is a portfolio management, financial metrics Stacey joined the Board as a Nonlong-standing Non-executive Director Age: 55 and the impact of interest rates on the executive Director in January 2012. and Chairman of the Audit Committee capital markets.
He has expertise in Career Edward became Vice Chairman of who is able to use this experience Age: 58 private equity and capital markets and Jupiter Fund Management plc in March gained across a property cycle to bring considerable experience managing 2014, having been Chief Executive Officer additional challenge to management.
Career Stacey is a Director Emeritus of highly talented professionals.
of the company since June 2007.
During McKinsey & Company where she served Committees Chairman of the Audit his time as CEO, Edward steered the clients in the US and internationally for Committees Chairman of the Committee and a member of the company through a management buy-out 24 years.
Whilst there, she co-founded Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee.
from its previous owners, Commerzbank, the New Jersey office and was the first member of the Nomination Committee.
in 2007 and oversaw the firms listing on woman to be appointed as an industry the London Stock Exchange in 2010. practice leader.
She was a leader in the Edward joined Jupiter in 1994 as a firms Retail and Consumer Goods UK fund manager and held the position Practices, served as the head of the North of Chief Investment Officer from 1999 to American Retail and Apparel Practice 2000.
He started his career at Schroders and acted as the Global Retail Practice in 1982 as an investment analyst before Convener.
She retired from McKinsey & moving to Electra Investment Trust in Company in September 2010 and has 1986 where he was a fund manager.
since then pursued a portfolio career.
Edward is a Board member of Stacey is currently a nonTheInvestor Forum, a member of the executive director of the Fiesta Investment Committee of the Esme Restaurant Group Inc a NASDAQ listed Chris Bartram Fairbairn Foundation and a trustee Cressida Hogg CBE company and CEB Inc a NYSE listed Non-executive Director of the Orchestra of the Age of Non-executive Director member-based advisory company and, Enlightenment Trust.
until August 2015, held the same office Chris was appointed to the Board as a Cressida joined the Board as a with ANN Inc a NYSE listed womans Non-executive Director in August 2009.
Skills, competencies and experience specialty apparel retailer.
Edward has significant experience of Age: 67 Age: 46 Skills, competencies and experience general management as a former CEO Career Cressida spent almost 20 years Career Chris is a chartered surveyor.
He Stacey brings deep analytical thought to of a private equity backed and a large with 3i Group plc having joined them in was Chairman and Partner of Orchard the Board, with considerable expertise listed company.
Having been a fund 1995 from JP Morgan.
She co-founded Street Investment Management LLP, a of retail trends and insights gained at a manager for many years, he also has 3is infrastructure business in 2005, leading commercial property investment leading international management anexcellent understanding of stock becoming Managing Partner in 2009, manager focused on the UK market, until consultancy.
She has significant board markets and investor expectations.
and led the team which acted as 31 March 2015, and continues to act as level experience gained through Investment Adviser to 3i Infrastructure Committees A member of the an adviser to that firm.
He was a Board non-executive positions held in retail plc, a FTSE 250 investment company.
Counsellor of The Crown Estate until and other industries.
She advised on all of 3i Infrastructures 31December 2015, having previously Independent as per the UK Corporate Committees A member of the Audit transactions from its flotation in 2007 served as a Board Member.
through to her leaving in 2014.
