24 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 We believe that responding to peoples needs how people interact with them and hear their and giving careful consideration to the views.
Because we have control of assets, we environment, economy and community can then take decisive action to improve things INVESTING helps us to create enduring financial, social for the better.
and physical value over the long term.
Put Across the Company, we aim to develop THROUGH THE another way, if we look after our cities, our and manage buildings in a sustainable and cities will look after us.
innovative way: make efficient use of natural LIFECYCLE Where we acquire or develop, we work resources in everything we do: and create jobs closely with customers and communities to and opportunities for the people who live near We aim to buy, develop, manage and sell ensure the new space meets their needs our assets, including marginal groups who are assets in a way that benefits those closest to and expectations.
We manage most of the furthest from employment.
the company our customers, communities, buildings we own which means we get to see partners and employees.
ADDING VALUE THROUGH THE LIFECYCLE The diagram below illustrates some of the ways in which we work to create value through the lifecycle of a typical asset.
REFURBISH OR RETROFIT TO RE-LET INVEST REINVEST CAPITAL CAPITAL BUY DEVELOP MANAGE SELL We develop when we see an We acquire an asset if it has the We work with customers and the We sell an asset when we potential to meet the evolving opportunity to create space that will community to ensure a building see an opportunity to deploy our appeal to customers, enhance the needs of our customers and operates as it was designed to.
area and create financial value for us.
communities, can be acquired at the We redesign and refurbish Because of our investment and We design for the safety, right price, and is likely to generate space if we spot an opportunity to activity, the building we sell should health and wellbeing of occupants, financial value for us over time.
make it more attractive, useful and perform at a higher level than the considering things such as air quality Our investment manager will valued.
We work with occupiers to building we bought financially, and natural lighting.
We also design assess physical and environmental manage energy, waste and water as socially and environmentally.
This for efficiency and productivity.
Behind due diligence information on the cost efficiency and environmental should make it more valuable, which the scenes we consider areas such state of the building.
This will include factors, which helps to protect the is good news for our shareholders as reception, cycle spaces, showers, details on physical and legislative building from external risks such as and other stakeholders.
changing rooms, loading bays, lift risks that may affect performance price volatility, changing regulation, We aim to build a positive service and power supply, with an and value.
When we commit to supply issues and premature legacy, leaving a place in a better emphasis on operational resilience, buying a property, we bring longobsolescence.
state than when we arrived.
And by energy use and the customers term economic investment to that In this stage of the buildings helping to improve peoples lives, experience.
lifecycle our activities are similar we strengthen our reputation and We also design to improve the to the development phase, from add value to our asset.
public realm around our buildings.
working with local authorities and And we consider the place within its groups to helping to increase context, including townscape and Read more about our aspirations and prosperity.
communication connectivity, urban performance in terms biodiversity and wider infrastructure.
of social and physical Our development activity inputs and outputs on: supports economic prosperity by pages 4245 helping to create job opportunities, both through construction and the ongoing use of the space.
We work with the local authority to identify areas of social need, help people access opportunities and collaborate with our partners to address key issues.
In particular, our activity enables young people to raise their aspirations, improve their skills and educational standards, and stand a better chance of getting a job.
