50 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 GOING VIABILITY CONCERN STATEMENT STATEMENT The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a five year period to March 2021, taking account of the Groups current The Directors confirm they have a reasonable position and the potential impact of the risks expectation that the Company has adequate documented elsewhere in the Strategic resources to continue in operational existence Report.
for at least 12 months from the date of signing The Groups financial planning process these financial statements.
This confirmation comprises a budget for the next financial year, is made after having reviewed assumptions together with a forecast for the following four about future trading performance, valuation financial years.
Achievement of the one-year projections, capital expenditure, asset sales budget has a greater level of certainty and and debt requirements contained within is used to set near-term targets across the the Groups current five-year plan.
Achievement of the five-year plan is Directors also considered potential risks and less certain than the budget, but provides a uncertainties, in the business, credit, market longer term outlook against which strategic and liquidity risks, including the availability decisions can be made.
The Directors and repayment profile of bank facilities, as have determined five years to be the most well as forecast covenant compliance.
Based appropriate period as this fits well with the on the above, together with available market Groups development and leasing cycles, information and the Directors knowledge and and is broadly aligned to the maturity of experience of the Groups property portfolio the Groups floating rate debt facilities.
The and markets, the Directors continue to adopt financial planning process considers the the going concern basis in preparing the Groups profitability, capital values, gearing, accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016. cash flows and other key financial metrics over the period.
These metrics are subject to sensitivity analysis, in which a number of the main underlying assumptions are flexed to consider alternative macro-economic environments.
Additionally, the Group also considers the impact of potential changes to the business in light of varying economic conditions, such as significant additional sales and acquisitions or refinancing.
Specifically for the purposes of the viability assessment, the Directors have considered a scenario in which macro-economic conditions are significantly worse than currently expected.
The scenario assumes capital values fall significantly in the next two financial years and only start to recover slowly at the end of the plan.
Rental values follow a similar pattern: falling sharply in the middle three years of the plan before starting to recover in the final year.
Even in a scenario where values fall significantly, the Group believes it will be able to refinance maturing debt facilities.
Based on this assessment the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to March 2021.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 16 May 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Robert Noel Chief Executive STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 51 GOVERNANCE Including information on our Board, GOVERNANCE its Committees and our high governance standards.
52 Letter from the Chairman 54 Board of Directors 56 Executive Committee 57 Leadership 60 Letter from the Chairman of LEADERSHIP theNomination Committee 61 Effectiveness How the Board and its Committees lead 63 Letter from the Chairman of from the front.
theAudit Committee For more information go to: 65 Accountability page 57 69 Governance in action 71 Relations with shareholders 72 Directors Remuneration Report EFFECTIVENESS 86 Directors Report How this years Board evaluation was conducted and its outcome.
For more information go to: pages 6162 ACCOUNTABILITY How the Audit Committee fulfils its oversight responsibilities.
For more information go to: pages 6568 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS How we maintain relations with our investors.
For more information go to: page 71 REMUNERATION How we align Executive pay with our performance and the interests of shareholders.
For more information go to: pages 7285
