86 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 Disclaimer Appointment and removal of Directors The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide The appointment and replacement of Directors information to the members of the Company is governed by the Companys Articles of DIRECTORS and it has been prepared for, and only for, the Association Articles, the UK Corporate members of the Company as a body, and no Governance Code Code, the Companies Act REPORT other persons.
The Company, its Directors and 2006 Act and related legislation.
The Board employees, agents and advisers do not accept may appoint a Director either to fill a casual or assume responsibility to any other person to vacancy or as an addition to the Board so long The Directors present their report and audited whom this document is shown or into whose as the total number of Directors does not accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016. hands it may come and any such responsibility exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
An or liability is expressly disclaimed.
appointed Director must retire and seek election Additional disclosures A cautionary statement in respect of to office at the next Annual General Meeting Other information that is relevant to this report, forward-looking statements contained in this AGM of the Company.
In addition to any power and which is also incorporated by reference, Annual Report appears on the inside back of removal conferred by the Act, the Company including information required in accordance cover of this document.
may by ordinary resolution remove any Director with the UK Companies Act 2006 and Listing before the expiry of their period of office and Rule 9.8.
4R, can be located as follows: Results and dividends may, subject to the Articles, by ordinary The results for the year are set out in the resolution appoint another person who is willing Table 49 financial statements on pages 95142. to act as a Director in their place.
In line with the Likely future developments in pages1415 The Company has paid three quarterly Code and the Boards policy, all Directors are the business interim dividends to shareholders for the year required to stand for re-election at each AGM.
Employee engagement page 45 under review, each of 8.15p per ordinary share.
These comprised two payments totalling Directors powers Going Concern and Viability page 50 16.30p as a Property Income Distribution PID The Board manages the business of the Statement and one payment 8.15p as a normal dividend Company under the powers set out in the Governance pages5285 i. e. non-PID.
The Board has recommended a Articles.
These powers include the Directors Capitalised interest page 107 final dividend for the year of 10.55p per ability to issue or buy back shares.
Financial instruments page 127 ordinary share, payable wholly as a PID net of Shareholders authority to empower the withholding tax, where appropriate, making a Directors to make market purchases of up to Credit, market and liquidity risks pages128130 total dividend for the year of 35.0p per share, 10% of its own ordinary shares is sought at the Related party transactions pages138139 representing an increase of 9.9% compared AGM each year see below.
The Articles can Greenhouse gas emissions pages150153 with the prior year.
Subject to shareholders only be amended, or new Articles adopted, approval, the final dividend will be paid on bya resolution passed by shareholders in Company status 28July 2016 to shareholders on the register general meeting by at least three quarters of Land Securities Group PLC is a public limited atthe close of business on 24 June 2016. the votes cast.
liability company incorporated under the laws The Board has also declared a first of England and Wales.
It has a premium listing quarterly dividend in respect of the 2016 17 Directors interests on the London Stock Exchange main market financial year of 8.95p per ordinary share, Details of Directors interests in the issued for listed securities LON:LAND and is a payable wholly as a PID net of withholding tax, share capital of the Company including those constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index.
where appropriate, to be paid on 7 October of their connected persons and those that The Company is a Real Estate Investment Trust 2016 to shareholders on the register at the derive from their employment, at the beginning REIT.
It is expected that the Company, which close of business on 9September 2016. and end of the year, are set out in the Directors has no branches, will continue to operate as A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Remuneration Report on pages 7283. the holding company of the Group.
election is currently available in respect of all Save as disclosed in the Directors dividends paid by the Company.
Remuneration Report, none of the Directors, nor any person connected with them, has any Events since the balance sheet date interest in the share or loan capital of the There have been no material post-balance Company or any of its subsidiaries.
during the year ended 31 March 2016 did any Director hold a material interest, directly or Directors indirectly, in any contract of significance with The names and biographical details of the the Company or any subsidiary undertaking current Directors all of whom held office other than the Executive Directors in relation throughout the year under review, and totheir Service Agreements.
theBoard Committees of which they are members, set out on pages 54 and 55.
The Service Agreements of the Executive Directors and the Letters of Appointment of the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Brief details of these are alsoincluded in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 7283.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 87 Directors indemnities and insurance Substantial shareholders Change of control The Company has agreed to indemnify each As at 31 March 2016, the Company had been There are a number of agreements that take Director against any liability incurred in relation notified under the Disclosure and Transparency effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control to acts or omissions arising in the ordinary Rules DTR 5 of the following holdings of voting of the Company following a takeover.
None of course of their duties.
The indemnity applies rights in its issued share capital: these are considered significant.
The Companys only to the extent permitted by law.
A copy of share plans contain provisions that take effect in the deed of indemnity is available for SHAREHOLDERS HOLDING 3% Table 50 such an event but do not entitle participants to inspection at the Companys registered office OR MORE OF THE COMPANYS a greater interest in the shares of the Company and will be available at the 2016 AGM.
The ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL than created by the initial grant or award under Company has in place appropriate Directors % of total voting the relevant plan.
There are no agreements rights attaching & Officers Liability insurance cover in respect between the Company and its Directors or Number of to issued share Shareholder name ordinary shares capital of potential legal action against its Directors.
employees providing for compensation for BlackRock Inc. 72,444,546 9.2 loss of office or employment or otherwise that Share capital occurs specifically because of a takeover.
Norges Bank 46,089,481 5.8 The Company has a single class of share APG Asset capital which is divided into ordinary shares of Human rights and equal opportunities Management nominal value 10p each all ranking pari passu.
The Company operates a Human Rights Policy N. V. 23,756,814 3.0 No other securities have been issued by the which aims to recognise and safeguard the Total voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company.
At 31 March 2016, there were human rights of all citizens in the business Company comprised 790,671,850 ordinary shares.
801,164,497 ordinary shares in issue and fully areas in which we operate.
Further details relating to share capital, principles set out within both the UN Universal The Company received no further DTR including movements during the year, are set Declaration of Human Rights UDHR and the notifications, by way of change to the above out in note 37 to the financial statements.
International Labour Organisations information or otherwise, during the period At the Companys AGM held on 23 July Declaration on Fundamental Principles and from 1 April to 16 May 2016, being the period 2015, shareholders authorised the Company Rights at Work.
Our Policy is built on these from the year end through to the date on which to make market purchases of ordinary shares foundations including, without limitation, the this report has been signed.
Information representing up to 10% of its issued share principles of equal opportunities, collective provided to the Company under the DTR is capital at that time and to allot shares within bargaining, freedom of association and publically available to view via the regulatory certain limits approved by shareholders.
protection from forced or child labour.
The information service on the Companys website.
These authorities will expire at the 2016 AGM Policy will be extended to take account of the see below and a renewal of that authority new Modern Slavery Act that came into force Shareholder voting rights and restrictions will be sought.
inOctober 2015 and which will require the on transfer of shares ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services Company to report annually on its workforce All of the issued and outstanding ordinary Guernsey Limited is a shareholder who acts and supply chain, specifically to confirm that shares of the Company have equal voting as the trustee Trustee of the Companys workers are not enslaved or trafficked.
The rights, with one vote per share.
There are no off-shore discretionary Employee Benefit Trust Companys first slavery and human trafficking special control rights attaching to them save EBT.
It is used to purchase Land Securities statement, relating to the financial year that the control rights of ordinary shares held ordinary shares in the market from time to time ended31 March 2016, will be posted on in the EBT can be directed by the Company for the benefit of employees, including for theCompanys website by no later than to satisfy the vesting of outstanding awards satisfying outstanding awards under the 30September 2016. under its various employee share plans.
Companys various employee share plans.
Land Securities is an equal opportunities In relation to the EBT, the Trustee has agreed The EBT purchased a total of 1,500,009 shares employer and our range of employment not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any in the market during the year for an aggregate policies and guidelines reflects legal and general meeting.
If any offer is made to all consideration of 18.48m including all dealing employment requirements in the UK and shareholders to acquire their shares in the costs and released 1,369,100 shares to satisfy safeguards the interests of employees, Company the Trustee will not be obliged to vested share plan awards.
At 31 March 2016, potential employees and other workers.
We accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares the EBT held 1,143,892 Land Securities shares do not condone unfair treatment of any kind which are at the time subject to subsisting in trust.
A dividend waiver is in place from the and offer equal opportunities in all aspects of awards, but will have regard to the interests Trustee in respect of all dividends payable by employment and advancement regardless of of the award holders and will have power to the Company on shares which it holds in trust.
race, nationality, gender, age, marital status, consult them to obtain their views on the offer.
Further details regarding the EBT, and of shares sexual orientation, disability, religious or Subject to the above, the Trustee may take such issued pursuant to the Companys various political beliefs.
The Company recognises action with respect to the offer as it thinks fit.
employee share plans during the year, are set that it has clear obligations towards all its The Company is not aware of any out in note 36 to the financial statements.
employees and the community at large to agreements or control rights between existing Save as disclosed above, the Company ensure that people with disabilities are afforded shareholders that may result in restrictions on did not purchase any of its own shares during equal opportunities to enter employment the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
the year under review and no treasury shares and progress.
The Company has therefore The rights, including full details relating to were cancelled.
Accordingly, the 10,495,131 established procedures designed to provide voting of shareholders and any restrictions on ordinary shares held in Treasury at 31 March fair consideration and selection of disabled transfer relating to the Companys ordinary 2016 remained unchanged from those held at applicants and to satisfy their training and shares, are set out in the Articles and in the the beginning of the year.
If an employee explanatory notes that accompany the Notice becomes disabled, wherever possible Land of the 2016 AGM.
These documents are Securities takes steps to accommodate the available on the Companys website at disability by making adjustments to their www.
existing employment, or by redeployment and providing appropriate retraining to enable continued employment in the Group.
88 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 Further information regarding the Companys practical safeguarding of human rights and promotion of equal opportunities is included as part of the Social review in the Strategic Report on pages 4445.
Political donations No political donations were made in the year 2014 15: nil.
Auditor and disclosure of information to the auditor So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information that has not been brought to the attention of the Companys auditor.
Each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that such information was provided to the auditor.
A resolution to confirm the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
The confirmation has been recommended to the Board by the Audit Committee and EY has indicated its willingness to remain in office.
2016 Annual General Meeting This years AGM will be held at 11.00am on Thursday, 21 July 2016 at the Park Plaza Victoria London, 239 Vauxhall Bridge Road, London SW1V 1EQ.
A separate circular, comprising a letter from the Chairman, Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes in respect of the resolutions proposed, accompanies this Annual Report.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 16 May 2016.
By Order of the Board Tim Ashby Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Land Securities Group PLC Company No.
4369054 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial statements Land Securities Annual Report 2016 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our primary financial statements FINANCIAL and supporting notes.
90 Statement of Directors STATEMENTS Responsibilities 91 Independent Auditors Report 95 Income statement 95 Statement of comprehensive income INCOME STATEMENT 96 Balance sheets 97 Statements of changes in Earnings per share, Group revenue, costs and equity other important financial information.
98 Statement of cash flows For more information go to: 99 Notes to the financial page 95 statements BALANCE SHEETS The Groups balance sheets as at 31 March 2016.
For more information go to: page 96 NOTES Accounting policies, segmental information and other helpful guidance.
For more information go to: pages 99142
