STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 71 Annual General Meeting AGM Investor tours and presentations The 2015 AGM provided all shareholders with In addition to our annual investor an opportunity to question the Board and the conference, we hosted various RELATIONS WITH Chairmen of each Board Committee on presentations and tours of some of our matters put to the meeting, including the major assets in the Retail and London SHAREHOLDERS Annual Report.
These tours were conducted at the AGM received a strategic progress update Bluewater, Kent, key properties in Victoria, Approach to investor relations from the Chairman and a presentation from the SW1, New Street Square, EC4, New The Board is committed to maintaining an Chief Executive on the business activities and Ludgate, EC4 and 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3 open dialogue with shareholders and performance of the Group over the preceding We conducted 16 sales team meetings during recognises the importance of that relationship year.
The results of voting at general meetings the year which provided the Executive in the governance process.
The Chairman, are published on the Companys website, Directors with the opportunity to present supported by the Executive Directors, has www.
com investors our strategy and performance directly to the overall responsibility for ensuring effective  AGMsales teams of the major investment banks.
The Company has a comprehensive Industry conferences investor relations programme designed for Independent feedback on investor relations Industry conferences provide Executive institutional investors, private shareholders The Board usually receives independent Directors with a chance to meet a large and debt investors which aims to help feedback on investor relations from an number of investors on a formal and informal existing and potential investors understand the external adviser on a biennial basis.
Conferences attended this year Groups business strategy and performance.
comprehensive investor relations audit will be included the UBS Global Property, JP Shareholder feedback is provided to the Board conducted in the 2016 17 financial year.
The Morgan and Bank of America, Merrill Lynch to ensure that they understand the objectives audit will review investor perceptions of the conferences in London, the Bank of and views of major investors.
Company, its management, strategy, America, Merrill Lynch conference in During the year, the programme of governance and the investor relations NewYork, the Kempen conferences in investor events included: programme.
Amsterdam and New York and the EPRA The investor relations department Annual Conference in Berlin.
Institutional shareholders programme: received feedback from analysts and investors Meetings with principal shareholders during the year through the Groups corporate Other initiatives Meetings with the Executive Directors took advisers.
The department was recognised for The Chairman and Chief Executive held a place throughout the year its performance and service by winning a dinner for the senior heads of equities from The Chairman maintained contact with number of prestigious awards, including UK institutions.
principal shareholders and kept the Board various Thomson Reuters Extel 2015 awards.
She will conduct The Company Secretary also received Private shareholders programme herusual biennial roadshow of investor feedback on governance matters directly from Private shareholders are encouraged to give meetings in June and July this year with investors and shareholder bodies.
The feedback to and communicate with the meetings planned for the UK and the information was shared with the Board to help Directors through the Company Secretary.
Netherlands members develop their understanding of During the year they were also able to meet shareholders needs and expectations.
The geographic spread of the programme Directors at the United Kingdom Shareholders covered Europe, North America and the Association meeting, held annually at our head Other disclosures FarEast office, and at the Annual General Meeting.
Other disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
6 The Senior Independent Director, and other of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Debt investors programme Non-executive Directors, were available to the Companies Act 2006 are set out in the Credit side institutional investors and meet with shareholders Directors Report on pages 8688. analysts Institutional shareholders were invited to Our treasury team held meetings with credit attend the Companys full year and half year The Governance report was approved by the side institutional investors and analysts after results presentations.
Board on 16 May 2016. the half year and full year results.
Investor conference On behalf of the Board Banks The investor conference is held annually and Regular dialogue is maintained with our key focuses on the Retail and London portfolios relationship Banks and Trustee, including at in alternate years.
This year, the conference least bi-annual meetings with our treasury was held at Bluewater, Kent and focused on Tim Ashby team and in-house dinners hosted by the the Retail Portfolio with senior management Group General Counsel and Executive and Non-executive Directors presenting updates on all aspects of its Company Secretary Our treasury team also actively engaged business.
This was followed by a tour of with potential lenders.
Bluewater and our neighbouring holdings at Ebbsfleet.
The conference also provided an Credit rating agencies opportunity for attendees to meet the During the year, updates and meetings management teams in the business were held by our treasury team and senior The presentations and an audio recording management with Standard & Poors, Fitch of the conference were made available ratings and Moodys onthe corporate website to enable Further information on our debt investors non-attendees to access the information can be found at www.
