Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 What we do We own, create and build desirable real estate Portfolio area Occupancy 12.
1m 99.3% sq ft BREEAM rating Retailers Very 76% Good Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 3 What we do continued That meets occupiers demands Connect A connecting depot or spoke allows goods to be transported from the CFC closer to the end consumer.
Sorting of goods through cross docking and a switch to smaller vehicles often located in strategic locations on the edge of conurbations or towns serving store networks, last mile or customer homes.
Mega Distribution A central fullment centre CFC of in excess of 500,000 sq ft located close to major arterial routes and other key infrastructure such as airports and ports.
Strategically located to serve customer base and attract labour pools.
Large capital investment to automate and drive operational Deliver efficiencies for the occupier.
A smaller depot unit allowing the last mile delivery to the customer home or customer collection points.
Strategically located in dense areas of population to drive cost efficiencies.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 What we do continued In a rapidly evolving retail environment Online retail sales forecast to be 61.5bn up 47% by 2019 1.0bn parcel deliveries Source: IMRG, MetalPack Index, Verdict 1.07bn sales up 32% 2015: 810m Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5 What we do continued Our strong retailer relationships shape our decision making Logistics the engine of retailing Our occupier-led approach ensures we gather market intelligence through our relationships with retailers allowing us to better understand future trends and make the right asset decisions, generating superior returns.
It is through this intel that we believe logistics is the engine of retail.
