Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Accountability In February 2016, a number of investors, several Directors Relations with shareholders and one Non Executive Director visited the Companys Communication with investors is given very high priority distribution warehouse in Doncaster which is occupied and the Company undertakes regular dialogue with its by Next.
shareholders, in particular institutions and private wealth A breakdown of the type of investors that the Company managers and brokers.
has seen in the year is shown in the second chart below.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director are the The Company places a growing importance on private Companys principal representatives and, along with wealth managers and brokers and will maintain this high the other Executive Directors, hold meetings throughout level of interaction.
the year to communicate the Groups strategy and performance.
These include results presentations, one to Investor feedback one meetings, group meetings, panel discussions and Investor feedback is provided to the Board, together with investor tours.
Shareholder activity Feedback received is very supportive of the Companys strategy, performance, management and future During the financial year, the Company met with over direction.
Last year an independent research 200 shareholders, analysts and potential investors.
organisation conducted an investor perception study.
Meetings were held in the UK, Amsterdam, United States As part of its ongoing shareholder engagement, the and South Africa.
A breakdown by region is shown in the Company is planning to conduct bi-annual investor chart below.
Almost a quarter of meetings were held in regions outside As part of a separate exercise, the Chairman of the London including Birmingham, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Remuneration Committee wrote to shareholders in Dublin, Leeds, Manchester, Liverpool, Bristol and York.
February 2016 to inform them in advance of changes A further quarter of meetings were held overseas and the to the implementation of the Remuneration Policy Company continues to build its overseas investor base.
next year and to explain the rationale for its decisions.
Shareholders were supportive of the proposals.
Key shareholder events throughout the year Investor meetings 2015 By location By type of investor April June July September Broker Site visit Specialist 2% 4% Private institution Overseas Full year 2015 results Annual General wealth 24% 23% presentation Meeting of Shareholders 30% Investor full year roadshow US investor roadshow held post results Investor meetings in Bristol Dutch investors conference and Manchester UK London regional 51% Generalist 24% institution 2016 42% October December January March Half year results presentation Investor meetings in Dublin, Leeds, Liverpool, Birmingham Half year investor roadshow and York post results Letter sent to major Investor roadshow in Scotland shareholders on the and the Netherlands proposed remuneration implementation changes Investor site visit to Doncaster South Africa investor roadshow Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Accountability continued Public communication Risk management and internalcontrol Shareholders are kept informed of the Companys The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining progress through results statements and other the Groups framework of risk management and internal announcements released through the London Stock control and for ensuring risk is effectively managed.
Company announcements are made It recognises that effective risk management is critical available on the website affording all shareholders tothe achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
full access to material information.
The website is an The principal risks and uncertainties identied by the important source of information for shareholders and Board and the processes in place to manage and includes a comprehensive investor relations section mitigate such risks are summarised in the Managing risk containing all RNS announcements, share price section on pages 36 to 43. information, investor presentations and Annual Reports available for downloading.
The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management framework and During the year, the website was reviewed and a internal control to the Audit Committee and its review comprehensive update was undertaken.
A live and on and assessment can be found on page 76. demand webcam of results has been introduced and, inaddition, a CEO interview is posted twice a year.
Individual shareholders can raise questions directly with the Company at any time through a facility on thewebsite.
Annual General Meeting Shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Senior Independent Director is available for shareholders to contact if other channels of communication with the Company are not available or appropriate.
The whole Board attends and is available to answer shareholder questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting, which provides a forum for communication with both private and institutional shareholders alike.
The Annual Report is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM and details of the resolutions to be proposed can be found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 143 to 147.
Details of the number of proxy votes for, against and withheld for each resolution will be disclosed at the meeting and in the AGM RNS announcement.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Accountability continued The role of the Audit Committee is to review and report to Audit Committee the Board on financial reporting, internal control and risk management and the performance, independence and report effectiveness of the external auditors and audit process.
This year the Committee has scrutinised the processes The Audit Committee continues in place to ensure that the Annual Report is fair, to play a key oversight role, balanced and understandable, overseen the ongoing assisting the Board and ensuring Rosalyn Wilton monitoring of the Groups principal risks and internal shareholder interests are protected Chairman control framework and has challenged the significant Audit Committee by monitoring the integrity of the accounting judgements made by management, Groups financial reporting and including those concerning the valuation of the activities of management investmentproperty.
It has also considered the independence and 2016 Priorities effectiveness of the external audit process in light of EU and UK reforms on the level of non audit services Considered and advised the Board on the new provided.
During the year, the FRC conducted a review provisions of the UK Corporate Governance of the last years audit work undertaken by the external Code concerning principal risk, going concern auditor and reported their findings to the Committee.
and viability The Committee has considered the new provisions of the Recommended to the Board that, taken as a UK Corporate Governance Code concerning principal whole, the Companys 2016 Annual Report is fair, risks, going concern and viability and has advised balanced and understandable the Board on the statement made in the section on Managing risk of this report on page 37.
Reviewed the FRCs assessment of the audit work carried out by the external auditor for the year to As part of its review of internal controls, the Committee 31 March 2015 considered the implementation and outputs of the Groups new property management database system.
Considered the implementation of the new property management database in the context Membership ofinternal control The Committee continues to comprise four Non Executive Directors, chaired by Rosalyn Wilton.
There have been no Members of the Committee membership changes during the year.
Members have no Date Meetings day to day involvement with the Company or links with Member appointed attended the external auditor.
Rosalyn Wilton 25 3 14 5 5 The Board is satisfied that Rosalyn Wilton brings recent Charles Cayzer 1 10 10 4 5 and relevant financial experience as required by the UK Andrew Varley 25 1 13 5 5 Corporate Governance code as a former Chairman of Alec Pelmore 25 1 13 5 5 the Risk Committee at AXA UK Limited.
Biographies of the Committee members which set out the relevant Bracketed numbers indicate the number of meetings the member was eligible to attend.
knowledge and experience they bring can be found on pages 56 and 57.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Accountability continued Activities during2016 During the year, the work undertaken by the Committee has included the consideration, review and approval of the following: Financial reporting Property valuation External audit Interim and year end results The appropriateness of the interim Scope of the external audit plan announcement and Annual Report and year end individual property The independence, objectivity and valuations significant issues and areas of tenure of Deloitte LLP judgement which could have a The independence of the external Level of audit and non audit fees material impact on the financial valuers paid statements Performance of the external auditor Processes undertaken to ensure and effectiveness of the audit that the financial statements are process fair, balanced and understandable Evaluation of key audit findings Audit Committee report Risk management Other Annual assessment of the Groups Committees own terms of principal risks and risk register and reference, constitution and update reports on risk appetite, performance emerging risks and risk dashboard The need for an internal audit The adequacy and effectiveness of function the Groups internal control and risk The Groups whistle blowing management systems arrangements Implementation of new property management database The appropriateness of the going concern assumption and the level of stress testing undertaken The Viability Statement and compliance with the new provisions in the UK Corporate Governance Code The May and November meetings are scheduled to Meetings precede the approval and issue of the full and half year The Committee follows an annual programme to financial reports.
Separate meetings are held with the ensure it gives full consideration to matters of particular Companys property valuers to challenge the valuation importance.
process and review their independence.
At the March meeting, the Committee reviewed risk management The Committee met five times last year, with meetings and internal control processes and considered the year aligned to the Companys financial reporting timetable.
Meetings are attended by the Committee members and, by invitation, the Groups external auditor, independent The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on property valuers CBRE Ltd and Savills Advisory Services the matters considered and conclusions reached after Limited, the Finance Director and senior management.
Time is allocated for the Committee to meet the external The Committee is satisfied that it receives sufficient, auditor and property valuers.
In addition, the Committee reliable and timely information from management to Chairman has regular meetings with the audit partner.
allow it to full its obligations.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 Accountability continued These included judgements concerning the Financial reporting and signicantjudgements recoverability of financial assets, the presentation The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial of recurring and non recurring items in the income information published in the interim and annual statement and the valuation of derivative instruments.
statements and considers the extent to which suitable Management confirmed that they were not aware of accounting policies have been adopted, consistently any material misstatements and the auditor confirmed applied and disclosed.
they had not found any material misstatements in the It pays particular attention to matters it considers to course of their work.
be important by virtue of their size, complexity, level After reviewing reports from management and of judgement and potential impact on the financial following its discussions with the auditor and valuers, statements and remuneration.
The significant areas of the Committee is satisfied that the key financial focus considered by the Committee, discussed with the judgements and estimates have been appropriately external auditor and addressed during the year are set and adequately addressed by the Executive Directors, out in the table below.
Further details can be found in reviewed by the external auditor and reported in these note 1 to the financial statements.
The Committee is also satisfied The Committee has considered a number of other that the processes used for determining the value of the judgements made by management, noneofwhichwere assets and liabilities have been appropriately reviewed, material in the context of the Groups results ornetassets.
challenged and are sufficiently robust.
significant areas of focus Committees approach All of the Groups investment properties and those held in joint ventures are Property valuation externally valued by two independent property valuers, namely CBRE and Savills.
The property valuation is a The Committee met twice during the year with the property valuers to challenge critical and significant part and assess the integrity of the valuation process, methodologies and outcomes.
of the Groups reported The key judgements applied to each property valuation and any issues raised with performance and level of management were considered and discussed.
executive remuneration and is therefore a key area The ERV growth and yield capitalisation assumptions on individual properties of focus.
were challenged and supporting market evidence was provided to enable the Committee to benchmark assets and conclude that the assumptions applied Property valuations are were appropriate.
They also discussed market conditions and recent market inherently subjective transactions that had an impact on the valuation.
Any valuation which required as they are based on agreater level of judgement, for example for properties under development, significant judgements and werescrutinised.
assumptions underpinned by recent market The Committee discussed the impact on values of committed expenditure transactions.
ondevelopments, vacant space, rent free periods and lease incentives with thevaluers.
For further details on property valuations refer As part of their audit work, Deloitte use valuation specialists to assess and to notes 1 and 9 to the challenge the valuation approach, assumptions and judgements.
their audit work is noted on pages 101 to 105.
The Audit Committee receive and assess reports from the external auditor on their valuation work.
The total valuation fees paid during the year represented less than 5% ofeach rms total fee income for the year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Accountability continued significant areas of focus Committees approach significant property acquisitions and disposals were reviewed by the Committee significant transactions to the extent that there were unusual terms and conditions of judgement in During the year, the Group relation to timing.
transacted on 392 million of property.
The Committee, in conjunction with the external auditor, received and challenged managements accounting proposals in relation to: Some transactions were large and complex and the corporate disposal of the Groups 50% interest in the Harlow Distribution required management Centre which was considered to be a property disposal to make judgements in the timing of recognition of acquisitions and disposals on unconditional determining whether a exchange of contracts rather than completion, including the acquisition of transaction represented Omega South, Warrington and the disposal of the Odeon cinema in Preston, a business combination both of which completed post year end under IFRS 3, when a transaction should be the timing of the disposal of the distribution unit in Warrington where the recognised and the fair occupier exercised its option to purchase value of consideration.
The Committee concurred with the approach adopted by management in eachcase.
The Committee considered the timing of recognising rental income arising on Revenue recognition development assets at Islip, Kirkstall and Warrington that reached practical Certain transactions completion in the year and concluded that income was appropriately are unusual or complex recognised from the commencement of the lease.
in nature and require management to make The Group is funding developments in Wakeeld, Ferndown, Liverpool and judgements as to whether, Leicester, each of which accrue a return throughout the development phase and to what extent, which has been reected as interest receivable.
The Audit Committee were revenue should be satisfied with this treatment.
The Committee received and assessed reports from the external auditor on the timing of revenue recognition for property and lease transactions completing in the year, lease incentives and surrender payments and considered consistency of accounting treatment with previous years.
The Committee was satisfied that revenue had been appropriately recognised in the financial statements.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the going concern assumption in Going concern the preparation of these financial statements.
The Companys ongoing solvency and liquidity It considered the quarterly reports presented by the Finance Director to the Board is a critical risk to its which includes the Groups three year profit and cash ow forecasts and future future viability and the nancing requirements, the availability of committed and undrawn debt facilities appropriateness of and anticipated compliance with lenders financial covenants.
preparation of the Group The Committee reviewed managements assumptions about future trading financial statements.
performance, valuation projections, capital expenditure, forecast transactions and debt requirements implicit within the forecasts.
In light of this review, the Committee confirmed to the Board that it was appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis and that there was a reasonable expectation that the Company would be able to continue in operation over the three year viability period.
The Boards statement on Viability is reected on page 37.
Failure to comply would result in tax charges and penalties that would have a REIT status significant impact on the Groups results.
The Group must comply with the UK REIT regulations The Committee reviews compliance with the REIT tests which are presented by to benefit from the management on an annual basis and concluded that there was full compliance favourable tax regime.
and significant headroom for the current year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Accountability continued External audit Audit and non audit fees to Deloitte Deloitte LLP was appointed as external auditor following 2016 2015 a formal tender process in 2013.
Current UK regulations Year to 31 March 000 000 require rotation of the lead audit partner every five years Audit fees including related 179 183 and a formal tender of the auditor every ten years.
assuranceservices Non audit fees 2 The Group was in compliance with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Total 179 185 Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Ratio of non audit fees to auditfees n a 1% Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 during the year.
Audit fees paid to the external auditor in respect of joint The Committee has assessed the performance, ventures totalled 17,000 at share 2015: 19,000 at share.
independence, objectivity and fees of the external The Companys policy governing the provision of non auditor through discussions with the Finance Director audit services considers each appointment on a case by and senior management team and through a review case basis.
Taxation, valuation, due diligence, liquidation of the audit deliverables.
The results of the audit debrief and remuneration services are generally provided by meeting held between senior management and the other agencies but other advisory services, including audit team are relayed to the Audit Committee along but not limited to taxation, property advisory, REIT with any areas identied for improvement.
In addition compliance and regulatory, may be undertaken by the the Committee Chairman meets with the Audit Partner external auditor given their knowledge of the Groups during the year on a regular basis.
The Executive Directors can authorise an In making its assessment the Committee considers the engagement up to a fee limit of 100,000, above which qualications, expertise and resources of the audit the engagement is referred to the Audit Committee partner and team as well as the quality and timeliness for review and approval.
Deloitte LLP has confirmed to of the audit deliverables.
It reviewed the extent to the Audit Committee that they remain independent which the audit plan was met, the level of independent and have maintained internal safeguards to ensure the challenge and scrutiny applied to the audit, the depth objectivity of the engagement partner and audit staff is of understanding and the review of key accounting not impaired.
They have also confirmed that they have judgements.
The Committee also considered the internal procedures in place to identify any aspects of interaction with and feedback from senior management non audit work which could compromise their role as in the audit process, focusing on the early identication auditors and to ensure the objectivity of their audit report.
and resolution of issues and judgements and the Having undertaken its review, in the opinion of the Audit quality and timely provision of draft accounts for review.
Committee, the relationship with the auditor continues It recognises the importance of auditor objectivity to work well, the audit process is effective and the and has reviewed the level of non audit fees as noted auditor remains independent and objective.
It has in the table to ensure their independence was not recommended to the Board that a resolution is proposed compromised.
It took into account the fact that taxation at the forthcoming AGM to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the services and advice is provided separately by PwC Companys and Groups auditor.
and corporate due diligence and liquidation work is undertaken by BDO LLP.
The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected to review the audit of the 31 March 2015 Group financial statements as part of their 2015 annual inspection of audit les.
The focus of their review and their reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are required rather than highlighting areas performed to or above the expected level.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee received a full copy of the findings of the Audit Quality Review team and has discussed these with Deloitte.
The Audit Committee confirms that there were no significant areas for improvement identied within the report.
The Audit Committee is also satisfied that there is nothing within the report which might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Accountability continued Short term cash ow forecasting that is Risk management and internal controls considered weekly in light of investment and The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining development opportunities the Groups framework of risk management and internal An up to date property management system covering control and for ensuring risk is effectively managed.
the Group and Joint Venture commercial portfolio It recognises that effective risk management is critical to the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
An organisational structure with clearly dened roles, responsibilities and limits of authority that facilitates The principal risks and uncertainties identied by the effective and efficient decision making Board and the processes in place to manage and mitigate such risks are summarised in the Managing risk Close involvement of the Executive Directors in day section on pages 36 to 43. to day operations including regular meetings with senior management on all operational aspects of The system is designed to give the Board confidence the business thatthe risks are managed or mitigated as far as possible.
However, it should be noted that no system Monthly meetings of the Executive, Investment, Asset can eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups Management and Finance Committees, which assess objectives entirely and can only provide reasonable but and monitor strategic and operational risk not absolute assurance against material misstatement The maintenance of a risk register and risk dashboard orloss.
which is updated quarterly and highlights movements The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the in principal risks and mitigation strategies effectiveness of the risk management framework and A formal whistle blowing policy internal control environment and compliance with the Code to the Audit Committee.
A detailed internal control evaluation questionnaire is completed by management and reviewed annually The Company has established processes and procedures by the Committee.
to identify, assess and manage the significant risks it faces.
The key strategic, economic, transactional and This year the Group implemented an integrated property financial risks facing the business are documented in a management system to sit alongside and interface with risk register which identies the following: the accounting system.
The database holds commercial portfolio data for the Group and its joint ventures and Likelihood and impact of the risk provides robust and up to date operational statistics for Movements in the Groups exposure to the risk since management reporting.
The Committee received and thelast review considered a report from management outlining the new system and the implementation process.
Controls in place to manage and minimise each risk The auditors have tested data on a sample basis in A comprehensive update of the risk register was order to place reliance on its outputs for these financial undertaken by management in February 2016 and statements.
presented to the Audit Committee at their planning meeting in March.
The requirement for a dedicated internal audit function was reviewed by the Audit Committee during the year In addition to this annual review, the Group has and was not felt to be necessary or appropriate given implemented this year a quarterly process for assessing the size and simple structure of the Group, the close day and managing its principal risks by way of a risk to day involvement of the Executive Directors and the dashboard which highlights changes in the Groups internal control procedures in place.
This is kept under exposure to current and emerging risks and the regular review.
This is prepared by management andreviewed at each Board meeting.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that there are no material weaknesses in the Groups internal control The key elements of the internal control framework are structure and an effective risk management system is asfollows: in place, and has reported these findings to the Board.
A dened schedule of matters reserved for the Based on its review and assessment, the Committee is Boards attention satisfied that the Group has complied throughout the year with the new provisions C2.1 and C2.3 of the Code.
A documented appraisal and approval process for allsignicant capital expenditure A comprehensive and robust system of financial budgeting and forecasting which is reviewed and updated quarterly against actual performance Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Accountability continued Fair, balanced and understandable Fair At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee Includes relevant transactions and balances considered whether the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable Includes required regulatory disclosures and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, Balanced business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee is Consistent throughout satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts met this requirement.
Appropriate mix of statutory and adjustedmeasures In reaching this decision the Committee reviewed the robust procedures established and adopted by Adjusted measures explained management which consisted ofthe following: Understandable Clear guidance was issued to all contributors at the start of the process Straight forward language Regulatory and technical updates were provided by Lack of repetition and discussed with the external auditor as part of a Use of diagrams and charts technical brieng workshop attended by relevant staff in January 2016 Clear cross references and links The Chief Executive provided early input to and Clear contents pages to aid navigation agreed the overall message and tone of the report Individual sections of the Annual Report were drafted by appropriate senior management, who met regularly to review consistency The Executive Directors were closely involved in the Rosalyn Wilton initial drafting process and reviewed their respective Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 June 2016 draft sections A full verication exercise to ensure factual accuracy was undertaken The final draft report was reviewed by the Audit Committee and discussed with the Finance Director and senior management before being presented for Board approval In addition, the Committee considered whether the Annual Report had been written in straightforward language, without unnecessary repetition and the use of any adjusted measures e. g. EPRA had been adequately explained.
The Directors statement on fair, balanced and understandable is on page 99.
