STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIETY OUTLOOK To demonstrate its commitment to local society, As in the past, there remain many incremental growth the platform supports South Africas National opportunities in Southern Africa.
Opportunities Department of Health with its Public Health include the expansion of Mediclinic Southern Africas Enhancement Fund.
This joint initiative between existing hospitals, and the establishment of new the public and private sectors, aims to increase the hospitals and day clinics, as well as potential services availability and the skills of public sector medical relating to mental health.
personnel for the benefi t of the people of South At the same time, we are continuing to focus Africa.
Mediclinic Southern Africa contributes 0.75% strategically on the value that we deliver to of its net profi t after tax to this fund annually, which patients, by continuing to improve the safety and helps the countrys government to expand the intake quality of its clinical care, the quality of the patient of medical students, support postgraduate students experience, and opportunities to improve operational pursuing health-related studies, build additional effi ciency.
The platform will also continue to focus capacity in the management of tuberculosis, HIV and on opportunities to develop an integrated Southern AIDS, and provide support to the Leadership and African private healthcare delivery model for Management Academy for Health.
The signifi cant contribution made to this fund during We believe that we are well-positioned to address the year amounting to 0.5m has, to a large extent, various other challenges in the business environment, replaced the platforms funding of other corporate for example those relating to the regulatory social investment contributions.
environment and the continuing skills shortages.
ENVIRONMENT Overall, the platform remains optimistic about the future of Mediclinic Southern Africa.
Mediclinic Southern Africa is committed to minimising its environmental impact and ensuring that its environmental management systems and practices are aligned with international best practice, based on the ISO 14001:2015 Specifi cation for Environmental Management Systems.
Its performance is assessed by the British Standards Institute.
As of the end of the period under review, 41 of Mediclinic Southern Africas 52 hospitals were ISO 14001 certifi ed.
At the same time, all 52 hospitals had been ISO 14001-trained to follow consistent environmental management practices and were subject to annual internal audits.
The new Mediclinic Midstream will be externally certifi ed during the course of 2016 17.
In 2015, Mediclinic Southern Africa achieved joint fi first place ranking in the most recent Climate Disclosure Projects Leadership Index of the Top 100 companies on the JSE.
This index focuses on climate change governance, risk management, performance, transparency, and data management.
37 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIVISIONAL REVIEW SWITZERLAND Ole W Ole Wiesinger iesinger Chief Ex Chief Executiv ecutive O e O c cer: Hirslanden er: Hirslanden CEOs statement For Hirslanden, the 2015 16 financial year was characterised by further growth of the core business alongside the continued implementation of standardised, platform-wide structures and processes.
The opening of our fourth outpatient clinic in Ddingen in the canton of Fribourg alongside our new radiology institutes, reinforce Hirslandens role as the largest medical network in Switzerland.
With an unconditional focus on medical quality and patient satisfaction, as well as an improved e ciency through consistent structures and processes, patient bene ts are at the core of Hirslandens approach.
Looking forward, the public policy environment creates a number of uncertainties.
For example, any changes to immigration policy could have an impact on our employment practices and we continue to engage with the authorities on matters such as the planning of highly specialised medicine HSM.
We are conscious that the rate of growth in patients with basic insurance has slowed: however, we are con dent of achieving stable growth and will remain a source of clinical excellence for the wider Mediclinic Group.
Dr Ole Wiesinger Chief Executive O cer, Hirslanden KEY STATISTICS 16 4 1 677 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF NUMBER OF HOSPITALS CLINICS BEDS 92 9 120 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF THEATRES EMPLOYEES 38 38 MEDICLINIC ANNU MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT 20 T 2016 16 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Hirslanden delivered revenue growth of 6% to CHF1 657m during the period under review.
This resulted in an underlying EBITDA of CHF325m compared to CHF303m in the previous year, with the underlying EBITDA margin increasing from 19.4% to 19.7%.
This strong performance was driven by 5.4% growth in inpatient admissions.
Although the average length of stay reduced slightly, the average revenue per case nonetheless increased by 0.5%.
In addition, a number of productivity measures and cost savings implemented during the year contributed to the improved EBITDA margin.
Importantly, Hirslanden continued to invest in the CHF1 657m business.
This included CHF68m 2015: CHF72m on capital projects and new equipment, CHF76m 2015: CHF70m on replacing existing equipment, 6% and CHF38m 2015: CHF38m on repairing and maintaining property and equipment, which was REVENUE accounted for in the financial year.
KEY OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS The number of inpatient beds increased from 1 655 CHF325m to 1 677 during the period under review, mainly due to the opening of new bed wards at Hirslanden Klinik Stephanshorn and Hirslanden Klinik Aarau.
7% NEW SITES AND FACILITIES UNDERLYING EBITDA During the year, Hirslanden did not acquire any new hospitals but did open several signi cant new sites.
In August 2015, for example, Hirslanden Lausanne 2 inaugurated its new 600m radiology institute, the 469 167 Institut fide radiologie fide louest lausannois IROL, enabling patients to bene t from new state-ofthe-art medical equipment like a 3T MRI scanner and a 128-layer computed tomography machine.
3.4% In November 2015, Hirslanden Clinique Cecil in Lausanne opened a new hybrid operating theatre BED DAYS SOLD and an outpatient surgery unit.
Combined with the January 2016 opening of the new Praxiszentrum Ddingen outpatient clinic with an integrated radiology institute in the canton of Fribourg, Hirslanden now operates four outpatient clinics and 0.5% 13 radiology institutes, and is represented in 12 cantons.
AVERAGE INCOME PER BED DAY Alongside these major new sites, Hirslanden also completed a number of other important development projects, including: 94% a new doctors o ces and a new radiology department for Hirslanden Klinik Birshof in PATIENT SATISFACTION June 2015: a new ophthalmology operating theatre for Hirslanden Clinique Bois-Cerf in August 2015: a new maternity ward for Hirslanden Andreas Klinik in November 2015: and 3.85 an enlarged emergency department, intensive care EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT unit and heart catheter laboratory for Hirslanden grand mean score based on a 1 to 5 rating scale Klinik Aarau in January 2016.
39 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIVISIONAL REVIEW SWITZERLAND continued Throughout 2015 16, Hirslanden made a number of SUSTAINABILITY notable investments in new medical equipment and QUALITY MANAGEMENT technology.
Highlights include: two new state-ofthe-art linear accelerators at Hirslanden Klinik Aarau The quality management system followed at and Klinik Hirslanden: a new O-arm Surgical Imaging Hirslanden is based on the ISO 9001:2008 standard, system at Hirslanden Clinique La Colline: further against which 15 of the platforms 16 hospitals are MRI scanners at Hirslanden Clinique Bois-Cerf and certified the remaining hospital, Hirslanden Clinique Hirslanden Klinik St. Anna: and an additional La Colline, is due to be certified in 2016.
Through CT scanner at Klinik Hirslanden.
this process, all Hirslanden hospitals and operations follow the Business Excellence model set out by the Meanwhile, building work commenced on several European Foundation for Quality Management.
ongoing expansion projects, including more operating theatre capacity for both Hirslanden Klinik Hirslandens hospitals are also participating in an Stephanshorn and Hirslanden Klinik St. Anna, and international Quality Medicine Initiative Austria, an expanded emergency department for Hirslanden Germany and Switzerland.
Through this initiative, Klinik Im Park.
each participating hospital publishes a series of quality performance indicators, which may be EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS supplemented by external peer reviews.
Hirslanden also participates in the National Association for The ongoing strategic programme, Hirslanden 2020, Quality Development in Clinics and Hospitals.
In is intended to increase the efficiency of all Hirslanden combination, these initiatives demonstrate that hospitals and establish consistent processes Hirslanden works to the highest quality standards.
This focuses on various critical paths or journeys, such as patient registration PEOPLE through to payment, or employee recruitment through to resignation, and seeks to introduce related The recruitment of nursing staff, especially in process improvements.
specialised nursing, is a major challenge for all Swiss hospitals.
For this reason, Hirslanden is committed During 2015 16, various IT process improvements to the further training and education of specialist were identified, which are due for implementation nurses, implements professional recruitment within the corporate headquarters and at Hirslanden practices and offers attractive working conditions hospitals.
The aim is to establish a consistent, groupand career opportunities.
wide business model with streamlined IT systems and organisational structures.
Hirslanden also provides a range of training programmes for all types and levels of employment.
For example: during 2015 16 more MARKET OVERVIEW than 1 000 apprentices received formal training The Swiss private healthcare market is one of the federal certificate, higher college, college or best-funded in the developed world and continues graduate students across 30 professions, mainly to grow steadily.
Hirslanden is the largest medical as healthcare professionals.
Hirslandens leadership network and the largest private hospital group talent management process aims to improve the in Switzerland, and works effectively within a identification of leadership potential and develop high-quality healthcare system where the population leadership skills: and the platforms in-house enjoys freedom of choice and high-quality services leadership and management courses were in both the public and private sector.
Challenges attended by 385 management employees include working within an environment regulated up from 326 in 2014 15. by 26 cantons that supervise and manage hospitals and ensure their funding in collaboration with the mandatory health insurance see the Market Overview section on page 17 for more details.
