STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL Our business model has resulted in consistent earnings growth, BUSINESS HOW WE BUSINESS quality service delivery, manageable risks, and generally a business INPUTS RESOURCES GENERATE VALUE OUTCOMES that sustains growth and value to all our stakeholders.
Our business model varies slightly in the three operating platforms.
Financial Shareholder value In Southern Africa our operations are supported by specialists who Mediclinic has a strong financial prole, INVESTING IN A focus on disciplined cost management are not employed by the Group, but operate independently.
This is underpinned by an extensive property and improving eciencies has delivered a a regulatory limitation in terms of the Health Professions Council portfolio.
The Group has good access to strong track record of growth in revenue of South Africa, which prohibits the employment of doctors by capital and invests for growth, generating and EBITDA with a final dividend to private hospitals, although permission has been obtained to positive cash ow and a track record of shareholders of 5.24 pence per share appoint doctors in our emergency units.
In Switzerland some good returns on its capital investments.
refer to the Directors Report on page 121 AR of the supporting doctors are employed, while in the UAE the for a record of dividends for the year by Growth and expansion of the Groups world class facilities majority of the supporting doctors are employed.
the Company and Mediclinic International Manufactured The Group has a track record of investing in carefully selected capital Limited prior to the Combination.
Mediclinic has a leading position in the key projects that deliver satisfactory returns and has demonstrated OUR VISION markets in which it operates.
The Group the ability to integrate and extract value from acquisitions and owns, develops and operates 73 high-quality Quality healthcare services expansions.
Mediclinic builds and continuously improves its In line with our vision to be respected internationally and hospitals and 45 clinics, providing over All three platforms have seen an increase in facilities across its platforms, investing in medical technology of an preferred locally, we are focused on creating long-term value for 10 400 beds across three regions, utilising inpatient admissions, benefiting from high international standard to oer the best care possible.
our stakeholders and establishing Mediclinic as a leader in the technology of an international standard.
quality clinical outcomes through the skill international healthcare industry.
of Mediclinics sta and supporting doctors and the standard of its facilities, generating We will be respected internationally for: Human high levels of patient satisfaction.
The Group employs over 32 800 permanent delivering measurable quality clinical outcomes sta across its three platforms.
During During the year, 264m 2015: 230m continuing to grow as a successful international the year, the Group invested 3.6% of Highly qualied sta was retained for future growth and to Mediclinic Southern Africas payroll, 5.0% of Continuous investment in the training and development of sta maintain and replace assets.
healthcare Group Hirslandens payroll and 0.3% of Mediclinic creates a highly trained workforce and talent pipeline.
Our Global enforcing good corporate governance Middle Easts payroll in training across all Reward Centre of Excellence ensures optimal remuneration practices Highly skilled workforce acting as a responsible corporate citizen platforms, including extensive formal nurse across the Group.
Integrated talent strategies are deployed to ensure Over 934m 2015: 870m was paid to training in Southern Africa.
proactive attraction and retention of scarce skills.
employees as remuneration and other We will be preferred locally for: benets, alongside investment in the delivering excellent patient care Intellectual training and well-being of sta, creating a Mediclinic has an experienced Board and motivated and engaged workforce, both in ensuring aligned relationships with doctor communities management team with deep industry clinical and business services.
being an employer of choice, appointing and retaining knowledge.
The continued growth of competent sta Improving eciencies Mediclinic is testament to the strong Government building constructive relationships with A relentless focus on extracting eciencies from key business management team and their ability to The Mediclinic Group contributed over all stakeholders processes, using resources as eectively as possible and driving execute the Groups strategy.
The expertise 63m 2015: 61m in taxes and other state cost savings and synergies across the Group, are critical to ensure of our clinical sta is a critical element of being a valued member of the community and local authority levies to the economies that we deliver value for money.
our business, allowing us to provide quality where it operates during the year.
Society Social and relationships Mediclinic makes an economic and Mediclinic has excellent relationships with PROVIDING social contribution to the communities key stakeholders, regularly engaging with where it operates with a corporate DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE employees, funders, patients, supporting social investment of R11.8m by Mediclinic doctors, suppliers, governments and 2015 2016 Southern Africa, CHF2.5m by Hirslanden communities.
It has a proven commitment and AED0.8m by Mediclinic Middle East 12.4% 11.1% to ensure a high standard of ethics, social during the year.
The Company was ranked 4.3% responsibility, accountability, cooperation 6.5% Care joint first position in the 2015 Climate 66.6% and transparency.
The Groups main business activity is caring Performance Leadership Index, focusing 3.5% 67.7% 3.6% for patients.
Deep operational expertise mainly on Mediclinic Southern Africas 0.9% Natural delivers a seamless patient experience, environmental management.
1% The Group is committed to ecient energy underpinned by high-quality nursing care.
4.6% use in all its hospitals and continuously strives 4.7% to reduce its water consumption and carbon 6.7% 6.5% emissions, with an increasing number of its hospitals certied to ISO 14001 standard.
DELIVERING VALUE TO Please see the Sustainable Development SDR Report available on the Companys website for further information.
Employees Please see the Clinical Services Overview AR Future Growth on pages 30 to 33 and the Clinical Services Patients Shareholders Finance Cost Through high-quality clinical Through growth in Report available on the Companys website for CSR outcomes, patient safety and capitalisation and Distribution to Shareholders further information.
shareholders returns, with the integrated services.
Please see the Financial Review on pages 55 to Non-controlling Interests balance of funds retained for 59 of the Annual Report for further information.
AR Tax investment in expansion.
Maintain and Replace Assets 14 15 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MARKET OVERVIEW The global healthcare market is facing both Private health expenditure covers approximately challenges and opportunities.
Spend is forecast 16.3% of the national population, representing around to grow by 5.2% per annum to US$9.3 trillion by 4.2% of GDP.
Around 8 785 048 people were insured 2 2018, with growing populations and rising incomes by medical schemes in 2015. increasing demand for healthcare services, whilst increasing longevity and chronic diseases are MARKET STRUCTURE AND KEY creating pressure on funding.
DRIVERS OF GROWTH Cost is the biggest healthcare issue facing most Despite strong growth in the middle class, high levels countries as they try to align supply to demand.
of inequality remain a feature of South African society.
Targeted therapies, personalised medicine, geneticAccess and affordability of healthcare is the key based medicine, medical devices and other challenge in a country characterised by slow economic technology advances are delivering significant growth, a low tax base, low levels of employment, advances in patient care but driving up costs at high levels of poverty, a high burden of disease and the same time.
an increased prevalence of chronic diseases.
Healthcare providers are scaling up to address these Private healthcare funding in South Africa is opportunities and challenges, with consolidation principally provided through medical schemes and becoming a key feature of the market to ensure a consolidation in the medical schemes market access to technology and attract resources in an over time has led to an increase in their bargaining increasingly competitive market for highly qualified power.
Growth in the medical scheme market has staff especially doctors and nurses.
slowed down in recent years with the number of new lives joining medical schemes decreasing from The global healthcare regulatory landscape is approximately 250 000 in 2010 growth rate of 3.1% complex and evolving.
The primary driver is patient to approximately 31 000 in 2014 growth rate of health and safety, with government scrutiny 3 0.4 %, and based on the latest quarterly report of varying widely from country to country.
Patients the South African Council for Medical Schemes the are becoming more cost conscious and involved total beneficiaries decreased by 0.3% from in healthcare decisions, with concerns about data 31 December 2014 to 29 000 at 30 September 2015. security rising.
Care is fragmented with private hospitals providing patients with facilities such as wards, theatres and SOUTHERN AFRICA nursing care while doctors and allied healthcare MARKET SIZE professionals provide services to patients within the There are around 215 private hospitals in South Africa, hospitals but are financially independent, making with three major hospital groups accounting for 63% co-ordination of care sub-optimal.
The total number of private There is a shortage of skilled resources in South sector beds has increased steadily from 32 130 in Africa, where there are only 77.6 doctors per 2010 to approximately 35 217 in 2014, constituting 100 000 lives, around half the world average approximately 30% of the total number of beds in 4 of 152 per 100 000 lives and approximately the country.
403 nurses per 100 000 lives, which is lower than other developing countries.
This is exacerbated PRIVATE HOSPITAL BED MARKET SHARE by the high regard for South African medical SOUTH AFRICA professionals internationally: so, in addition to addressing the local skills shortage, South Africa has to compete with global demand for its medical staff.
16% 22% REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT The South African Government is seeking to address the shortcomings of the public health system through the phased introduction of a National Health 11% Insurance system over the next 14 years.
A White Paper outlining the financing and design of the envisaged system has been released for consultation and Mediclinic will be submitting comprehensive comments.
28% 23% The South African Competition Commission is currently undertaking a market inquiry into the private healthcare sector in South Africa to both understand whether there are features of the sector Mediclinic Southern Africa Netcare Life Healthcare Source: Deloitte 2015 Global healthcare outlook report 2 National Hospital Network Sour ce: Council for Medical Schemes Quarterly Report for the period ending 30 September 2015 Independent 3 Source: Council for Medical Schemes Annual Reports 4 Source: Econex estimate number of beds in 2014 Source: Econex calculations 2014 16 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
