GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE AND AND REMUNERA REMUNERATION TION CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Throughout our three-decade history, Mediclinic has always aspired to be a highly disciplined, well-run company, and this is refl ected in our standards of governance.
Since the earliest days, the Board has set out to lead by example.
As a result, I believe that Mediclinic is respected by its shareholders and its wider stakeholders as a thoroughly ethical and transparent business that is focused on being the fi first choice for patient experience and providing superior clinical outcomes.
The Combination and the premium listing on the London Stock Exchange in February 2016 necessitated some governance changes.
The Boards operations are conducted in London.
The Board and Board committees have been reconstituted and a critical review of the Groups governance policies has been executed.
In making these changes, we have been following the guidance of our advisors, and are seeking to embed the highest standards of governance and reporting expected of a FTSE100 listed company.
We have also applied the main principles and complied with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, save as otherwise indicated in this report.
In doing so, we continue to focus on the performance of the Board through, for example, a thorough induction process, regular briefi ngs, and formal evaluation surveys.
Overall, I would characterise the directors as a wellinformed group of international business and healthcare experts with a strong team spirit, who work with responsibility and effi ciency to guide Mediclinic towards its long-term strategic goals.
During 2015 16, the Boards attention was focused on the Combination and the seamless integration of the Al Noor operations into the Group.
We have also been keen to ensure that our investment in Spire Healthcare brings two-way benefi ts to the respective organisations.
These topics will continue to be a central focus for us in the year ahead.
At the same time, the disciplined allocation of capital is always a serious responsibility for the Board as, in this industry, it is vital to continually invest in new facilities and technologies, whilst maintaining our margins.
Another area of focus will be succession planning, to ensure that we continue to benefi t from a strong, stable leadership team.
In addition, we will continue to strengthen the Board by recruiting additional independent directors from a diverse range of backgrounds.
In turn, this should add to our collective credentials, and bring more rigour to our governance.
Edwin Hertzog Non-executive Chairman 63 63 MEDICLINIC ANNU MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT 20 T 2016 16 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Nomination Committee.
With the exception of INTRODUCTION this appointment in terms of the relationship agreement, the Nomination Committee considers The corporate governance disclosures in this and recommends all other appointments to report set out the governance structure of the Board.
On 7 April 2016, the Board appointed, the Company prior to the Combination, whilst after consideration by the Nomination known as Al Noor Hospitals Group plc: but are Committee, Mr Pieter Uys as an alternate director predominantly focused on the Company since to Mr Jannie Durand.
the Combination on 15 February 2016, now named Mediclinic International plc.
Throughout The Board is currently considering further this report, where ongoing responsibilities and appointments to the Board and the recruitment arrangements are disclosed, it is in respect for any additional appointments will be led by the of the Company post-Combination.
The Nomination Committee, which will be considering governance structure of the Company prior to the overall Board composition and how female Combination, is materially the same as previously representation on the Board and diversity in disclosed in the 2014 Al Noor Annual Report and general can be increased.
6: The Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and COMPLIANCE WITH UK individual directors.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Due to the timing of the Combination, an CODE evaluation of the Board, its Committees and The Board is committed to maintaining the highest individual directors was not undertaken during standards of corporate governance and the highest the year as the reconstituted Board and its standards of integrity and ethics.
With the exceptions Committees had either only met once or not as noted below, the Company is compliant with at all prior to the financial year end.
An internal the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance evaluation is planned for the year ahead, as Code published in September 2014 by the Financial AR further explained on page 71.
"Reporting Council the ""UK Corporate Governance In addition to complying with applicable corporate Code"" or the Code : governance requirements in the UK in accordance i Pr ovision A."
3.1: the Chairman should on with its primary listing on the LSE, the Board is appointment meet the independence criteria set also satisfied that the Company meets all relevant out in provision B.
1.1. requirements of the JSE Listings Requirements as a result of its secondary listing on the South African Under the C ode, the Companys Chairman, securities exchange, the JSE Limited JSE.
Dr Edwin Hertzog, is not considered to be an independent director given his involvement Prior to the Combination, the Company was also as Chief Executive of Mediclinic International compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Limited until his appointment as Chairman, in Governance Code, except with regard to the 1992.
Nonetheless, given his in-depth industry following, as reported on in the prospectus dated knowledge and experience, the Board considers 19 November 2015 issued by the Company in relation it is in the best interests of the Company that he to the Combination: serves as Chairman.
i a majority of the members of the Nomination, ii Pr ovision B.
2.1: a Nomination Committee should Remuneration and Audit and Risk Committees lead the process for board appointments and were not independent non-executive directors: make recommendations to the Board.
ii Ian Tyler, who was the Chairman of the Board Appointments t o the Board are recommended prior to the Combination, was also the Chairman by the Nomination Committee and further details of the Remuneration Committee: and on the Committee and the appointment process iii Ian Tyler was also a member of the Audit and AR can be found on pages 100 to 103.
with the Companys relationship agreement with its principal shareholder, Remgro Limited Remgro, Remgro is entitled to appoint up to a maximum of three directors to the Board.
Mr Jannie Durand represents Remgro on the Board of Directors and was appointed by Remgro at the time of the Combination.
His appointment was therefore not led by the 64 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
