REPORT PROFILE This Annual Report was prepared in accordance with SCOPE, BOUNDARY AND the International Financial Reporting Standards, the REPORTING CYCLE LSE Listing Rules, the JSE Listings Requirements, the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as the This Annual Report and Financial Statements UK Companies Act, where relevant.
The Company of Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor has applied the majority of the principles contained Hospitals Group plc Mediclinic or the Company in the UK Corporate Governance Code all the presents the economic, social and environmental principles which the Company did not apply performance, and the financial results of the are explained in the Corporate Governance Mediclinic Group for the reporting period ended Statement in this Annual Report.
The Company 31 March 2016, and covers all operations in Southern has also considered and applied many of the Africa, Switzerland and the UAE.
recommendations contained in the International Integrated Reporting Framework issued by the SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING International Integrated Reporting Committee in December 2013.
The Companys reporting REPORTING PERIOD on sustainable development included in the The successful completion of the Combination of Annual Report, supplemented by the Sustainable Mediclinic International Limited and Al Noor Hospitals Development Report available on the Companys Group plc by way of a reverse takeover of Mediclinic website at www.
com, was done in International Limited, resulting in the continued accordance with the GRI G4 Sustainability listing of the enlarged Company on the London Stock Reporting Guidelines.
Exchange and the secondary listings of the Company on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and the EXTERNAL AUDIT AND Namibian Stock Exchange.
ASSURANCE Other noteworthy developments during the reporting period include: The Companys annual financial statements and the Groups consolidated annual financial statements Acquisition of a 29.9% interest in Spire Healthcare were audited by the Groups independent external plc, a UK-based private healthcare group.
auditors,  LLP, in Restructure of the MP1 Investment Holdings accordance with International Standards of Proprietary Limited black economic empowerment Auditing UK and Ireland.
Various other voluntary external accreditation, certification and assurance initiatives are followed REPORTING PRINCIPLES in the Group, complementing the Groups combined The contents included in the Annual Report assurance model, as reported on in the Risk are deemed to be useful and relevant to our Management section of the Annual Report.
We stakeholders, with due regard to our stakeholders believe that this adds to the transparency and expectations through continuous engagement, reliability of information reported to our stakeholders.
or that the Board believes may influence the perception or decision-making of our stakeholders.
The information provided aims to provide our stakeholders with a good understanding of the financial, social, environmental and economic impacts of the Group to enable them to evaluate the ability of Mediclinic to create and sustain value for our stakeholders.
