STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL MOVEMENT DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK IN 2016 OF RISK OF RISK The risk relating to the uncertainty Proactive monitoring COMPETITION created by the existence of Strategic planning processes competitors or the emergence of new Quality and value of care processes competitors with their own strategies.
The increased fi financial exposure Strategic planning processes BUSINESS relating to major strategic business Due diligence processes INVESTMENT AND investments and acquisitions.
During Investment mandates ACQUISITION the last fi financial year, Mediclinic Board oversight RISKS made strategic investments in Spire Post-acquisition management processes Healthcare, as well as acquired the Al Noor Hospitals Group.
The downturn in the general economic Systems to monitor developments in the ECONOMIC and business environment, including economic and business environment of AND BUSINESS all those factors that aff ect a trends and early warning indicators ENVIRONMENT Company's operations, customers, Proactive monitoring and negotiation by competitors, stakeholders, suppliers Groups Funder Relations Departments and industry trends.
Focus on quality and continuum of care to reinforce Company position The business environment risk includes the power of funders and the potential negative impact on tariff s and fees resulting from the shift of the relative negotiating power towards funders, away from healthcare service providers.
Operational risk refers to various types Preservation of a sound internal fi financial OPERATIONAL of operational events with a potential control environment AND CREDIT for fi financial loss.
Eff ective risk management processes RISKS Extensive combined Credit risk is the risk of loss due assurance processes to a funders inability to pay the Monitoring of operations outstanding balance owing, default through KPIs by banks and or other deposit-taking institutions, or the inability to recover Continuous enhancement of operational outstanding amounts due from effi ciency and cost reduction the patient.
Regulated minimum solvency requirements for funders Monitoring of approved funders Treasury policy Board-level oversight The cost, terms and availability of Long-term planning of AVAILABILITY capital to fi finance strategic expansion capital requirements and AND COST OF opportunities and or the refi nancing cash-fl ow forecasting CAPITAL or restructuring of existing debt which Scrutiny of cash-generating capacity Including fi nancing and has been aff ected by prevailing capital within the Group liquidity risk market conditions.
Proactive and long-term agreements with banks and other funders relating to The impact of negative interest rates funding facilities currently prevalent in Switzerland.
Monitoring of compliance with requirements of debt covenants Further details on capital risk management and the Groups borrowings are contained in the annual fi financial statements 25 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued PRINCIPAL MOVEMENT DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK IN 2016 OF RISK OF RISK All clinical risks associated with the Refer to the Clinical Services CLINICAL RISKS CSR provision of clinical care resulting in Report for a detailed analysis undesirable clinical care or of the strategies to manage and clinical outcomes.
monitor clinical risks A Group-wide clinical risk register The risks include a pandemic and implemented per platform disease outbreak: a pandemic is an Accreditation processes epidemic of infectious disease that is Clinical governance processes spreading through human populations across a large region.
Disease outbreak Monitoring of clinical involves highly infectious diseases with performance indicators a high mortality rate.
Implementation of comprehensive processes for infection control Such risks may also result in damage and prevention to the Mediclinic brand equity.
Brand Marketing and equity refers to the value of the communication strategies Groups brand names.
Focus on quality management processes Stakeholder engagement and disclosure strategies Information systems security risk Comprehensive IT logical INFORMATION including cyber risk relates to the access, change and physical SYSTEMS SECURITY unauthorised access to information access controls AND AVAILABILITY systems, failure of data integrity and Disaster recovery planning RISK confidentiality.
Availability risk relates System design and architecture to the instances where systems are not Group ICT Security Committee available for use by its intended users.
Experienced project A risk which is closely associated with management team Information Systems risk is project Proactive monitoring delivery.
Project Delivery risk refers and oversight to issues or occurrences that may Reallocation of tasks potentially interfere with successful and resources completion of projects, including its scope, timeliness and appropriateness of delivery.
The risk refers to the quality of service Patient satisfaction surveys both QUALITY AND and the stability of the operations.
It internal and external STABILITY OF includes but is not limited to: Complaints monitoring OPERATIONAL Training programmes Incidents of poor service or SERVICES Supervision of service levels incidents where operational management fails to respond Emergency backup effectively to complaints.
power generation Operational interruptions which Emergency planning refer to any disruption of the Plans to deal with disasters facility and may include the threat Extensive fire-fighting of disrupted power or water and detection systems, supply.
including comprehensive Fire and allied perils causing maintenance processes damage or business interruption.
Comprehensive insurance to deal with financial impact of potential disasters The availability and support of Monitoring of doctor satisfaction, AVAILABILITY, admitting doctors, whether movement and doctors profiles RECRUITMENT AND independent or employed, are critical Details on the relationship RETENTION OF to the services the Group provides.
with doctors provided in the SKILLED RESOURCES SDR Sustainable Development Report.
There is a shortage of skilled labour, AND MEDICAL The employment, recruitment and particularly a shortage of qualified and retention strategies explained in PRACTITIONERS experienced nursing staff in Southern the Sustainable Development Africa.
Extensive training and skills development programme, and foreign recruitment programme, further explained in the SDR Sustainable Development Report.
