GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION direction and proposals.
As explained in more detail BOARD STRUCTURE AND ROLES below, the non-executive directors collectively add independent judgement and a range of skills and The roles of the Chairman, CEO and the separation experience which contribute to Board discussion and of these two roles, the non-executive directors and debate.
The Board believes that the non-executive the Company Secretary are outlined below.
directors bring a wide range and balance of skills and international business experience to Mediclinic.
CHAIRMAN The principal role of the Chairman is to lead the SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Board eff ectively and provide direction and focus SID to its discussions.
The Chairman is the guardian of the Boards decision-making processes and also Mr Ian Tyler was appointed as a director and served promotes high standards of integrity, probity and as Chairman to the Board of what was known as corporate governance throughout the Group and at Al Noor Hospitals Group plc from 2013, until Board level.
He also facilitates eff ective contributions completion of the Combination.
Following the by the non-executive directors, promotes a culture of Combination, Mr Ian Tyler was appointed as the SID, openness and debate, and, encourages constructive and in this role he principally acts as a sounding relations between executive and non-executive board to the Chairman and as an intermediary for directors.
Dr Edwin Hertzog works closely with the other directors.
Mr Danie Meintjes, the CEO, to ensure that the Mr Ian Tyler has extensive experience with investors actions and strategies proposed and agreed by and maintains an active understanding of the the Board are implemented effi ciently.
Companys major shareholders and in respect of any The Chairmans other signifi cant commitments are concerns they may have, which he does through AR indicated in his biography on page 60. face-to-face meetings.
In addition, the SID receives updates from the Executive Committee which reports CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CEO on any issues they have been made aware of by investors and receives briefi ngs from the Company Mr Danie Meintjes, as the Group CEO, leads the Secretary on corporate governance issues which management team, manages the business of the relate to investors.
Group, develops and oversees the implementation of all Board approved actions, the strategic direction The SID has not yet met privately with the nonof the Group and its commercial objectives.
The executive directors to appraise the performance of CEO also supports the Chairman to ensure that the Chairman, as there have only been three Board appropriate governance standards are spread meetings held since the Combination.
The SID will throughout the Group.
Mr Meintjes also oversees the convene a private meeting by February 2017 at the executive management team, which assists him in latest, which will coincide with the evaluation of the carrying out management of the business.
Further Board and its Committees.
details on the executive management team can be AR found on page 62.
COMPANY SECRETARY Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited served SEPARATION OF CHAIRMAN AND as the Company Secretary of the Company prior to CEO ROLES the Combination and continues to do so following the Combination.
The Company Secretary is responsible In compliance with the Code, there is a distinct for providing guidance to the Board collectively division of responsibilities between the Chairman and and to the directors individually with regard to their the CEO, which has been agreed by the Board.
The duties, responsibilities and powers: and ensuring roles are separate, and the Company has a policy the proper administration of the proceedings and which clearly establishes the distinction between the matters relating to the Board, the Company and the running of the Board and the executive responsibility shareholders of the Company in accordance with for the running of the Companys business.
The applicable legislation and procedures.
partnership and relationship of Dr Edwin Hertzog and Mr Danie Meintjes is based on mutual trust and The Board has unlimited access to the Company is facilitated by regular contact between the two.
Secretary, who advises the Board and the Board The separation of authority enhances independent Committees on relevant matters, including oversight of executive management by the Board compliance with the Groups policies and procedures, and helps to ensure that no one individual on the the Listing Rules, legislation and regulations relevant Board has unfettered powers or authority.
to the Company and the UK Corporate Governance Code and other governance standards.
The Board NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS is of the opinion that the Company Secretary is The non-executive directors are suitably placed competent and has the requisite qualifi cations and to constructively challenge Board discussion and experience to eff ectively execute its duties.
They provide a strong, independent element to the Boards composition and support management on the development of strategic 65 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
