GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS POLITICAL PAYMENTS The following agreements are considered signifi cant During the year, the Company, through its Hirslanden in terms of their potential impact on the business subsidiary, made payments to a number of political of the Group as a whole and that could alter or parties, institutions and associations in Switzerland terminate on the change of control of the Company: which totalled CHF36 000 2015: CHF14 571.
Contributing to political campaigns through thirdThe Relationship Agreement entered into between party contributions is an offi cial and standard the Company and its principal shareholder, practice in Switzerland.
In line with best practice, a Remgro Limited, as referred to on page 118: resolution to authorise the Company to make political the agreement does not include a change of payments up to 100 000 has been included for control provision, but does terminate if i the shareholder consideration in the Notice of AGM.
It Companys ordinary shares cease to be listed and is not the policy of the Company to make donations admitted to trading on the LSE's main market for to EU or any other political organisations or to incur listed securities: or ii the Remgro Group, taken other political expenditure and the directors have together, ceases to hold the minimum interest of no intention of changing that policy.
However, as a 10% in the Company.
result of broad defi nitions used in the UK Companies The various facilities and fi finance agreements Act, normal business activities of the Company, throughout the Group are regarded as signifi cant which might not be considered political donations or and contain change of control provisions: expenditure in the normal sense, may be construed - the Companys 400m senior facility as political expenditure or as a donation to a agreement concluded in 2015 with FirstRand political party or other political organisation and fall Bank Limited acting through its Rand within the restrictions of the Companies Act 2006.
Merchant Bank division and Morgan Stanley, Sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, which is in the process of being refi nanced: paid leave for employees fulfi lling public duties, - Hirslandens CHF1.65bn term and revolving and support for bodies representing the business credit facilities agreements concluded in 2008 community in policy review or reform, may fall within with, among others, Barclays Bank plc: the scope of these matters.
The Board has therefore - Hirslandens CHF90m bonds and the CHF145m decided to propose the resolution.
bonds concluded in 2015: - Mediclinic Southern Africas R7.4bn amended and restated facility concluded in 2016 with, among others, Rand Merchant Bank, Standard Bank and Absa Capital: - Mediclinic Middle Easts AED33m and US$140.5m amended and restated facility agreement concluded in 2015 with Standard Chartered Bank.
119 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT continued A breakdown by gender, age and race only for EMPLOYEES purposes of South Africa on the Board and senior The Company operates an equal opportunities policy management roles as at year end is included is which endeavours to treat individuals fairly and not illustrated in Figure 1.
The proportion of female to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ethnic origin employees throughout the Group as at year end is or disability or on any other basis.
Applications for illustrated in Figure 2. employment are fully considered on their merits, and employees are given appropriate training and equal The Groups employees are a highly valued asset.
The opportunities for career development and promotion.
employees trust and respect are vital to Mediclinics success.
Listening and responding to the Groups The Company is committed to ensuring that employee needs through effective communication adequate policies and procedures are in place and sound relations are important components in to enable disabled applicants to receive training being regarded as an employer of choice among to perform safely and effectively and to provide existing and prospective employees and vital to development opportunities to ensure they reach maintain an engaged, loyal workforce.
Where an individual becomes with employees is conducted through various disabled during the course of their employment communication methods, including leadership with the Company, Mediclinic will seek to provide video conferences, intranet, periodic employee wherever possible, continued employment on normal surveys, performance reviews, staff magazines, terms and conditions.
Adjustments will be made to and staff wellness and recognition programmes.
the environment and duties or alternatively suitable new roles within the Company will be secured with additional training where necessary.
FIGURE 1: RACE, GENDER AND AGE REPRESENTATION ON GOVERNANCE BODIES RACE GENDER AGE TOTAL BLACK WHITE MALE FEMALE 3050 YRS 50 YRS NO OF MEMBERS NO % NO % NO % NO % NO % NO % Mediclinic International 11 n a n a n a n a 10 91% 1 9% 2 18% 9 82% Board Mediclinic International 8 n a n a n a n a 8 100% 1 12.5% 7 87.5% Executive Committee Mediclinic Southern Africa 10 3 30% 7 70% 9 90% 1 10% 6 60% 4 40% Executive Committee Hirslanden Executive 5 n a n a n a n a 5 100% 4 80% 1 20% Committee Mediclinic Middle East 9 n a n a n a n a 6 67% 3 33% 5 56% 4 44% Executive Committee FIGURE 2: WORKFORCE COMPOSITION BY GENDER 2015 2016 NUMBER % NUMBER % Southern Africa Female 13 455 81.44% 13 654 81.12% Male 3 067 18.56% 3 178 18.88% Switzerland Female 6 749 77.14% 7 011 76.88% Male 2 000 22.86% 2 109 23.12% UAE MCME Female 1 442 59.46% 1 504 59.99% Male 983 40.54% 1 003 40.01% The gender split of Mediclinic Middle East as at 31 March 2016 excludes the Al Noor employees.
120 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION During the year, the leading independent research GOING CONCERN STATUS company, Gallup, was commissioned to undertake Having considered the principal risks and the viability an annual employee engagement survey across assessment, the directors consider it appropriate all three our platforms for us to understand where to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in there are opportunities to deliver improvements preparing the fi financial statements, further details of in the workplace.
Further details regarding the which are included in the Audit and Risk Committee Groups employee engagement are included in the Report from pages 107 to 115, and the Viability SDR Sustainable Development Report available on the AR Assessment on page 29.
Continuous training and development of the DIVIDEND Groups employees across all three platforms The Directors are recommending a fi final dividend ensures retention of staff, in particular where of 5.24 pence per ordinary share to be paid on the skills shortage is most critical, and proper 25 July 2016 to all ordinary shareholders who were succession planning.
Further details on the Groups on the register of members at the close of business training initiatives can be found in the Sustainable on 17 June 2016.
Development Highlights on pages 49 to 50 and the AR Sustainable Development Report available on the Prior to the Combination, the Company adopted Companys website.
SDR a dividend policy which looked to maximise shareholder value and refl ect its strong earnings DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION potential and cash fl ow characteristics, while allowing it to retain suffi cient capital to fund TO AUDITOR ongoing operating requirements and to invest in the Each of the directors confi rms that: Companys long-term growth.
Following Completion, the Company adopted a dividend policy to refl ect to the best of their knowledge and belief, there the underlying earnings and growth of the business, is no relevant audit information of which the while retaining suffi cient capital to fund ongoing Companys auditor is unaware: and operations and to invest in the Companys long-term they have taken all the steps a director might growth.
The Company aims to pay a dividend of reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware between 25% and 30% of underlying earnings.
of relevant audit information and to establish that The Board may revise the dividend policy from the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING The ability of the Company to pay dividends is dependent on a number of factors and there is no PERIOD assurance that the Company will pay dividends, or if Since year-end, the following material events have a dividend is paid, what the amount of such dividend taken place: will be.
During May 2016 the Group obtained additional bank Information on the Companys dividend access facilities in the amount of R1.2 billion approximately scheme can be found in the Notice of Annual 54m.
The loans will carry interest at three month Jibar General Meeting.
AGM plus a margin of 1.69% and is fully repayable in June 2019.
Figure 3 below details the dividends declared by the Company and Mediclinic International Limited preCombination to its holders of ordinary shares during the reporting period.
FIGURE 3: DIVIDENDS COMPANY MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 2015 2014 2015 2014 UK PENCE SA CENTS GROSS Interim dividend 4.1 3.7 36.0 31.0 Special dividend 328.0 Final dividend 5.24 9.0 n a 75.5 Total dividend 337.34 12.7 36.0 106.5 A special dividend was approved by shareholders at the general meeting held on 15 December 2015 subject to completion of the Combination.
121 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT continued EXISTENCE OF OVERSEAS BRANCHES For the purposes of the UK Listing Rules Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
11 5, the Company has established an overseas branch in South Africa.
REQUIREMENTS OF THE LISTING RULES The following table provides references to where the information required by the Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is disclosed: LISTING RULE REQUIREMENT LOCATION IN ANNUAL REPORT A statement of the amount of interest capitalised Not applicable during the period under review and details of any related tax relief.
Information required in relation to the publication Not applicable of unaudited financial information.
AR Details of any long-term incentive schemes.
Remuneration Report, pages 74 to 99 Details of any arrangements under which a Not applicable Director has waived emoluments, or agreed to waive any future emoluments, from the Company.
Details of any non-pre-emptive issues of equity As part of the Al Noor Combination, Remgro subscribed for 72 115 384 new shares for cash.
in the Company at a cash subscription of 8.32 per shares, as approved in general meeting by the Companys shareholders on 15 December 2015.
Details of any non-pre-emptive issues of equity for No such share allotments cash by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking.
Details of parent participation in a placing by a Not applicable listed subsidiary.
Details of any contract of significance in which a Not applicable Director is or was materially interested.
Details of any contract of significance between None, other than the Relationship Agreement referred to on page 118.
AR the Company or any of its subsidiaries and a controlling shareholder.
Details of any contract for the provision of services The internal audit function of the Group is outsourced to Remgro Internal Audit, to the Company or any of its subsidiaries by a which forms part of the Remgro group.
As referred to in the Audit and Risk controlling shareholder.
Committee Report, the Committee plans to review the internal audit function, with a view to bringing this in-house rather than outsourcing this function to a third party.
Details of waiver of dividends by a shareholder.
Not applicable Board statement in respect of relationship Directors Report, page 118 AR agreement with the controlling shareholder.
This Annual Report, including this Directors Report, as well as the Strategic Report from pages 2 to 59, and the Corporate Governance Statement from pages 64 to 73, was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: AR Edwin Hertzog Non-executive Chairman 25 May 2016 122 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The consolidated fi financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and are based on appropriate accounting policies consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual fi financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare fi financial statements for each fi financial year.
Under that law, the directors have prepared the Group and parent company fi financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the fi financial statements unless they are satisfi ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of aff airs of the Group and the Company and of the profi t or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing these fi financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the fi financial statements: prepare the fi financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suffi cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the fi financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the fi financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group fi financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of fi financial statements may diff er from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
The directors confi rm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group fi financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, fi financial position and profi t of the Group: and the Directors Report, Risk Management Report including Viability Statement, Financial Review and Divisional Reviews contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The consolidated fi financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and the directors believe that the Group will continue to be in operation in the foreseeable future.
The consolidated fi financial statements as set out on pages 136 to 209, have been approved by the Board of AR Directors and are signed on their behalf by: Danie Meintjes Craig Tingle Chief Executive O cer Chief Financial O cer 25 May 2016 25 May 2016 123 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report 125 136 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 137 Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 137 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 138 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 140 141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report 210 Company Statement of Financial Position 212 Image to Company Statement of Changes in Equity 213 follow 214 Company Statement of Cash Flows 215 Notes to the Company Financial Statements GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GENERAL INFORMATION These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements for the Group consisting of Mediclinic International plc and its subsidiaries.
A list of subsidiaries is included from page 202 to 208.
AR Mediclinic International plc the Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Company has secondary listings on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and the Namibian Stock Exchange.
A wholly-owned subsidiary, Hirslanden AG issued bonds on the SIX.
The Company changed its name from Al Noor Hospitals Group plc to Mediclinic International plc on 15 February 2016.
Registered address: 40 Dukes Place London EC3A 7NH United Kingdom The main business of the Group is to provide comprehensive, high-quality hospital and related services on a cost-effective basis.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 25 May 2016.
No authority was given to anyone to amend the financial statements after the date of issue.
All press releases, financial reports and other information are available on our website: www.
124 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion, Mediclinic International plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs at 31 March 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 March 2016: the consolidated income statement for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 13 million which is based on 5% of profit before tax after adjustment for one-off transaction costs incurred relating to the combination between Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited.
Our audit included full sc ope audits at three significant reporting units, a full scope audit of the parent company and specified procedures at two further reporting units which accounted for 90% of consolidated revenue, 99% of consolidated profit before tax and 90% of consolidated adjusted profit before tax Materiality and covered all reporting units that individually contributed more than 2% to the Groups revenue and 3% to adjusted profit before tax.
Accounting for the reverse acquisition of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc A ccounting for the acquisition of a 29.9% associate interest in Spire Healthcare Audit scope Group plc Spire Measurement of revenue adjustments Impairment of intangible assets and goodwill Areas of Capital expenditure in respect of buildings focus Context The focus of our audit attention was directed by key developments in the operations of the Group during the year.
The most significant development in the year was the acquisition of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc Al Noor by Mediclinic International Limited in a reverse takeover transaction, with the enlarged Group being re-named Mediclinic International plc the Group or Mediclinic.
The Group also acquired a significant associate interest in Spire Healthcare Group plc during the year.
 LLP PwC UK was appointed as auditors of the enlarged Group on 21 March 2016.
"Prior to the merger with Al Noor,  Inc. PwC South Africa had been the auditors of Mediclinic International Limited and KPMG LLP KPMG"" had audited Al Noor."
In light of this being our first year audit of the enlarged Group, we performed a review of the prior year audit working papers of Al Noor KPMG and Mediclinic PwC South Africa and we considered the key management judgements in the opening balance sheet of the Group at 1 April 2015.
