STRATEGIC REPORT Mediclinic Middle East will focus on the full CLINICAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS integration of clinical services of the combined group, Mediclinic Southern Africa embarked on a multi-year formulate a clinical strategy for the combined group, programme to transform from a paper-based system implement clinical KPIs for doctors, implement new of clinical documentation to a clinical information clinical indicators, and implement a clinical system.
The strategic objective is to add functionality indicator dashboard.
incrementally, add business value continuously and limit expenses and risk to the business while allowing TRANSFORM FROM AN an agile approach.
The fi first phase, which aims to collate information currently in disparate systems and INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER TO A ultimately deliver an Electronic Medical Record at HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS PROVIDER point of care to view information, has been making Mediclinic Southern Africa will appoint clinical satisfactory progress.
managers at 10 additional hospitals and also Hirslanden has been making good progress with its implement selective clinical pathways led by doctors, clinical information system project and maintains and a new emergency medicine services model.
an emphasis on the importance of standardised Hirslanden will start to defi ne and evaluate the processes in ensuring successful implementation.
quality of treatment plans, develop a process to Mediclinic Middle East has postponed its selection enable early recovery after orthopaedic surgery, and and implementation process of a new clinical health develop a common structure and model for all highly information system, as Al Noor has a similar need.
new combined process will be followed to select and Mediclinic Middle East will implement the new implement a single solution for both businesses.
comprehensive cancer centre services and processes in the Mediclinic City Hospital North Wing, and FUTURE OBJECTIVES develop clinical pathways as part of preparing for the implementation of Diagnosis Related Groups.
PATIENTS FIRST Mediclinic Southern Africa will update its patient CLINICAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS safety strategy, upscale nursing skills training in the Mediclinic Southern Africa will conclude Phase 1 of its areas of theatre, obstetrics and infection control, clinical information system project.
revise the current nursing management model, improve the measurement of clinical performance Hirslanden will defi ne electronic documentation through various initiatives, share clinical information in its catheter laboratories and A&E departments, with doctors, and further reduce infection rates re-evaluate its radiology information system, and through various initiatives.
introduce medication source data in its clinical information system.
Hirslanden will review compliance with its patient safety strategy, audit patient safety at all hospitals, Mediclinic Middle East will follow a combined implement additional clinical indicators, and develop selection process in identifying an appropriate clinical positive outcomes indicators.
information system for the combined group.
33 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIVISIONAL REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA Koert Pretorius Chief Executive O cer: Mediclinic Southern Africa CEOs statement We are pleased to report that Mediclinic Southern Africa achieved good operational and financial results for the period under review.
We made signi cant progress towards improving patient safety, the quality of clinical care, and the quality of the patient experience.
We further embedded our new operational structure and continued to focus on operational e ciency, whilst, at the same time, growing the business at existing hospitals as well as through an acquisition.
The operating platform the platform also continued to address a number of matters in the wider business environment.
For example, the South African Competition Commissions market inquiry into the private healthcare sector.
Koert Pretorius Chief Executive O cer, Mediclinic Southern Africa KEY STATISTICS 52 2 8 017 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF NUMBER OF HOSPITALS DAY CLINICS LICENSED BEDS 270 16 832 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF THEATRES EMPLOYEES 34 34 MEDICLINIC ANNU MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT 20 T 2016 16 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS During the period under review, Mediclinic Southern Africa delivered revenue growth of 9%.
This was achieved through a 2.9% increase in bed days sold and a 6.3% increase in the average revenue per bed day.
The number of patients admitted increased by 1.3%, while the average length of stay increased by 1.6%.
Underlying EBITDA margin increased to 21.4%.
Mediclinic Southern Africa continued to invest in the business.
During the period under review, the Southern African operations spent R758m 2015: R1 131m on expansion capital projects and new equipment and R317m 2015: R306m on the replacement of existing equipment.
R13 450m KEY OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS The number of licensed hospital and day clinic beds 9% increased from 7 885 to 8 017 during the period under review.
REVENUE ACQUISITIONS During the period under review, Mediclinic Southern Africa commenced with the acquisition R2 877m of a controlling share in Matlosana Medical Health Services Proprietary Limited MMHS, based in Klerksdorp in the North-West Province.
Although substantially completed, this transaction remains 10% subject to a number of conditions precedent.
UNDERLYING EBITDA MMHS owns two multi-disciplinary hospitals, Wilmed Park Hospital 144 licensed beds and Sunningdale Hospital 62 licensed beds, as well as a 51% share in Parkmed Neuro Clinic, a psychiatric hospital with 50 licensed beds.
This proposed acquisition, pending 1 954 365 final approval by the MMHS shareholders and the Competition Commission, supports Mediclinics core focus of providing acute care, multi-disciplinary 2.9% specialist hospital services.
BED DAYS SOLD BUILDING PROJECTS Other highlights during the year include the completion of building projects at several hospitals and the commissioning of two day clinics in 6.3% Polokwane and Durbanville.
Altogether, this added 132 new beds.
A new training centre was also AVERAGE REVENUE PER BED DAY commissioned in Polokwane during January 2016.
Other building projects included various expansion and upgrade projects.
Building projects in progress, which should be 81.9% completed during 2016 17, should add 97 additional beds.
The number of licensed beds across the PATIENT EXPERIENCE INDEX platform is therefore set to increase from 8 017 to 8 114 during the coming financial year.
Finally, several additional building projects are due for completion in 2017 18, which are set to add a further 3.67 402 beds.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT grand mean score based on a 1 to 5 rating scale 35 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIVISIONAL REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA continued EFFICIENCY AND PATIENT CARE SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENTS PEOPLE Mediclinic Southern Africa progressed with several The attraction and retention of high-quality medical improvements to its core processes during the period professionals is fundamental to Mediclinic Southern under review.
The platform therefore deploys integrated talent strategies to ensure that scarce For example, a new SAP solution for financial and skills can be attracted and retained, particularly in central procurement processes was successfully those areas with the highest demand and or risk.
embedded at the corporate offices, and the rollout to all Mediclinic Southern Africa hospitals will commence Mediclinic Southern Africa and the industry as a during 2016 17.
In addition, a new Workforce whole faces a shortage of trained nurses and, as Management solution was rolled out throughout a short-term measure, has been recruiting nurses Mediclinic Southern Africa, which is intended from India.
The longer-term solution is to increase to improve employee time and attendance and local training: to this end, the platform plans to scheduling processes, and is fully integrated with the significantly increase its training capacity over the platforms payroll and nursing forecasting systems.
Related achievements during the year include the relocation to a bigger site for the The Press Ganey patient experience measurement Learning Centre Limpopo, and the commissioning index was also implemented across the platform, of a satellite campus in Pietermaritzburg for the which allows us to objectively survey, evaluate and Learning Centre Central Region.
manage the improvement of the patient experience at all Mediclinic Southern Africa facilities.
During Our training and development function is registered the period under review, targeted action plans for as a Private Higher Education Institution.
It offers a improvement, specific to each of the facilities, were Diploma in General Nursing Science and a Diploma in successful in improving the patient experience index Operating Department Assistance to deliver training steadily from 81.1% for 2014 15 to 81.9%.
of skilled healthcare personnel and sustain quality outcomes, and an Advanced Diploma in Health In addition, the platform commenced with the Services Management and Leadership to equip implementation of the Gallup employee engagement managers with the relevant skills.
Based on the results of the first we have obtained registration to offer a Diploma survey, Mediclinic Southern Africa is in the process in Emergency Medical Care aimed at providing of developing detailed plans to improve employee skilled healthcare personnel for Emergency Medical engagement at all levels throughout the Group.
Services, and the first cohort of learners commenced training in January 2016.
Mediclinic Southern MARKET OVERVIEW Africa also provides Enrolled Nursing programmes The South African private healthcare market is wellaccredited by the South African Nursing Council.
established, well-equipped and has been growing A total of 776 learners completed undergraduate steadily, although recently at a declining rate.
The programmes and 34 learners completed market offers incremental growth opportunities postgraduate programmes during the 2015 academic to expand existing hospitals, and establish new year.
A further 799 learners completed in-house hospitals and day clinics.
Challenges include structured training programmes.
lowering healthcare costs across the value chain in a fragmented market, whilst at the same time We introduced a Mediclinic Leadership Academy improving outcomes for patients, attracting and in 2013, which focuses on the Groups culture and retaining qualified staff and investing in infrastructure values to ensure sustainability.
During the 2015 and medical technology.
Furthermore, the academic year, this academy has already been government is seeking to address the shortcomings attended by 750 delegates.
of the public health system through the phased Formal succession planning is a well-established introduction of a National Health Insurance system.
process for Mediclinic Southern Africa, and the Talent Refer to the Market Overview section on pages 16 Review Committee has established talent pools for to 17 for more details.
This provides an important foundation for development initiatives that will continue during the year ahead to ensure tailored development of our talent pools.
