STRATEGIC REPORT COMMUNITY OUTLOOK Mediclinic Middle East is involved in various social The economic outlook for the UAE is mixed, with and charitable community activities, which support its fortunes linked fundamentally to issues such healthcare, welfare, education and sport.
The as the oil price and US economic policy, which platform contributed AED814 000 AED740 000 aff ects the strength of the dollar to which the UAE in 2014 5 on event sponsorship and charitable dirham is linked.
Despite this, the next fi financial activities during 2015 16, including AED427 000 year for Mediclinic Middle East promises to be on medical services for the Al Jalila Foundation both challenging and rewarding as the integration an initiative set up by the Ruler of Dubai to with the Al Noor Hospital Group continues.
Corporate social focus areas are the implementation of an inclusive investment initiatives run by the platform included and eff ective business strategy for the combined charity campaigns using Facebook, free health group, fi nalisation of a comprehensive ICT strategy, screenings, health talks and awareness campaigns on further improvement of the patient experience, particular health topics.
standardisation of doctor remuneration and rewards, identifi cation of further operational effi ciencies, the Whilst individual units work at a local level to support development of a tariff strategy in Abu Dhabi, and their chosen causes, at a corporate level Mediclinic the delivery of new projects already underway.
Middle East takes part in major community events such as World Health Day, World Heart Day and Mediclinic City Hospitals North Wing project is due World Diabetes Day, with free health check-ups for to open in the second half of 2016 17 and, with it, the the general public at locations across Dubai.
comprehensive cancer centre that is being developed in association with Hirslanden.
The possibility of Mediclinic has budgeted AED445 000 for expansion in Abu Dhabis Western region will also community initiatives in 2016 17, with an additional be explored.
AED750 000 in services as part of its partnership with the Al Jalila Foundation.
Meanwhile, preparations will continue for the introduction of DRGs diagnostic-related groupings, and the platform will maintain dialogue with ENVIRONMENT government authorities on regulatory changes within Mediclinic Middle East is aware of its environmental the UAE healthcare sector.
responsibilities and undertakes signifi cant eff orts to minimise the eff ects of its operations on the environment.
New projects have been designed to incorporate the latest environmental technology, making use of solar panels for the heating of water and electricity generation and sustainable materials, which have minimal impact on the environment, are being used wherever possible.
45 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Growing the business Asset eciency Address shortage of healthcare practitioners Financial capital Human capital E ective risk management Creating and sustaining shareholder value Provide and maintain high-quality infrastructure and equipment CSI Acceptable shareholder returns S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS those sustainable development issues which are INTRODUCTION most significant for the business, and directly affect the Groups ability to create value for our Mediclinic takes a sustainable, long-term key stakeholders.
The guidance on determining approach to business, putting patients at the materiality contained in the GRI G4 Sustainability heart of its operations and delivering consistently Reporting Guidelines and the International high-quality healthcare services.
In order to Integrated Reporting Framework was used during deliver on these priorities, we uphold the highest the materiality assessment.
The process was also standards of clinical governance and ethical informed by the views, concerns and expectations of behaviour across our platforms, invest significant our key stakeholders: patients, doctors, employees time and resources in recruiting and retaining and trade unions, suppliers, healthcare funders, skilled staff, make considerable investment into government and authorities, industry associations, our facilities and equipment, and respect the investors, community and the media.
communities and environment in the areas in which we operate.
We then categorised these issues and the associated performance indicators according to the six capitals financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social and relationship, and natural included in the STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT International Integrated Reporting Framework, as AND MATERIAL ISSUES illustrated in Figure 1.
Mediclinic recognises its accountability to its stakeholders and is committed to effective and Our five material issues, as identified in our regular engagement with them, and to publicly report materiality assessment process, are: on its sustainability performance.
Mediclinics key Provide quality healthcare services stakeholders are those groups that have a material impact on, or are materially impacted by, Mediclinic Address shortage of healthcare practitioners and our operations.
Creating and sustaining shareholder value Responsible use of natural resources As a result of its operations, Mediclinic has many Governance and corporate social responsibility economic, social and environmental impacts, including creating employment opportunities, This report provides an overview of each of the training and developing employees, black economic five material issues.
More detailed information empowerment in South Africa, investing in local on our stakeholder engagement, material issues communities, and using natural resources.
and sustainability performance is included in the Sustainable Development Report and the GRI G4 SDR In order to focus our reporting on material issues, Disclosure Index available on the Companys website the Group undertook a materiality assessment at www.
in 2014, which is reviewed annually to identify FIGURE 1: MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT MATRIX Provide and Provide Governance maintain Compliance Social and Manuquality and corporate high-quality healthcare with laws and relationship VALUE factured social hospital capital capital services regulations responsibility infrastructure 46 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 I X Accreditation K Energy eciency E BBBEE M Y P A C E T R F E Patient satisfaction O R A R M Ethics I Intellectual capital Natural capital A A Provide quality healthcare services N Responsible use of natural resources Euent hazardous waste management C L P E I I Employee satisfaction N S D I Patient safety, quality care and clinical outcomes I S C Employee health and safety A U T T E O S R E ective environment management system S A Cost of healthcare Employee recruitment and retention L Support of external training institutions S Nurse training Development and training of sta Remuneration and recognition of sta STRATEGIC REPORT MATERIAL ISSUE 1: PROVIDE QUALITY HEALTHCARE SERVICES KPIs HIGHLIGHTS MORTALITY per calendar year Strong clinical governance programme in place to measure clinical performance Southern Africa 1.02 New Patient Experience Index rolled out to inpatient mortality index improve the patient experience 2014: 1.04 Continued with signifi cant capital investments Switzerland 1.01% across all platforms inpatient mortality rate Centralised procurement initiatives gaining 2014: 0.93% momentum to achieve cost savings UAE 0.18% inpatient mortality rate PATIENT SAFETY, QUALITY CARE 2014: 0.16% AND CLINICAL OUTCOMES Whilst Mediclinic Southern Africa reports a mortality index, Across all our operating platforms, we are focused Hirslanden and Mediclinic Middle East report on the unadjusted mortality rate and not the standardised mortality Index.
Further, on providing superior clinical outcomes, delivering a the results of the platforms are not directly comparable as the standardised quality of service and improving patient platforms differ significantly on the scope of services provided, burden of disease, units of measurement and definition of safety.
To meet these objectives, we have adopted a indicators.
Group-wide clinical quality programme which focuses on: FALL RATE per 1 000 patient days per calendar year clinical governance to ensure patient safety and quality improvement: Southern Africa 1.14 clinical information management to enable clinical 2014: 1.10 performance measurement and deal with systems to support the clinical care process, including Switzerland 2.1 electronic patient records: and 2014: 2.5 clinical services development dealing with the development of new coordinated care models, UAE 0.3 investigating new service lines, and keeping 2014: 0.5 abreast of technological developments.
The results of the platforms are not directly comparable as Key patient safety indicators are monitored across the platforms differ significantly on the scope of services provided, burden of disease, units of measurement and our operations.
Patient safety surveys are regularly definition of indicators.
undertaken to measure and identify areas for improvement.
All management members are trained RE-ADMISSION RATES per calendar year in the basic principles of patient safety and quality improvement.
Patient safety offi cers have been Southern Africa 7.7 appointed on all platforms to lead the patient 30-day re-admission rate all safety initiative.
causes 2014: 7.5 Multi-disciplinary clinical committees at hospital level Switzerland 1.28 have been established throughout the Group to drive 15-day unscheduled requality and safety and promote cooperation between admission rate 2014: 1.44 doctors, nursing staff and management.
UAE 1.3 For more information on the Companys approach 30-day related re-admission and clinical performance, please refer to the Clinical rate 2014: 1.7 Services Report available on the Companys website CSR at www.
The results of the platforms are not directly comparable as the platforms differ significantly on the scope of services provided, burden of disease, units of measurement and definition of indicators.
47 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS continued PATIENT SATISFACTION AND EXPERIENCE Corporate initiatives as a result of feedback from the surveys include: the critical re-evaluation of hospital food services with a strong clinical link, providing all Southern Africa 82% staff within the Group with enhanced skills for dealing 2015: 81% with patients, and a focus on patient engagement Switzerland 94% by involving the patient and family members in the 2015: 92% treatment process.
Noise reduction and effective medication counselling also remain a focus, with UAE 80% continued reinforcement around the service elements 2015: 81% designed to reduce anxiety and instil feelings of safety in all our patients.
The results of Hirslanden are not comparable with the results of Mediclinic Southern Africa and Mediclinic Middle East as the Refer to the graph on this page for the patient AR standardised Patient Experience Index has not been rolled out to Hirslanden.
The results of Hirslanden are based on the ANQ satisfaction level of Hirslanden based on the ANQ the Swiss National Association for Quality Development Swiss National Association for Quality Development, satisfaction survey.
and the Patient Experience Index of Mediclinic CAPITAL INVESTMENTS ON PROJECTS, NEW Southern Africa and Mediclinic Middle East.
EQUIPMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF EQUIPMENT FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT Southern Africa R1 075m To ensure a safe and user-friendly environment 2015: R1 437m for both our patients and employees, we strive to provide high-quality healthcare facilities and Switzerland CHF144m technology, focusing on capital investments, 2015: CHF142m maintenance of facilities, and optimal use of facilities.
As a result, the Group continuously invests in capital UAE AED203m projects and new equipment to expand and refurbish 2015: AED100m our facilities and the replacement of existing equipment, as well as on the repair and maintenance of existing property and equipment.
PATIENT SATISFACTION AND EXPERIENCE COST OF HEALTHCARE In line with our patients first ethos, and to ensure The Group contributes in various ways to a operational excellence across all platforms, we sustainable healthcare system by, inter alia, focusing monitor our patients experience across the Group.
on efficiency and cost-effectiveness, conducting In 2014, the Group created a single, standardised tariff negotiations in a fair and transparent manner, Patient Experience Index PEI with the objective of expanding facilities based on need, and actively achieving incremental and sustainable improvement participating in healthcare reform.
in patient experience over time.
This is managed by Press Ganey, an internationally recognised patient ACCREDITATION experience measurement and management agency.
Hospitals are high-risk environments in which The index has been implemented in Mediclinic complex treatment processes are executed using Southern Africa and Mediclinic Middle East since sophisticated equipment and techniques.
The process October 2014, and will be rolled out across Hirslanden of external accreditation ensures that international and Al Noor in the course of the year ahead.
Since standards are adhered to in all aspects of hospital implementation of the PEI, we have improved our operations, as also included in the combined survey response rates and implementation of followassurance table on page 28 of the Annual Report.
AR up actions as follows: For more details on accreditation, please refer to More than 30 000 surveys received to date the Clinical Services Report available on the More than 450 training interventions CSR Companys website.
80% of e-surveys are completed within the first week Average e-survey response rate is 21% Average e-mail capturing rate on admission is 64%.
This has doubled in a year.
Ten improvement opportunities have been designated for every hospital 48 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
