STRATEGIC REPORT ENVIRONMENT The continuous improvement of Hirslandens environmental performance is evidence of the platforms commitment to responsible and sustainable business.
For example, all Hirslanden hospitals have been supplied with 100% sustainable electricity since the start of 2014.
And, in order to be even more disciplined in environmental management, the Hirslanden Executive Committee has defi ned guidelines that cover issues ranging from training and construction measures to the choice of suppliers.
During 2015 16, a structured environmental management pilot project was conducted at Hirslanden Klinik Belair, and has been successfully integrated into the hospitals ISO 14001:2015 quality management certifi cation.
Lessons learnt from this initiative will be applied to other Hirslanden hospitals.
OUTLOOK One of the most signifi cant trends in the Swiss healthcare market is the ongoing shift of basic medical treatments from the inpatient to the outpatient sector.
As a result, total costs in the outpatient sector are seeing a signifi cant increase and currently stand at around CHF24.9 billion.
It is important for Hirslanden to continue to respond to this trend, with the opening of new outpatient clinics and the creation of an integrated medical network that facilitates the access to healthcare for patients especially because outpatient clinics are a well-established route for the subsequent allocation of patients to hospitals and specialists.
In response to this, the establishment of outpatient clinics as well as outpatient surgery units is now part of the Hirslanden 2020 strategic programme.
This programme, which came into full force in 2015 16, has two main goals: to increase the effi ciency of the existing business by implementing consistent systems and processes, and to develop new areas of business, such as outpatient facilities.
In a fast-changing environment it is important for Hirslanden to realise potential synergies by integrating all hospitals and clinics within an overarching system of standardised structures with a consistent business model.
Given the external environment, the investment programme within Hirslanden and the potential for increased synergies, the platform is well-positioned to maintain its status as the largest medical network in Switzerland while continuing to improve patient satisfaction and clinical outcomes.
41 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIVISIONAL REVIEW UAE Da David Hadle vid Hadley y Chief Ex Chief Executiv ecutive O e O c cer er, Mediclinic Middle Eas, Mediclinic Middle East t CEOs statement Mediclinic Middle East continued to perform in line with expectations, despite the weaker economic conditions brought about by the continued decline in oil prices.
We are satis ed with the performance of the hospitals in particular, which have produced good results irrespective of signi cant new direct competitive activity and increased regulatory reform.
Going forward, the Combination with the Al Noor Hospitals Group o ers signi cant new opportunities.
The integration process is well underway, and we look forward to this exciting next phase of development for Mediclinic Middle East.
David Hadley Chief Executive O cer, Mediclinic Middle East KEY STATISTICS 2 10 371 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF NUMBER OF HOSPITALS CLINICS INPATIENT BEDS MCME: 12 2 507 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF THEATRES EMPLOYEES 3 29 350 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF NUMBER OF HOSPITALS CLINICS INPATIENT BEDS AL NOOR: 13 4 425 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF THEATRES EMPLOYEES 42 42 MEDICLINIC ANNU MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT 20 T 2016 16 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Mediclinic Middle East achieved an 8% growth in revenue to AED1 544m in 2015 16 excluding AED258.7m which was contributed by Al Noor for the 46 trading days since the Combination, compared to AED1 430m in the previous year.
This resulted in an 11% increase in EBITDA of AED345m 2015: AED312m excluding AED40m which was contributed by Al Noor, and an underlying EBITDA margin of 22.3% 2015: 21.8%.
This strong performance was driven through 6% growth in clinic outpatient attendance and 2% growth in hospital outpatient attendance, backed up by 3% growth in hospital inpatient admissions, and 6% growth in bed days sold.
At the same time, the average hospital inpatient revenue AED1 544m per bed day grew by 2.3%.
All of this is a direct re ection of the more acute and specialised inpatient procedures being performed across the platform.
8% KEY OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS REVENUE The main operational highlight of 2015 16 was the successful Combination of Mediclinic International with the Abu Dhabi-based Al Noor Hospitals Group.
This positions Mediclinic as a clear leader in the AED345m UAE private healthcare sector with complementary coverage across Dubai and Abu Dhabi, enhancing the platforms geographic presence in this attractive growth market.
11% Following the completion of the Combination in midEBITDA February 2016, a senior leadership team was selected to take the combined company forward.
Another key highlight was the opening of the new Mediclinic Al Hili facility in Al Ain, as well as progress 76 021 towards the completion of several new projects scheduled for 2016 17, all of which will further increase Mediclinics presence in the UAE.
These include the opening of the Al Jowhara Hospital, the 6% North Wing extension of Mediclinic City Hospital, BED DAYS SOLD plus the opening of the Khalifa A, Al Yaher, Ghayathi and Look Wow clinics.
Work is also underway on the second hospital at Airport Road as well as the Mediclinic Parkview Hospital, both of which are due to be completed in 2019.
2.3% E ciency savings were another clear theme.
For AVERAGE INCOME PER BED DAY example, our status as an international Group brought many procurement savings, the planned centralisation of laboratory services will bring further e ciencies and, over time, we believe the integration of Mediclinic and Al Noor will bring 80.3% considerable synergies.
PATIENT EXPERIENCE INDEX 3.75 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT grand mean score based on a 1 to 5 rating scale 43 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIVISIONAL REVIEW UAE continued COMBINED PLATFORM CREATES A CLEAR LEADER, WITH UNRIVALLED COVERAGE ACROSS THE UAE Mediclinic Mirdif Other Emirates of UAE Mediclinic Al Qusais Mediclinic Welcare Hospital Sharjah Mediclinic City Hospital Al Fardan Persian Gulf Mediclinic Beach Road Al Madar Medical Centre Ajman Manchester Gulf of Oman Qatar Al Aqua Medical Centre Dubai Mediclinic Al Sufouh Mediclinic IBN Battuta Mediclinic Dubai Mall Mediclinic Arabian Ranches Mediclinic Meadows Khalifa Street Hospital 1 GICC Al Marnoura Mediclinic Corniche Airport Road Hospital Baniyas Abu Dhabi Al Bateen 3 Mussafah ICAD Al Madar Medical Centre 2 ENEC Muscat Mediclinic Al Hili Al Mirfa Al Yahar Oman Zakher Healthcare Centre 3 Al Sanaya Madinat Zayed Al Ain Hospital Diagnostic Centre Al Noor Family Centre Emirate of Abu Dhabi Notes: Al Noor Clinics 1.
Gulf International Cancer Centre Al Noor Hospitals 2.
Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation Mediclinic Clinics 3.
Mussafah and Madinat Zayed include two clinics each.
Mediclinic Hospitals however, and strategies for improvement of the MARKET OVERVIEW patient experience are a focus for 2016 17.
The Although the region faces a low oil price environment Press Ganey survey will also be extended to all and softening of consumer sentiment, the Al Noor facilities.
Middle East remains a growth market, where the The platform seeks to communicate with patients Combination of Mediclinic International and the Al through many channels to ensure that information Noor Hospitals Group has created a clear leader in is relayed quickly, accurately and at the convenience the UAE private healthcare sector.
of the patient or prospective patient.
These channels Opportunities include the provision of services include free health checks, seminars and talks, and for a growing and ageing population, which is the positioning of Mediclinic Middle East doctors facing an increased incidence of lifestyle-related as figures of authority through media appearances medical conditions, in a region where governments and social media.
Mediclinic Middle Easts Facebook are seeking to diversify their economies away pages also achieved 86% growth in follower numbers from dependence on oil revenues.
Meanwhile, during 2015 16. key challenges include any further softening of the regions economy, changes to the regulatory PEOPLE environment, the rising cost of healthcare, and The UAE remains an attractive employment increased competition with the arrival of new destination, although high inflation does put international entrants see the Market Overview pressure on salaries.
During 2015 16, Mediclinic AR section on page 17 for more details.
Middle East again secured an increase in employee numbers in Dubai, with 3% growth.
Meanwhile the SUSTAINABILITY Combination with Al Noor brought an additional 4 425 employees to the platform, taking total staff PATIENT EXPERIENCE numbers to 6 932.
We look to attract and retain the Delivering a seamless, high-quality patient experience very best professionals with market-related salaries is key to the success of Mediclinic Middle Easts and benefits, including life insurance and permanent business.
The increase in inpatient admissions and disability benefits, comprehensive training, open outpatient attendance is an indication that the communication and sound management practices.
platform has secured patient trust.
Meanwhile, the first full-year results of the Press Ganey patient Mediclinic Middle East continued to organise medical survey show that Mediclinic Middle East is delivering education sessions, both at an individual facility a good patient experience, with inpatient satisfaction level and at a corporate level, for its employed and at 80.3% and outpatient satisfaction at 79.9%.
This scheme is extremely Significant opportunities for improvement do exist, popular with our doctors and is a key component of our retention strategy.
