STRATEGIC REPORT ABOUT THE AL NOOR COMBINATION The Combination of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited was completed in February 2016 creating the largest private healthcare provider in the United Arab Emirates.
Al Noor provides primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare to over two million outpatients per annum through three hospitals, 29 clinics and an oncology centre, mainly in Abu Dhabi.
Al Noor brings more than 4 000 experienced employees into the Mediclinic Group, including 684 physicians.
The combined business represents a unique platform from which to pursue numerous expansion opportunities in the high-growth UAE and wider Middle East healthcare market, reinforcing our commitment to drive the delivery of world class healthcare services in the region.
The combination also further diversi es Mediclinics geographic pro le internationally, gives us additional exposure to USD-based high-growth earnings, and generates incremental financial and trading bene ts through a listing on the LSE.
Danie Meintjes, CEO Mediclinic International KEY BENEFITS COMPELLING STRATEGIC FIT GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSIFICATION The combined organisation is a signi cant step The Combination enhanced Mediclinics wellforward for Mediclinic in the delivery of its strategic balanced geographic portfolio across Southern objective to create a leading international healthcare Africa, Switzerland and the UAE, with exposure to Group, underpinned by the complementary the UK market through its minority stake in Spire geographies of the two businesses and shared Healthcare Group plc.
The enlarged Mediclinic Middle commitment to outstanding patient care.
East contributed 26% of the Groups underlying earnings for the period ended 31 March 2016.
ATTRACTIVE GROWTH FINANCIAL FLEXIBILITY OPPORTUNITIES The Combination brings a primary listing on the Main There are substantial unmet medical needs in the Market of the London Stock Exchange and has been Middle East, with private healthcare growing fast followed by inclusion in the FSTE 100 index.
This will in response to the needs of a rapidly expanding give Mediclinic access to a broader global investor and ageing population, an increasing incidence of base and new sources of capital at a lower cost.
lifestyle-related medical conditions and service gaps in the current healthcare market.
SIGNIFICANT COST SYNERGIES The close proximity of Mediclinics operations in Dubai and the complementary nature of the two operations o er economies of scale through increased purchasing power, combining corporate functions and sharing operation teams, in addition to sharing knowledge and best practice across the Group.
3 350 684 29 2.0 HOSPITALS BEDS PHYSICIANS CLINICS MILLION OUTPATIENTS 11 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
