STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTMENT CASE DEFENSIVE INDUSTRY WITH POTENTIAL FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Operating in a strongly defensive sector with demand relatively unaff ected by economic cycles.
Continued growth expected in demand for healthcare due to population growth, ageing population, consumerism, technological advancement, the burden of disease and government funding limitations.
STRONG TRACK RECORD Led by an experienced and proven Board and Management team with an average corporate level tenure of 20 years.
Delivered stable and strong operational growth for almost three decades.
Strong track record in selecting earnings-enhancing capital projects and ability to integrate and extract value from acquisitions.
Long-term commitment since inception from Remgro, Mediclinics largest shareholder.
INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE Well positioned as a trusted provider of hospital services in developing and developed markets: Southern Africa, Europe and Middle East.
Signifi cantly expanded presence in UAE through the Combination with Al Noor, providing leading operations in both Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
Leading position in all the markets in which it operates which excludes the UK.
Geographic diversifi cation mitigates country-specifi c risk.
PURE SERVICES PLAYER Long-term investor and manager of mostly acute care, , multi-disciplinary hospitals and related outpatient facilities.
Extensive property portfolio in prime real estate provides valuable operational fl exibility and strong assets to underpin the business.
FURTHER GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES Signifi cant experience in integrating and growing acquired assets.
Committed to establishing centres of excellence and co-ordinated care initiatives, and expanding capacity via identifi ed Greenfi eld projects.
COMMITMENT TO QUALITY CARE Sustainable, competitive advantage underpinned by continuous focus on patient safety, excellence in clinical performance and delivery of measurable, cost-eff ective care.
SUSTAINABILITY Commitment to manage business in a sustainable way, upholding the highest standards of ethics and corporate governance practices: value and respect of employees, communities and the environment.
Focus on integrity to maintain and improve confi dence, trust and respect of all stakeholders.
