Strategic Report Our Business Model NMC currently operates or manages four strategic verticals within its healthcare division.
In addition, the Group is also a leading UAE supplier of products and consumables across several key market segments, through its distribution division, with the major contribution coming from healthcare related products.
HEALTHCARE DIVISION Pricing of our healthcare services is PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION Through our healthcare division we typically negotiated on an annual basis AND WHOLESALE provide people with a range of high with the insurance companies we work NMCs distribution division, the Products quality outpatient and inpatient services with and may differ between the various & consumables vertical, is now one of the across our facilities.
These facilities range insurance plans offered in the market.
largest in the UAE and it offers products from the larger specialty hospitals to In contrast, prices of the majority of across several segments including medical centres, providing care along the pharmaceutical products sold in our Pharmaceuticals, FMCG, Scientific care pathway from emergency and shortpharmacies are regulated and set Equipment and Food.
term health to long-term and in-home by the UAE Ministry of Health.
Our major operational presence NMC counts among its clients UAE is in the UAE market, however, we have NMC Hospitals are currently covered Government entities, the largest UAE also established operations in Europe by the majority of the approximately retailers, pharmacies and hospital and the Gulf region mainly through our 51 insurance companies operating operators.
We supply our customers Long-term & Home Care and Maternity in the UAE, including the largest market with a portfolio of globally and locally & Fertility verticals.
These companies have established brands and products with either a direct relationship with us or end-user demand in the UAE.
We ensure Our network of retail pharmacies sells through Third Party Administrators our customers receive quality products pharmaceuticals mainly prescribed by who currently provide private medical in a timely manner with the required our doctors to our patients either within, insurance into the Abu Dhabi market.
or in the immediate vicinity of, our healthcare services facilities, as well as Our Healthcare division also provides Our distribution capabilities are supported numerous healthcare related products operational and management services by a network of strategically located supplied by our Products & consumables to third party owned healthcare services warehouses and a fleet of vehicles vertical.
In return for our services, we ensuring timely delivery to our customers approach maximises patient receive a contracted management across the country.
Products are convenience and increases revenue fee by the asset owner.
Typically, the predominantly sold on credit, with contribution to our business.
fee received is partially tied to a set payments collected based on agreed of pre-agreed performance metrics terms.
Our pricing of these products While we serve both insured and incorporating either qualitative and or includes a mark-up over the product self-paying patients, the overwhelming quantitative operational targets.
cost to generate profit margins and majority of our healthcare divisions We currently have one management cost of imports, duties, registration revenue is generated through insured contract with the UAE Ministry of and administration fees, distribution patients.
Usually insured patients have Presidential Affairs pertaining to expenses, credit costs and, in certain to make a co-payment, which is the a general hospital in Umm al Quwain cases, marketing costs.
Pharmaceutical proportion of the full price of services in the Northern Emirates.
is the only segment where pricing is rendered that the patient pays directly widely regulated by the UAE Ministry to NMC when they receive services of Health.
NMC then submits claims to insurance companies to collect the remainder of our fees.
14 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Strategic Report Only registered domestic distributors, NMC procurement is on a principal basis.
such as a locally established company In the vast majority of cases, NMC takes like NMC, are entitled by customs the inventory and collection risk of the authorities to import products into the product that it buys and sells.
Principals suppliers contract as a Principal rather than an agent NMC as their distributor to gain access enhances NMCs margins at the expense to the UAE market through a reputable of increasing the Groups risk profile.
partner with a long track-record, Our agreements are almost exclusively established distribution channels operated on a credit basis, with the and infrastructure and strong financial number credit days agreed with standing.
Every individual brand and our Principals.
product has to go through an approval and registration process with local authorities before being allowed to be sold in the country.
NMC facilitates this process and ensures local requirements are met.
The majority of agreements with our Principals are on exclusive basis.
All agreements are registered with the government.
Product Distribution Healthcare Services NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15
