Directors Report iii select suitable accounting policies and 3.
Directors Confirmation Political Contributions apply them consistently: The Directors are responsible for preparing No political contributions were made during the Annual Report in accordance with iv make judgments and estimates that are the year.
The Company has a policy of applicable law and regulations.
Having reasonable and prudent: not making political donations to political taken advice from the Audit Committee, organisations or independent election v present information, including the Board considers the Annual Report candidates anywhere in the world as accounting policies, in a manner that and Accounts, taken as a whole, as fair, defined by the Political Parties, Election provides relevant, reliable, comparable balanced and understandable and that and Referendums Act 2000. and understandable information: and it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys vi prepare the financial statements on Post Balance Sheet Events performance, business model and strategy.
a going concern basis unless it is There have been no significant post inappropriate to presume that the Neither the Company nor the Directors balance sheet events since 31 December Company and the Group will continue accept any liability to any person in relation 2016. in business.
to the Annual Report except to the extent that such liability could arise under The Directors are responsible for keeping Reappointment of Auditor English law.
proper accounting records which disclose Ernst & Young LLP are willing to continue with reasonable accuracy at any time 4.
Disclosure of Information to in office and, accordingly, resolutions the financial position of the Company the Auditor concerning their reappointment and and of the Group and to enable them to Having made the requisite enquiries, so far to authorise the Directors to set their ensure that the financial statements and as the Directors are aware as at the date remuneration will be proposed at the Directors Remuneration Report comply of this Statement, there is no relevant audit forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
with the Companies Act 2006 and, for information as defined by section 418 3 the consolidated financial statements, of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
They Directors Statements Companys auditor is unaware and the are also responsible for the system of Directors have taken all the steps they internal control, for safeguarding the assets of Responsibility ought to have taken to make themselves of the Company and the Group and, aware of any relevant audit information and The Directors are responsible for preparing hence, for taking reasonable steps for the to establish that the Companys auditor is the Annual Report and Accounts in prevention and detection of fraud and other aware of that information.
accordance with applicable law and irregularities.
regulations and keeping proper accounting Annual General Meeting The Directors are responsible for the records.
Detailed below are statements The Annual General Meeting of the maintenance and integrity of the corporate made by the Directors in relation to their Company will be held on 8 June 2017. and financial information included on the responsibilities, disclosure of information to The notice of meeting can be found in the Companys website.
Legislation in the the Companys auditor and going concern.
document which accompanies this Annual United Kingdom governing the preparation Report and Accounts.
Financial Statements and and dissemination of financial statements the Companys website www.
Accounting Records may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law of England and Wales By order of the Board requires the Directors to prepare for each 2.
Directors Responsibility financial year financial statements which Statement give a true and fair view of the state of The Board confirms to the best of its affairs of the Company and of the Group knowledge that: Elaine Marriner at the end of the financial year and of the i the Group and parent company financial Company Secretary profit or loss of the Group for that period.
statements, prepared in accordance 7 March 2017 In preparing those financial statements the with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a Directors are required to: true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group i state whether the Group financial and parent company: and statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial ii the Directors Report and the Strategic Reporting Standards IFRS as Report include a fair review of the adopted for use in the EU and Article 4 development and performance of the of the EU IAS Regulations: business and the position of the Group together with a description of the ii state whether the parent company principal risks and uncertainties that financial statements have been it faces.
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU: PageGroup Annual Report 2016 75
