Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Business Model PageGroup is organised into three brands operating at A Global Leader different levels of the market.
What we do We are one of the worlds best EXECUTIVE known and most respected SEARCH specialist recruitment consultancies.
We deliver recruitment services to clients QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL through a network of 140 offices across 36 countries.
Geographic reach CLERICAL PROFESSIONAL PageGroup has a truly global reach, with a substantial and well-balanced business across GENERALIST all regions, including Latin STAFFING America and Asia.
We source candidates from domestic and international markets and provide a comprehensive service to both Page Executive local and multinational clients.
Page Executive is the Groups executive search business and offers a range of Discipline expertise search, selection and management solutions for organisations needing to attract We organise our consultants and retain their leadership talent.
The roles on which we focus typically sit at the into 14 specialist discipline sub-board and board levels.
teams, grouped into four broad categories.
We then specialise Michael Page further e. g. digital marketing within Marketing to ensure Michael Page is the original PageGroup brand and is normally established as we provide expert recruitment the first business in each new country that we enter.
Michael Page is comprised services to our clients.
of 14 broad disciplines, each providing a service to a specialist area of the Perm and temp mix market.
Operating at the qualified professional and management level, Michael Page recruits on a permanent, temporary, contract or interim basis.
PageGroup is the international market leader for permanent recruitment in the majority of Page Personnel countries in which we operate.
We also have a substantial Page Personnel offers specialist recruitment services to organisations and growing temporary requiring permanent employees or temporary or contract staff at technical and recruitment business in markets administrative support, professional clerical and junior management levels.
where temporary placements for professionally qualified candidates are culturally accepted.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 4 TARGETED SECTORS Business Model A focus on organic growth PageGroups business model has proved itself both through economic cycles and as the business has expanded into a global enterprise.
At its core is a focus on organic growth.
PageGroup offers its consultants Recruitment is a fast-paced and dynamic business.
a well-defined and varied career in recruitment.
This Our agility gives us the confidence to respond quickly to includes a clear development structure with significant Agile and the opportunities and challenges as they appear.
opportunities for the most talented.
Career responsive development structure A focus on team-based performance We regularly move experienced directors Team rather than the individual promotes into markets where they can add the profit-led positive corporate behaviour and most value and guide the business Organic compensation Global consistent quality of service for both through the challenges of a market Growth management clients and candidates.
cycle, while allowing us to retain and mobility motivate key senior talent.
Productivity-led Experienced expansion Our operational metrics focus on productivity, Experience through economic cycles management pool by team, discipline and geography.
This bottom-up and across geographies and disciplines approach aligns expansion criteria throughout the Group, reduces our learning curve, maximises focusing and optimising investment on key priorities.
scalability and is crucial for placing resources where they will add the most value.
Our objectives Talent Diversified Scalable Sustainable and skills organic and flexible development growth growth capacity Diversification helps The ability to respond Our business is to mitigate the cyclical quickly to changing reliant on having The combination of these nature of the recruitment market conditions is the experience to objectives has enabled markets, which for us critical to managing manage the challenges PageGroup to deliver strong and identify the is combined with high the business efficiently cash flows and have the opportunities across operational gearing throughout economic financial strength to prosper our local markets.
We ensure that we Our scalability is It also gives the resilience Our broad-based always have the ability to dependent on having to cope with market capabilities enable us flex our capacity up and the right people downturns without damaging to capitalise on market down, while maintaining available to grow the the businesss long-term opportunities across a core presence in each business and nurture prospects.
the globe, avoiding market to service clients the next generation.
over-reliance on any one properly and retain geography or discipline.
management experience to enable a quick recovery.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 5 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our competitive advantage Culture Brand Scale Our true competitive advantage is the combination of these three factors and the balance we have achieved in the business over the past 40 years.
We generate funds through fees earned for placing candidates in permanent and temporary roles.
Brand Scale Culture Page Executive, Michael Page and Page Our scale enables PageGroup to commit PageGroups culture is unique in the Personnel are brands which inspire high to markets through cycles giving clients sector and has ingrained values of how levels of confidence, trust and assurance the confidence to build long-term to do business ethically and to make of quality service.
Our consistent relationships with us.
It also enables a decisions for the long term.
commitment to the markets in which we broader client offering with participation It is a global culture that delivers a operate and level of expertise enables from multiple disciplines, even in some of consistent approach both internally and these brands to resonate strongly in their our newest markets.
externally, while being accepting of the marketplace.
The ability to offer diverse expertise particular character of each local market.
The digital revolution has reshaped the across a broad range of complementary The global nature of the culture is recruitment sectors marketing and specialisms and geographies enhances aided by a high degree of management delivery channels.
We are a highly active our offering and the candidate pools mobility.
However, high quality we can access.
Our scale enables us It is reinforced through our consultant candidates will only continue to place to build an unrivalled skillset and level training programmes, the processes by key decisions on their future in the hands of experience, equally available to the which we do business, and our teamof consultants who have substance smallest and largest of our clients.
based approach which is at the heart of behind their online marketing profile.
Our strong financial standing has also everything we do.
It also encourages us We are trusted by our clients and been increasingly important for many to challenge ourselves with confidence, candidates to remain committed, to clients who prefer not to work with and to respect the successes of our provide a high quality service and to be the smaller market players, particularly colleagues.
in times of economic uncertainty.
Temporary staff also derive comfort from our financial strength that their salaries will be paid.
Our strategy Our strategy aims to fulfil our vision of Large, High Potential being the leading specialist recruiter Typically under-developed markets, but where we have a successful track record in each of the markets in which we and confidence in our ability to scale our operations substantially, for example Latin operate.
Our service offering is spread America and South East Asia.
across a broad set of disciplines and geographies, focusing on Large, Proven opportunities where our industry and market experience can set us apart These are large markets where we are already proven with a strong track record and a from the competition.
Operating in significant presence, for example the UK and Australia.
36 geographies and in highly diverse cultures, we have established three categories into which we have grouped Small and Medium, High Margin each of our markets based on criteria Markets which are, or could be, significant profit contributors with attractive conversion including the size of the opportunity margins, but are unlikely or not yet proven to be able to grow to more than 300 fee and the potential for future growth.
earners, for example Japan and Switzerland.
This structure has provided a clear investment framework for the business.
See page 7 for more on our Strategic Vision PageGroup Annual Report 2016 6
