Strategic Review This review will take you through the source of our competitive I would like to welcome you to our advantage and the relationship to our Strategic Plan.
Then following on from this, how we approach our investment plan in our markets.
Strategic Review, where we have We continue this year to relate how we measure performance, through our KPIs both financial and non financial with associated outlined how we see current market risks.
These risks then directly link to the four elements financial, strategic, people and operational of the performance criteria in our dynamics, together with PageGroups current executive remuneration plans.
Global vision Our global diversification strategy is part of our clear strategic vision: to be the leading specialist recruiter in the markets in which we operate.
Our presence in major global economies enables the greatest potential for long-term growth in gross profit at attractive conversion rates.
This enables us to offer a premium service that is valued by clients and attracts the highest calibre of clients.
We offer our services across a broad set of disciplines and specialisations, solely within the professional recruitment market.
Our background is in permanent recruitment, but nearly 25% of the business is now in the temporary market, with this being dependent on local culture and market conditions.
Steve Ingham We offer a premium service which is valued by clients and attracts the CEO PageGroup highest calibre of candidates, due to our focus on opportunities where our market and industry knowledge can set us apart.
Our global diversification strategy is part of our clear strategic vision: to be the leading specialist recruiter in the markets in which we operate.
Strategic framework PageGroup is focused on delivering against three key objectives to achieve its strategic vision and sustainable financial returns.
These are to: 1 look for organic and diversified growth: 2 position the business to be efficiently scalable and highly flexi ble to react to market conditions: and 3 nurtur e and develop our people, driving our meritocratic growth model.
Organic growth is at the centre of our business model.
As set out on page 5, key elements of our business model are derived from this team-led approach, with great value placed on structured career development and the value that experienced management brings to the business.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 7 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information K R O W T A L Our value proposition Our value proposition is based around expertise and specialism and for this to be delivered in a consistent manner, supported by high quality processes.
When these elements are brought together, the potential for a successful outcome for both client and candidate is maximised.
Such successes enhance our reputation: bring greater repeat business: and turn candidates into clients and vice-versa.
Clients Leads to... Sector expertise Repeat business Appropriate candidate Greater exclusivity shortlist Future candidates Professional high quality service Specialist industry and market knowledge Global reach, with deep local knowledge Consultants Leads to... Team-based structure and Rapid career promotion compensation Career opportunities Expertise in premium candidate sourcing Access to jobs across entire Reward and recognition PageGroup Experienced advocate for client and candidate Consistent process Consistent, high quality processes Candidates Leads to... Professional high quality Career-long relationship service Peer recommendations Market understanding and Future client client profiling Career advice throughout their career is valued greatly, The mobility of our people, together with People and management and, as such, our management team the significant loyalty of the management We recognise that it is our people who has some of the longest tenure and team, vastly enhances the flexibility are at the heart of everything we do, experience in the industry.
Due to this of our business model and allows the particularly as an organically grown constant depth of talent that is available business to progress even in uncertain business.
Our consultants quickly come to the business, the senior executive markets.
We therefore invest significantly to understand that we can offer more team can flex the business exposure in our people, as the recruitment, than a long-term and fulfilling career to any of our markets, both up and retention and development of talent is in recruitment.
Our strong record of down, according to prevailing market fundamental in our ability to achieve internal career moves and promotion conditions.
They take decisions as to long-term sustainable growth.
from within, means that people who where PageGroup can achieve the join us know that they could be our greatest return on investment from the future senior managers and main Board allocation of management resource.
The experience acquired PageGroup Annual Report 2016 8 E D O M R U O Strategic Review but the advantages of being an early future impact on Group revenue.
Set out Market dynamics participant and building scale can be on page 11 is an explanation of these The professional recruitment sector has considerable.
categorisations and our approach to these always been highly sensitive to fluctuating different markets.
As set out in the table below, PageGroup economic conditions and is strongly views certain key features as defining Our market categorisation has provided influenced by client and candidate a particular recruitment market profile, the business with a framework within confidence.
Market liquidity can change categorised by the proportion of roles filled which investment decisions can be judged, rapidly, whether in terms of availability through a recruitment agency market and guidance as to where management of jobs and candidates, or candidate penetration.
expertise and fee earner headcount is best confidence in taking the next step in their placed.
These decisions are continuously career.
It can also be localised, whether by The challenges to achieving a significant reviewed in order to best align them to the geography or discipline, and differ between market position vary across these business needs and the prevailing market temporary and permanent placements in markets, as does their attractiveness environment, which is often fast moving the same market.
We intend to maintain to PageGroup.
These features, when and highly dynamic.
our strategy of retaining our market taken together with PageGroups historic presence throughout downturns, whilst success in a particular market, helped Operational efficiency closely controlling our cost base.
define the Strategic Vision and identify which geographies would have the highest PageGroup is very aware of the need for Through diversification, PageGroup potential for long-term success.
high levels of operational efficiency in a has a well-balanced business profile in recruitment business, and especially one order to mitigate the exposure to any Strategic vision with such a global footprint.
Central to the one geographic area or discipline.
This strategic objectives of scalable growth and strategy requires us to operate in very PageGroup has a Strategic Vision flexibility through the cycle is for this to be diverse markets, each with a particular which defines its aspirations within achieved while controlling the fixed asset recruitment culture, such as the degree to various markets.
which temporary placement opportunities framework to focus investment plans are acceptable to professionals.
Other on geographies with the greatest longOur relentless focus on sharing best aspects of this culture include the degree term potential, and to help structure the practice across the Group enhances the of outsourced recruitment undertaken, as career moves of the rising stars in the quality and consistency of the service opposed to in-house by HR departments.
A portion of the Executive offering.
We have continued to centralise In a number of geographic regions, such Directors remuneration is also linked to the many of our support functions into regional as Latin America or Greater China, our performance against milestones within this shared service centres enabling the potential markets are very large, yet Vision, and its overall achievement.
capture and leverage of skills and expertise relatively immature.
This provides not only for the benefit of the whole Group, An essential part of the development of significant market share opportunities, but whilst maintaining the robustness of the this Vision was to review the markets in also business development challenges.
which PageGroup operated, and to identify New markets can take time to crack, which had the greatest potential and likely Emerging Developing Mature 0-15% 15-30% 30-70% Over 70% Market penetration Limited international Few well-established Well developed markets Highly competitive Competition operators present regional players with many international operators France, Australasia, Latin America, SE Asia Germany, China UK, US Examples Holland, Spain, Italy PageGroup Annual Report 2016 9 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Market drivers of PageGroup performance As well as the influence of the general macro-economic environment on business activity, there are a number of specific market-based drivers which can materially impact PageGroups financial performance.
These are split into elements which affect market liquidity and those which influence gross profit and consultant productivity.
It is the nature of the professional recruitment market that strong market conditions will see drivers in both elements rapidly align, and this has a dramatic impact on PageGroups overall performance and conversion margins.
Impact Comment Financial Impact Often highly discipline geography-specific, especially at midpoints in the cycle Mainly visible through as client confidence grows.
This is a key driver of most other elements, as improvement in gross Candidate shortages the quality of a recruiter is most clearly demonstrated through their ability to profit, but a buoyant market source difficult-to-find candidates.
helps to drive productivity, principally through reducing the time to hire.
A major influence on market liquidity where macro-environment is sufficiently stable, candidates will look to progress their careers, which helps to drive job Candidate confidence liquidity.
Group average historically moves within a 10% range over the cycle Notable influence on Fees rates 19.5%-22%.
both gross profit and also conversion rate.
Productivity, especially in permanent Reflects level of candidate shortage and liquidity within a particular discipline Wage inflation recruitment, is significantly or geography, plus macro-economic conditions.
enhanced as these market drivers positively align.
As candidates become scarcer, companies reduce the number of interviews Time to hire and shorten the decision making process in order not to lose preferred candidates.
end of 2016, the fee earner and total Finally, further work on YourPage, our Our 2016 achievements headcount was at record levels for the Employee Value Proposition programme, PageGroup made good progress Group.
This was achieved together with has looked to provide greater clarity of against its three strategic objectives in the continued best operational support individual career paths, and to increase 2016.
The business continued to grow ratio to date, reflecting operational retention of identified talent at key career its market presence in core target areas efficiencies delivered within the business.
points and in key markets.
with the continued introduction of new As well as progress in headcount and specialisms.
The opening of the new market presence, there has been a office in Thailand, along with increasing strong focus on operational flexibility our market share in already established across the Group.
countries, emphasises further the Groups strategy of global diversification.
We completed the Marketing and European Finance transition to our new Growth was in temporary as well Shared Service Centre in Barcelona.
as permanent recruitment, further diversifying the service offering.
At the PageGroup Annual Report 2016 10 Gross Profit and Productivity Market Liquidity Strategic Review How we categorise the markets In 2013, PageGroup categorised each of its markets around the globe based on criteria such as the potential for future growth.
This growth potential was assessed on a combination of expectations for economic growth, Large, size of the existing PageGroup operations relative to the market, and competitive landscape.
High Potential The outcome was three categories as set out in the table to the right, into which the 36 geographical markets in which we operate were placed.
Five markets were identified as Large, High Potential markets.
These Substantial, high potential markets include the large economies of the US, Germany for recruitment.
Typically underand Greater China, together with the regions of Latin developed, but where PageGroup America and South East Asia.
Typically under-developed has a successful track record, and from a recruitment perspective, each satisfied key criteria, including: confidence in its ability to successfully scale operations.
Positive PageGroup track record: Ability to adapt PageGr oup culture to local culture: Ability to hir e and retain local consultants: Ability to r oll-out disciplines and open offices: Germany, Greater China, Latin America, South East Asia and Attractive conversion rate potential: and the US.
Six historically successful geographies were categorised as Large, Proven, reflecting the fact that PageGroup had, within the last economic cycle, operated substantial businesses in each.
While currently below Sustained investment through peak levels, they have a proven track record, and, as cycle adding headcount offices a group, the potential to return to historic high levels disciplines.
albeit with a different mix of headcount and disciplines.
Finally, the remaining businesses were categorised as Small and Medium, High Margin.
This reflects the fact that each individually will not have the scale or potential Create a market leading network of to be a significant contributor to gross profit.
However, offices, management and headcount.
they each offer the prospect of attractive margins and c. 40% of Group gross profit fee include countries with some of the highest fee rates and earners: 30% conversion rates.
conversion margins in the Group.
Within this category are three markets Japan, India and Africa that all have the long-term potential to achieve Large, High Potential status.
Gross profit flat for the year, strong growth in LatAm ex.
Investment approach Conditions difficult in Brazil and within New York Financial Services.
Investment in the business has been focused on developing the long-term sustainability of the business and is supported by significant balance sheet strength and cash flow generation.
The market categorisation Continue investment in new provides an investment framework for the business.
Investment comes in a range of forms including headcount and management team, headcount, new offices and infrastructure, marketing whilst improving conversion rates.
spend and minimum levels of market presence through the economic cycle.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 11 2017 2016 STRATEGIC INVESTMENT EXAMPLES CATEGORISATION PLAN RESULTS VISION APPROACH Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Small and Medium, Large, High Margin Proven Have been, or could be, significant Large markets in which PageGroup profit contributors for PageGroup, CATEGORISATION is already proven with a strong track but not likely to be in excess of record and a significant presence.
UK, France, Australia, Japan, Middle East, Africa, the Netherlands, Italy India, Canada, Turkey and other EXAMPLES and Spain.
Investment reflects gross profit Respond to market conditions, focus INVESTMENT growth and market conditions.
APPROACH Collectively return to 2007 peak levels Investment responsive to market of operating profit and conversion conditions.
Expected to represent STRATEGIC rates: equivalent to c. 45% of Group c. 15% of Group gross profit fee VISION gross profit fee earners.
Gross profit growth of 4%, tough Gross profit records in 11 countries, 2016 trading conditions in the UK.
RESULTS Excluding this, growth was 11%.
Continue to drive future growth Continued focus on growth and 2017 through existing capacity, as well as improving our conversion rates.
