Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 52 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 53 Directors report Governance by participating fully in the GRESB survey for After the UK voted to leave the European Union b.
2.3: Nonexecutive Directors should Corporate governance statement in June, a surprise for many both at home and be appointed for a specified term.
The Company will look to Compliance with the UK Corporate steadily build on its GRESB results each year.
abroad, major shareholders were contacted.
Governance Code 2014 the Code Explanation: Directors are appointed for a Chairmans The current leverage position was considered term which expires when either the Director Redefine International is a UKREIT with a A larger portfolio brings a corresponding to be the Companys greatest risk foremost i is not reappointed following retirement, increase in risk and this has been a major premium listing on the Main Market of the LSE among shareholders concerns.
Management ii is removed or vacates office, iii resigns and a secondary listing on the Real Estate focus for the Audit and Risk Committee during has reiterated the Companys commitment to or does not offer themselves for reelection, the year.
Grant Thornton UK LLP has been Real Estate Holding and Development sector of statement reduce leverage to within a target range of 40 or iv terminates their appointment on three the Main Board of the JSE.
The Company was appointed as the internal auditor and enhanced to 50 per cent in the medium term through a months notice.
It should be noted that internal controls and risk management have incorporated in the Isle of Man with registered combination of capital recycling and refinancing the reappointment of any independent number 111198C in 2004 and was reregistered been thoroughly reviewed by the committee.
Since the referendum, the NonExecutive Director who has served Their full report can be found on page 64 and under the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 Companys performance, relative to the market more than six years will be subject to a in December 2013, with registered number the three year viability statement can be found With the expansion of the portfolio, the and its peers, is reflective of the markets rigorous review when being considered for on page 15.
The Companys home state is the confidence in Redefine International to provide reelection.
Board has been particularly mindful that United Kingdom.
2016 has seen the third anniversary of the Long secure income, underpinned by a diversified, Further to the secondary listing of the Company Compliance with the Listing Rules Term Incentive Plan which was implemented welllocated portfolio of assets with attractive governance standards throughout the in South Africa on 28 October 2013, the JSE following the internalisation of management in During the reporting year, Redefine Properties property fundamentals.
Yearend property accepted that Redefine International will Company remain robust.
The performance conditions produced values as a whole have remained broadly had a 30.07 per cent shareholding in the primarily comply with the Code as issued by the a result of nil vesting for the CEO and deputy Company and was regarded as a controlling flat across the portfolio and, although the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 CEO which, given the evolution of the Company Companys UK asset values are down circa shareholder as defined in LR 6.1.
uk as opposed to the provisions over the last three years, was clearly not a a Chapter 6 Company with a controlling 1.9 per cent, the Company is well positioned to of the King III Report on Governance for South reflection of the executives performance nor in withstand a material reduction in values in terms shareholder, Redefine International has Africa 2009.
The Company has substantially line with shareholder returns achieved for the complied with LR 9.8.
4 14 : of general covenant headroom and liquidity.
complied with the Code requirements for the same period.
Although the use of discretion was 1.
The Company entered into a relationship In September 2016, our largest shareholder, reporting year ended 31 August 2016 and up considered by the Remuneration Committee, Redefine Properties, issued EUR 150 million agreement with Redefine Properties on to the date of this document.
The only areas of itwas recommended that the result be upheld 17 November 2014 the Agreement and secured bonds exchangeable into Redefine noncompliance are as follows: but the current policy be amended so as to This has been a milestone year for Redefine International shares.
Redefine International the Board confirms that during the year better reflect underlying performance going International, with assets under management a.
1.2: Half of the Board should underreview: took steps to assure the market that the forward.
A resolution to approve the new increasing by 50 per cent to 1.5 billion following comprise independent Nonexecutive exchangeable bonds would have no impact on a. the Company has complied with the remuneration policy will be proposed at the the acquisition of the Aegon AUK portfolio directors.
its capital structure, business plan or strategy.
independence provisions included in the AGM on 23January 2017. and, with the expansion of the Company, Explanation: The Board currently comprises In light of current market conditions, the Board Agreement: the Board has been particularly mindful that Investor engagement has been at the four Executives, four Independent is pleased that the management team has governance standards throughout the Company b. as far as the Company is aware, Redefine forefront of our actions during the year, and Nonexecutives and two Nonexecutives continued to deliver a solid performance, to remain robust.
This is the first year that Redefine Properties has complied with the we wish to thank our shareholders for their who represent the major shareholder, create a much stronger Company, portfolio and International will be reporting under the 2014 UK independence provisions included in the continuing support and feedback.
At the EGM Redefine Properties.
We are looking forward Corporate Governance Code the Code, and Agreement: and in September 2015, an overwhelming vote in was appointed in order to assist with the to building on these achievements as we enter the Board has focused on the requirements to favour for the AUK acquisition was received, c. the election and reelection of search for a new independent director at our next decade as a public company.
independent shareholders at the AGM placing the business in a much stronger position the beginning of the financial year.
Due to from which to drive shareholder value.
The Board has reviewed the Annual Report held on 26 January 2016 was conducted If the Company is to progress, strong leadership the pending requirement for a prospectus in accordance with the election and Accounts, and considers them to be fair, and Board effectiveness are foremost and to support the February 2016 capital raise, In March a successful 115 million equity balanced and understandable and provides provisions of LR 9.2.
2F thus an external Board evaluation has been for which a new director would have taken placement was completed.
There was strong and approved by: shareholders with the necessary information undertaken for the first time to assess full responsibility, and due to the economic demand from both existing shareholders and with which to assess the Companys position Board performance.
The current Board conditions at the time, it was considered in i. the shareholders of the Company: new investors, comfortably exceeding the and performance, business model and strategy.
comprises the Chairman, four executives, everyones best interests that this matter be and 100million target initially set by the Board.
The Board recommends that shareholders four independent nonexecutives and two put on hold until after the conclusion of the ii.
the independent shareholders of the With the completion of the AUK acquisition, vote to adopt the Annual Report and Accounts nonexecutives representing the Companys Board evaluation.
Company all shareholders other Greg Clarke I am pleased to report that the Company and support the reelection of their Board largest shareholder Redefine Properties.
This Although the current composition does than Redefine Properties and its Chairman of the Board has been able to deliver on every aspect of at the AGM to be held on 23 January 2017, evaluation has identified a strong Board with not comply with the Code requirement, it associates.
its strategy by providing sustainable income where Directors will be available to answer any the necessary skills and cohesion to serve our does work well, with no block of individuals 2.
No independent Director has declined to returns, recycling capital, delivering asset questions shareholders may have regarding the .
dominating the decision making process.
support the statements in 1 above.
management opportunities and reducing its cost operation of their Company.
To ensure there is enough independent As the Company continues to grow, the of capital.
Investors on the whole have been oversight of related party transactions, a Compliance with the Disclosure importance of succession planning, both complimentary of the Companys performance.
Greg Clarke committee comprising solely of independent and Transparency Rules at Board and senior management level, is With the portfolio now predominantly focused Chairman of the Board directors has been established to review recognised and has been a focus during the The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of on the UK, it is clear that investors opinions 27 October 2016 such matters before deciding whether a the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are year.
The welfare of our employees has been are mixed as to whether further investment transaction can progress to the Board for monitored to ensure that staff feel valued, contained in this report.
in Germany, or indeed Europe, should be final consideration.
remain motivated and our culture of openness pursued or reduced and this has been a remains intact.
The Company has also continued major consideration of the Board, especially to raise its commitment to the welfare of its followingthe EU referendum.
stakeholders and corporate social responsibility Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 54 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 55 Directors report Governance Board of Directors GREG CLARKE MBA, BA Hons MIKE WATTERS MBA, BSc Eng.
Civil STEPHEN OAKENFULL CFA, BSc Hons Construction MICHAEL FARROW FCIS MSc Corporate Governance GAVIN TIPPER MBA, CA, BCOM, BACC SUSAN FORD ACA BSc Hons Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Age: 59Appointed:October 2011 Age: 57Appointed: December 2013 Age: 37Appointed: December 2013 Age: 62Appointed: August 2011 Age: 51Appointed: August 2011 Age: 56Appointed: December 2013 N C I C R A A N A R N Committee: Committees: Committee: Committees: Committees: Committees: Independent: Complied with independence Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: criteria of the UK Corporate Governance Code Over 27 years experience in the investment Over 16 years experience working in corporate Over 20 years experience of UK listed and private Over 20 years financial experience of companies Over 30 years experience working within various on appointment as Chairman banking and real estate industries finance and real estate property companies and funds working as a director listed in both the UK and South Africa.
leading organisations overseeing finance, strategy and a company secretary and governance matters Significant experience as a director of property Former COO of Redefine International Fund Managers Former technical partner at KPMG Skills and experience: and investment companies in UK and SA Former Group Company Secretary of Cater Cofounder and former finance director for Metric Significant Board experience, including CEO and Former analyst at DTZ Corporate Finance in London Previously COO of the Coronation Group Allen, Jersey Property Investment plc, now LondonMetric Chair roles Former director of Sycom Property Fund and Former management consultant for Turner External appointments: Nonexecutive Director of Property plc, an income focused, diversified Hyprop Investments Limited in SA and Sapphire Founding director of Consortia Partnership Limited, Over 30 years experience of working for and & Townsend Hyprop Investments Limited, Interwaste Holdings FTSE250 REIT Retail Fund in the UK a Jersey licensed trust company running large international public corporations Limited, AVI Limited, York Timber Holdings Limited External appointments: None.
across Europe, Australia and South Africa External appointments: None.
External appointments: Nonexecutive director External appointments: Chairman of Bellzone Mining and various private companies andtrusts.
Former CEO of Lend Lease Corporation, an ASX ofRedefine Properties Limited and International Plc, Nonexecutive Director of RedT Energy plc and 50international property corporation Hotel Properties Limited.
Chairman of Redefine BDL Circle Propertyplc.
Former CEO of Cable and Wireless Hotel Group.
CommunicationsPlc Former Chairman of The Football League and Chairman of the Meteorological Office External appointments: Chairman of the Football Association, Chairman of two private equity owned businesses.
ADRIAN HORSBURGH MRICS DONALD GRANT CA ROBERT ORR MRICS, BSc Estate Management MARC WAINER BERNIE NACKAN BA Econ, SEP Key to committees: Property Director Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director A Audit and Risk Committee Age: 54Appointed: March 2014 Age: 42Appointed: August 2015 Age: 57Appointed: April 2015 Age: 68Appointed: August 2011 Age: 72Appointed: April 2014 C Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Committee: C Committee: None Committees: I R Committee: I Committee: None I Investment Committee Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: N Nominations Committee 30 years experience in the investment property Over ten years experience working in various Over 30 years experience of the German and Over 35 years experience in the property industry Over 40 years working in finance, investment R Remuneration Committee sector specialising in retail and shopping centres banking and broking institutions European real estate markets in South Africa andproperty Former Retail Investment Director and International Over eight years experience working in the Former Country Manager for Germany and former Founder of Investec Property Group, Investec Former financial editor of the Rand Daily Mail, Denotes Chairman of a Committee Director at Jones Lang LaSalle property sector European CEO at JLL Banks property division managing director of Sage Unit Trusts and Executive Director of Sage Group Former Equity Partner and Trainee Surveyor in the Former financial controller of Capital & Counties Founded the International Capital Group for JLL Founder of Redefine Properties Limited All Directors served throughout the year.
investment department at King Sturge Properties PLC, a FTSE 250 company Former member of the Collective Investment External appointments: Nonexecutive Director of External appointments: Executive Chairman of There were no appointments or resignations.
Scheme Advisory Committee in South Africa External appointments: None.
Tishman Speyer Properties UK Limited and APCOA Redefine Properties Limited.
Nonexecutive Director Parking Holdings GmbH.
Adviser to UK and European ofCromwell Property Group.
External appointments: Lead Nonexecutive Director Investments and EQT Real Estate 1 Fund.
Senior Adviser of Redefine Properties Limited and Nonexecutive to Canaccord Genuity Limited.
Director of Rezco Asset Management Group.
Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 56 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 57 Directors report Governance The Board is collectively responsible for the Leadership Board long term success of the Company.
structure composition F P U E The Board Chairman Greg Clarke Chairman of the Board since 1 December 2011 Led by the Chairman, the Board strives to be effective by maintaining strong leadership Responsible for leadership and governance of the Board and by providing transparency and accountability to shareholders for the management and control of the Companys activities.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman who runs the Board and the CEO who runs the business 4 meetings, 4 update telephone calls page 58 40% Executive Directors Committee of the Board Independent Committee of the Board Daytoday management of Company Approves ad hoc matters between Board meetings To review any related Mike Watters Stephen Oakenfull Adrian Horsburgh Donald Grant Subject to authority levels party transactions CEO Deputy CEO Property Director Chief Financial Officer F P U S E F P U E P E F U Directors Any two Independent Nonexecutive Directors Any 3 Independent Directors At least one 29 meetings page 58 1 meeting 40% Independent Nonexecutive Directors To constructively challenge the executives and represent the interests of the shareholders Audit and Risk Nominations Remuneration Investment Committee Committee Committee Committee Michael Farrow Gavin Tipper Robert Orr Sue Ford Senior Independent Director F S U P E F U Ensures that the Groups Considers the composition, Determines the remuneration Assesses investment proposals F P U financial reporting and risk skills and succession planning of the Executive Directors as to whether they should management is properly of the Board within the approved progress to the Board monitored, controlled remuneration policy and reported 20% Nonexecutive Directors Representing the Companys major shareholder Redefine Properties Independent Independent Independent Independent Nonexecutive Directors Nonexecutive Directors Nonexecutive Directors Nonexecutive Director Marc Wainer Bernie Nackan Gavin Tipper Chair Greg Clarke Chair Michael Farrow Chair Robert Orr Chair F P S U S Sue Ford Sue Ford Sue Ford Non Independent Michael Farrow Gavin Tipper Robert Orr Directors Marc Wainer F P E U S Key to skills: Finance Property Europe UK listed companies SA listed companies Mike Watters 5 meetings page 64 1 meeting page 60 3 meetings page 66 Informal meetings page 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Executive Committee Board tenure Diversity Average age Composition Appointment Executive Appointment NonExecutive excluding 9% women 40 9% Safeguards the interests of stakeholders Day-to-day management of the Company Chairman 91% men 1 year Donald Grant 1 year Robert Orr 4050 9% 40% Executives 2 years Adrian Horsburgh 2 years Bernie Nackan Executive Directors Executive Directors 5060 55% 20% Non 3 years Stephen Oakenfull, 3 years Sue Ford 6070 18% Mike Watters Chair Mike Watters Chair CEO Mike Watters executives 5 years Greg Clarke 70 9% Stephen Oakenfull Stephen Oakenfull Deputy CEO 40% Independent Michael Farrow, Gavin Tipper Adrian Horsburgh Donald Grant Chief Financial Officer Marc Wainer Nonexecutives Adrian Horsburgh Property Director 2 meetings page 42 Weekly meetings Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 58 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 59 Directors report Governance Board meetings Prior to each meeting, in addition to the scheduled matters, the directors receive uptodate financial and commercial Standard Board information in respect of the activities, in particular, quarterly management accounts and schedules of income and outgoings agenda items each with comparisons against budget, schedules of acquisitions and disposals and relevant appraisals and cash flow forecasts, details of funding availability and matters relating to corporate governance.
Standard agenda items include: operations Management report Shareholder and investor relations Report from the CEO Shareholder information and trading statistics Acquisitions and investments Reports on shareholders views Disposals Shareholder communications Meetings Attendance Directors consider Portfolio report Marketing Four Scheduled quarterly Board meetings All Directors attended all the meetings Special projects Report from Head of Marketing that the current Four Scheduled quarterly conference calls to All Directors participated in all the calls Finance and tax Administrative matters provide operational updates to directors number of scheduled Financial results Corporate governance updates 29 Ad hoc Board meetings responding to business Attendance at ad hoc meetings is subject to authority Banking facilities and derivatives Corporate calendar matters meetings each needs levels requiring either a full Board or a committee of three directors, one of which must be independent Treasury and foreign currency exposure year gives sufficient One informal meeting to discuss strategy Attended by all Directors Proposals regarding all significant or strategic decisions, including major acquisitions, disposals and financing transactions, Decision One Meeting of Independent Directors setting the Attended only by Directors not participating are first reviewed by the Board, progressed through the Boards Investment Committee, and then presented to the Board time to discuss the making price, size and the allotment of the shares relating in the placing the Independent Directors for final consideration, which requires approval from the majority of its members.
Any constructive challenges or unresolved to the equity placing in February 2016 matters pertinent issues raised by Nonexecutive Directors are recorded in the minutes.
One meeting to discuss the performance of Chairman and Nonexecutives only Decisions taken during the year include: to the Group.
the executives and other matters Circular and approval of AUK acquisition Sale of the Grosvenor Street for 35.6 million for 490 million Sale of 10 Malthurst portfolio petrol stations for 12 million Board meetings Approval of 303 million loan facility to finance the Prospectus, 115 million placing and issue of Board packs are distributed seven days in advance of quarterly board meetings.
Less notice may be given for ad hoc AUKacquisition Notice 170,588,236shares meetings, as these may be time sensitive or relate to routine matters e. g. allocation of scrip shares.
Over distribution payment of 0.05 pence to Transfer of Zeta portfolio into the AUK finance facility shareholders to maintain a progressive dividend Directors are not, without the consent of the Board, permitted Conflicts of interest during the year include: Conflict of to accept any other appointment or enter any arrangement interest Decisions are subject to agreed authority levels requiring either a full Board, a committee of three Directors comprising at least Equity Placement which might reasonably be expected to lead to a conflict of one independent Director, or executives and management.
In February 2016, there was a conflict of interest noted interest arising.
Any possible appointments are discussed in connection with the placing of new ordinary shares in For related party transactions any director with a conflict of interest may be asked to leave the meeting whilst the matter is with the Chairman to ensure there are no conflicts of interest Related party the Company to part fund the AUK acquisition.
Those discussed and opinion letters from the Companys sponsor, ascertaining as to whether the transaction is fair and reasonable, or that a directors independence is not compromised.
In transactions participating in the placing, namely, Redefine Properties are circulated for the independent directors consideration.
All related party transactions will first be reviewed by a committee cases where a possible conflict arises the Chairman refers Marc Wainer, Bernie Nackan, Mike Watters, Robert Orr, comprising solely of independent Nonexecutive Directors to ensure the matter is given a measure of independent oversight the matter to the Nominations Committee, and then to Gavin Tipper and Adrian Horsburgh were all excluded from before progressing to the Board for final consideration.
ameeting to determine the particulars of the placing.
Before each meeting Directors are asked to confirm their The Company Secretary advises on updates of regulatory rules and corporate governance matters and any concerns or Corporate directorships and shareholdings to ensure that any potential International Hotel Properties Limited IHL developments regarding inter alia insurance, health and safety, sustainability, bribery and whistleblowing, cyber security and governance conflict of interest is disclosed before the meeting.
the Modern Slavery Act, the policies of which are reviewed annually, or as necessary.
During the year, the Company participated in private placements of IHL, of which Mike Watters is a Director.
The Articles of Association permit a Director who has Directors are reminded of closed periods, to request clearance to trade and to disclose any share dealing on their own Market abuse disclosed an interest in a transaction to vote and count in the account or that of persons closely associated with them.
Dealings reported during the year are disclosed on page 82. regulations quorum in relation to any resolution of the Board concerning The Executive Committee monitors proposed transactions which are likely to give rise to inside information.
These are then the related transaction, if the Board so approves.
tracked to ensure all inside information is properly recorded, and announced as appropriate.
The chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees provide a summary of committee meetings The Board operates under a formal quarterly schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
This ensures that the Companys Committees Matters reserved held and any recommendations to be made to the Board.
strategy and objectives, risks, Group operations, internal controls, policies and debt providers are all reviewed throughout for the Board theyear.
Advisers and managers may be asked to present at meetings to provide Directors with detailed information relating to the Training and Company.
Property tours are undertaken to enable Directors to view the Companys assets and discuss matters directly with knowledge Quarter 1 Quarter 4 the responsible asset manager.
Year end results and associated items Review of Group strategy, objectives and corporatestructure An external evaluation of the Board was conducted during the year and, as part of the process, an evaluator attended and Quarter 2 Evaluation Review of internal controls and risk management observed the board and committee meetings.
Review of all policies Review of financial strategy Evaluation of Board The Investment Committee operates in The Executive Committee meets informally Board committees Review of marketing strategy an informal manner to discuss all major on a weekly basis to discuss acquisitions and Quarter 3 Details of the Audit and Risk, Nominations and acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditures.
disposals, finance, asset management activities Remuneration Committees operations can be Interim results and associated items Its recommendations are forwarded to the Board and operational matters, and to consider the found on the following pages.
Review of matters reserved for the Board for final consideration.
status of any potential inside information.
Details of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee can be found on page 42.
