Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 44 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 45 Strategic report all employees are provided with a handbook The Committee extends its sincere thanks outlining the Companys key policies, to Jones Lang LaSalle for their support in Resilient governance which are designed to encourage a development of the Groups CSR strategy Corporate social pleasant working environment, free from andframework.
Approach discrimination, undue stress or bullying.
The Redefine International seeks to operate efficient The Group continues to reap the benefits Company recognises, respects and upholds processes and procedures that demonstrate of an environmental data reporting system all UK employment rights and human rights.
social and environmental risk management, which is able to collect and analyse quarterly responsibility continued and foster open stakeholder engagement.
The performance data from a growing portfolio.
Performance Group will also continue to uphold the highest TheCompany has met our obligations under the Solid progress was made during 2016 in relation standards of ethical behaviour and actively CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme with allowances to CSR governance.
purchased to cover 2016 emissions of 8,590 Resilient governance We recognise the importance of staying ahead tonnes of CO at a cost of 145,171.
The Groups approach to maintaining these 2 We will uphold the highest standards in ethical behaviour and support our workforce.
We seek to operate in a manner that fosters of regulatory changes.
The Company has commitments include: Redefine International is committed to open stakeholder engagement and demonstrates best practice in social and environmental risk management.
therefore spent considerable time during 2016 maintaining its culture of openness and complying with all applicable regulation and compiling EPC data ahead of the Minimum Resilient investment transparency.
Team spirit is fostered through preparing for anticipated future regulation, Energy Efficiency Standards MEES We undertake to realise the full potential of our investments for both our shareholders and the communities in which we regular meetings and team building days to and its implications: regulations to identify and address those operate.
encourage the different departments to work units where ratings had not been collected providing confidence to stakeholders of our together and for staff to discuss matters with the together with addressing those with F and G sound management of CSR risks through our Resilient assets executives on an informal basis.
We have also conducted the Groups ongoing participation in the most prominent We are mindful of our wider role as placemakers and we aim to contribute to the longterm prosperity of the expands, and the number of employees and Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS industry benchmark survey, the Global Real communities in which we invest.
In doing so, we will undertake asset management which minimises risk and responsibilities increase, the Board committees assessment.
maximises asset value whilst providing the best experience possible for occupiers and visitors alike.
Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB : have ensured that the necessary internal controls ensuring employees receive appropriate Redefine International submitted its first fully have been implemented, and that executives training on social and environmental participating response to the GRESB survey and employees remain well rewarded.
The issues, and providing bespoke training on in 2016.
Were extremely pleased to report Board recognises the importance of culture and sustainability topics to those that require it: a 65 per cent increase in the overall score providing a good working environment to attract achieved.
Notwithstanding the work that still maintaining best practice in health and and retain high calibre staff.
To this end, a survey Gender split across the Group CSR strategy needs to be completed, this is a great result and safety management to the benefit of tenants, was undertaken during the year to ascertain demonstrates our commitment to sustainability At Redefine International, CSR means understanding and actively managing the social and contractors, customers and employees: whether employees felt valued and motivated.
in what we do and positions the Company well environmental risks and opportunities that can impact on income growth and net asset value, whilst appointing firstclass sustainability advisers The Board was pleased that there was a positive 221 for the future.
also taking account of the Companys responsibilities towards stakeholders, in particular investors to provide leadership and guidance on response to the survey and it was noted that Employees and shareholders, employees, the businesses with which we work and the communities in which sustainability across the business: analysts regard Redefine International to have a All employees and Directors received training weoperate.
highquality management team, that boasts one on CSR issues during 2015 with training in 2016 operating a robust data management system of the best net cost per head rates in the sector.
being limited to new employees at our Shopping The CSR Committee, which comprises three of the four Executive Directors and is attended by our to ensure our disclosure and reporting is WOMEN CSR advisers, asset managers and the Company Secretary, was formed in 2014 to establish and Centres.
Training for all staff is scheduled to accurate: and The Company has sought to extend diversity occur again during 2017. implement a formal CSR strategy for theCompany.
Board diversity is unchanged fostering a culture of openness.
during the year and is being considered by Redefine International is pleased to have The strategy seeks to ensure that our governance and risk management framework, together with With respect to our employees, the Group will: the Nominations Committee.
Diversity at appointed a Group Health & Safety Manager our investment and asset strategy, continue to be resilient to the everchanging economic, social and MEN ensure that no applicant or employee senior management level has improved with during the year whose role it is to provide environmental landscape and sets out a series of actions in the form of a CSR roadmap targeting Men 65% isdiscriminated against either directly the appointment of a female Head of Investor guidance and support to tenants, contractors, both short and medium term strategic objectives.
Women 35% orindirectly: Relations during the year.
The CSR Committee implements the strategy using targets and carefully selected KPIs to treat all employees, prospective employees, Employee turnover has remained relatively high measure progress, with various individuals within the business responsible for the daytoday During the year the Group changed its CSR agents, contractors, tenants, and suppliers as in the previous year but in line with the pace advisers from Jones Lang LaSalle to Savills.
The CSR Committee meets regularly to review progress against the fairly and equally, regardless of their gender, of change the Group continues to experience.
CSR roadmap, review environmental performance data and receive updates on UK and German Savills are the dominant property manager 9 age, race, sexuality or disability: assigned to the Groups UK portfolio therefore .
All employees are based in the UK or Germany, Senior management promote staff training and development with it made sound commercial sense to combine where there are few human rights issues.
During 2016 the Company has made several achievements, the most notable being: a focus on fostering innovation: the two from the perspective of efficient data Nohuman rights concerns or whistleblowing a significant increase in score, up 65 per cent on prior year trial period results, from our seek to diversify our workforce to support management and reporting.
The CSR Committee reports were received from employees during participation in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB survey: WOMEN the nature of the Companys operations or were extremely impressed with the high level the year.
the communities in which we operate, whilst of competency demonstrated by the Savills a four per cent absolute reduction in carbon emissions within the overall portfolio yearonyear, maintaining our responsibility to select the sustainability team who were appointed in March.
asignificant achievement: best candidate: a one per cent reduction in yearonyear electricity consumption at 18 of our UK based properties: Employees and diversity recognise our social and moral duty to offer MEN systematic capture and reporting of environmental performance data for the UKand Germany: 1 1 1 opportunities to people with disabilities Men 56% Total Men % Women % and anddoing all that is practicable to meet Women 44% Board nonexecutives 7 7 6 86 86 1 14 14 appointment of a dedicated Group Health &Safety Manager.
theirneeds: Board executives 4 4 4 100 100 uphold our commitments under our Code Senior management 9 8 5 62 62 4 40 38 of Ethics which promotes honesty and Other employees 207 200 134 65 65 73 35 35 integrity in business dealings and conduct Total 227 219 149 66 67 78 34 33 commensurate with an organisation 2 All employees working part time 43 45 14 44 29 56 of our size.
Any breaches will lead to 2 All employee leavers total 33 24 disciplinary proceedings and, if appropriate, 1 Figures for 2015 are shown in brackets.
disciplinaryaction: and 2 All employees excludes Board nonexecutives.
Resilient governance Resilient investment Resilient assets Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 46 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 47 Strategic report Performance data Since November 2014, Redefine International has been completing a formal property level environmental performance data collection and reporting process.
This years results are shown below.
Corporate social Energy consumption 2015 v 2016 During the year, the18 UK based properties which we are able to include in the likeforlike portfolio responsibility continued 25,000 Natural gas analysis led to a two per cent increase in energy consumption.
Electricity consumption was found Electricity to have decreased in the UK portfolio by one per cent, with a rise in gas consumption being the 20,000 District steam main contributor to the overall increase.
15,000 From 2015 to 2016, German based properties collectively achieved a five per cent reduction in St. Georges Shopping Centre, Harrow: Performance energy use.
Energy consumption was found to have decreased at three out of the six properties replaced all lighting in the common parts Resilient investment 10,000 Redefine International has continued to refine that we can report data from within our German portfolio.
At these properties, electricity of the Mall from PLC compact fluorescent its procedures to manage environmental risks, consumption in particular decreased by 14 per cent, while use of district steam decreased by Approach lighting to LED achieving a saving of 5,000 reduce cost and futureproof its assets across oneper cent.
45,450kWh per year cutting maintenance Redefine International seeks to implement an the portfolio.
Specifically: 0 costs on tube and lamp replacement by effective investment strategy that realises the 2015 2016 2015 2016 the creation of an asset management 90per cent and reducing CO emissions by full potential of our investments for both our Germany UK 2 working group: to ensure lessons learnt were 18,728kg per year.
The planned car park shareholders and the communities in which we discussed and best practice disseminated LED replacement programme incorporating operate throughout the investment life cycle.
dimming functionality to 20 per cent when The Group will achieve this by: Total water consumption 2015 v 2016 car bays are not in use should reduce the continued participation in the GRESB During the year, two German based properties and seven UK based properties, which are included assessment process: identifying investment risks during overall consumption by a further 5 per cent: 80 in the likeforlike portfolio analysis are collectively responsible for a three per cent increase in Retail acquisition due diligence and identifying and completed an EPC risk review of the UK 70 waterconsumption.
Ofce opportunities to add value: Grand Arcade Shopping Centre, Wigan: portfolio see below : 60 However, at asset level, water usage was found to have decreased at three of the nine sites considering the social and environmental implemented an LED lighting retrofit active participation in the CSR event 3 50 reporting data, with the most significant reduction 1,506m, representing a circa 40 per cent performance of our assets: and programme which reduces energy GreenFest see case study which follows : 40 decrease achieved at our UK Office in Chatham, The Observatory.
consumption and has enabled cost savings monitoring and measuring our resource in each of our Shopping Centres, our 30 of around 20,000 per year with a payback consumption to identify efficiencies, The German based properties collectively achieved a five per cent reduction in water consumption, customers have nominated a local charity of less than 12 months.
This is 85 per cent 20 while UK based properties were collectively responsible for a ten per cent increase.
particularly relating to energy and reduce our of their choice which will benefit from all complete.
carbon footprint and the operational costs 10 charitable activities undertaken at each for our tenants.
Centre fostering a great community spirit: 0 2015 2016 2015 2016 Resilient assets through the BCSC now REVO, formerly Germany UK Performance the British Council for Shopping Centres : We have continued to take important steps in the Approach Redefine International won the Purple Apple deployment of our resilient investment strategy.
Redefine International will undertake asset award for marketing in relation to its CSR Total waste arising 2015 v 2016 Asset managers and agents have been given management which maximises net asset value strategy and progress made: Comparative analysis undertaken on available waste data for our German assets has shown that 100 guidance to ensure social and environmental whilst providing the best experience possible for 99.9% of waste has been incinerated at a waste to energy facility, whilst the small remainder is Weston Favell Shopping Centres movie 0.02% credentials are incorporated into sales and occupiers and visitors alike.
processed separately as either compost or recycled waste.
hub initiative won gold at the International 80 37.02% letting materials where available.
Council of Shopping Centres European Redefine International will uphold this The seven UK assets reporting waste data, achieved a rate of 93.9 per cent for waste recycled to 60 Marketing Awards.
The Movie Hub initiative The Group continues to progress the commitment by: 96.85% 99.9% 93.9% Refuse Derived Fuel.
Of the remainder, 5.8 per cent of the waste was sent to a recycling facility 40 gave 400 local kids the opportunity to work development and implementation of formalised with the balance split between waste sent to an Incineration Facility with energy recovery and engaging with and contributing to on the preproduction of a feature film at the jurisdiction specific acquisition checklists that 62.98% waste sent to an Offsite Materials Recovery Facility.
20 charitableand community initiatives on first operational film studio located in a UK include environmental and social criteria such 3.13% anongoing basis: 5.8% Across the board 100% of waste was diverted from landfill between 1 September 2015 and 0 shopping centre: and as liabilities related to carbon and energy Germany UK Germany UK 31August 2016. engaging with local authorities and 2015 2016 regulations and costs, energy labels and ratings, our tenant satisfaction survey, which supporting their community campaigns: Refuse Derived Fuel Recycling facility building certifications and flood risk.
Waste data on the portfolio is limited, but improving and over the coming year, we target an incorporates sustainability and social collaborating with tenants to conceive and Incineration facility with energy recovery increase in portfolio coverage.
responsibility issues, has been developed The Group continues to implement its phased promote joint community projects: and will be carried out during 2017. roll out of LED lighting across our UK Retail understanding, enhancing and promoting portfolios.
To date this has enabled an Energy Performance Certification the Groups role as a placemaker, with UK carbon footprint 2015 v 2016 approximate 65 per cent reduction of power EPC risk a focus on creating and maintaining During the year, total carbon emissions generated from UK assets in the likeforlike portfolio rose consumption and we will soon be able to 10,000 Redefine Internationals exposure to risk from prosperous communities in the local areas Retail by five per cent to 8,055 tonnes of CO e on an absolute basis.
calculate the further impact of this programme 2 the forthcoming MEES legislation has been where we invest: Ofce in terms of energy efficiency improvements and The largest increase occurred in the hotel sector where properties collectively increased emissions 8,000 thoroughly reviewed for the UK portfolio with ensuring key environmental and social Hotel carbon emission reductions during 2017. by 538 tonnes of CO e, representing a 15 per cent increase.
2 a view to identifying and integrating applicable risks are well managed when the Group 6,000 The Group has completed the process of EPC improvement measures into asset The UK retail sector has however achieved a healthy carbon emissions reduction against the is undertaking development activities and identifying metrics for each asset type that business plans ahead of legislative deadlines.
throughout the management of our portfolio: 4,000 can be used to track and communicate Addressing the MEES risk is viewed as a and improvements to rental income or capital necessary proactive step to take, and balances 2,000 engaging with tenants to better respond value achieved because of environmental or sustainability with regulation and stakeholders to their needs and position ourselves to social improvement measures.
2015 2016 examples of situations where CSR initiatives UK have resulted in both financial and social and environmental benefits, such as: 3 Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO e Water consumption 000m % of asset waste by disposal route Total energy consumption MWh 2 Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 48 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 49 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Case study Green Fest In June 2016, Redefine Internationals UK shopping centres hosted Green Fest, a festival of greenthemed activities and the very first groupwide CSR campaign.
Young shopper making an environmental pledge at Birchwood Shopping Centre, Warrington The objective of Green Fest was to showcase the efforts taken by the centres and their teams to positively impact the communities in which Redefine International invests both environmentally and socially and to encourage shoppers to be more aware of the environmental repercussions of their actions, both locally and globally.
The six shopping centres, Birchwood, Byron Place, Grand Arcade, St. Georges, West Orchards and Weston Favell, launched Green Fest with the unveiling of their Green Walls, dedicated areas in each centre promoting the environmental and community focused achievements of each centre.
The Green Walls included interesting facts and figures regarding energy usage, waste management and water consumption relating to each centre and case studies from local initiatives.
Green Fest activities varied from centre to centre throughout the fourday festival and included Green Heroes engaging with shoppers to explain the concept of Green Fest and to encourage them to be more environmentally friendly in their daytoday lives.
Other activities included pledge boards, where shoppers signed up to make small changes with a big impact on the environment: a plastic bag amnesty where shoppers were asked to swap their carrier bags for reusable cotton shopping bags: recycling bins were transformed with basketball hoops and targets to encourage shoppers to use them: and creative workshops were held where children were shown Local school children with personalised reusable how to upcycle materials into fun crafts.
shopping bags at Byron Place shopping centre Shoppers were encouraged to generate electricity by using specially adapted exercise equipment in order to charge their mobile phones and make delicious fruit smoothies a great way to demonstrate how much energy is needed to undertake simple tasks.
All nonessential lighting, heating and automatic doors were switched off for the duration of Green Fest.
Escalators were turned off in some locations with shoppers encouraged to take the stairs, which was surprisingly well supported.
These actions alone achieved a great result with a 4.1 percent energy saving across the portfolio compared to an average fourday period, with two centres achieving an impressive 15 per cent reduction in consumption.
Green Fest attracted over 10,000 of PR coverage and resulted in almost 5,000 shoppers making an environmental pledge during the festival and 88per cent of participants stating that they would make an extra effort to be more green after attending the event.
The Green Walls received such a positive response from both shoppers and retailers that they will remain a permanent feature within each centre and will be updated regularly.
Green Fest was considered a huge success by all involved, and has Shoppers create their own energy through pedal power provided a solid platform for the UK Retail portfolio to continue in its quest at Weston Favell Shopping Centre to lead Redefine Internationals resilient assets strategy going forward.
Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 50 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 51 Strategic report CSR target roadmap Progress against targets set for 31 August 2016 Corporate social Resilient governance Resilient investment Resilient assets Proud owners of an accurate Two asset specific case studies A baseline for energy, water and responsibility continued environmental performance data set, are presented to illustrate practices waste data has been identified collected on a quarterly basis for all where sustainability initiatives have and is subject to third party managed assets throughout the year.
created both financial and social approvalin2017.
Mandatory GHG emissions reporting table CSR advisers statement Redefine International participated Key sustainability credentials are A thorough EPC risk review has As Redefine Internationals strategic adviser on fully for the first time in the annual now incorporated into sales and been conducted and improvement 2016 2015 corporate social responsibility CSR, Savills Global Real Estate Sustainability marketingmaterials.
measures integrated into business Direct greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO e 2 would like to acknowledge the positive steps Benchmark GRESB survey and are plans, to meet legislative deadlines.
combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 2,089 1,904 that have been taken by Redefine International pleased to disclose an improvement Indirect greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO e 2 to implement, maintain and improve its CSR in score of65 per cent on base data.
purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2 7,422 8,074 strategy.
The continuation of robust data Total carbon footprint in tonnes of COe 9,511 9,978 Induction pack developed for all Although developed, the The setting of energy and water 2 collection supported by core reporting systems Scope 1 and 2 intensity tCO e m net operating income 132 158 new employees covering Redefine implementation of formalised reduction and waste recycling 2 provides a strong basis on which to focus Internationals CSR strategy.
acquisition checklists that include targets for the managed portfolio has environmental efficiency improvements and sustainability criteria will be commenced under the leadership of strengthen reporting against best practice Methodology implemented during2017.
standards and benchmarks, whilst the prompt We have used the main requirements of ISO 14064 Part 1 and the GHG Protocol Corporate initiation of an EPC risk review across the Bespoke training on specific For UK shopping centres metrics Although developed, the tenant Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition for our methodology, using energy UK portfolio has put the Company in a good  procedures has are used to track and communicate satisfaction survey will be conducted consumption data from our owned properties and emissions factors from the UK Governments position to prepare for the upcoming MEES been provided to relevant staff.
improvements to profitability through during 2017. conversion factors for CompanyReporting.
Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards sustainability improvementmeasures.
In alignment with UK DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines, we have used the conversion legislation across England and Wales and factor for the year the emissions took place.
Note that different DEFRA factors have been used for Section 63 in Scotland.
Good progress UK and German based assets, as we have used the GHG Protocols location based methodology for Redefine International is a dynamic company Sound progress conversion factors for Scope 2 emissions.
that takes the CSR agenda seriously.
Our Some progress engagement with the Company has shown that Data qualifying notes staff have a very positive attitude to the CSR We have reported on all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Targets for 2017 initiatives and are well equipped to proceed and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We have chosen to report greenhouse gas emissions with their implementation and, by ensuring that data under our operational control.
These sources fall within our consolidated statement.
We do not Resilient governance Resilient investment Resilient assets sufficient time and resources are made available, have responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
Redefine International will effectively tackle both Further improve GRESB score targeting Proactively invest in sustainability measures Maintain compliance and improve Health, Emissions figures for 2015 are based on 30 properties 14 per cent estimated data, from a total the straightforward and the more challenging three Green Stars for 2017.
We will do this within our portfolio and abide by EPRA Safety and Environmental audit scores.
Emissions figures for 2016 are based on 24 properties four per cent targets which have been approved within the by a broadening the available dataset to guidelines.
Conduct energy audits where estimated data, from a total portfolio of 30 properties.
We are not responsible for the purchase of the CSR roadmap for the 2017 financial year.
obtain greater coverage: b setting corporate appropriate for new investments.
energy supplied to our head office in London.
Weconfirm that environmental data published targets for example emissions and energy For 2015 and 2016, there have been no reported fugitive emissions from airconditioning refrigerant inthis report provides a true representation of consumption: and c implement green leaks, and there has been no topup of refrigerant volume.
For the same period, onsite energy the Companys current performance.
generation has contributed to Scope 1 emissions of 3 tCO e each year, which has been included in 2 Savills will continue to support Redefine We target 100 per cent compliance with Energy Ensure full data picture is available for all Improve tenant awareness and seek feedback the GHG emissions tableabove.
Performance Certifications EPCs ensuring operational sites.
for improvements through engagement International over the coming year to deliver their CSR programme and anticipate providing all Fand G ratings have ongoing action plans in a satisfaction survey which will include in place.
The assessment will include FRIs and sustainability and health and wellbeing aspects.
a more extensive report on progress within next years Annual Report and corresponding Eor D rated EPCs if completed prior to 2011. updates to their website.
Complete staff training for all staff on CSR and Paying it back: 2016 was Redefine Internationals Undertake fitout projects to SKA Assessment sustainability issues.
tenth anniversary so to celebrate we intend to Bronze level as a minimum across all Jonathan Hale run a community project we will call Ten for 10. suitableproperties.
Associate Director Across our portfolio of shopping centres and Savills at the Companys head office, we will invest ten days into initiatives designed to support the 27 October 2016 communities in which we operate.
