Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 24 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 25 Strategic report Performance review The UK retail landscape continues to undergo significant structural change.
UK Retail Internet retailing is now estimated to capture Occupancy across the retail portfolio increased 14per cent of total retail sales and is forecast to 98.7 per cent 2015: 98.3 per cent with to reach 17 per cent by 2020.
At the same three of the shopping centres and all of the time, established retailers and previously retail parks now fully let.
Exposure to the BHS pure play internet retailers have recognised administration was limited to one store at Grand the importance of having both a physical and Arcade, Wigan of 3,838 sqm 41,315 sqft an online retail presence.
As a result, larger resulting in a net income loss of 0.6 million retailers are targeting fewer stores but which including void costs.
Plans are in place to .
reconfigure the unit to support reletting options and early stage discussions are in progress with Our portfolio of shopping centres and retail potential retailers.
parks is predominantly focused on value and convenience retailers serving local communities, The internalised commercialisation function, an element of the market which has proved branded as CentreStage Leasing, has delivered relatively resilient.
However, we are cautious in a marked improvement in the quality of our outlook for certain shopping centre assets, commercialisation activity within our retail particularly fashion anchored schemes which do assets and delivered a 20.4 per cent increase not dominate their catchment areas and or have in net commercialisation income to 1.0 million a successful leisure element.
centre portfolio now represents 22 per cent of In the year ahead we see opportunities for the total portfolio compared to 33 per cent at the reconfiguration and optimisation of space, end of the 2015 financial year.
further development and expansion activities as well as a drive to increase income from advertising and promotional space.
Annualised Weighted gross EPRA average EPRA Market rental EPRA topped Reversionary lease voids UK Retail as at value income ERV NIY up yield yield length by ERV Indexed 31 August 2016 m m m % % % yrs % % UK Shopping Centres 337.2 26.4 27.3 6.3 6.5 7.6 8.4 1.9 21.9 UK Retail Parks 168.5 11.7 10.7 6.2 6.5 5.9 8.1 2.1 UK Retail Other 31.4 2.5 2.3 7.2 7.2 6.8 16.7 1.0 UK Retail 537.1 40.6 40.3 6.3 6.5 7.0 8.8 1.3 14.8 Key statistics 40.6m 98.7% 8.8yrs Annualised Occupancy WAULT gross rental income by ERV Opportunity for modest rental Shopping centres nearly Good quality tenants weighted growth, reconfiguration of fully occupied at 98.1% towards nondiscretionary food existing space and further retailers, discounters and leisure development activity St. Georges Shopping Centre, Harrow Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 26 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 27 Strategic report Performance review Case study UK Commercialisation Retail continued Following an internal review of UK Retail commercialisation in 2015, Redefine International Shopping Centres recognised an opportunity to drive revenue and We have seen improved confidence from national operators willing to take improve the quality of ancillary income activity additional space or renew leases in the majority of our shopping centres.
across its UK shopping centre portfolio.
Occupancy improved to 98.1 per cent 2015: 97.9 per cent.
Contracted In September 2015 CentreStage Leasing, Redefine Internationals rental income at year end was higher in four of our shopping centres but in house commercialisation function, was launched to enhance the offset by the BHS administration at Grand Arcade, Wigan and challenging Groups focus to effectively execute our commercialisation strategy trading at West Orchards, Coventry.
To counteract these challenges, asset with two clear objectives: maximise income opportunities across management activity is focused on introducing improved food and leisure the portfolio and to deliver greater control on quality, addedvalue offerings at both Grand Arcade and West Orchards.
experiential activities essential in thriving retail environments.
Retail Parks Recognising the opportunity between consumer marketing and The retail park portfolio remains fully occupied with positive leasing activity ancillary income activity, CentreStage Leasing operates as part of the during the year.
Over the last 12 months, ERVs have grown by 1.1 per cent marketing team function, overseen by the Group Head of Marketing, across the portfolio, providing evidence and supporting our view that the supported by a national Commercialisation Manager and a regional implied negative reversion of 1.0 million can be closed significantly once Commercialisation Assistant.
This approach enables the team to higher rents are proven.
maximise commercialisation opportunities in line with planned Asset management is focused on the creation of new units and additional consumer marketing campaigns, matching potential operators to revenue streams from advertising and ancillary income.
Demand from specific events and activities.
national fast food and coffee operators has been strong with five units The new approach and strategy focuses not just on mall space planned at Banbury Cross Retail Park, Priory Retail Park, Merton and The but extends the income potential across the UK Retail Portfolio by Arches Retail Park, Watford.
Prelet agreements have been secured for encompassing media space, air space and online space.
It creates new 0.4 million of additional rental income.
income streams from areas including poster sites, lift and escalator branding, floor graphics, websites and social media platforms.
CentreStage Leasing launched a marketing campaign targeting national brands and regional and local businesses, promoting the assets and Key statistics opportunities to the sector, generating interest and bookings.
This was supported with the development of an online booking platform which enables potential partners to view key information as well as the opportunities available at each scheme.
This approach has enabled Redefine International to attract new operators on new long term leases, which ensure greater investment in retail delivery by the tenant and secure income for the asset, and 237,694 14 shorter term licences for seasonal specialist operators that continue Square metres Total number of assets to deliver variety and key trading activity at specific times such as Supply demand imbalance Including six regionally Christmas and Easter.
The team has also worked to retain successful and with long leases presents dominant shopping centres, existing operators, aiming to improve quality and increase rental levels.
an opportunity to eliminate one in greater London and five During its first year of operation, CentreStage Leasing has delivered retail park overrent well located retailparks 19 new long term leases across the portfolio, to both national and international operators including Sky, Auntie Annes and Kono Pizza, as well as local and regional operators.
Shortterm licences were also granted to 56 new operators, in addition to the circa 120 operators already taking space across the UK Retail portfolio.
Our increased focus on commercialisation has resulted in income 6.3% growing by 20 per cent compared to the previous year, with a EPRA net initial yield corresponding reduction of 66 per cent in operating costs.
Overall, it has been a hugely successful first year for CentreStage Leasing 6.5% EPRA topped up yield and we expect this trend to continue with further opportunities and 7.0% reversionary yield alreadyidentified.
Grand Arcade Shopping Centre, Wigan
