Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 60 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 61 Directors report Governance Company view Evaluation Board composition Nominations The current Board comprises the Chairman, four executives, four independent Directors are highly committed to their roles, but the Board is large, and independent nonexecutives and two nonexecutives, which is not compliant with the Code.
Although Nonexecutive Directors are in the minority.
Different options should be explored in order the Board works well, with no one block of individuals dominating decision making, to address this matter.
the NomCo would like to recruit an additional independent NonExecutive.
Currently Committee independent oversight of related party transactions is maintained by a committee of independentdirectors.
Skills matrix The skills of the current directors can be found on page 57.
The Directors collectively have The Board has a good balance of skills with a strong industry focus and deep financial The evaluation has identified a strong extensive experience of finance, property and of listed companies in both the UK and expertise.
No major skill gaps were observed.
There is deemed to be sufficient knowledge South Africa.
With 23 per cent of the property portfolio in Germany, and the consequential of the European markets on the Board, but an additional Director with stronger corporate Board with the necessary cohesion to operational and commercial challenges this brings, the Committee last year identified the finance, investment banking or digital skills could be beneficial.
requirement to expand the breadth of European experience on the Board.
Robert Orr, who has worked extensively in the German and European real estate markets, was appointed to serve our shareholders.
Meetings At Board meetings, the Chairman encourages an open debate and for everyone to air their The Chairman is an approachable, skilled professional who is respected by all his views, particularly on any topics which appear contentious, and he and executives are colleagues for his ability to manage discussions and steer the Board through UK always available to nonexecutives should they have any furtherconcerns.
Meeting dynamics could be improved to ensure that they are not dominated by certain individuals.
Different discussion formats should be explored for strategic decision making.
Board and Company Culture The head office of the Company has historically comprised a small group of entrepreneurial The Chairman and CEO set a tone of openness and thoroughness which is upheld by Membership and meetings Board Evaluation people, with a strong work ethic, strong team spirit and open culture.
Such a small group the Board, and Directors hold themselves to a high standard of integrity.
The Boardroom enabled the Company to be agile and take advantage of opportunistic situations.
As the culture is good natured and constructive and relationships between Executives and It is the responsibility of the Chairman of the After considering several external facilitators, the Company has grown, much of this culture remains, both in the head office and on the Nonexecutive Directors are good, although this does not deter the Nonexecutive Company to build a strong, effective and Nominations Committee selected Independent Board, primarily due to the quality of the personnel and good communication.
Directors from challenging the executives during meetings.
The Board is very supportive complementary Board to steer the business.
The Audit IA to assist with the external evaluation towards management.
Nonexecutive Directors collectively have the skills to understand and constructively Nominations Committee is therefore led by the of the Board using an interview based challenge or support situations and are kept well informed of the Companys operations.
This Chairman, Greg Clarke, and two independent approach.
An indepth review of the Board and allows Directors to quickly grasp situations as they arise, and retains the agility of the Board to make decisions quick when necessary.
However, Nonexecutive Directors question the nonexecutive Directors.
All members have a high level review of the Committees were process if they have not been provided with enough details to make a fully informed decision.
significant experience as Directors of listed undertaken in order to examine the governance At Board meetings, the Chairman encourages an open debate and for everyone to air their companies and are therefore aware of the framework in its entirety and in particular the views, particularly on any topics which appear contentious, and he and the executives are skills required to maintain an effective Board, linkages and alignment between the Board always available to Nonexecutive Directors should they have any furtherconcerns.
and effective Board Committees, appropriate and Committees in terms of accountability, Diversity for a property company listed in the UK and information and communication.
recommendations were based on what was best The Board currently comprises ten male directors and one female director, ranging in ages There is diversity of thought, with directors representing a range of backgrounds who can for the Company and reflected IAs insights of from 37 to 72.
Directors are of UK, South African or New Zealand nationality, with a range tackle questions from a variety of standpoints.
However, gender diversity is poor.
During the year, the Committee held one of different educational backgrounds.
good governance and best practice gained from meeting, attended by all members.
This meeting board reviews across the FTSE.
This delivered The Board is committed to having an appropriate level of diversity that reflects the nature was to discuss the appointment of an additional of the Groups operations and which best supports the achievement of the strategic a review using the Boards perspective and independent nonexecutive.
Although the Board acknowledges the need to increase female representation informal benchmarking.
the pending requirement for a prospectus to when making appointments to the Board, the NomCo will also take account of relevant skills, experience, knowledge, personality and ethnicity.
However, the strength of the board support the February 2016 capital raise, for A comparison of the Companys view on the and the selection of the best candidate will always remain the priority.
which a new director would have taken full Boards effectiveness and that of the evaluator, Greg Clarke Although there are currently no female executives, the number of female senior managers responsibility, and the economic conditions at isshown opposite.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee has increased from 17 per cent in 2013 to 40 per cent in 2016, and this will provide a the time, it was considered in everyones best pipeline of succession for the future.
interests that the matter be put on hold.
The Nominations Committee therefore focused on Succession planning Appointed Meetings ensuring that the current Board worked well, Greg Clarke MBA, BA Hons 25 10 2011 1 1 The NomCo has been actively engaged during the year in long term senior succession A more rigorous and forward looking approach should be taken for succession and had a good balance of skills, set the right tone planning.
In particular the Chairman has been personally managing the development of the contingency planning for all Board members.
Executives need to ensure that they are Gavin Tipper CA MBA Bcom BAcc 30 07 2014 1 1 and had a pipeline of succession.
To confirm its Deputy CEO, Stephen Oakenfull.
Stephen has attended external residential management identifying and developing successors.
Sue Ford ACA, BSc Hons 30 01 2014 1 1 development programmes and extensive external networking events.
With the growth in analysis, it commissioned anexternal evaluation the number of employees, succession planning for senior management and executives of theBoard.
The Committee operates within terms of continues to develop.
reference, a copy of which is available at the Committees website: www.
com The NomCo ensures that the Board committees are populated with individuals who have Board committees are chaired well and provide good reporting feedback to the Board.
the requisite skills to carry out their delegated duties.
All have access to external advice.
Each committee chairman provides a summary of the committees activities at Board The remuneration policy, but in particular the measures used for the Long Term Incentive meetings and advises of any recommendations.
Plan, have not worked well.
The reports of the Audit and Risk and the Remuneration Committees can be found on the Risk governance, which has been the focus of considerable effort by the Audit and Risk following pages.
Committee, has improved but is still a work in progress.
Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 62 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 63 Directors report Governance Accountability Nominations Investor Committee continued relations The Board endeavours to regularly engage Conclusion Reelection of Independent Directors Directors induction and 2016 EGM Key investor events and communicate clearly with shareholders ongoing training Overall, the evaluation concluded that the Board The interests of each independent Directors An EGM was held on 15 February 2016, in throughout the year, promoting dialogue For any new appointments to the Board the has many strengths.
The Board comprises are monitored to ensure their position is not connection with a prospectus and placing of 26 April 2016 Half Year Results with both existing and potential investors on high calibre individuals who take their roles compromised and reviewed each year against executive team provides an induction day for new ordinary shares in the Company to part Announcement Company strategy, management, remuneration the new Directors, presenting an overview of seriously and contribute significantly in terms the requirements of the Code, to ensure their fund the AUK acquisition.
This was again called 27-29 April 2016 Results Roadshow and governance.
The four executive directors, of their commitment, technical expertise and independence remains valid.
the historical activities of the Group, current on 14 days clear notice in accordance with who act as the primary contact for institutional United Kingdom UK funding structure, stakeholders and property skills.
The Directors enjoy being on the Board the Companys Articles of Association due to The Chairman is satisfied that Michael Farrow, shareholders, are supported by the new Head of which is a key characteristic of a motivated and details.
Further information is provided on the the transaction being time sensitive and the 2-6 May 2016 Results Roadshow Gavin Tipper, Sue Ford and Robert Orr remain Investor Relations with Nonexecutive Directors Companys key business risks and the latest successful team.
However, the evaluation also Board was mindful that any delay would cause South Africa SA independent in both character and judgement attending and meeting investors at results identified a number of matters to be addressed financial information of the Group.
68 per cent of shareholders and adhere to the independence criteria of presentations and property tours.
given the terms of reference of the Committees 1 June 2016 Property Day focusing by the Board in the coming year, namely board voted overwhelmingly in favour of the proposals the Code and recommends that independent composition and succession, meeting dynamics, and a list of matters reserved for the Board.
and a total of 270,588,236 new Ordinary Shares on AUK assets with Directors are kept informed of investor relations shareholders vote in favour of their reelection.
Further information is provided, tailored to the 15 SA investors and strategic decisionmaking and risk governance, in Redefine International were placed raising through a quarterly report and timely updates.
Their biographical details can be found on pages and progress on these matters will be disclosed needs of each director.
gross proceeds of approximately 115.0 million.
sellsiders They are provided with analyst coverage of 54 and are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
to shareholders in the 2017 Annual Report.
the Company and any feedback received from Meetings with key advisers are set up, as 21 June 2016 Property Day focusing 2017 AGM investors.
In addition, shareholders are invited Further to the evaluation report the Chairman required, and tours of the Companys properties Appointment terms on AUK assets with UK This years AGM is due to be held on to directly contact the Executives to raise any has evaluated the individual directors and undertaken.
investors and buysiders Each of the current Directors has been provided 23January2017, at 30 Charles II Street, matters, opinions or issues of concern with considers that each of them are highly with a letter of appointment or service contract The Chairman reviews the training and LondonSW1Y 4AE.
It will be held at the later the Company and are encouraged to attend 24 June 2016 UK Shareholder committed to their roles, with 100 per cent detailing the terms of their appointment.
development of each Director during the time of 11am, as requested by shareholders at the AGM to put any questions to the Board, Association attendance at Board and committee meetings Companys evaluation process and encourages last years meeting.
The AGM Notice was sent to All directors are expected to attend the quarterly inperson.
Directors continue to be the Directors to update their skills, knowledge shareholders on 15 December 2016, more than 7-8 September EPRA conference Board meetings, quarterly update meetings, any effective members of the Board, who collectively and familiarity with the Company to fulfil their Shareholders meetings twenty business days in advance of the meeting, 2016 committees of which they are a member and hold the requisite range of skills to enable the roles on the Board.
At each Board meeting a and contained all the notes for the proposed 2015 EGM shareholder meetings.
Nonexecutive Directors Board to operate successfully, and therefore 30 September Property Day focused specialist speaker, such as lawyers, brokers resolutions rather than referencing sections are expected to make themselves available for a The Companys EGM, held on 25 September2015 recommends all Directors for reelection at the 2016 onBerlin & Hamburg and financial risk managers may be invited to in the Annual Report, for the shareholders minimum of eight days per year in the discharge in connection with the AUK portfolio acquisition, AGM on 23 January 2017. with 3SA investors present on a topic relevant to current Group convenience and consideration.
was called on 14 days clear notice in issues, or a property tour will be organised so are encouraged to attend, or contact the head of accordance with the Companys Articles of 27 October 2016 Year end Results The Board has agreed that any director, that the Directors can view the assets and meet investor relations if they wish to raise a question Association rather than the 14 business days ifnecessary in the furtherance of their duties, the asset managers.
27 OctoberResults Roadshow UK required by the Code.
This was due to the may take independent professional advice at 4 November including Edinburgh transaction being time sensitive and the Board the Companys expense, subject to having Website and App Greg Clarke 2016 &Glasgow was mindful that any delay would cause a first notified the Company Secretary.
Any such Chairman of the Nominations Committee To enable the effective distribution of transactional risk.
66 per cent of shareholders payment by the Company would, of course, be Upcoming investor events 27 October 2016 information to investors, all communications and voted overwhelmingly in favour of the proposals.
subject to any restriction under company law.
related presentation materials are published on 11 January 2017 JPM European Real a timelybasis on the website, which has been The Company has liability insurance which 2016 AGM Estate CEO Conference upgraded to promote ease of use: covers directors and officers of the Company The AGM was held on 26 January 2016 at and any subsidiary company of Redefine 23 January 2017 AGM the head office in London.
65 per cent of all shareholders voted but 6 February 2017 Capital Markets Day it was noted that a significant amount of inUK shareholders on the JSE register voted against Resolution 17, regarding Directors authority to 7-17 Strategy & Preclose allot shares and Resolution 18 regarding the February 2017 Roadshow SA & UK disapplication of preemption rights limited to a 10 per cent issuance of shares for cash.
The proposed authorities were in line with current UK guidelines, but the Board is aware that such guidelines differ to those in South Africa www.
com and will continue to liaise with South African shareholders on such matters.
During the year an investor relations app, for both mobile and tablet, has been successfully rolled out to deliver easily accessible information on daytoday operations and business performance.
