Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 08 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 09 Strategic report Demand for distribution and industrial Our income focused diversified portfolio is well positioned space continues to outweigh supply in to withstand this period of uncertainty with high occupancy Market prime locations which has a positive on long leases, low exposure to Central London offices and knockon effect on rental levels.
financial services and reduced exposure to shopping centres.
context The UKs decision Macro volatility Economic growth Occupational market Investment and Technology capital markets to leave the EU will result in continued uncertainty for the country, the property sector and for the occupational market.
The importance of liquidity and transparency As widely anticipated, volatility increased during Economic growth forecasts in both of our There has not been any discernible slowdown The EU referendum had a sharp impact on Technology continues to transform the way we in the property sector has recently been the year due to fluctuating market expectations markets remain well below historic highs, in leasing activity to date, particularly in retail as investment market activity immediately before work, shop and travel.
The internet has delivered highlighted in the volatility caused by the EU prior to the EU referendum, and further by however economic indicators post the EU occupiers generally continue with their plans.
The reported subsequent greater access to information, providing referendum outcome and openended property the vote to leave the EU.
Investment market referendum have generally surprised on the National vacancies in retail parks are at a 14 year rise in property yields were clearly impacted instant information and more choice.
Mobile funds closing redemptions to investors.
Listed activity reduced sharply due to this uncertainty, upside suggesting the UK economy has low which is evidenced by our fully occupied by the decision to exit the EU.
It is likely there continues to drive online shopper interaction real estate, particularly REITs, are well placed although pricing has remained robust.
There performed better than many had initially portfolio with tenant demand exceeding supply.
was already a moderate correction in values and consumer behaviour as innovations to provide institutional and retail investors has been little evidence of any negative impact feared.
The consensus view is that UK growth Outside the City of London office market, in underway following a very strong investment including contactless and mobile payment access to commercial real estate returns with on occupational markets, however, it is still too is expected to slow in the coming quarters.
which we have no exposure, leasing activity market in the run up to thereferendum.
become commonplace in the retail environment.
the benefit of both liquidity and transparency.
early to understand the full impact of the vote This is highly dependent on political decisions in regional office markets softened slightly Frictionless shopping continues to be an Banks exposure to the real estate sector is far As the REIT market matures in the UK, there is and will be closely monitored.
surrounding the result of the referendum, but proved relatively resilient.
Demand for aspiration for retailers in response to the ever lower than in 2008, with investment activity in a clear change in the importance being placed economic indicators and external global distribution and industrial space continues changing consumer demands, in both prime and recent years being driven by investors using The Companys diversified portfolio and broad on income returns and the ability of REITs to marketfactors.
to outweigh supply in prime locations which secondary retail environments.
Liquidity is expected range of high quality occupiers provides efficiently convert underlying property returns is having a positive knockon effect on rental continue to provide the platform for delivery.
to remain high, although banks are likely to significant resilience in a potentially volatile Inflation has remained at very low levels both in into shareholderreturns.
Overall, the UK regional outlook is mixed Redefine International continues to develop focus on relatively low risk lending with margins market.
Combined with a focus on delivering the UK and Germany.
The recent devaluation of with performance heavily dependent on the its use of technology, particularly mobile, for secondary assets or higher risk transactions Income returns are an essential part of our secure income returns, this places the Company Sterling and its impact on producers input costs fundamentals of specific assets.
Demand from focusing on convenience and value to enhance increasing.
Thenumber of new entrants to the investment strategy.
With performance in in astrong position to manage and capitalise on has seen consensus inflation increasing to 2.0per retailers in Germany continued to strengthen the consumer journey.
We have seen a 40 per lending market including nonbank funds has the next phase of the property cycle likely to this volatility.
Retail sales have been robust with during the year, with interest improving from cent increase in mobile usage across the UK significantly enhanced the depth and liquidity annual sales growth of 6.2 per cent for the year be more weighted towards income returns both local and international brands.
UK commercial yields were and rental growth, our approach to recycling to August 2016.
Higher inflation from weaker over 4.0per cent above ten year gilt yields, Sterling and increased import costs may lower The Companys ERV grew by 4.4 per cent Optimisation of beacon technology in retail capital into assets with strong property significantly higher than the long term average fundamentals and occupier demand is now this growth rate for the remainder of the year.
across the portfolio with several occupierled environments will continue to grow, with the aim spread of between 1.0 per cent to 2.0 per cent.
TheCompany has over 30 per cent of its leases initiatives underway to continue to support to create a seamless, omnichannel experience .
This suggests property pricing remains relatively subject to inflationlinked rent reviews.
These include prelet from screen to store.
good value compared to certain other asset exposure is weighted towards convenience and expansions, reconfiguration and optimisation Social media has dominated and will continue classes.
Uncertainty in the occupier market nondiscretionary consumer spending and 23per of existing space, improving the tenant mix, to dominate the shopper journey and thus video may also be reflected in lower investment cent of the portfolio by value is in Germany, increased commercialisation activity and content remains a powerful component for volumes, although the continuing gap between providing exposure to the Euro.
progress on fillingregional office vacancies.
property yields and interest rates suggests that UK unemployment rate during the three months UK property will continue to appeal to certain Redefine International uses technology across to August 2016 was 4.9 per cent, its lowest rate investor groups.
its portfolio to stay in touch with all stakeholders.
51 per cent of all web traffic is from new In a market characterised by exceptionally Interest rates across Europe are likely to visitors and there has been a 60 per cent low interest rates and low growth, our focus remain low which, together with the anticipated increase of mobile device usage to access the is on identifying assets with sound property slowdown in capital value growth, makes corporatewebsite.
fundamentals in locations that are supported secure income returns an increasingly byoccupier demand.
important component of total returns for the foreseeablefuture.
Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 10 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 11 Strategic report The Group seeks to allocate capital to assets within sectors and locations that are expected to generate Business model the best sustainable, riskadjusted returns.
and strategy Strategic principles Strategic actions Strategic outcome Enhance quality Reposition Secure income Market leading of portfolio portfolio focused total returns distributions for our shareholders Acquire assets with Leveraging our sustainable income diversified portfolio, we Yield WAULT potential and strong will reallocate capital property fundamentals to assets with stronger 8% 7.8yrs within the sectors and growth potential and geographies expected occupational demand, In 2016 based indexlinked leases 30% on EPRA NAV to deliver the best reducing exposure to St. Georges Shopping Centre, Harrow income focused assets with maturing Debt Dividend total returns.
We Open and maturity will create value growth transparent through active asset Reduce cost stakeholder management and of capital 6.9yrs 12% engagement explore selective high Lower cost of capital next significant We target dividend growth of CPI yielding development maturity in 2020 12% over the medium term to enable the Group to opportunities.
be more competitive in the investment market.
Sustainable Strengthen The Group has clear The Group is committed to We optimise debt and and socially balance sheet visibility of income with maintaining its position as a gearing to capitalise DoubleTree by Hilton, Edinburgh responsible long WAULTs supported by We will reduce gearing leading income focused UK on the low interest rate investment to within our target a well diversified portfolio REIT and targets growth environment.
Careful range LTV of between and tenant base.
in excess of inflation over debt and liquidity 40 and 50 per cent.
management mitigate We will continue to A significant proportion of interest rate and strengthen our capital the portfolio is subject to refinancing risk while structure and seek out index-linked rent reviews.
avoiding unnecessary attractive financing cash reserves terms whilst maintaining No significant near term wherever possible.
debt maturity and over 95% of interest costs either fixed or capped.
