Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 64 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 65 Directors report Accountability reviewed the systems of risk management to gain an understanding of the valuation the objectivity of the audit partner and audit staff with specific focus on the impact of the UKs process, and to assess and challenge the key are not impaired.
decision to leave the European Union: assumptions underlying the valuations.
The The external auditors have direct access to the Audit and Committee was also provided with an overview appointed the Groups current internal Audit and Risk Committees chairman should of the market, relevant historic performance and auditor after a tender process: they wish to raise any concerns outside formal indications of equivalent yields.
reviewed and approved the internal auditors Committeemeetings.
risk based audit plan for the financial year: The conclusion of the Committee was that: Risk Committee the Committee The Committee monitored the ratio of audit met with independent property valuers to the valuation processes appeared to be to nonaudit services, and related fees, and discuss the valuation process and consider assessed the objectivity of the external auditors thorough and meticulous: the appropriateness of the assumptions in conjunction with the senior management the assets were valued on a highest and underlying the property valuations: team.
The Companys policy on nonaudit best use basis, consistent with prior periods: The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board oversees services is included in the Committees terms received and reviewed reports from the the assets were valued using reasonable of reference and can be accessed on the Groups Chief Financial Officer and Financial estimates and professional judgements: and financial reporting and risk management for the Controller: Companys website.
The level of nonaudit the assets were valued on a basis which services and fees incurred during the year Group.
It monitors the effectiveness of internal reviewed the interim and annual financial took account of comparable market was compliant with the Companys policy in statements, approved the accounting transactions.
controls, the internal and external auditors, the thatregard.
policies used, and assessed the related judgements and estimates, and compliance Transactional risk and accounting for provision of nonaudit services and ensures the Audit fees with statutory and listing obligations: complex transactions The following fees have been paid to KPMG independence of the external auditor is maintained.
considered a report from the JSE on A number of significant transactions during the year, and are included in net proactive monitoring: occurred during the year.
These included operating income in the consolidated statement the phased acquisition of the AUK portfolio monitored REIT compliance: of comprehensive income: and the acquisition of the Groups interest in performed an annual review of the Groups International Hotel Properties Limited IHL.
Year ended Year ended whistleblowing and antibribery policies: 31 August 31 August It was considered that the transactions had This is the first year that the Company has The Committees objective is to provide the considered and recommended the dividend 2016 2015 been accounted for appropriately, and that the m m reported under the 2014 UK Corporate Board with additional assurance regarding the to the Board: accounting and disclosure were compliant with Governance Code and the Committee efficacy and reliability of the financial information Audit fees 0.4 0.3 considered the Groups viability statement, both IFRS and the Groups accounting policies.
has focused on the new requirements.
used by the Directors in the discharge of their Total 0.4 0.3 including the appropriateness of the GrantThornton UK LLP was appointed as the duties relating to corporate accountability and underlying methodology, assumptions Nonaudit fees Effectiveness, independence and internal auditor during the year, enhancement to comment on the associated risk in terms andstress tests applied refer to page 15 : Reporting accountant appointment of the external auditor to internal controls continued to be made and of management, assurance and reporting.
1 under listing rules 0.3 performed an assessment of the KPMG was appointed via a tender process in those controls and risk management systems The Committee is responsible for reviewing Total 0.7 0.3 appropriateness of the application of the 2010 and has expressed their willingness to were reviewed by the Committee.
and assessing the integrity of the risk control going concern concept refer to page 81 : and remain in office.
The Directors expect to next 1 required for the AUK acquisition and related capital raise.
systems and for ensuring that risk policies The Committee comprises three independent tender the audit in 2018, which aligns with the recommended the annual report to and strategies exist and there is effective risk Nonexecutive Directors.
Gavin Tipper and Internal audit the Board as a fair, balanced and scheduled rotation of the audit partner.
Details of the principal risks facing Sue Ford are both Chartered Accountants and Grant Thornton UK LLP has been appointed to understandable assessment of the Groups the Group are set out on page 14 and in note 27 In assessing the effectiveness and level of are considered to have significant recent and financial position and results for the act as the Groups internal auditor.
Their audit to the financial statements.
service from the external auditor, the Committee relevant financial experience and the Committee plan and activities during the year covered financialyear.
considered KPMGs knowledge of the market as a whole has competence relevant to the The Committee ensures it gives appropriate control outputs of the following: and Group, the depth of understanding of the property sector in which the Group operates.
consideration to matters of importance to the Significant areas of judgement payroll: key accounting and audit judgements, the Group.
During the year the Committee: The Committee, in monitoring the integrity of During the reporting year, five meetings were extent to which the audit plan was carried out, accounts payable: the financial statements, has assessed whether held, aligned to the Companys reporting and met with the external auditors at the audit input from management and the content of the financial close process: suitable accounting policies have been adopted risk management cycle.
All of the meetings planning and reporting stages to consider auditors reports to the Committee.
and whether management has made appropriate credit control: and Gavin Tipper were attended by the Chief Executive Officer and discuss the audit strategy and plan, the The Committee has undertaken its annual estimates and judgements.
The Committee and the Chief Financial Officer together with results of the audit work undertaken and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee risk management.
review, with the auditor, of any threats to its has identified the following key matters as representatives of both the external auditors areas of significant complexity, judgement or Reports received from the internal auditor independence and assessed whether the material to the Groups results due to the level and the internal auditors, the latter of which uncertainty: reflected no significant internal control failings or auditor may continue to be considered as ofcomplexity or estimation involved.
were appointed during the year.
The Companys Appointed Meetings monitored the effectiveness of the auditors weaknesses which supported the Committees independent.
The Committee is satisfied that valuers attended two meetings to discuss and agreed their remuneration: Gavin Tipper CA MBA Bcom BAcc 28 06 2012 5 5 Valuation of investment property conclusion that internal controls remained KPMG is independent, and recommends the the processes undertaken in determining the Michael Farrow FCIS MSc 23 08 2011 5 5 monitored the level of nonaudit services appropriate and robust.
Investment property is a significant component reappointment of KPMG at the Companys market value of the property portfolio at each provided by the external auditor: Sue Ford ACA, BSc Hons 30 01 2014 5 5 AGM on 23 January 2017.
This position will be of the Groups balance sheet and changes In the forthcoming year, it is expected that reporting date and one meeting was attended by reviewed and assessed the effectiveness to valuations may impact materially on reviewed annually.
their plan will include a review of system Independent Audit, which performed anexternal The terms of reference for the Audit and Risk of internal controls, particularly financial its financial performance, hence property implementations, human resources, project evaluation of the Committee.
KPMG has informed the Committee of the Committee can be found on the website: controls, and confirmed to the Board that valuations are a key area of focus.
Property management and regulatory compliance.
safeguards it has in place to maintain its www.
com they remain appropriate: valuations require significant judgements and independence, which include regular reviews estimates and are performed by appropriately Gavin Tipper of the composition of the audit team, including qualified independent valuers, and reviewed by Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee rotation in accordance with the relevant management.
The Committee met with two of 27 October 2016 regulations.
There was a change in audit partner the Groups valuers during the year, in regard in 2014.
Having considered its safeguards and to the valuations of the recently acquired AUK other relevant factors, KPMG is of the opinion portfolio and the Groups shopping centre that it is independent within the meaning of the portfolio.
The meetings allowed the Committee regulatory and professional requirements, and Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 66 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 67 Directors report Remuneration unaudited Directors Remuneration remuneration at a glance Executive single total figure of remuneration for 2016 This has been an important year for the Total remuneration received Remuneration Committee, 2016 being for year ended 31 August 2016 the first year that awards, made under Mike 637,038 the long term incentive plan, were to vest.
Watters Stephen 402,949 Oakenfull Adrian 407,121 Horsburgh During the threeyear vesting period for the LTIP Annual statement by the awards granted in 2013, the executives have Chairman of the Remuneration made significant progress, clearly delivering on Donald 375,711 Committee RemCo all strategic objectives, as evidenced from the Grant metrics at the front of this Annual Report and For the year ended 31 August 2016 on the page opposite, with a steady growth in not subject to audit distributable earnings and a reduction of both 0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 600,000 700,000 the weighted average cost of debt and the LTV Introduction across the period.
The size and quality of the Actual salary paid Pension Taxable benefits Annual bonus payable in respect of the financial year On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present portfolio has been greatly enhanced following the Directors Remuneration Report for the the successful completion of the 490million read more on Single figure year ended 31 August 2016.
It should be noted AUK acquisition and through the sale of remuneration on page 76 that, as an Isle of Man company, Redefine noncore assets.
The Company has achieved International is voluntarily reporting under the UK one of the highest dividend yields in its sector regulations in order to provide transparency to throughout the property cycle, produced a 2016 STIP bonus result achieved over 2016 LTIP result achieved over our shareholders.
24.7per cent cumulative TSR for shareholders 55% 0% one year performance period three year performance period during the performance period and has entered This has been an important year for the the FTSE 250 EPRA and GPRindices.
RemCo, 2016 being the first year that awards Company performance over comparative made under the long term incentive plan STIP Bonus KPIs for period three year period LTIP were to vest.
The LTIP vesting levels Michael Farrow were to provide an important insight into Performance Award % % Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Weight achieved of salary 2013 2016 improvement whether the remuneration policy had proved an appropriate indicator of performance that Cash flow Market Capitalisation was suitably aligned with both strategy and 15% 100% 15% 0.4bn 0.8bn 100% Appointed Meetings shareholder interests and whether it had Michael Farrow FCIS MSc 23 01 2013 3 3 provided the executives with a fair and balanced Earnings LTV 30% 50% 15% 56.8% 53.4% 6% Robert Orr MRICS, BSc 23 04 2015 3 3 remuneration package to reflect their results.
Sue Ford ACA, BSc Hons 10 09 2015 3 3 Weighted average NAV growth 30% 0% 0% 4.2% 3.4% 19% cost of debt The RemCo operates within terms of reference, acopy of which is available at the website: c8% Personal objectives Maintained sector leading dividend yield of www.
com 25% 100% 25% on NAV Total Total Shareholder Return 100% 55% 24.7% FTSE 250 read more on Bonus Companys inclusion in indices on page 77 EPRA
