STRATEGIC REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY 53 Going concern and viability statements foreseeable future which accounting to continue in operation and meet its Introduction standards require to be at least a year liabilities as they fall due over the next five Rolls-Royce operates an annual planning from the date of this report and have not years, consistent with the period of the process which includes strategic greater identified any material uncertainties to the medium-term forecast.
than five years, medium-term five year Companys and the Groups ability to do so.
In making this statement, the Directors have andshort-term one year financial forecasts, On the basis described above, the Directors made the following key assumptions: based on the inputs from each of the consider it appropriate to adopt the going businesses.
These plans and risks to their That maturing facilities will be concern basis in preparing the consolidated achievement are reviewed by the Board refinanced.
The Group currently has financial statements in accordance with aspart of its strategy review and budget access to global debt markets and expects the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal approval processes.
Once approved these to be able to refinance these facilities Control and Related Financial and Business plans are cascaded throughout the Group on  terms.
Reporting published by the Financial and are used as the basis for monitoring The Groups medium-term and long-term Reporting Council in September 2014. ourperformance, incentivising employees financing plans are designed to allow for and providing external guidance to our periods of adverse conditions in world Viability shareholders.
These were updated to reflect capital markets but not a prolonged the impact of the financial penalties from say 12 month period where debt markets The viability assessment considers solvency agreements with investigating bodies.
were effectively closed to the Group.
and liquidity over a longer period than for That in the event of a single risk or The processes for identifying and managing the purposes of the going concern multiple lesser risks occurring which have the principal risks are described on pages 48 assessment above.
Inevitably, the degree a particularly severe effect on the Group, and 49.
As also described there, the risk of certainty reduces over this longer period.
all potential actions, such as constraining management process, and in consequence In making the assessment, severe but capital spending and reducing or the going concern and viability statements, plausible scenarios have been considered suspending payments to shareholders, are designed to provide reasonable, but not that estimate the potential impact of the would be taken on a timely basis.
principal risks arising over the assessment Group believes it has the early warning period, for example: the loss of a key mechanisms to identify the need for such Going concern element of the supply chain: the impact actions and the ability to implement them on aircraft travel of a global pandemic: or on a timely basis if necessary.
The going concern assessment considers a failure to achieve planned cost reductions.
whether it is appropriate to prepare That implausible scenarios, whether the financial statements on a going The scenarios assume an appropriate involving multiple risks occurring at the concern basis.
management response to the specific event, same time or the impact of individual but not broader mitigating actions which risks occurring that cannot be mitigated As described on page 185, the Group meets could be undertaken, which were considered by management actions to the degree its funding requirements through a mixture separately.
The impacts of these scenarios assumed, do not occur.
For instance, of shareholders funds, bank borrowings, were overlaid on the medium-term forecast whilst the Directors have considered a bonds and notes.
At 31 December 2016, the to assess how the Groups liquidity and scenario where cost reductions are not Group had borrowing facilities of 5.3bn solvency would be affected.
achieved and a major programme is and total liquidity of 5.1bn, including cash The assessment took account of the Groups delayed, they have not considered it and cash equivalents of 2.8bn and current funding, forecast requirements and plausible that any other of the key risks undrawn facilities of 2.3bn.
170m of the existing committed borrowing facilities.
would crystallise in a way that would facilities mature in 2017.
It assumed that existing facilities could create a worse outcome over the five-year The Groups forecasts and projections, be refinanced as they mature.
taking into account reasonably possible modest maturities over the first two years changes in trading performance, show that of the medium-term forecast with more the Group has sufficient financial resources.
Signed on behalf of the Board The Directors have reasonable expectations Warren East that the Company and the Group are well On the basis described above, the Board Chief Executive placed to manage business risks and to confirms that it has a reasonable 13 February 2017 continue inoperational existence for the expectation that the Company will be able
