110 DIRECTORS REPORT SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Sir Kevin Smith Science & Technology Chairman of the Science & Technology Committee Committee report Provide assurance on the identification Principal responsibilities Highlights and management of key technological risks.
The remit of the Committee is to: Oversee processes for ensuring effective Review of small modular reactor resourcing and development of required Review the strategic direction of the nuclear technology.
Groups research, technology and development activities.
Conduct visits to research and Review of technology development facilities.
Provide assurance that significant trends in science, technology, software and data Ensure dialogue with the Groups Review of Advance3, are identified and incorporated into engineering and technology leaders and management plans.
UltraFan and MTU Series 5000 employees.
Assist the Board in its oversight of major Review industry and scientific benchmark R&D investment and provide assurance Visit to University Technology data and best practices.
on its competitiveness and adequacy.
Review and consider any other topics or Oversee the effectiveness of key risks appropriate to the overall remit of Detailed briefing on engineering and technology processes and the Committee as delegated by the Board.
manufacturing R&T strategy operations, including delivery of major and programme.
product development and technology The Group President, Director Engineering programmes, intellectual property & Technology and other senior engineering Visit to facilities in Indianapolis, and technology executives attend the management and interactions with US and Coventry, UK to review Committee meetings.
At a glance Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Technology acquisition How the Group develops and acquires new technology, and the The technology process was appropriate and process 2016 outcome outcome of the process during 2016. supported the technology development strategy of the businesses.
Technology deep The Committee received briefings on key technologies for small The Groups core nuclear technologies and potential dive reviews modular reactors SMRs, and on required manufacturing partners position it well to address SMR opportunities, capabilities and potential partnerships.
and the Group is focused on developing and deploying competitive manufacturing solutions.
New product Status of the Advance3, UltraFan and MTU Series 5000 These programmes will bring a step-change in programme reviews programmes.
technology to key products enhancing their efficiency and effectiveness.
University Technology Review of the UTCs role in partnering with Rolls-Royce, and tour The UTC model is highly beneficial in supporting R&D Centres UTCs of the work of the Gas Turbine Transmission Systems and by leading academics in key technology areas for Manufacturing Technology UTCs at Nottingham, UK.
improving the Groups tools and processes and for application in future products.
Manufacturing As well as the visit to the Nottingham UTCs, review of The manufacturing technology strategy and technology manufacturing technology strategy and development programme are well defined across the businesses programme, including visits to facilities in Indianapolis, US and and there are visible signs of new technologies the Manufacturing Technology Centre at Coventry, UK.
DIRECTORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE REPORT 111 We then moved on to the UTC in Manufacturing Technology where 2016 overview we saw some of the innovative work being undertaken in the fields of robotic inspection and repair, and in miniature machine tools.
It is easy to see the potential this brings for enabling high-precision Introduction work in restricted space environments such as within engines.
The Group invests more than 1 billion each year in R&D to enable it The Committee was hugely impressed by the quality of work to conceive, design and deliver world-class technology that meets undertaken at the UTCs and the strength of the relationships.
customers current and future needs.
The Committee was We were also satisfied with arrangements for the protection established by the Board to provide dedicated focus and support to and management of intellectual property.
this key area of the business especially in helping with the formulation of strategic direction.
It is the aim of the Committee to At our meeting in July, we examined progress with the Groups provide high-level oversight and assurance of the Groups scientific research and technology programmes, reviewing the 2016 and technological strategy, processes and investments.
technology themes and master programmes for each of the Groups businesses, and the planned sources of R&T co-funding.
We conducted a review of the key technologies within the Advance and Work of the Committee in 2016 UltraFan programmes, including the Rolls-Royce Power Gearbox, In 2016, the Committee focused on deepening our understanding which are driving changes to engine architecture and component of some of the Groups existing and developing core technologies technologies to form the core of the next generation of more differentiators and enablers, and on reviewing critical technology efficient Rolls-Royce aero engines.
These technologies help differentiate us from our Power Systems also briefed us on the core technologies planned for competitors and enable us to meet customers needs.
We covered the new MTU Series 5000 engine programme and the modular technologies deployed inside the Groups products as well as nature of its design.
technologies that support their design and manufacture.
The Committee endorsed the Groups critical programmes and will In May, the Committee undertook a review with the Groups continue to keep them, and their key contributing technologies, experts of the technology capabilities necessary to address SMR under review.
The Group has decades of experience in the design The Committee was updated in July on the Groups technology and manufacture of small nuclear-powered propulsion plants for strategy and programme in the field of manufacturing technology.
the UK Royal Navys submarine fleet.
We also have extensive This is an important area as the Group drives operational knowledge of civil nuclear reactor technology, components and improvements in the near-term, as well as positioning the Group systems through our instrumentation & controls and nuclear competitively for the future.
We were briefed on the activities services businesses.
These factors, together with proven expertise undertaken through the Groups global advanced manufacturing in high-volume, high-tech precision manufacturing through the research centre network, and the particular areas of focus within aerospace businesses, provide the Group with a very strong and each of the Groups businesses.
This helped provide context for the credible technology proposition.
The Committee therefore Committees visit in September to some of the Groups facilities in supported the Groups initial investment in progressing the SMR Indianapolis, US where we were briefed on advanced technology opportunity as the UK Government considers its future energy across several of the Groups businesses and programmes.
options to meet projected demand.
This included: technology used in the Advance1 engine core We received a briefing on the new innovation accelerator network architecture: development by LibertyWorks of engine infrared introduced across the Group to engage our people worldwide suppression technology: a review of CastBond technology which enabling them to turn ideas into value-generating activities.
combines cooling and manufacturing techniques: and a briefing on the Groups investment in ceramic matrix composites CMC in The Committee visited two UTCs at Nottingham, UK.
The Groups Cypress, California to serve as a dedicated centre for CMC R&D to established global network of UTCs enables long-term funded support the development of next-generation turbine materials.
research as well as close contact with world-class academic institutions and access to leading talent and innovation in key During this visit, we also received briefings on advanced methods to engineering and technology disciplines.
reduce cost and shorten schedules for development programmes, and on repair technologies that decrease lifecycle cost and enhance We first met with researchers and staff at the Gas Turbine fleet readiness.
The LibertyWorks team provided a briefing on some Transmissions Systems UTC where we were shown some of the of their areas of technology development.
This included: engine expert work being undertaken in advanced fluid mechanics.
This infrared signature suppression technology that provides a benefit enables the modelling of fluid flow and heat transfer in complex oil to defence customers: integrated power and thermal management: flows within the gas turbine core and transmissions architectures, and other aspects of improving the Groups electrical capability in and analysis of the behaviours of seals, shafts, bearings and support all business sectors.
The DARPA VTOL X-Plane project was structures in different conditions.
This work impacts directly on the highlighted, that will lead to a demonstration of a distributed development of new engines in considering material strength and turbo-electric powered vertical take-off landing aircraft.
112 DIRECTORS REPORT SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 In December, the Committee visited the Manufacturing Technology The Rolls-Royce Science Prize Centre MTC at Coventry, UK, the largest of a network of advanced manufacturing research centres.
Here, we saw close up how The Rolls-Royce Science Prize is an annual awards programme advanced technologies, in particular in additive layer launched in 2004 as part of the Groups continuing commitment manufacturing and laser welding, are being applied to bring to science education, designed to foster, recognise and reward step-change efficiency improvements to the production process.
outstanding work in science and maths teaching.
It promotes We were particularly impressed by the capability of the MTC innovative and sustainable strategies for teaching science and personnel, a team of industrially experienced process experts who, at the same time contributes to teachers continuing together with the world-class facilities at the MTC, provide fantastic professional development.
Since its launch, over 1,250,000 of capability in manufacturing solutions to Rolls-Royce and others.
prize money has been awarded to over 550 schools.
Rolls-Royce works with the National STEM Learning Centre and I was delighted to attend this years Rolls-Royce Science Prize finals.
Network, The National Centre for Excellence in Teaching This flagship annual event at the London Science Museum gives Mathematics NCETM and the Institute of Mathematics and its recognition and reward to teachers that have undertaken innovative Applications IMA to invite teachers, technicians and teaching work in implementing science teaching ideas in their schools and assistants throughout the UK to submit a proposal for any colleges across the UK.
The passion and enthusiasm of all of the science, or combined maths and science, project that meets a finalists for their projects was evident, and their achievements in need in their school or college.
inspiring the next generation to pursue learning in STEM subjects in novel and engaging ways were truly deserving of this recognition.
Up to 60 special merit awards of 1,000 are awarded by Rolls-Royce to selected schools that have submitted proposals of Looking forward a very high standard.
From these shortlisted schools up to six finalists receive an additional 5,000 from Rolls-Royce to The Committee will continue to support management in overseeing develop and enhance their projects.
Finalists are lent a video the Groups technology strategy and its response to emerging camera which records their progress and are aligned to a technology risks and opportunities.
In December 2016, the Committee Rolls-Royce STEM Ambassador mentor to support them through was allocated responsibility for overseeing management of the to successful project completion.
Groups new principal risk of disruptive technologies and business The winning entrant is announced at an annual awards models, which we will be examining more in 2017. ceremony held at the London Science Museum, and the school Building on the understanding we have developed on the Groups receives a prize of 10,000.
You can read about the 2016 technologies and plans, in 2017, the Committee expects to have a finalists and their projects on the Groups website particular focus on how they contribute to sustaining www.
competitiveness in our key business areas.
We will also review the impact of transformation on our R&T strategy.
We are excited by the possibilities ahead to build on the Groups strengths and harness new technologies to create and address future market opportunities.
Sir Kevin Smith Chairman of the Science & Technology Committee
