Royal Mail plc | Market overview home delivery remains the preferred option for 7 Market overview the vast majority of consumers.
Consumers are increasingly shopping at a time and place which suits them.
UK industry Royal Mail operates in a marketplace which is undergoing experts have stated that, for the second year profound change, driven by a structural decline in addressed letter running, mobile platforms accounted for 8 all growth in overall eretail sales in 2015. volumes and continued growth in e-commerce.
E-substitution in Manyretailers are adopting a mobilefirst letters and disintermediation in the parcels market have changed channel strategy.
Fashion retailer ASOS reported that almost half of its orders came our role in the value chain.
In some areas, change has resulted in through on a mobile device in February 2016. new opportunities.
In others, our role has reduced.
International parcels UK letters market UK parcels market Ecommerce is similarly driving European The UK, like many other countries, is The UK parcels market is one of the most parcels market growth.
Ecommerce experiencing ongoing structural decline in competitive in Europe, with 16 major players.
Europe research estimates that European addressed letter volumes.
This decline is driven It is also one of the most evolved parcel B2C ecommerce grew 14 per cent in 2015 by esubstitution and growth in mobile and markets in Europe: it has the highest per to 424 billion, with four billion parcels online advertising.
Large businesses continue capita spend on eretail and this is increasing.
This growth is uneven to adopt online communication methods and Approximately 14 per cent of all UK retail across Europe, due to varying economic are strongly incentivising paperless billing.
sales are estimated to be conducted online performance and ecommerce adoption.
However, independent research shows that and ecommerce expenditure per head is over Thelargest parcels markets outside the UK 5 people understand information better, are more 50per cent higher than in the US.
are Germany, France and Italy.
likely to take appropriate action and make better financial decisions as a result of receiving Eretail continues to drive overall growth Consumers expect a seamless crossborder 1 information by post rather than electronically.
The rapid pace of change in delivery and returns experience.
Within Europe, the parcels industry is expected to continue, crossborder online purchasing is growing 9 We are seeing different types of letters due to low barriers to entry, greater faster than domestic online purchasing.
experiencing different rates of decline due disintermediation and disruptive business 10 to this structural shift.
As the leading letters models.
The actions of Amazon Logistics The crossborder ecommerce trend is delivery operator in the UK, the decline in remain the most fundamental driver of change expected to continue in all major European addressed letter volumes means we need to in the market.
In a highly competitive retail countries in the future.
A recent Royal Mail deliver letters and parcels together and seek landscape, the delivery experience has become study into the international ambitions of alternative revenue pools to underpin the a key differentiator for many online retailers.
small UK eretailers found small businesses Universal Service network.
They are increasing shoppers expectations were confident in the current climate and regarding the convenience, speed and price of were looking towards new markets, building Direct mail provides revenue that supports delivery.
Several parcel carriers have invested on their existing international success.
Research shows that significantly in expanding their capacity in It found that Europe remains the main target direct mail advertising spend grew by one per recent years.
This puts downward pressure for exports and almost 50 per cent of small cent during 2015, while other forms of print on prices.
eretailers aim to sell their products in 11 advertising declined around 11 per cent.
Direct Europe in 2016, up from 30 per cent in 2015. mail is the fourth largest advertising medium in Growth areas 2 the UK, behind TV, internet and print.
Fortytwo Clothing and footwear represents the Outside the EU, Chinese ecommerce per cent of people say they have taken direct majority of online nonfood sales growth, due marketplaces Tmall and AliExpress action e. g. purchased, spent, ordered, renewed to frequency of purchase and a higher value significantly gained in popularity among 3 having received a targeted mailing.
Parcel returns continue to grow online shoppers.
Chinese customers spent more quickly than deliveries, driven by the over 9 billion through Alibaba in 24 hours The UK postal access market has developed clothing and footwear sector in particular.
on Singles Day on 11 November 2015 and rapidly since its introduction in 2004 and is now Sales of physical books are showing some many analysts predict that a new record will by far the biggest and most developed mail sign of resilience.
This is partially offsetting be set again this year.
Access operators the continued decline in music, film and video 6 handle about 70 per cent of all addressed game sales.
letters posted by large businesses.
Royal Mail continues to work with access operators to In the consumer SME segment, there has ensure sending and receiving customers enjoy been a very rapid expansion of click and a great service.
Access Quality of Service was collect, parcel shop networks and parcel 95.7 per cent in 201516. locker stations, albeit from a low base.
There are now more than 30,000 parcel drop off and pick up locations across the UK.
Although there 7 has been an increase in awareness and usage IMRG UK consumer home delivery review 2016 8 1 London Economics behavioural economics study for Capgemini mRetail Sales Index, March 2016 of click and collect and parcel shop deliveries, 9 Keep Me Posted PostEurop December 2015 10 2 WARC UK expenditure report, April 2016.
Online cross border retail January to December 2015 forecast 20162021 11 3 5 Quadrangle, Valued Mail 2014 Ofcom IMRC 2015 Royal Mail Group SME seasonal research, 4 6 FTI consulting, September 2015 Verdict eRetail 2015 December2015 12 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Mail drives customers online 12 And mobile is making it easier than ever for people to access and use the internet.
Having received a mailing: 92% 86% 43% driven to online or connected with download digital activity business something 87% 54% influenced to make engaged in online purchases social media 12 Source: Royal Mail MarketReach, Mail and Digital Part 2, Quadrangle, 2014 Delivery matters Leading in e-commerce Home delivery is expected to remain our customers preferred delivery option.
1, 59 1 80% per head of online shoppers The UK has the would prefer to highest spending per have items delivered capita on e-commerce 13 to their home.
13 Source: IMRG consumer home 14 Source: Ofcom ICMR 2015 delivery review 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 13
