Royal Mail plc | Our strategy Our strategy We have a clear vision to be recognised as the best delivery company in the UK and across Europe.
Our strategy to achieve this leverages our strengths while aiming to deliver sustainable shareholder value and our Universal Service commitment.
Our strategic priorities Winning in parcels Key initiatives: We are maintaining our Opening our network for longer and pushing back our latest preeminent position by pursuing acceptance times faster growing parts of the UK Rolling out sorting machines for smaller parcels to gain better parcels market while making management information and identify efficiency opportunities it easier for customers to use Piloting a mechanised parcel conveyor at Leeds Mail Centre, Royal Mail.
We are building our building our capability to handle larger parcels capability to handle increased numbers of larger parcels and Rolled out GLS ParcelLock System to four countries in Eastern are winning new volumes.
New options for private customers to send, pickup Weare investing in tracking and pay for parcels andautomation to help us  of themarket.
Defending letters Key initiatives: Our letters business accounts MarketReachs MAILMEN campaign is demonstrating the value for almost 60 per cent of our of mail UK revenue.
We continue Recovering revenue and preventing revenue leakage, for to anticipate a decline of example, through stamp cancellations 46 per cent in addressed letter We have improved large letter sorting machines and we are volumes in the mediumterm.
upgrading Optical Character Reading technology to sort more Royal Mail is managing this Strategic mail automatically decline by continuing to promote priorities, the value of mail, and increase Keep Me Posted campaign support base has broadened to enabled the efficiency and effectiveness 87charities, trade unions, businesses and consumer groups by... of our deliveryoperation.
Growing in new areas Key initiatives: We are making the most of our Trialling thirdparty vehicle maintenance services for vehicles existing assets.
At the same at our fleet workshops time, we are focused on service Secured a stake in Market Engine, an online marketplace developments and increasing specialist that integrates the world's largest ecommerce our capability through selected sites.
This follows our investment in Mallzee, the personal investments.
We are becoming shoppingapp a digital organisation and Furthering our inhouse IT capability, providing customers acting at pace to increase our with ecommerce solutions to better manage the shipping and ecommerce capability to retain tracking of parcels and attract marketplace sellers.
Acquired Intersoft, a provider of delivery management software for international parcel shipments, complementing the purchases of data management and labelling provider NetDespatch and delivery software developer Storefeeder 16 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Enabling our strategic priorities Strategic focus on costs Key initiatives: The highly competitive parcels Over 70 scoped and resourced projects across UKPIL targeted to market, coupled with the ongoing avoid around 500 million of annualised costs by201718 structural decline in letters, has 1 We continue to target 2.03.0 per cent productivity improvements resulted in increased revenue perannum pressures for the Group.
We are Extending Collections on Delivery and continuing to deploy focusing on costs, driving efficiency Operations Standards across the core network in our operations and embedding a cost conscious culture throughout Reducing costs in the logistics network the organisation.
We will continue Optimising property portfolio and facilities management savings to adopt a strategic approach and to seek new initiatives to control costs.
Targeted cost reduction through streamlined delivery process and network optimisation in GLS Technology and innovation Key initiatives: We are strengthening our technology Rolled out 3,000 finger scanners and commenced the rollout of backbone so that we can support 76,000 new PDAs across our Operation our priorities to win in parcels, Approximately onethird of our parcels traffic is currently tracked defend letters and grow in new by customers in some way.
In time, we will increase the number of areas.
We continue to promote items we scan in Mail Centres and on thedoorstep the value of mail, and increase the Continued roll out of Mailmark, targeting 90 per cent of suitable efficiency and effectiveness of our letters by 201617 deliveryoperation.
We have deployed an online bookingin tool 'ServicePointSystem' in 460 Enquiry Offices.
The tool allows colleagues to locate customers items quickly and easily, providing a better, more efficient service GLS FlexDelivery Service now available in 13 countries.
Thisdelivery notification service includes a delivery date and timewindow An engaged and motivated workforce Key initiatives: Over 6,000 managers and union representatives took part in joint Our employees drive the continued training through the Together for Growth programme success of the Royal Mail Group.
We strive to create a supportive, inclusive Around 23,000 colleagues involved in the Big Conversation, used to work environment where our people identify improvements we can make to be better and more efficient have the necessary tools and training Full support pledged for mental health campaign, Time to to perform their duties at their best.
Change, which aims to reduce the stigma associated with mental This is underpinned by a proactive healthissues relationship with the unions.
Customer and You training rolled out to around 4,000 employees Operations Standards give us a standard approach to key processes and tasks, helping colleagues tackle complaints Focusing on first time delivery through Nominate a Neighbour, Withyour Neighbour and Safeplace 1 Collections, processing and delivery in UKPIL core network Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 17
