Overview 01 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The right assets in the right places Our warehouses play a crucial role in the operations of our customers, enabling extraordinary things to happen.
Our big box warehouses are located on Europes major transport corridors, from which goods are distributed regionally, nationally and internationally.
Our urban warehouses are located in and around Europes major cities, allowing quick access to customers and easy access for companies workforces, and include workshops, laboratories, data centres, showrooms and distribution facilities, among a wide variety of other uses.
The rise of e-commerce, in particular, has had a major influence on investor and occupier demand for warehousing: retailers are having to reconfigure their supply chains to cater for both their store networks and consumers who buy products online and expect them to be delivered quickly tolocations convenient to them.
SEGRO is the only listed company to offer this combination and scale of big box and urban warehouses on a pan-European basis.
In response to this demand, we are reporting some ofthestrongest metrics in our recent history, with a record delivery of new developments and a strong pipeline of newspace under construction capable of driving growth for the coming years.
More information More information on SEGROs activities and performance can be found at www.
com, including investor presentations and the 2016 Property Analysis Report which contains details of the portfolio.
More details on our Responsible SEGRO initiatives, as well as our Corporate Social Responsibility Reports, can be found at www.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 02 An award winning design... By being in the right place Brompton is a British success story, exporting Bromptons workshop is located close to the A40, its iconic folding bikes all over the world.
M40 and M25, with direct access to the heart of Its headquarters, in Greenford, West London, ensures that Brompton maintains its historic London home to Bromptons flagship store as links to London, is easily reached by its highly skilled workforce and allows the company to well as easy access to Heathrow from which the consolidate four parts of its business into a company can reach its 44 export markets.
The facility includes a viewing platform which allows Brompton customers to watch their personally-specified bikes being built.
Overview 03 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements... accessible to millions SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 04 Last minute gift... By being in the right place The 16,200 sq m facility was completed in Getting distribution centre configuration and 2016 and is fully let.
location right is crucial for parcel delivery The warehouse boasts strong sustainability credentials.
Photovoltaic panels, water saving companies.
This warehouse, minutes away from measures and air source heat pumps ensure that CO emissions are 40% less than Heathrow Airport, allows rapid delivery to London 2 building regulation requirements.
and the South-East region, as well as easy and efficient distribution of international parcels.
Overview 05 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements... last mile delivery SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 06 Supply chain efficiency... By being in the right place Volkswagen Group Polska is an importer of SEGRO built a brand new, 32,000 sq m distribution six car brands and is the official original spare parts supplier for Poland and Belarus.
facility for Volkswagen Group Polska in Poznan, Poland, This new facility, ideally located next to the within easy reach of its Polish dealership network.
A2 motorway, has allowed Volkswagen Group Polska to increase the efficiency of its distribution network and to extend its Same Day Delivery service.
Samochody Uytkowe Overview 07 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements... to keep Europe moving
