SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 12 Market Overview Our market drivers The performance of real estate, like all Steady economic outlook asset classes, is driven by the interplay ofdemand and supply: investor demand for property assets and occupier demand GDP growth forecast for our major markets for space, with performance dependent % p. a.
201618e onthe supply of properties to buy or lease to satisfy that demand.
3.2% 1.7% 1.6% 1.4% 1.1% 1.0% Real estate as an investment asset If investor demand increases, in the absence of additional supply, the value of real estate will rise: if demand wanes or supply increases, the value will fall.
Real estate pricing is commonly expressed as a yield which is the rent payable for a building as a percentage of its value.
Assuming rents remain static, as the value of real estate rises, its yield falls often referred to as yield compression and vice versa.
Poland Germany Euro France UK Italy Real estate as an operating necessity Area As occupier demand increases, in the absence of additional supply, overall lease terms will become more expensive for the occupier, Source: OECD 16 February 2017 including but not exclusively an increase in rents.
If demand for space falls, or supply increases ahead of occupier demand, overall lease terms, including rent, will become cheaper.
Commentary: Economic growth is an important driver of demand for space by It is for this reason that the property market is considered cyclical: as occupiers, and our customer base spans most economic sectors.
investor or occupier demand increases, the returns from real estate A supportive economic environment encourages businesses to grow improve and the supply of assets or space tends to increase to meet and require additional space in which to operate.
We expect the that demand.
If supply increases too much, or demand starts to fall, economies of all our markets to grow steadily, albeit forecasts are for supply can exceed demand and asset values and rents will fall until the pace of UK economic growth to slow in the near-term compared such time as demand matches or exceeds supply, at which point the to recent years.
The UK vote to leave the European Union has cycle turns.
undoubtedly caused greater uncertainty over the economic outlook We are acutely aware of the cyclical nature of real estate and believe for both the UK and the EU as a whole.
there are six main market factors which influence the performance of What it means for SEGRO: our portfolio.
Good rental growth prospects, particularly in our urban warehouse portfolios in and on the edge of major European cities which often outperform national economies.
Healthy occupier demand for newly developed space, both pre-let and speculatively built.
Strategic Report 13 Overview Governance Financial Statements Structural changes Limited supply of modern in consumer behaviour warehousing Non-store sales taking increasing share UK Grade A warehousing in short supply of UK retail sales Availability at year end, sq m in millions 327 367 405 466 2.4 2.1 1.5 1.1 1.4 1.2 20% 18% 14% 9% 2010 2015 2020 2025 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Store Non-store Source: JLL Source: Colliers International, based on Experian forecasts November 2016 Commentary: Commentary: Structural changes in the nature of retailing towards e-commerce The relatively short construction time for warehousing means and convenience shopping, combined with increasing urbanisation of that rising demand can sometimes be quickly met by an increase European populations, are forcing retailers to re-assess how they sell in supply.
However, developers are currently taking a disciplined and distribute their goods.
approach and, particularly in urban areas, tight planning laws and competing uses are restricting the supply of land.
Therefore, Supply chains must be able to handle both bulk delivery of goods although warehouse development is increasing, it is not exceeding to larger stores and individual deliveries to homes, offices, click-andor still falling short of occupier demand and many buildings collect locations and high street convenience stores.
Margin pressure under construction are already committed pre-let to occupiers.
means that retailers, third party logistics providers and parcel delivery Consequently there are no signs of over-supply in any of our companies are increasingly focused on extracting efficiencies from major markets.
their supply chain, using modern premises in key transport corridors, logistics hubs or locations close to major conurbations.
What it means for SEGRO: Rental values for our UK portfolio are rising, particularly in London What it means for SEGRO: and South-East England, reflecting the supply shortage and healthy Strong occupier demand for our urban warehouses located on occupier demand.
the edge of major European cities to cater for last mile delivery to multiple destinations, often houses and offices.
In Continental Europe, supply and demand for big box warehouses are broadly in balance, although competition for build-to-suit 35 per cent of new rent in 2016 was from parcel delivery and third contracts between developers means that, in Central Europe, party logistics companies.
market rents fell slightly during the year.
See also factors under Steady economic outlook.
Total sales SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 14 Market Overview Our market drivers continued Reduction in industrial land Need for efficient, around major towns and cities sustainable buildings Commentary: Commentary: Land zoned for industrial use in and around major conurbations is With greater awareness of the impact of buildings on the important to cater for occupiers who need to be close to population environment and finite natural resources, occupiers demand high centres either for efficient last mile delivery or for an accessible labour levels of environmental sustainability to minimise their environmental source.
However, the stock of industrial land is being eroded in our footprint and to reduce overall occupancy costs, particularly major urban markets by other, higher value uses, most commonly from heating and other utilities.
It is important that landlords and residential.
As a result, the potential supply response is restricted and, developers own and create buildings which are sustainable in the since demand remains strong, overall leasing terms are improving.
long term and use those natural resources efficiently.
What this means for SEGRO: What this means for SEGRO: We have added to our land bank in London, signing a partnership All of our developments in the UK and Continental Europe are agreement with the Greater London Authority to access land in built to high environmental standards.
East London for urban warehousing.
A buildings sustainability is an important factor in our investment In the UK, rental values for our urban warehouse assets increased decisions, not only for potential acquisitions but also in deciding by 4.8 per cent reflecting the shortage of new supply relative to whether to refurbish or dispose of the very few existing properties levels of demand.
which fall short of environmental standards.
In a few cases, we are able to release industrial land unsuitable for 96 per cent of our UK properties by ERV are E-rated or above for development of modern warehousing for higher value uses mainly the purposes of the Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards.
residential and we benefit from the uplift in value from industrial to residential land zoning.
Strategic Report 15 Overview Governance Financial Statements Attractive yield profile in a low H ow are we responding?
interest rate environment 1 A ctive asset management: maximising customer retention, portfolio occupancy, rental growth and asset sustainability Prime yields in all our markets are comfortably through strong customer service and asset above risk-free rates maintenance and refurbishment.
6.0% 5.5% 4.9% 4.5% 1.2% 0.2% 2 Accelerated development programme to take advantage of growing occupier demand and limited supply of modern, sustainable warehousing, particularly in urban locations.
In 2016, we raised 325 million of new capital in an equity placing to fund investment in our Warsaw Paris Dsseldorf London UK Germany development programme.
risk-free risk-free Source: CBRE, Bloomberg at 31 December 2016 3 Land acquisitions, both directly and via buying options over land, to extend our development pipeline, particularly around Commentary: cities in our major markets, without having Monetary policy across Europe and globally means that we too much land on balance sheet.
are operating in a very low interest rate environment: UK gilts at 31 December 2016 yielded 1.2 per cent and German bonds yielded 0.2 per cent.
Prime industrial real estate yields in the UK and 4 Asset recycling, taking advantage of strong Continental Europe are over 3 and over 5 percentage points higher investor demand to improve our portfolio than their respective risk-free benchmarks, making industrial real quality: selling assets no longer core to our estate attractive on a relative basis.
The spread between yield and risk-free rate, as well as the prospect of rental growth to come, should strategy and investing the proceeds in our provide support for current yields.
development programme, reducing debt What this means for SEGRO: and selective asset acquisitions.
The yield profile of warehouse properties remains attractive, particularly given experience and expectations of improving rental values.
Our portfolio increased in value by 4.8 per cent in 2016, reflecting improving rental values.
Greater competition for standing assets from investors has increased their prices meaning that the returns available to us from developing our own assets are often higher than from acquiring existing assets.
