SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 16 Business Model A sustainable business model to deliver attractive returns We own, develop and manage warehouse properties in selected markets in the UK and Continental Europe.
We aim to generate attractive financial and social returns for our shareholders and wider stakeholders by investing in high-quality, sustainable buildings in prime locations.
What we need What we do inputs Land We aim to have sufficient land in the right locations to fuel our development pipeline without having so much that it undermines ournear-term income returns.
See page 29 for more information Assets We specialise in buying and building warehouse properties located on the edge of major cities and in key transport corridors and hubs.
See page 26 for more information People We employ 285 people with skills reflecting Buy all aspects of real estate ownership including asset management, development, investment, Smart marketing and financing.
See page 42 for more information Partners We join forces with other organisations where their attributes complement our own, such as through joint ventures with other landlords or capital providers.
We will buy assets and land where we believe we can use our particular skill-set to Capital add value.
Real estate is a capital-intensive business and we rely on strong relationships with our shareholders providing equity funding and our banks and bondholders providing debt.
See page 30 for more information See more detail overleaf l e d o m s s e n i s u b e l b a n i a t s u S Strategic Report 17 Overview Governance Financial Statements Our Goal We apply ourstrategy Disciplined to maximise Capital Operational Allocation Excellence performance Efficient capital and corporate structure See page 23 for more information The value we create We actively manage our outputs portfolio, improving returns through asset management, refurbishment High quality, sustainable buildings and development.
Our aim is to create the space that enables extraordinary things to happen, and to provide space that allows our customers to service their customers efficiently and effectively.
They use our space for an enormous variety of activities, from traditional warehouse uses such as parcel distribution, food manufacturing and bulk storage, to the more eclectic, including film studios, showrooms and brewing.
The spaces that we provide are a vital piece Add of infrastructure enabling our customers to serve their Value own customers.
Furthermore we are active managers of our properties, continuously striving to improve our customer relationships and our success in this area is measured through our operating KPIs, including the results of our annual customer satisfaction survey.
Attractive financial returns We aim to generate total property returns income return and capital growth ahead of our benchmark which, when combined with appropriate leverage and a lean cost base, should result in attractive total returns for our shareholders comprising growth in our net asset value or resilience in a down-cycle, earnings and dividend.
Variable compensation for all our employees Sell is linked to these KPIs, while long-term incentive plans Well are linked to the longer-term performance of our shares relative to our peers and of our property relative to the MSCI-IPD benchmark.
Investing in our communities We play an active role in the communities in which we operate.
Many of our developments are on brownfield We will sell assets where sites which help to regenerate previously redundant we believe the risk-adjusted areas of towns and cities.
We work in partnership returns available to us are with our customers, local authorities, municipalities less attractive than other and educational institutions to facilitate training and uses of our capital.
employment of people from local communities as part of that regeneration, as well as providing space on flexible terms for local small businesses and start-ups.
See more detail overleaf l e d o m s s e n i s u b e l b a n i a t s u S SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 18 Business Model Creating value across the lifecycle Add Value Through the income we generate... RR ee nn ta ta l l in in cc om om ee JJ oo in in t t vv ee nn tu tu re re i n in cc om om ee SS tan tan dd in in gg a a ss se se ts ts D D ee vv ee lo lo pp m m ee nn t t aa cc titv iv itiy ty Market impact SEGRO input Market impact SEGRO input Su Su pp pp lyly a a nn d d dd ee m m aa nn d d dy dy nn am am icic s s in in AA sse sse t t ma ma nn aa gg ee m m ee nn t ta a cc tiv tiv itiiteie s s our markets.
including leasing and our markets.
including leasing and se se rv rv iciicn in gg c u cu stso to m m ee rs r. s. RR ee ee cc te te d d th th ro ro uu gg h h ch ch aa nn gg ee s s in in LL an an d d bb aa nn kk D D ee vv ee lo lo pp m m ee nn tt CC oo m m pp le le te te a a ss se se tt ma ma rk rk ee t ty y ieie ld ld s s aa nn d d re re nn ta ta l v l v alal uu ee s. s. PP ro ro pp ee rtrt yy m m aiai nn te te nn aa nn ce ce A A PP PP Urban warehouses Urban warehouses aa nn d d re re fu fu rb rb isih sh m m ee nn t. t. BB ig ig b b oo x x w w aa re re ho ho uu se se ss SS EE LL PP LESS COSTS Operating costs Financing costs Tax Property Administrative Banks and bonds Government Property Costs of SEGRO utilises debt to fund its business, SEGRO is a REIT in the UK and a SIIC in France management costs, running SEGRO.
borrowing from both banks and bond markets.
which means it does not pay corporate taxes e. g. cost of vacancy It pays interest on both sources.
on its operating profits, subject to adhering to a Cost efficiency is and bad debt.
number of rules, notably on dividends paid.
monitored through SEGRO monitors its level of debt vs its assets Some costs offset the Total Cost through a Loan to Value ratio KPI.
SEGRO does pay tax on its operating businesses by service charges.
outside the UK and France.
Reinvested in Shareholder Profit the business dividends KPIs see pages 20-21 79% 29.7 M 5.7 % 23.0% 7.1 % 10.8% Customer Rent Vacancy Cost Adjusted EPS TSR satisfaction roll growth rate ratio growth Strategic Report 19 Overview Governance Financial Statements Add Value... and the value we add R Re en nt ta al l iin nc com ome e J Jo oiin nt t v five en nt tu ur re e iin nc com ome e S St tan and diin ng g a as ss se et ts s D fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t a ac ct tiiv viit ty y M Ma ar rk ke et t iim mp pa ac ct t S SE EG GR RO O iin np pu ut t Su Sup pp plly y a an nd d d fide em ma an nd d dy dyn nam amiic cs s iin n A As sse set t ma man na ag ge em me en ntt a ac cttiv iviittiie es s o ou ur r ma mar rk ke etts s.. iin nc cllu udin ding g lle ea as sin ing g a an nd d s se er rv viic ciin ng g c cu us stto om me er rs s.. R Re e e ec ctte ed d tth hr ro ou ug gh h c ch ha an ng ge es s iin n L Lan and d b ba an nk k D fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t C Co om mp plle et te e a as ss se et t ma mar rk ke ett y yiie elld ds s a an nd d r re en ntta al v l val alu ue es s.. P Pr ro op pe ert rty y m mai ain ntte en na an nc ce e A AP PP P U Ur rb ba an n w wa ar re eho hou us se es s a an nd d r re effu ur rb biis sh hm me en ntt.. B Biig g b bo ox x w wa ar re eho hou us se es s S SE EL LP P Active management to add value to our standing assets...... and create value through development 3.4% 15.7 % Uplift on assets held throughout 2016 Uplift on developments completed and under construction in 2016 Buy Sell Smart Well We will buy assets and land where we believe We will sell assets where we believe the riskwe can use our particular skill-set to add value.
adjusted returns available to us are less attractive than other uses of our capital.
KPIs see pages 20-21 9.3% 33% 500 pence Total property Loan to Value EPRA NAV return Ratio per share
