INVESTING IN OUR PORTFOLIO EXTENSIVE ASSET MANAGEMENT AND REFURBISHMENT ACTIVITY DELIVERING INCREASING INCOME AND UNLOCKING VALUE.
ft. Capital expenditure Acquisitions Space under refurbishment during the year neighbouring ownerships.
Our selection of EXTENSIVE ACTIVITY GOOD PROGRESS WITH MAJOR tenants, and how they intend to use this SCHEMES Schemes during the year extended to exciting new space, will be particularly 249,000 sq.
ft. circa 14% of wholly-owned At 30 September 2016, space held for, or under, important to their success.
Inevitably, with floor space, at a cost, during the year, of refurbishment extended to 202,000 sq.
ft. space of this size, where occupiers will be 32.6 million.
Where possible, we seek to and represented 11% of ERV, an increase investing heavily in their fit-outs, letting negotiate early vacant possession of of 6.7% during the year.
This included our periods are likely to be longer than the under-rented space to implement further three major schemes: Thomas Neals smaller space we traditionally have to offer.
asset management initiatives to accelerate Warehouse, Seven Dials, Charing Cross Road the capture of, and growth in, our portfolios Once let, these schemes will add 7.4 Chinatown and 57 Broadwick Street, reversionary potential.
During the year we million to our annual income.
Importantly, Carnaby, which totalled 101,200 sq.
ft. and secured 71 planning consents, a vital part since the restaurant and retail space on represented 5.7% of ERV.
of maintaining a pipeline of projects.
the lower floors, extending to 79,200 sq.
Each of these major schemes is wellft.
will be provided in shell form only, positioned to benefit from expected further rental growth will come with little, changes in footfall following the opening of or no further, capital expenditure.
the Elizabeth Line in 2018 and will bring significant long-term benefits to our 1 VACANT SPACE HELD FOR, OR UNDERGOING, REFURBISHMENT AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 % OF TOTAL ERV RESTAURANTS, CAFS AND LEISURE SHOPS OFFICES RESIDENTIAL TOTAL 30.9.
ft. 35 80 51 36 202 82 1 Wholly-owned portfolio 2 C haring Cross Road Chinatown, Thomas Neals Warehouse, Seven Dials, 57 Broadwick Street, Carnaby.
50 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW INVESTING IN OUR PORTFOLIO CONTINUED THOMAS NEALS WAREHOUSE, 57 BROADWICK STREET, CARNABY SEVEN DIALS Having completed strip-out works, in We completed the reconfiguration of September construction commenced at our Thomas Neals Warehouse, Seven Dials, in major mixed-use project at 57 Broadwick October 2016.
Situated within a few minutes walk of Tottenham Court Roads The scheme provides 22,700 sq.
ft. of retail new western ticket hall on Dean Street, this space, including up to 3,000 sq.
ft. scheme at this eastern restaurant use.
Marketing is now underway gateway to Carnaby will provide: CHARING CROSS ROAD CHINATOWN and the level of initial interest is encouraging.
flagship retail space and a restaurant, Having commenced this scheme in January Located close to the new Tottenham together extending to 8,000 sq.
ft. over 2016, we have now passed the half-way point Court Road transport hub, this flagship the lower floors: and are on track to complete our works in accommodation, together with major public 20,000 sq.
ft. of refurbished and extended spring 2017.
Located next to Leicester Square realm improvements in 2017, will further grade A office accommodation across the Underground station, and within a short walk strengthen Seven Dials as a popular and upper floors: and of Tottenham Court Road station, it will bring distinctive retail and leisure destination.
major improvements to this important block two apartments totalling 2,000 sq.
ft. Earlham Street, which is part of an on Chinatowns eastern boundary, which we important pedestrian route from Soho The project will complete in phases from expect to provide material benefits to our towards Thomas Neal's Warehouse, is set to late 2017, at an estimated cost of 14.5 other holdings in Chinatown.
undergo a major upgrade, commencing in million, of which 3.1 million had been The scheme will provide: spring 2017.
Rental tones in this important incurred by 30 September 2016. gateway into Seven Dials from Cambridge 35,000 sq.
ft. of retail along a 330-foot With an expectation of increased footfall Circus have lagged behind nearby streets for frontage on Charing Cross Road, a street along Broadwick Street, Westminster City some time.
However, with an expectation of with high footfall, which is expected to grow Council have designated this improving increased footfall from Tottenham Court materially once the Elizabeth Line opens.
thoroughfare as a priority pedestrian route Road and the benefit of improvements to 13,500 sq.
ft. of restaurant space, fronting and have now begun a programme to Cambridge Circus to relieve pedestrian Newport Place and Newport Court.
congestion, planned for early 2017, this a much-improved gateway into Chinatown.
should bring material long-term benefits to this street, as well as our other holdings in We are creating space with exceptional Seven Dials.
floor-to-ceiling heights, providing an opportunity to increase floor space by adding mezzanine floors in a number of locations within our scheme, if required by tenants.
Formal marketing will commence in early 2017, once works are sufficiently progressed to show the accommodation to prospective occupiers.
The expected cost is 14.5 million, of which 8.4 million had been incurred by 30 September 2016.
We continue to support Westminster City Councils plans to create a part-pedestrianised OTHER SCHEMES public square in Newport Place, at the eastern At 30 September 2016, we were progressing end of Gerrard Street.
This will provide the other projects, extending to 100,800 sq.
ft. opportunity, subject to licensing and planning and representing 5.3% of ERV.
These included consents, for al fresco dining for our the reconfiguration and improvement of newly-created restaurants, and significantly 16,800 sq.
ft. of improve the public realm in Chinatown.
ft. of office Currently we expect works to begin in late space, and 56 apartments either being spring 2017. created or upgraded.
We expect these to complete and become income-producing in the coming year.
STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 51 INVESTING IN OUR PORTFOLIO CONTINUED We continue to seek out new acquisitions, ACQUISITIONS WITH THE POTENTIAL but remain disciplined, concentrating on FOR RENTAL AND CAPITAL GROWTH buildings: Acquisitions during the year totalled 62.7 in, and around, our villages: million.
These additions to our portfolio in Covent Garden, Soho and Charlotte Street which have a predominance of, or comprised nine shops, five restaurants and potential for, restaurant, leisure and cafs, 2,850 sq.
ft. of office space and four retail uses: and apartments.
which offer the potential for future On acquisition, they produced an average rental growth, either individually or net initial yield of 2.4%.
As we integrate through combination with our existing them with our existing ownerships, they ownerships.
offer the potential for good rental and As ever, the availability of buildings which capital growth through short and mediumfit these strict investment criteria remains term asset management initiatives, some limited, with existing owners reluctant to of which have already commenced.
sell assets which they will find hard to replace in this exceptionally prosperous and resilient area.
The gate, made in China from traditional materials and crafts, acknowledges the important contribution the Chinese community makes to London and the West End.
We supported the initial planning for this community-inspired project.
52 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW
