RESTAURANTS, CAFS AND LEISURE ANNUALISED CURRENT INCOME WHOLLY-OWNED LONGMARTIN 1 BY VILLAGE Restaurants, cafs and pubs Restaurants, cafs and pubs 6% 18% 275 10 8% Area sq.
ft. 35.3m 590,000 45,000 29% 39% Weighted average unexpired Weighted average unexpired lease term lease term 11 years 13 years Carnaby Current income Current income Covent Garden Chinatown 35.3m 1.4m Soho Charlotte Street % of annualised 1 current income 35 22 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW IMPORTANT DRIVER OF FOOTFALL TYPICAL LEASE TERMS We are the largest single provider of dining and leisure space in the West End, owning nearly one in five of the licensed premises.
HISTORICAL LEASES NEW LEASES Restaurants, cafs and leisure choices are important to the mix of Term 25 years 15 years uses in our villages.
Most of our restaurants provide a casual dining experience, often with an all-day offer.
The broad variety of concepts Rent reviews Five-yearly, upward-only Five-yearly, upward-only and cuisines is a major driver of footfall and social media interest.
Security of tenure on expiry Yes No HIGH DEMAND, RESTRICTED AVAILABILITY OF SPACE Turnover-related top-up No Yes The availability of restaurant and leisure space in the West End Space leases typically Whole buildings Operational space only is constrained by restrictive planning policies, which seek to granted over i. e. not upper floors preserve the balance of commercial uses and amenity of local residents.
The barriers to entry are high with existing operators Proportion of our restaurant 62% 38% reluctant to relinquish their valuable sites, other than for leases by income significant premiums.
As a consequence, tenants ensure they Incentives N A Short rent-free period to preserve their valuable occupation rights and our bad debt help cover tenant fit-out history is negligible.
No contribution to Demand for space in our busy areas is strong, particularly from fit-out costs independent operators, established street-food concepts and start-ups seeking their first site.
Usually we receive numerous offers for available units and vacancy levels are minimal.
LONGER LEASES, BUT TERMS IMPROVING LETTING ACTIVITY DURING KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2017 Tenants invest considerable sums fitting out their space, sometimes THE YEAR spending the equivalent of 3-5 years rent and, therefore, we grant 1 longer leases than those for shops, to provide an extended period Lettings rent reviews : Identify further opportunities over which to amortise this cost.
to negotiate vacant possession of restaurants let on historical 8.2 million Until recently, leases were granted over whole buildings and leases.
provided tenants with renewal rights on expiry.
We find that upper 19.4% of restaurant, cafs & leisure ERV floors are often now underutilised and, where opportunities arise, Introduce new restaurant we seek to negotiate the surrender of these leases to secure 15 New lettings operators to our villages.
This allows us to improve the configuration of Completion of our Charing Cross space on the lower floors, attract new operators on more beneficial 4 Lease renewals Road Chinatown scheme and terms, and often release valuable upper floors for other uses.
associated public realm 29 Rent reviews Reflecting the strength of demand for our restaurant space, in improvements recent years we have reduced the term of leases we grant and 1 EPRA vacancy at 30 September 2016: introduced more flexibility at expiry.
Also, we include turnover- 0.9%, of which 0.7% was under offer.
related rental top-ups, giving us the higher of market rent and a percentage of turnover.
Our share of lettings and rent reviews in the Longmartin joint venture: 0.2m.
SEE PAGE 51 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE 1 Wholly-owned portfolio CHARING CROSS ROAD CHINATOWN SCHEME STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 23
