VIABILITY STATEMENT THE BOARD HAS ASSESSED THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP OVER A FIVE-YEAR PERIOD.
REVIEW OF PROSPECTS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES SCENARIO ANALYSIS The Board considered a review of the The principal risks and uncertainties are set The review overlaid the potential impact of Group's prospects, prepared by senior out on pages 66 to 69 and the most relevant the principal risks which could affect solvency management.
This covered a five-year potential impact of these risks on viability was or liquidity in severe but plausible scenarios period, corresponding with the period considered to be: onto the five-year forecasts and concluded covered by the Group's current forecasts.
that the business would remain viable.
It A substantial and sustained decrease in These forecasts are updated quarterly and included sensitivity analyses which flexed visitor numbers to the West End and our reflect the Groups established strategy of inputs to the forecasts including reduced villages which could result in reduced long-term investment in Londons West income, profitability and capital values, both occupier demand, rental income and or End, its existing commitments, available individually and in unison, to reflect these capital values, higher vacancy and financial resources, and long-term financing severe but plausible scenarios.
Asset value declining profitability arrangements.
They consider profits, cash declines, similar to market movements in Regulatory changes which could reduce flows, funding requirements and other key 2008 09, were also modelled, along with an profitability and capital values financial ratios over the period, as well as assessment of how far property yields would Changing economic conditions which the headroom in the financial covenants need to rise, and rental income would have could reduce capital values, reducing contained in the Group's various loan to fall, before the Group would be at risk of headroom in loan covenants agreements.
Important assumptions breaching the financial covenants in its underlying the forecasts include: various loan arrangements.
FORECAST KEY ASSUMPTIONS VIABILITY ASSUMPTIONS COMMENT Based on the results of the procedures outlined above, the Directors have a 1 The Group maintains a prudent approach On a pro-forma basis, the Group had reasonable expectation that the Group will to gearing, with debt facilities which are undrawn committed loan facilities at 30 be able to continue in operation and meet largely fixed and long-term in nature.
At 30 September 2016 totalling 214.6 million, its liabilities as they fall due over the 1 September, our loan-to-value ratio was 25.8%.
which comfortably exceeds the Groups five-year period of their assessment.
commitments over the assessment The facilities which mature during the The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 76 was period.
This assumes an ability to period of assessment represent 32.4% of approved by the Board on 29 November refinance revolving credit facilities our total committed debt facilities.
2016. totalling 150 million, 125 million and The Board has reasonable confidence that 75 million which mature in 2018, we shall be able to refinance these facilities 2020 and 2021 respectively.
Brian Bickell Chris Ward and intends to do so in advance of their Chief Executive Finance Director contractual maturities.
Crystallisation of the portfolio We have a long record of crystallising the reversionary potential over the period  ERV of our portfolio over a three-to-five year period.
64% of the total portfolio reversion arises from shops, restaurants, cafs and pubs, the demand for which, in our locations, is not cyclical and has demonstrated sustained long-term growth over many years.
ERVs are based on current, proven rental tones, and do not assume any further growth.
1 P ro-forma for the issue of 2.487% Mortgage Bonds 2031, redemption of 8.5% Debenture Stock 2024 and cancellation of interest rate swaps with a notional principal of 55 million in October 2016 see page 62 for further information STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 71
