Strategic report Further details of the Companys Loss of Investment Trust Status Cyber security threats approach to risk management are As the Company sells its investment assets The potential loss of operation of core available on the Companys website in exchange for cash, there is a risk that systems or sensitive data would lead to atwww.
the Company will lose its investment damage and disruption to our business.
This would result in the This risk was assessed as stable in the Principal risks and uncertainties Company being liable for corporation year.
The following steps have been taken The Companies Act and FRC require tax on gains generated by the sale of to mitigate this risk: an IT consultant companies to disclose the principal risks assets.
The Company believes that it has been retained to assist with the and uncertainties the Company faces.
will maintain its investment trust status monitoring of the Groups information for the current period to 9 December security monitoring system ISMS which Principal risks and uncertainties are 2016.
Gains generated by the sale of identifies material risks and threats to defined by the Board as risks with the assets in the first closing are therefore not them: a Group employee has been highest overall potential to affect the expected to be subject to corporation assigned the responsibility of Information achievement of the Companys business tax.
The Company has substantial losses Security Officer to ensure the ISMS is objectives.
These objectives include: to help mitigate any gains generated by maintained and implemented: a non ensuring the ability to meet liabilities as subsequent sales of assets in the event executive Director, Simon Bax, has been they fall due and meet liabilities in full: and that it is deemed that the Company appointed as the Boards representative to achieving target returns.
Principal risks subsequently loses its investment trust monitor the ISMS: ongoing staff training relating to delivery of these objectives are status.
There is a risk that losses may no to identify potential threats and prevent set out below, along with other principal longer be available to the Company to unauthorised access is provided: a culture risks identified in relation to other key offset gains under change of ownership of awareness is promoted through ongoing objectives.
Further information on risk rules.
No such change of ownership has communication of issues and methods factors is set out in note 26 to the Accounts.
occurred as at 30 January, but there can be ofdealing with potential threats.
Following the Companys change of no guarantee that a change of ownership strategy and now that the sale of the By order of the Board event will not occur in the future.
Companys investment portfolio is virtually complete, the principal risks and Liquidation of the Company uncertainties the Company faces relate Stuart Ballard The Company intends to seek shareholder to the winding down of the Companys Company Secretary approval of the appointment of a liquidator business.
Other than the risk of cyber at a shareholder meeting on or around 2 February 2017 security threats, all of these risks are 31 May 2017.
While management has new risks.
undertaken an exercise to identify all liabilities of the Company, there can be Cash and nearcash holdings no guarantee that unforeseen liabilities As the Company sells its investment assets or operating costs will not arise which in exchange for cash, there is a risk that a may impact the amount available for counterparty holding cash or near cash distribution to shareholders.
holdings fails or charges the Company fortaking deposits.
Reduction in size of the Company The tender offer that took place in Cash and near cash holdings are December and the proposed two tender predominantly held with a number of offers due to take place in 2017 will reduce different institutions in a variety of AAA the size of the Company.
This may affect rated money market funds denominated in the liquidity of the shares.
Such funds can be redeemed on the same day.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 09
