Corporate information Board of Directors Andrew Sykes Lynn Fordham Simon Bax Chairman Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Andrew Sykes was appointed as a Director Lynn Fordham was appointed as a Director Simon Bax was appointed as a Director of on 8 February 2010 and became Chairman on 1 July 2008.
She is the Companys Chief the Company on 30 June 2015.
He is chairman of Executive Officer.
She has over 20 years of currently chairman of Archant Group and Smith & Williamson Holdings Limited, financial experience and has worked in a WiSpire, and a non-executive director of and also a non-executive director of Gulf number of companies including Mobil Oil, Inmarsat and the British Bobsleigh and International Bank UK Limited.
BAA plc, Boots Group plc and MAN Group Skeleton Association.
She is a non-executive director of Fuller executive roles in both public and private Andrew brings significant experience of the Smith & Turner P. L. C companies in Europe and the US, including investment management sector, including Pixar and News Corporation, as well as expertise in alternative asset management, having entrepreneurial experience in his along with many years of experience as a role as the founder, with private equity non-executive director or chairman of both backing, of Encompass Digital Media.
Simon has recent experience of private equity with his work for private equitybacked companies.
His technology background complements the skills of theother Directors.
Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed 2010 2008 2015 Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended 12 12 12 12 12 12 Committees Committees Remuneration Audit and Risk Corporate Governance Remuneration and Nominations Corporate Governance and Nominations 12 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 SVG Capital plc Interim Report 2016 Corporate information Stephen Duckett Helen Mahy CBE David Robins Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Stephen Duckett was appointed as a Helen Mahy was appointed as a Director David Robins was appointed as a Director Director of the Company on 12 March of the Company on 24 July 2014.
She is on 15 August 2013 and is the Senior 2012.
Stephen is an experienced private currently chairman of The Renewables Independent Director.
David has had a equity professional having worked in the Infrastructure Group Limited.
She is also distinguished career in financial services industry for the past 17 years, most recently a non-executive director of Bonheur ASA spanning over 35 years.
He is currently as a managing director of Hellman & and SSE plc.
Previously, she was group Chairman of Fidelity Japanese Values plc.
company secretary and general counsel of He is also a non-executive director of National Grid Plc.
NHBS Ltd, SerraLux Ltd and SerraLux Inc. Stephen has been involved with numerous Previously, David was chairman and chief private equity transactions of various Helen has experience as a director of executive of ING Barings following nearly types over the course of his career and this investment companies and her legal 18 years with UBS, where he reached experience is particularly relevant to the and company secretarial experience the position of CEO, London and head Companys investment strategy.
complements the skills of the of Europe.
Davids experience in financial services is directly relevant and in addition he has significant exposure to the operation of boards in the financial services sector.
Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed 2012 2014 2013 Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended 12 12 11 12 11 12 Committees Committees Committees Audit and Risk Chairman Audit and Risk Audit and Risk Remuneration Remuneration Chairman Remuneration Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance and Nominations and Nominations and Nominations Chairman SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 13
