Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our sources of capital Our expertise Our objectives Financial capital Team Our Shareholders equity High calibre Debt funding, and Consistency Progressive Recycling funds Knowledgeable income Forward thinking High-quality and Asset capital transparent growth High-quality UK logistics assets Portfolio assembly from rent reviews and 300,000-1,000,000 sq ft, and High-quality asset management Institutional-grade tenants Diversified Capital preservation Low risk Natural capital and growth Strategically located land for Execution Preservation and growth from pre-let development Relationship building asset management Speed and certainty Human capital of execution Total return Experienced Board of Directors % pa over the medium term Buying for value Expertise of the Manager to grow the portfolio What we do We have a clear Investment Policy but we are also pragmatic.
We own and manage high-quality Big Box logistics assets We may buy smaller assets in geographic locations where larger across the UK, using the Managers experience and expertise ones are not available or assets with shorter leases, where we to assemble and grow a well-diversified asset portfolio while see an opportunity to add value for Shareholders, for example prudently applying leverage to increase returns.
due to a near-term lease expiry where we believe we can re-gear the lease or re-let.
Smaller properties will be in the The value we add minority within our portfolio but they do help spread lot size risk The starting point for value creation is our ability to source and provide building size diversity.
This relies on the Managers extensive network of investment agency, developer and tenant contacts, built up The assets we buy are usually strategically important to our over many years.
The Manager also spends considerable time tenants.
We work with them to maximise their operational researching and developing relationships with asset owners, effectiveness, for example by extending buildings or adding while learning of any triggers that might lead them to sell.
This encourages tenants to sign longer leases, relationships allow us to source most investments off-market, increasing the security of our revenues and increasing capital enabling us to buy at attractive prices.
Creating value can also values.
Where we buy properties with the potential to add value, be as much about the investments we do not buy.
Exercising we look to turn them into foundation assets for our portfolio capital pricing discipline and patience are vital: we discount through asset management.
Our intention is to hold most assets numerous opportunities that do not offer value for money or for the long term but we would consider selling if we have meet our stringent criteria for investment.
unlocked value and delivered the assets business plan, and we have the potential to reinvest the proceeds in a more attractive The Managers expertise and market knowledge enable us to opportunity.
assess an investment opportunity rapidly and give vendors a decision promptly.
We can also complete transactions quickly, The Managers relationships with developers are increasingly but always following thorough due diligence.
This speed and enabling us to invest in pre-let forward funded developments, certainty of execution is highly attractive to vendors: the through which we fund the construction of a Big Box which has highest offer is not always deliverable, so price is not the only been pre-let to a specific tenant.
This approach has resulted consideration.
We have never dropped a contract having agreed in lower transaction costs and delivered strong returns for our terms to purchase an investment and believe that our reputation Company.
is unrivalled in our market.
Our Investment Policy p24 Responsible Business p52-53 22 Our Strategy and Objectives p24-25 Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties p54-59 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 FOR MORE INFORMATION You will see links throughout this Annual Report to related content within the report or further reading online.
Our source of capital Our goals Our objectives Related information page The value we add Further reading online Our expertise The value we can add Our goals An attractive total return Source Buy and sell Progressive annual dividends investments for value Net asset value growth Our target 6.40 pence Annual dividend target for 2017 9% pa Total return over the medium term Asset Fund management developments Following the change in Investment Policy at the AGM in low-risk and growing rental stream, which supports our target May 2016, we can also now invest in land, allowing us to acquire of paying a progressive dividend.
Our asset selection and suitable sites for pre-let forward funded developments.
We do management approach also adds value to our investments, not invest in any speculative developments ie those which are allowing our Shareholders to benefit from attractive total returns.
not pre-let and any investment in land is restricted to 10% of our net asset value at the point of investment.
We buy assets directly, but where possible we acquire the special purpose vehicle that owns the asset, thus reducing our acquisition Sustaining our advantage costs.
Standard direct purchase costs total approximately 6.75%, As a specialist Big Box investor, we have a reputation as one of which SDLT is approximately 5.00%.
Standard sale costs are of the sub-sectors most knowledgeable, forward-thinking and c. 1.75%.
This means that frictional costs the total standard pragmatic owners and managers.
This makes us the obvious costs of selling an asset and reinvesting the sales proceeds choice for asset owners looking to sell Big Boxes.
The consistency are therefore c. 8.5%.
Although our actual transaction costs are of the Managers team helps us to maintain our relationships, in typically lower than outlined above, these frictional costs are a market where personnel changes are common, enabling us to significant and influence investment returns.
This is particularly work on longer-term deals with continuity.
relevant in times of lower capital growth.
Our portfolio is weighted towards high-quality, long-term leased foundation assets As our portfolio grows, we benefit from economies of scale, because by their very nature they do not need to be regularly increased diversification by geography, tenant and building traded.
This reduces our frictional costs, which we believe will be type, and a larger list of contacts, helping us to source further important in supporting our returns during 2017 and beyond.
A larger portfolio also gives us greater insight into market developments and more control over In addition, our status as a REIT helps to ensure that the value the evidence for rent reviews and lease renewals, as well as the we create is not eroded for Shareholders.
We are not subject to potential to work up multi-asset initiatives with the same tenant.
corporation tax on profits and gains in respect of our qualifying property rental business, provided we maintain our REIT Delivering returns status.
We also pay dividends that qualify as a property income By acquiring high-quality properties with excellent tenants and distribution where possible, which offers tax advantages for carefully managing our assets, we aim to deliver a robust, certain UK Shareholders.
The target dividend is a target and not a profit forecast.
There can be no assurances that the target will be met and it should not be taken as an indication of the Companys 23 expected or actual future results.
