Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT THE MANAGER The Manager provides all management and advisory services to the Company, under the Investment Management Agreement.
The FCA authorised the Manager as an AIFM on 1 July 2014.
The Manager is 100% owned by Mark Shaw, Colin Godfrey, James Dunlop and Henry Franklin.
This team of property, legal and finance professionals have been together for over 10 years.
They have a track record of creating value for their clients through astute asset purchases and by actively managing them.
The core management team whose details are set out below is supported by a team of other accounting, marketing, public relations, administrative and support staff.
Colin Godfrey BSc Hons MRICS 1 Henry Franklin BA CTA 3 Partner, Fund Manager Partner, Structuring and Legal Colin has overall responsibility for providing investment Henry is responsible for structuring the Tritax group funds, management and advisory services to the Company and is the providing general legal counsel and overseeing compliance Managers lead partner.
He began his career with Barclays Bank activities and product development.
He is a qualified solicitor, before joining Conran Roche in the late 1980s.
Following this, he who completed his articles with Ashurst LLP in 2001, obtained a degree in Urban Estate Management, before training specialising in taxation, mergers and acquisitions.
with Weatherall Green & Smith now BNP Paribas Real Estate.
Henry also qualified as a chartered tax adviser in 2004 before After qualifying as a chartered surveyor, Colin specialised in moving to Fladgate LLP in 2005, where he became a partner portfolio fund management, with particular responsibility for in 2007.
At Fladgate LLP, Henry specialised in structuring the 1 billion of assets under management for the British Gas commercial property funds and advised on the formation of Staff Pension Scheme and the property assets of the Blue Circle funds in excess of 500 million.
Henry joined the Tritax group Pension Fund.
In 2000, Colin was a founding director of niche as a partner in 2008. investment property agent SG Commercial, along with James Petrina Austin BSc MRICS 4 Dunlop, in which capacity he worked closely with the Tritax Partner, Asset Management and Sustainability group.
In 2004, Colin became a partner in the Tritax group and is Petrina is responsible for strategically managing the investment responsible for investment selection and product development.
portfolio, identifying and progressing value enhancing initiatives Colin is one of the founding partners of Tritax Management LLP.
to protect and maximise investor returns.
She is also responsible for managing third-party professionals engaged in the process James Dunlop BSc MRICS 2 of property and asset management.
Partner, Property Sourcing James has overall responsibility for identifying, sourcing and Following a degree in Estate Management from Reading structuring investment assets for the Company.
He read University, Petrina joined Carter Jonas to continue her Property Valuation and Finance at City University, before professional training and qualified as a chartered surveyor in joining Weatherall Green & Smith now BNP Paribas Real 1998.
Petrina moved to King Sturge in 1999, to concentrate on Estate where, in 1991, he qualified as a chartered surveyor in its institutional portfolio management.
As a partner at Knight Frank Investment Development and Agency division.
from 2002, she was responsible for the team managing central London trophy assets.
Her remit also included development In 2000, James formed SG Commercial with Colin Godfrey, and consultancy appointments, both in the UK and overseas.
Petrina became a partner in the Tritax group in 2005.
James is regularly joined the Tritax group in 2007. in contact with all the leading firms of agents and is responsible for identifying sectors and specific properties, negotiating on approved opportunities and handling the disposal of assets in due course.
Along with Colin, James is one of the founding partners of Tritax Management LLP.
50 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 1 3 5 7 2 4 6 8 Bjorn Hobart MA BSc Hons MRICS 5 Frankie Whitehead ACA 7 Partner, Property Head of Finance Bjorn is responsible for identifying and sourcing suitable Frankie joined Tritax in 2014 following the launch of the investments for the Company, then financially modelling and Company.
When reporting to the Board, he is responsible appraising the returns, to establish their viability within the for the historical and strategic financial matters in relation to context of the portfolio assets.
He also manages day-to-day the Company.
This includes interim and year-end reporting, due diligence during the acquisition process.
corporate compliance, budgeting forecasting, treasury management, debt origination and the monitoring of internal After completing a Geography degree from the University of financial controls.
Frankie also supports the Fund Manager with Leeds in 2001, Bjorn started his career at Faber Maunsell now the Companys capital market activity, which includes the recent AECOM.
Having gained exposure to large scale developments, equity issuances and debt financings.
Bjorn received an MA in Property Valuation and Law at Cass Business School, London.
He undertook his professional Prior to joining Tritax Frankie spent three years as Financial training at Atisreal now BNP Real Estate in London, where he Controller at Primary Health Properties Plc PHP, a healthcare qualified as a chartered surveyor in 2005.
In 2007, Bjorn joined focussed REIT, which had total AUM of just under 1 billion.
SG Commercial, where he advised on large scale investment He trained and qualified as a Chartered Accountant with PKF and development transactions in excess of 500 million.
During UK LLP, which subsequently merged with BDO LLP, where he this time, Bjorn worked closely with the Tritax group, advising on acted as Assistant Manager.
In all, Frankie has over 10 years its portfolio acquisitions and disposals.
Bjorn joined the Tritax experience working in the real estate industry.
Olivia Cox non-practising solicitor 8 Edward Plumley MBA MSc MRICS 6 Deputy Company Secretary Olivia joined the Tritax group in March 2015 as deputy company Assistant Fund Manager secretary to the Company.
She is a non-practising solicitor who Ed is responsible for assisting the Fund Manager with completed her training contract with Berwin Leighton Paisner acquisitions and disposals, transaction management, financial LLP in 2003, specialising in Real Estate.
She then joined Clifford modelling and due diligence.
He started his career at Knight Chance LLP in 2007, where she continued to specialise in Real Frank on the graduate bursary scheme, after completing an Estate with a particular focus on corporate Real Estate and hotel MSc in Estate Management at London South Bank University.
He qualified as a chartered surveyor in 2010 with Jones Lang LaSalle now JLL.
Eds investment career began when he joined Ereira Mendoza in 2011, advising on investment and development transactions.
He joined Tritax in May 2014, having completed an MBA in Construction & Real Estate from the University of Reading.
