Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT FUND MANAGERS Q&A Colin Godfrey, Fund Manager, at our Erith Big Box, let to Ocado.
UK retailers face volume and margin shift to internet retailing, which grew 20.7% in 2016 but still only 2 Q pressures, and there is a structural change in represents 14.6% of total retail sales.
Does this concern you, given your tenant list?
How has the EU Referendum result affected Q your tenants?
We typically target investments with tenants that have A strong balance sheets and a track record of performance, It will be some time before we understand how long the to underpin their rental obligations.
From an initial core of A process of leaving the EU will take and what trade deals supermarket tenants recognising that 40p in every 1 spent in the UK can negotiate.
Import costs have already increased due 1 the UK is on food we have diversified the portfolio to include to Sterlings devaluation and may rise further once we leave general retail, third-party logistics, wholesalers, automotive the EU, depending on any trade taxes and tariffs.
This could and consumer goods manufacturers.
We have also further increase UK inflation.
The majority of our tenants are retailers diversified our range of tenants.
Our largest single tenant with domestically focused sales.
Those that import from the EU exposure is Tesco at 8.72% of rental income.
We expect this to are likely to experience cost increases, which could squeeze reduce as the Company grows.
their profits at least in the short term and or be passed on to UK consumers.
In response, retailers are looking to make We purchase assets with a long-term view, targeting highsavings.
Big Boxes can make a significant contribution, both quality modern buildings, in strong locations, that are intrinsic to directly and through supply chain efficiency.
the tenants businesses and have the best prospects for rental growth.
These properties are defensive because if they became Why are you less positive about prospects vacant, they would attract good occupier demand.
Q for capital growth and total returns?
Retail had a better year in 2016, recording non-food store sales Most commercial property sectors saw significant capital volume growth of 3.6%.
The big story, however, is the continued A growth after the recession, as investment demand grew.
1 Office of National Statistics, Retail sales in Great Britain: January 2017 2015 latest data available 12 2 Office of National Statistics, Retail sales in Great Britain: December 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 Some sector yields have softened recently, although prime Can you continue to grow?
Can you still logistics yields remain resilient.
We expect this to persist, Q source attractive property investments?
with the imbalance between occupational supply and demand producing strong rental growth.
These attributes have also Yes, and we should while there are compelling reasons to led to more domestic and overseas money targeting the A do so.
We know that retail sales have stabilised and are sub-sector, which helps liquidity.
However, we do not believe growing and that the proportion of online sales is rising rapidly.
yields can harden much further and this reduces prospects For every 1% growth in sales there is a commensurate increase for capital growth.
Capital growth is likely to come from rental in the volume of Big Boxes needed, particularly for e-commerce growth applied to a steady state capitalisation rate and value fulfilment, and we believe that we are well placed to benefit from enhancing asset management.
We therefore expect total returns this trend.
to be lower in 2017 but the Company is first and foremost income focused and we have maintained our 9% pa total return target.
An enlarged portfolio enables increased diversification at several levels, including greater market knowledge and Are you concerned about the recent influence.
It also offers the potential for lower costs and more Q increase in Gilt yields and potential for rising competitively priced debt.
We currently own about 10% of the UKs quality Big Boxes and We are aware of the attractiveness of our investments new stock is being developed each year.
We expect to be able A versus other asset classes, on a risk-adjusted basis, to acquire more pre-let forward funded developments and can and we continue to monitor rate movements.
Ten-year Gilt purchase land for pre-let development.
There are also strong yields have been close to historic lows and we are not unduly occupiers we would like to add as tenants.
In addition, we have concerned by the small recent increase.
As for interest rates, excellent contacts from whom we source investments.
To date it is difficult to know because the forward yield curve remains we have bought well, largely off-market, and we do not expect reasonably shallow.
Nonetheless, there has been considerable that to change in the near term.
Subject to being able to source recent commentary on the potential for rising interest rates quality investments at attractive prices, there are good reasons in response to inflationary pressures partially resulting from to grow the portfolio.
Increased interest rates would affect all asset classes and all sectors of the property market but Big Box You have not sold any assets.
Are there any logistics is, to some extent, insulated by strong demand from Q plans to do so?
both occupiers and investors and barriers to entry controlling supply, so we would expect to be affected to a lesser degree We are unlikely to regularly trade stock, having assembled than other parts of the market.
A a high-quality portfolio for a longer-term strategy.
We keep our assets under continual review and this includes considering The timing and type of our upward-only rent reviews provide a selective assets for sale.
We would sell an asset if we can reinvest possible hedge against inflation.
In addition to capturing current the money into a more attractive investment.
To date, that has not strong market rental growth through open market rent reviews, been the case.
Some of our investments provide a very attractive we also enjoy fixed rental increases and inflation indexed uplifts, running yield, while others are long-term hold due to the quality of most of which are to RPI.
the real estate and potential for rental growth.
Certain assets are targets for asset management initiatives and we might convert Nonetheless, we are prudent and have hedged c. 99.7% of drawn them from value add to foundation assets, say following a lease debt, mostly through interest rate caps.
These protect against re-gear or re-letting.
rate increases above the cap level current average capped rate of borrowing of 2.82% pa as at the year end, yet allow us The cost of buying and selling an investment can be as much as to benefit from downward movements.
During the last few years these costs have been eclipsed taken out two longer-term fixed-rate loans, to benefit from by strong yield-shift induced capital growth but with stabilised attractive rates, extend our average term to expiry, stagger our yields these costs can significantly affect returns.
We believe expiry dates and expand our pool of lenders.
Our gearing has that companies such as ours, with high-quality, longer-term been modest during 2016, ending the year at 30% loan to value.
income, will fare better than those which need to trade assets more regularly.
