Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES Our Investment Policy Our acquisition focus We follow a rigorous Investment Policy, targeting assets which The assets we acquire typically fall under one or more of our offer value to our Shareholders and which usually have a geared three investment pillars: yield range of approximately 5-7%.
These assets typically: are let or pre-let, as we will not invest in speculative FOUNDATION developments and will only forward fund investments where The quality and sustainability of our rental income a tenant is already contracted: underpins our business.
Foundation assets provide our core, low-risk income.
They are usually let on long have institutional-grade tenants, with sound businesses and leases to tenants with excellent covenant strength.
The good growth potential: buildings are commonly new or modern and in prime locations, and the leases have regular upward-only rent are in the right locations in the UK, with good transport reviews, often either fixed or linked to inflation indices.
connections and workforce availability: VALUE ADD are of the right size and age, and possibly with expansion These assets are typically let to tenants with strong covenants and offer the chance to grow the potential, to meet the requirements of major occupiers: assets capital value or rental income, through lease engineering or physical improvements to the property.
have leases to institutional standards, with regular upward-only We do this using our asset management capabilities rent reviews and unexpired lease length on purchase of at least and understanding of tenant requirements.
These 12 years, to provide long-term and secure income flows: and assets are usually highly re-lettable.
are strategically important to the tenant, as evidenced by GROWTH COVENANT extensive investment in fitting out the unit or proximity to the These are fundamentally sound assets in good tenants market and or other key assets.
locations, but let to tenants we perceive to be undervalued and which have the potential to improve We may make exceptions to our policy, where we see an their financial strength, such as young e-retailers or opportunity to deliver value for our Shareholders without other companies with growth prospects.
These assets significantly increasing the portfolios aggregate risk.
offer value enhancement through yield compression.
At the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2016, Shareholders approved an amendment to the Investment Policy so we can invest in land, either on our own or in joint venture with a Our objectives developer or a prospective tenant.
This will allow us to assemble The Companys objectives reflect our aim of creating value for suitable sites for pre-let forward funded developments.
We will Shareholders, and assume we are fully invested and geared: not develop speculatively and will only proceed with constructing a new Big Box after it has been pre-let to an appropriate tenant.
Dividends Aggregate land purchases are subject to a limit of 10% of our net For 2017, we are targeting a total dividend of 6.40 pence per asset value, calculated at the point of investment.
share, with the aim of continued progressive dividend growth thereafter.
Total return Our medium-term target is to deliver a total return of 9% per annum.
This reflects the dividends paid plus growth in net asset value.
We maintain a 9% per annum total return target for 2017 although we expect this to be more challenging given the slowdown in yield compression.
The target dividend is a target and not a profit forecast.
There can be no assurances that the target will be met and it should not be taken as an indication of the 24 Companys expected or actual future results.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 Our operational strategy To help us deliver long-term and sustainable returns to our Shareholders, we focus on the following strategic areas: STRATEGIC AREA IMPLEMENTATION AND BENEFITS Management team The Manager has a team dedicated to running the Group, comprising highly Recruit and retain a knowledgeable experienced and qualified people with a track record of success.
We also benefit and talented management team, from the skills and experience of the Managers other employees, including the committed to delivering value to market knowledge they gain from working on other investment business and the Shareholders.
cost efficiencies of utilising some of them part-time.
Tenants Building relationships with tenants enables us to work with them to deliver asset Develop and maintain a deep management initiatives that meet their business objectives and unlock value for understanding of the businesses that us.
Letting several properties to one tenant also creates opportunities for mutually use our space, to create long-term beneficial cross-fertilisation, for example by limiting rent increases on one property partnerships.
in return for extending the lease term on another, while still enhancing the value of our portfolio.
Operational excellence We have a simple and transparent cost base, which largely comprises the Rigorously control costs and management fee, the Directors fees, and accounting, audit, legal, valuation, operational efficiencies, without compliance and regulatory fees.
This helps us to focus on efficiency and achieve compromising growth or reputation.
one of the lowest total expense ratios in our peer group.
Our success in building the portfolio, through an average of approximately one acquisition per month since listing, also demonstrates the quality and efficiency of the Managers operations and its team.
Capital risk management The Group is financed through equity and debt.
Using debt can increase shareholder Achieve the right risk and return returns and allows us to further diversify our portfolio.
We invest the proceeds of balance of equity and debt, to any equity issuance before drawing down debt, to limit our interest expense and finance our business and enhance maximise returns on equity.
We are targeting an LTV over the medium term of 40%, returns.
which we believe is conservative given the quality of our investments.
Details of our equity issuances and debt facilities can be found in the Managers Report.
Corporate responsibility As an externally managed business without any employees, the Groups Strive to assume our corporate opportunities to make a significant impact in this area are limited.
Even so, we aim responsibilities towards society and to work responsibly, including buying buildings with A, B or C Energy Performance the environment, in every part of our Certificate ratings where possible and working with tenants to help them achieve business.
More information can be found in the Responsible Business statement.
