Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY The Strategic Report describes the Company financial position, The Directors paid particular attention to the risk of a cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
The Group deterioration in economic outlook which would impact property currently has substantial headroom against its borrowing fundamentals, including investor and occupier demand which covenants, with a Group LTV of 30% as at 31 December 2016. would have a negative impact on valuations, and give rise to a reduction in the availability of finance.
The remaining principal The Company also benefits from a secure income stream from risks, whilst having an impact on the Groups business model, leases with long average unexpired terms, which are not overly are not considered by the Directors to have a reasonable reliant on any one tenant and present a well-diversified risk.
likelihood of impacting the Groups viability over the five year The Companys cash balance as at 31 December 2016 was period to 7 March 2021.
170.7 million, of which 165.0 million was readily available.
It also had undrawn amounts under its debt facilities of a further The sensitivities performed were designed to be severe but 150.0 million.
The Company did have capital commitments plausible: and to take full account of the availability of mitigating totalling 82.4 million, plus a contingent liability reflecting actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or the conditional exchange of contracts on two pre-let forward occurrence of the underlying risks: funded asset purchases, subject to satisfactory planning permission with an investment price of 101.8 million.
Downturn in economic outlook: key assumptions including occupancy, void periods, rental growth and yields were In March 2017 the Company also agreed terms on a new debt sensitised to reflect reasonably likely levels associated with facility which made available a further 90 million, which was an economic downturn.
secured against four of the Groups assets.
Restricted availability of finance: based on the Groups As a result, the Directors believe that the Company is well current commitments and available facilities there is a placed to manage its financing and other business risks.
refinancing event representing 73% of the Groups current level of borrowing commitments due in October 2020.
In the The Directors believe that there are currently no material normal course of business, financing is arranged in advance uncertainties in relation to the Companys ability to continue for of expected requirements and the Directors have reasonable a period of at least 12 months from the date of the Companys confidence that additional or replacement debt facilities will financial statements.
The Board is, therefore, of the opinion be put in place.
that the going concern basis adopted in the preparation of the Annual Report is appropriate.
Viability Statement Having considered the forecast cash flows and covenant Assessment of viability compliance and the impact of the sensitivities in combination, The period over which the Directors consider it feasible and the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation appropriate to report on the Groups viability is the five year that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its period to 7 March 2021.
This period has been selected because it liabilities as they fall due over the period ending 7 March 2021. is the period that is used for the Groups medium-term business plans and individual asset performance forecasts.
BOARD APPROVAL OF The assumptions underpinning these forecast cash flows and covenant compliance forecasts were sensitised to explore the THE STRATEGIC REPORT resilience of the Group to the potential impact of the Groups The Strategic Report was approved on behalf of significant risks, or a combination of those risks.
the Board by: The principal risks table on pages 54 to 59 summarises those matters that could prevent the Group from delivering on its strategy.
A number of these principal risks, because of their nature or potential impact, could also threaten in the Groups Richard Jewson Chairman ability to continue in business in its current form if they were 7 March 2016 to occur.
