OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT The Management Engagement Committees role is to review the performance of the Manager and the Companys other main service providers over the year and to recommend to the Board a schedule of re-tender for each appointment.
The Committee is also responsible for overseeing any amendments to the Investment Management Agreement.
We met twice in the year to 31 December 2016, to review the Companys relationships with its main service providers, their Dear Shareholders, performance and the terms of their appointment, and to review The Committees main focus this year has been the the Companys relationship with the Manager, the Managers review of the Investment Management Agreement performance and the terms of the Managers appointment.
and the subsequent changes which were approved at the general meeting on 20 December 2016.
As We conducted a comprehensive review of the performance part of this process, we entered into a Service Level of the Manager and, together with the Manager, all of the Agreement with the Manager to formalise the Board reporting provided by the Manager in light of the Companys corporate advisers and principal service providers.
Companys established position in the FTSE 250 This included an assessment of the ongoing requirement for the and its substantial growth since IPO.
The enhanced provision of such services, the fees paid to and the performance Board reporting procedures are designed to of such advisers and service providers and additional added maintain the quality and frequency of Board reports value given by the Manager and the Companys service throughout the year thereby ensuring that the Board is kept well informed.
We have also considered the providers and advisers, and whether additional services were service provided to the Company by each principal required.
The review was for the period ending 30 June 2016 service provider and, as the Company has now thereby allowing the Committee to refer to figures reviewed by celebrated its third anniversary, we have established the Auditor in its assessment of performance.
a re-tender schedule in line with best practice.
Under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, Membership the Board has delegated day-to-day responsibility for running Stephen Smith Chairman Richard Jewson, Jim Prower, Mark Shaw the Company to the Manager, including sourcing of investment opportunities in line with the Companys Investment Policy, Priorities for 2016 asset management of the existing portfolio, negotiation of Establish a schedule for re-tender of each principal debt facilities within the parameters of the Companys policy service provider to the Company.
on gearing and liaising with the Companys advisers on Full review of the Investment Management Agreement equity fundraisings.
As all of the Companys subsidiaries and and the Implementation of the Service Level Agreement therefore all of its assets are wholly owned and controlled by to reflect the Companys considerable growth since IPO the Company, the Board exercises direct control in respect of in December 2013. the Groups holdings and the Manager is not required to vote on Consider whether every service provider is performing well for behalf of the Company.
the Company and whether the Company receives best value.
Meeting attendance register To ensure open and regular communication between the Manager and the Board, the Manager is invited to attend MEETINGS ELIGIBLE TO MEETINGS all Board meetings to update the Board on the Companys PERSON ATTENDED ATTENDED investments and to discuss the market generally and the Stephen Smith 2 2 financial performance and strategy of the Company.
Details Richard Jewson 2 2 of the Companys performance in 2016 have been set out in the Strategic Report.
The Manager has adopted a focused Jim Prower 2 2 approach to investing, acquiring 10 Big Boxes during the year, 1 Mark Shaw 0 0 which offer opportunities for capital appreciation through Until 11 May 2016 1 Resigned on 11 May 2016, in accordance with AIC Code provisions 15.
No meetings were held during 2016 whilst Mark Shaw was still a 85 member of this Committee.
See Strategic Report p10-60 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE: MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT income growth and asset management initiatives.
As a result The Investment Management Agreement was reviewed by the of acquisitions sourced and executed by the Manager, the Manager and the Board and the proposed amendments were Company has diversified its portfolio by tenant and geography passed at a general meeting of the Shareholders held on whilst providing a high level of income security.
The main amendments are: roll is underpinned by leases of more than 15 years unexpired term.
the introduction of two new upper-tier fee bands will result in lower investment management fees being charged on NAV The Manager increased the number of people it employs above 1.25 billion details overleaf.
This recognises the to ensure that the Company is well serviced and in 2016 it significant growth of the Company and the increasing value of expanded the asset management team and the compliance the portfolio.
The adjustments to the fee bands above the NAV team.
A new property researcher will join the market research threshold should have a beneficial effect on the total expense team in May 2017.
The Company also agreed a new Service ratio of the Company and an improvement in the dividend Level Agreement with the Manager to formalise and streamline cover level: the procedures which were already in place and to ensure that the service levels provided by the Manager remain at the highest an extension to the term which will provide additional level in response to the Companys continued and significant security not only to the Manger and its employees but also growth since IPO.
to the Company and its Shareholders and stakeholders.
The extension will also allow the Manager to continue to build longIn addition, following an extensive review and full analysis, we term relationships with occupiers, developers and financing agreed with the Manager that the performance of all of the partners, thereby improving transaction opportunities for the Companys current service providers for the past year continued Company and further aligning the interests of the Manager to be satisfactory, and in several cases exceptional, and, with with the Company: the Managers recommendation, that each be retained until the next review.
We were also pleased to note that improvements changes to the conflict management undertakings requiring identified as needing to be made were carried out over the course even greater focus from the Manager which should provide of 2016.
The Committee also determined to include the review additional benefits to both company and investors.
of the non-audit services and the implementation of the Service Level Agreement within its remit in 2017.
We did not suggest any A copy of the Circular detailing these amendments is available material changes to the engagement terms of any on the Companys website.
of the advisers or service providers.
Our review did not reveal any material weaknesses in the advice and support provided to the Management fee Group and we are satisfied that the Company is benefiting from Under the Investment Management Agreement, as amended added value in respect of the services it procures.
on 20 December 2016, the Manager is entitled to a management fee in consideration for its services.
This is payable in cash by However, in order to ensure that the Company continues the Company each quarter and is calculated as a percentage to receive the very best service and value from its service of the Companys Net Asset Value NAV, disregarding cash providers, the Management Engagement Committee has or cash equivalents, announced before the end of the relevant recommended a schedule of re-tendering to the Board which quarter.
25% net of associated costs of the management fee sets out a timetable for each professional appointment to be is reinvested in shares of the Company within 60 days following re-tendered.
The re-tendering programme will start next year.
the release of the Companys financial results to the market.
If The re-tender process will then continue on a three year rolling the Group buys or sells any assets after the date at which the basis thereafter such that the Company is regularly reviewing its relevant NAV is calculated, the NAV is adjusted pro rata for the net long-term contractual arrangements with its service providers purchase or sale price, less any third-party debt drawn or repaid.
to ensure it continues to receive high quality service at an affordable and competitive price.
co. uk investors #company-documents OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 The management fee as a percentage of NAV is as set TRITAX PARTNER OR NUMBER OF PERCENTAGE OF ISSUED PERSON CLOSELY MANAGEMENT SHARE CAPITAL AS AT out below: ASSOCIATED SHARES HELD 31 DECEMBER 2016 Mark Shaw 523,924 0.05% NAV RELEVANT PERCENTAGE Up to and including 500 million 1.0% Colin Godfrey 431,862 0.04% Above 500 million and up to and 0.9% James Dunlop 431,862 0.04% including 750 million Above 750 million and up to and Henry Franklin 333,572 0.03% 0.8% including 1 billion Tritax Management LLP 83,161 0.007% Above 1 billion up to and including 0.7% 1.25 billion Staff of Tritax 0.007% 86,822 Above 1.25 billion up to and including Management LLP 0.6% 1.5 billion This figure comprises Ordinary Shares issued to staff and Partners at Tritax Management LLP under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement and Above 1.5 billion 0.5% at IPO, and does not include other shares that may have otherwise been acquired by such staff members.
During specified periods after publication of the Companys Extension to term annual or half year results the members of the Manager and The term of the Investment Management Agreement IMA relevant employees and or their connected parties will use was extended on 20 December 2016 so that the earliest 25% of the management fee net of any VAT, personal taxation termination date of the IMA is 31 December 2021.
In order liabilities and dealing costs, including stamp duty or stamp duty to terminate on that date, 24 months notice of termination reserve tax the net cash amount, to subscribe for Ordinary would need to be given by either party by 31 December 2019.
The price will be equivalent to the Thereafter either party can terminate the IMA by giving at prevailing NAV per share, adjusted for any dividend declared least 24 months notice.
The provisions allowing the parties to after the NAV per share is announced.
Where this would result in terminate without notice in certain circumstances, including Ordinary Shares to be issued at a price below the NAV per share, material breach and or loss of key personnel, remain in place.
the Companys Broker will be instructed to acquire Ordinary Shares in the market for those persons, to the value as near a Conflict management possible equal to the net cash amount.
The Ordinary Shares may The restrictive conflict provisions contained in the IMA were be issued to any members of the Manager or, at the discretion of tightened on 20 December 2016 so that the Manager is not the Manager, to any employee of the Manager.
permitted in any circumstance to manage another fund with an exclusive investment strategy focusing on distribution or On 27 May 2016, the Company issued 410,729 Ordinary Shares logistics assets in excess of 300,000 sq ft located within the UK.
in respect of the net cash amount, relating to the six months The Manager is permitted to acquire and manage distribution to 31 December 2015.
The issue price was 121.09 pence per of logistics assets which provide less than 300,000 sq ft of Ordinary Share, equivalent to the prevailing NAV of 124.09 pence accommodation on behalf of other funds subject to certain per Ordinary Share less the interim dividend of 3.0 pence per caveats designed to ensure that any assets which may be of Ordinary Share, for which the shares did not qualify, paid to interest to the Company are offered to the Company in priority Shareholders on or around 9 March 2016.
On 26 September 2016, to other funds managed by the Manager.
the Company issued 466,874 Ordinary Shares in respect of the net cash amount, relating to the six months to 30 June 2016.
The We will review the continuing appointment of all of the issue price was 124.48 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent Companys principal service providers and the performance of to the prevailing unaudited NAV of 127.58 pence per Ordinary the Manager on an annual basis and ensure they are in the best Share less the interim dividend of 3.10 pence per Ordinary Share, interests of Shareholders as a whole.
paid to Shareholders on or around 25 August 2016 in respect of the period from 1 January 2016 to 30 June 2016.
Following these Stephen Smith Chairman of the Management issues of Ordinary Shares, the Manager as at the year end had Engagement Committee the following beneficial interests: 7 March 2017 87 http: tritaxbigbox.
