Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKET We continue to believe that the Big Box logistics sector is one of the most exciting asset classes... you cannot have a in the UK property market.
In this section, we explain why the fundamentals of our market conversation about logistics are so attractive and why Big Boxes are such an property without mentioning important component of UK logistics.
Logistics Report: How Soon is Now?
Addleshaw Goddard, November 2016 Big Boxes are mission critical to their tenants Big Boxes are highly efficient distribution centres and logistics hubs, which act as both the break down point for goods imported in bulk and which hold the finished goods for distribution to other parts of the supply chain or directly to consumers.
This large scale format did not exist in the UK before the early 1990s and most high-quality Big Boxes are modern facilities constructed within the past 15 years.
This new generation of logistics assets are often technologically sophisticated and make a significant contribution to the local and national economy.
This makes Big Boxes an emerging market and we have been at the forefront of its recent development.
Big Boxes unique characteristics Very big Strategically located Big Boxes have floor areas generally Big Boxes are usually situated close to between, and, , sq ft, major roads, motorways and potentially with eaves heights of between m to airports, sea ports or rail freight hubs, and m allowing for the installation allowing efficient stocking and onward of racking and mezzanine floors distribution Modern Technologically Highly sought after Big Boxes are modern facilities Big Boxes are in demand from sophisticated typically constructed within the last institutional-grade tenants who are Big Boxes often benefit from value years incorporating modern willing to sign up to long leases, with enhancing capital investments by designs and the latest specifications regular upward-only rent reviews, tenants in the form of state of the and from investors wanting to own art automated handling the assets Our Investment Policy p24 Responsible Business p52-53 14 Our Strategy and Objectives p30-31 Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties p54-59 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 These properties are strategically important to tenants, as they offer efficiency savings and are essential to fulfilling e-commerce sales.
Our market drivers floor space.
This additional volume can increase efficiency and flexibility, making Big Boxes even more attractive to tenants, not Demand for Big Boxes comes from three main sources: least because rents are generally paid on the ground floor area conventional and online retailers, third-party logistics companies only, as opposed to the buildings volume.
3PLs, and other companies such as manufacturers.
These organisations are responding to structural changes in their To drive efficiency, occupiers increasingly invest in advanced markets, such as the relentless rise of e-commerce refer systems that allow them to stock automatically and rapidly to pages 18-19, weaker economic growth and increased retrieve products, so they can operate on a just in time basis.
competition, which means that improving operational efficiency Technological advances are resulting in Big Boxes becoming can be a key factor in determining profits.
So called four-dimensional automation can pack complex online deliveries in the most efficient order possible.
Big Boxes offer previously unavailable flexibility, economies When customised to work with state of the art robotics, such of scale and low cost of use.
They are often the nucleus for technology drives efficiency savings of up to 20%.
The tenant distribution at a national level and increasingly at a regional level will typically own the fit-out and their capital investment can be and can be the most important component of an occupiers substantial, sometimes eclipsing the value of our investment.
Many companies use Big Boxes to centralise Such commitment to a location often goes hand-in-hand with previously dispersed distribution into fewer, larger facilities, either an initial long-term lease or lease extension.
This can be helping to optimise staff and stock management and expand value enhancing, making the tenants inward investment highly product ranges.
This allows retailers to match store or online attractive to landlords.
offerings in a single warehouse, which is not possible with smaller buildings.
3PLs are also focusing on Big Box assets to All these characteristics mean that Big Boxes are both centralise multiple contracts, providing flexibility and allowing strategically and operationally integral to their occupiers.
them to tender more competitively.
Retailers, 3PLs and manufacturers who want to remain commercially viable regard Big Boxes as a strategic necessity.
Low-bay buildings are typically used for food distribution.
For non-food distribution, a tall building can allow for high racking and mezzanine floors, which can double or even triple the The Big Box format is particularly attractive in the UK The UK has mature transport infrastructure, with excellent road, rail and air links, as well as numerous ports capable of handling the large container ships that are increasingly used to import goods: The UKs relatively small size and dense population allows Big Box users to construct networks of regional distribution centres that can cover the entire country efficiently and reliably.
This reduces the risk of late or missed deliveries and cuts costs: and The UK has the worlds highest internet shopping spend per head and is a major adopter of mobile technology, an increasingly important channel for online sales.
To drive efficiency, occupiers increasingly invest in advanced systems that allow them to stock automatically and rapidly retrieve products, so 15 they can operate on a just in time basis.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT: OUR MARKET Big Boxes will remain vital as supply chains evolve Supply chains continue to evolve in response to commercial demands which in turn impact on commercial property.
Fragmented distribution Big Box evolution A major catalyst for change to UK supply chains was the A natural compromise between these two former models saw transition towards the majority of production being outsourced the emergence of RDCs which, due to their proximity to stores, to overseas, low cost economies, producing an increasing effectively shortened the NDC supply chain and at the same volume of cheap imports.
Prior to this, domestically made time delivered cost savings and efficiencies not possible from products were held in store rooms on retail premises or in the fragmented smaller unit model.
Modern RDCs are often numerous small, simple and geographically dispersed industrial larger than the former NDCs: consequently, high street stores properties, each holding specific product line items representing can hold less stock and dedicate more space to showroom only a small percentage of the retailers total range, thus sales.
RDCs act as the break down point where bulk container requiring multiple journeys.
Such logistics frameworks are loads of palleted goods usually from ports are reduced into outdated and inefficient.
manageable quantities, suitable for onward transportation to either smaller distribution centres, stores or direct to consumer Centralised distribution households.
The scale of RDCs allows them to handle slow, Pre-Millennium, some companies recognised the benefits of medium-term and fast moving goods.
larger scale logistics hubs, known as National Distribution Centres NDCs, from which a single building could be tasked Modern supply chains need Big Boxes with distribution across the UK.
These buildings were typically Changing consumer habits have placed pressure on retailers, below 400,000 sq ft in size.
Increased road traffic congestion resulting in the need for swifter and more reliable replenishment has made this model challenging and since the turn of the of stock in stores.
In tandem there has been an exponential Millennium the distribution model has evolved.
Consequently, growth in online retail sales with consumers demanding some NDCs have effectively morphed into Regional Distribution ever-faster deliveries.
Retailers are increasingly combining Centres RDCs.
both store and e-retail distribution, holding their full range of products within an RDC.
This and the rising volume of product returns has contributed to the growth in larger buildings of up to c. 1 million sq ft.
This scale can provide occupiers with significant operational efficiencies and cost benefits, particularly when combined with real time ordering systems and extensive automation often necessary to deal with the complications of omni-channel supply chains.
RDCs can efficiently cover most of the market, although for major cities Big Boxes distinguishing features: they can also deliver stock to Last Mile or Urban Logistics Centres ULCs, typically 50,000-100,000 sq ft. ULCs usually They are port-centric and easy to reach hold only a very small percentage of a retailers product line and these tend to be smaller sized products and those most They provide a break down point for bulk shipments consistently ordered.
They are very flexible They have high barriers to entry and are hard to replicate They are often technically sophisticated They support dynamic omni-channel frameworks and customer returns 16 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 Pre Big Box supply chains: small distribution centres National Distribution Centre NDC supply chains: port to NDC to retailers National Distribution Centre Regional Distribution Centre RDC supply chains: port to RDC to retailers homes returns Regional Distribution Centre RDC supply chains with ULC: port to RDC to ULCs retailers homes returns Regional Distribution Centre Urban Logistics Centre 17 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT: OUR MARKET The relentless rise of e-commerce and that e-commerce will continue to grow, even if the retail sector omni-channel retailing as a whole remains flat.
E-commerce therefore has resilient characteristics.
E-commerce sales in the UK have grown rapidly in recent years, with the result that many Big Boxes have become quasi-retail To remain competitive in this environment, retailers need to outlets.
As a relatively small and densely populated nation, the have large, highly efficient distribution facilities that can fulfil UK is ideal for e-commerce and the rate of online shopping is orders quickly and accurately.
This need is only becoming far higher than in other European countries.
This is supported more acute as customers demand ever-shorter delivery times.
by ubiquitous access to smartphones and Wi-Fi, widespread The importance of data to successful e-commerce operations availability of 4G and the introduction of new services allowing means that Big Boxes dedicated to e-commerce increasingly consumers to have packages delivered to convenient stores or also house the retailers data and intelligence centres.
lockers, rather than just their homes.
Information collection has become increasingly important for In addition to pure online retailers, growth is being driven retailers.
Bar code scanning at tills in store provides sales data by the expansion of omni-channel retailing.
This reflects and can trigger automatic re-stocking and the same principles consumers desires to interact with retailers in different ways apply to online sales.
Cookies, collected when consumers at different points in their transactions.
Omni-channel retailers surf the internet, provide additional intelligence which allows can therefore have physical, online and mobile stores, apps retailers to know what is being bought by whom, where and and telephone sales, all requiring fulfilment capabilities.
New when but also provides trending data that allows them to more technology is also creating new channels and changing how accurately forecast changes in fashion which means they are consumers interact with retailers.
Amazons Dash service, able to pre-order product lines that are more likely to sell.
for instance, allows consumers to order specific products by pressing a button.
Smart appliances such as washing machines As the complexities of multi-channel retail grow, retailers are will, for example, be able to reorder detergents automatically.
combining the control point for these functions within Big Boxes.
These facilities increasingly fulfil store replenishment alongside The rapid growth in e-commerce sales is therefore expected to home deliveries, while also dealing with other channels such as continue in the coming years, with forecasters predicting that click and collect.
If store sales are reducing and e-commerce e-commerce will account for 22.6% of total retail sales in the sales are increasing, the retailer can adjust for this within a Big Box UK by 2020, up from 13.0% in 2014.
While the impact of Brexit far more easily than it can by operating those functions from on the UK economy remains uncertain, industry analysts expect smaller and separate single-focus warehouses.
Continuing strong growth forecast in UK internet sales bn and % 100 95.10 88.14 81.82 80 74.70 67.91 60 60.36 52.72 During 2016 40 e-commerce sales via smartphones 20 increased by 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Retail e-commerce sales bn Retail e-commerce % of total 47% includes products or services ordered using the internet via any device regardless of the method of payment or ful lment.
18 Source: Business Insider UK, 19 January 2017.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 Big Boxes have a crucial role to play in supporting retailers through peak periods and protecting their brand reputation.
Growing retail demand in peak periods Other significant retail trends favour Big Boxes Changing consumer shopping habits are also requiring retailers The retail market is also developing in other ways that favour to cope with surges in demand.
According to IMRG, online retail Big Boxes.
Retailers want to make the most of their expensive sales on Black Friday 2016 were up 12.2% on the previous year, high street store space, so they are carrying less stock in-store to 1.23 billion.
With retailers beginning their offers earlier, and are focusing more on the consumer experience with the the four days before Black Friday also saw substantial spikes in inclusion of enhancements such as in-store cafs.
They also use demand, with significant sales growth each day against 2015. computerised sales tracking to automatically re-order stock Bank holidays and key shopping days before Christmas also and to respond rapidly to changing customer demand in quality tend to see significant increases in online orders.
At the same time, consumers are increasingly favouring smaller convenience stores for food shopping.
These The challenges these demand peaks create for online retailers stores generally have very limited storage capacity.
As online are being exacerbated by the share of sales coming via sales have increased, so has the amount of product being e-commerce.
The Black Friday week has seen e-commerce returned.
Stores, with limited storage space, are ill-equipped sales as a percentage of total sales increase from 33% to 48% to cope with the necessary checking and re-stocking of in just two years.
Those with the quickest, most efficient and returned items.
Invariably this function is fulfilled by Big Boxes, reliable ways of fulfilling consumer demand are best placed to some of which have dedicated returns sections.
At the same time, the ability to provide a trouble-free the rise of click and collect, these factors mean retailers need service protects retailers reputations from the damage caused much greater control of stock and the timing and efficiency of by failed deliveries or long delays.
Big Boxes have a crucial role deliveries to stores.
Speed and reliability are crucial, which is to play in supporting retailers through these peak periods.
where Big Boxes come into their own.
The move to online retail continues to drive the demand for logistics properties c. sq ft x of Big Box space as much Big Box is needed for every space is required for billion online fulfilment spent online compared with store-based fulfilment In the period to.
million sq ft of UK Big Box space was taken up by UK & Ireland will require online retailers in million sq ft of additional H Big Box space 19 1 Source: Addleshaw Goddard, Logistics Report: How Soon is Now?
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT: OUR MARKET Compelling market fundamentals Indexed availability and occupier take-up of units of, sq ft or more Q 160 Strong occupational demand and constrained supply 140 The strong occupier demand outlined on pages 14-15 has led to high levels of take-up and there are a shortage of Big Boxes to let.
120 Take up has, nonetheless, been constrained by low supply levels.
100 Some key areas of the country currently have no new-build supply 80 and there is no modern Big Box currently available to let in the UK of greater than 500,000 sq ft.
This creates opportunities for rising 60 rents and increasing capital values for owners.
Availability Rolling four quarter total take-up Source: Gerald Eve Supply is likely to remain constrained in the medium term as there is a significant lag in the supply of new Big Boxes.
UK logistics availability of units of, sq ft m sq ft 10 Suitable land which can accommodate Big Boxes is scarce in key locations, which may not be zoned for employment use, let Currently no available units 8 larger than, sq ft alone B8 planning for distribution which can take years to secure.
6 The scale of Big Boxes and the extent of traffic movements they generate can present planning challenges.
In addition, Big Boxes 4 require a pool of suitable workers in the local area and have 2 substantial power and infrastructure requirements, adding further complexity to site identification and delivery.
0 Once detailed planning consent has been obtained, however, Second hand New early marketed Source: CBRE the construction of a new Big Box can be relatively quick typically 6-12 months from the point where the site is serviced with suitable infrastructure.
Tenant fit-out can then take a further three to 18 months, depending on the extent and complexity.
Despite the attractions of Big Boxes as an asset class, the amount of capital a developer would have to invest deters speculative development.
While there is some speculative development of smaller buildings, we are not aware of any properties of over 500,000 sq ft that are currently being speculatively built ie without a tenant pre-letting.
The level of occupier demand means developers can fide-risk their development upfront by agreeing a pre-let with a tenant, rather than going down the speculative route.
Building-to-suit on a pre-let basis creates opportunities for investors such as us to forward fund these developments and obtain brand new assets on long leases, to high-quality tenants.
20 Q2 10 Q2 07 Q3 10 Q4 10 Q2 08 Q1 11 Q2 11 Q3 11 Q2 09 Q4 11 Q1 12 Q2 10 Q2 12 Q3 02 Q4 02 Q2 11 Q1 03 Q2 13 Q2 12 Q3 13 Q4 13 Q1 14 Q2 13 Q2 14 Q3 14 Q4 14 Q2 14 Q1 05 Q2 05 Q2 15 Q3 05 Q4 15 Q1 16 Q2 16 Q2 16 Q3 16 Q4 16 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 Strong demand and limited supply make Big Box logistics one of the most exciting asset classes in the UK real estate market.
Rising rents UK prime logistics headline rent The combination of strong occupier demand and a shortage per sq ft and 2016 annual growth of supply has resulted in robust rental growth in recent years, which we believe will continue for some time to come.
In addition, build costs for Big Boxes have increased in 2016, as a result of increased imported material costs, exacerbated by the fall in Sterling in the second half of the year.
While the demand-supply imbalance has been the main driver of rental growth to date, it is NORTH WEST NORTH EAST & YORKSHIRE clear that cost inflation has begun to feed through to rising rents.. %.. % and we expect this to continue in 2017.
Pre-let deals for Big Boxes can be agreed initially at a premium WEST MIDLANDS EA EAS ST T MIDLANDS MIDLANDS to the prevailing market rent.
Tenants are keen to secure the.. %.. % opportunity and developers seek to capture the benefit of anticipated rental growth between securing the pre-letting and delivering the completed building, which can be a year or so after SOUTH EAST agreeing terms.
SOUTH WEST.. %.. % Source: CBRE Driving investment values The increased importance of Big Boxes to tenants and Regional estimated rental values % evidence of rental growth have heightened investment demand, 14 compressing yields.
12 10 Historically, prime retail yields of around 4% were the norm.
8 This low yield reflected limited property fabric obsolescence 6 and reliable rental growth from strong occupational demand.
4 Industrial property attracted yields of 6.5% or more, due to 2 higher perceived obsolescence and abundant land supply, 0 which suppressed rental growth.
More recently, for larger logistics buildings, land supply has become constrained.
M25 West M25 East M25 North M25 South South West East Mid West Mid North East Yorkshire North West Source: CBRE As high street retail has come under pressure and demand for prime logistics has grown, prime yields in the two sectors have converged see graph opposite.
We believe that this reflects a structural long-term yield repositioning.
Although yields have hardened for logistics, investors are still Prime UK investment yields: retail versus able to source attractive opportunities.
In a low interest rate 0.08 distribution % environment, property yields remain well above the cost of debt, 7 maintaining a positive yield gap and a considerable premium to 10 Year Gilts.
6 5 4 3 Prime shops Prime distribution yr lease Source: CBRE 21 Jan 13 Apr 13 Jul 13 Oct 13 Jan 14 Apr 14 Jul 14 Oct 14 Jan 15 Apr 15 Jul 15 Oct 15 Jan 16 Apr 16 Jul 16 Oct 16
