20 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FINANCIAL KPIS Earnings per share Net asset value Pence Pence per share 28p 646p Measure Measure Our EPRA earnings KPI is a Our EPRA NAV per share measure of profit per share measures the market value of in line with EPRA guidelines.
properties and developments less any debt used to fund them plus any working capital in the business.
Comments Target Comments Target Sustainable growth in earnings Deliver visible and Consistent NAV growth has To continue delivering has been driven by high levels meaningful growth been delivered through rental strong balanced returns, of occupancy and rental in EPS by maintaining growth, yield compression, contributing to a doublegrowth supported by a focus high occupancy rental development profits and digit total return.
on delivering operational growth and delivering the retained earnings.
The growth in development pipeline.
sustainable growth in NAV earnings underpins our reflects the implementation strategic priorities of delivering of the business model and great service and growing our strategic priority to operate and sustainable earnings.
Alignment to strategy Alignment to strategy 1 2 3 1 2 3 Total accounting return Loan-to-value ratio % % 15% 34% Measure Measure The total return to shareholders is Our ratio of net debt to the ratio of growth in EPRA NAV property values.
plus dividends paid as a percentage of opening EPRA NAV.
Comments Maintaining a strong total Comments Target Total return has averaged 16% return from our portfolio Continued to deliver reduction To maintain LTV around in the last six years, driven by the is a result of our business in LTV through ongoing focus the mid 30% level.
growth in EPRA earnings, yield model and delivery of on disposals and growing the 73 Remuneration compression, rental growth and our strategic priorities.
value of the property portfolio.
The Our LTV reflects our strategy to performance in 2016 was Target maintain the strongest capital delivered by focusing Continue to deliver structure in the sector.
on growing rental levels and double digit-total returns.
the delivery of our high quality development pipeline.
Alignment to strategy Alignment to strategy 1 2 3 1 2 3 Results are based on the European Public Real Estate Association Performance measures.
11 10 12 12 13 10 13 14 14 15 14 17 15 37 15 23 16 15 16 28 12 52 12 350 13 49 13 382 14 43 14 434 15 35 15 579 16 34 16 646 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 21 Key 1 2 3 Great service Brilliant properties Growing and sustainable earnings OPERATIONAL KPIS Safety Customer satisfaction Number of accidents % 5 80% Measure Measure The number of reportable We undertake an independent accidents in our Operations survey with TNS twice a year to business each year as a means understand our relationship with of assessing our success in our customers, the experience approaching health and safety.
we provide and their likelihood to rebook and recommend Unite.
Comments priority within our Comments Target Our Accident Incident business and supports While there has been We aim to reach the top Management System AIMS, our strategic priority to improvement in customer 10% of benchmarked has provided us with greater offer great service.
satisfaction over the prior four companies within the visibility on our incident years our 2016 result moved next three years.
reporting, enabling us to Target back 3% points.
We need to 73 Remuneration implement new ways of We strive to reduce the work hard through our strategic working that have improved number of reportable priority to offer great service so efficiency.
Safety is a high incidents year on year.
that we put customers at the heart of that process.
Alignment to strategy Alignment to strategy 1 2 3 1 2 3 Employee effectiveness Higher Education trust % % 54% 79% Measure Measure We have an employee survey Annual qualitative research with tool, run by the Hays Group, our Higher Education partners to called Employee Effectiveness.
understand their perception of Unite and the degree to which we meet their needs.
Comments Target Comments focus of providing a Home Our new survey results provided We aim to increase the Understanding what our Higher for Success, we need to detailed insight into the employee effectiveness Education partners need from continue to work hard to motivations and drivers of our percentage above the us, both for themselves as ensure this is reflected in employees and positions us 6% 60% threshold.
institutions and for their students, the score.
above the General UK Industry is a vital part of improving our Target Benchmark 48% and 1% level of service to offer great We aim to reach the mid behind the High Performing service.
The overall score is in line 80% level within the next Industry Benchmark 55% in with last year and whilst our three years.
strong University partnerships were supported by the ongoing.
