96 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT As at 22 February 2017 the Company had Following a change of control of the Share capital received notifications from the following Company, the convertible bonds issued At the date of this report, there are companies and institutions of the voting by Unite Jersey Issuer Limited and 222,068,787 ordinary shares of 25p each in interests of themselves and their clients in announced on 3 October 2014 become issue, all of which are fully paid-up and 3% or more of the issued ordinary share redeemable and or convertible into quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
ordinary shares of the Company at the option of the holder.
During the year and through to the date Percentage of this report, a total of 65,408 ordinary of Share The Directors have no authority to buyback shares of 25p each were allotted and Shareholder Capital the Companys shares.
issued pursuant to the exercise of options BlackRock Inc 8.01 under the Unite Group plc Savings APG Asset Management NV 6.36 Details of proposals to be put to the Annual Related Share Option Scheme and General Meeting in relation to the power a total of 72,468 ordinary shares of 25p Cohen & Steers Inc 4.38 of Directors to issue shares in the Company each were allotted and issued pursuant Aberdeen Asset are set out under the heading Annual to the exercise of options under the Management Group 3.95 General Meeting.
Old Mutual plc 3.79 Royal London The rights attaching to the Companys Going concern and Asset Management 3.60 ordinary shares, as well as the powers of viability statement the Companys Directors, are set out in Invesco Ltd 3.50 The going concern statement and the Companys articles of association.
viability statement is set out on pages 65 Principal Financial Group 3.31 and 25 respectively and is incorporated Norges Bank There are no restrictions on the transfer into this Directors Report by reference.
Investment Management 3.09 or voting rights of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those Disclosure of information which may be imposed by law from time to auditors to time or as set out in the Companys The Directors who held office at the articles of association.
date of approval of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each In accordance with the Market Abuse aware, there is no relevant audit Regulations, certain employees are information of which the Companys required to seek approval to deal in auditor is unaware: and each Director the Companys shares.
has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself The Company is not aware of any aware of any relevant audit information agreements between shareholders that and to establish that the Companys may result in restrictions on the transfers of auditors are aware of that information.
securities and or voting rights.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying Directors conflicts of interest special rights with regard to control of the The Company has procedures in place Company.
Unless expressly specified to for managing conflicts of interest.
A the contrary, the Companys articles of Director is to notify the Chairman and association may be amended by special the Chairman notifies the Chief Executive resolution of the shareholders.
if they become aware that they, or any of their connected parties, may have Change of control an interest in an existing or proposed All of the Companys share schemes transaction with the Company or the contain provisions relating to a change Group.
Directors have a continuing duty of control.
Outstanding rewards and to update any changes to these conflicts.
options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject Political donations to the satisfaction of any performance No political donations were made during conditions.
Other than certain of the the year ending 2016.
Groups banking facilities, there are no other significant agreements to which the Company is a party that affect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Nor are there any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 97 Taken together, these disapplication of Other information Resolutions 15 and 16: pre-emption rights resolutions will allow incorporated by reference Disapplication of pre-emption the Directors to issue new shares for The following information in the Strategic rights resolutions cash without offering the shares first Report is incorporated into this Directors If the Directors wish to allot new shares to existing shareholders in proportion to Report by reference: and other equity securities for cash other their existing holdings under the than in connection with an employee following circumstances: Results and dividend Page 1 share scheme, company law requires that these shares are offered first to the Post balance sheet events Page 109 r In connection with a rights issue or shareholders, in proportion to their existing Greenhouse gas emissions Page 47 other pre-emptive issue, with a nominal holdings.
The Directors consider it desirable value equivalent to two-thirds of the Financial Instruments and to have the maximum flexibility permitted present issued share capital which will financial risk management Page 29 by corporate governance guidelines allow the Directors to make exclusions Employment of disabled to respond to market developments or such other arrangements as may be persons Employee and to enable allotments to take place appropriate to resolve legal or involvement Page 46 to finance business opportunities without practical problems which, for example, making a pre-emptive offer to existing might arise with overseas shareholders : shareholders.
This cannot be done under The Corporate Governance Statement r For any other purpose, with a nominal the Companies 2006 Act unless the on pages 50 to 95 and the Statement of value equivalent to 5% of the present shareholders have first waived their Directors responsibilities on page 99 are issued share capital: and pre-emption rights.
The purpose of incorporated into this Directors Report r In connection with the financing Resolutions 15 and 16 together the by reference.
or refinancing of an acquisition or disapplication of pre-emptions rights specified capital investment which is resolutions is to enable shareholders announced contemporaneously with Management Report to so waive their pre-emption rights.
the allotment or which has taken place This Directors Report together with the in the preceding six-month period and strategic report and other sections from Resolution 15 authorises the Directors to is disclosed in the announcement of the annual report forms the Management allot new shares pursuant to the authority the allotment, with a nominal value Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
8 R. given by Resolution 14 the allotment equivalent to 5% of the present issued resolution for cash: share capital but subject to an Annual General Meeting overall aggregate limit equivalent The Annual General Meeting of the a In connection with a rights issue to two-thirds of the present issued Company will be held at 3 Rivergate, or pre-emptive issue: and or share capital.
Temple Quay, Bristol BS1 6GD, at 10.00 am b Otherwise up to a nominal value on 11 May 2017.
Formal notice of the of 2,775,859, equivalent to The Directors intend to adhere to the meeting is given on pages 155 to 159. approximately 5% of the total provisions in the Pre-Emption Groups issued ordinary share capital of Statement of Principles, as updated in the Company as at the date of this Resolution 14: March 2015, and not to allot shares for report, in each case without the Authority to allot shares cash on a non-pre-emptive basis shares first being offered to existing In addition to the ordinary business of the pursuant to the authority in Resolution 15 shareholders in proportion to their meeting, Resolution 14 will be proposed either in excess of an amount equal to 5% existing holdings.
as an ordinary resolution to grant the of the total issued ordinary share capital Directors authority to allot shares in the of the Company or in excess of an Resolution 16 additionally authorises the Company, and grant rights to subscribe amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued Directors to allot new shares for cash, for or to convert any security into shares ordinary share capital of the Company without the shares first being offered to of the Company, up to an aggregate within a rolling three-year period, without existing shareholders in proportion to their nominal value of 18,505,732 representing prior consultation with shareholders.
existing holdings, in connection with the approximately one third of the issued Even though adherence to the principles financing or refinancing, if the authority share capital of the Company as at the would not preclude issuances under the is to be used within six months after the date of this report.
In accordance with authority sought under Resolution 16, the original transaction of an acquisition guidelines issued by the Investment Directors currently do not intend to use or specified capital investment which Association, this resolution also grants the such authority without prior consultation is announced contemporaneously with Directors authority to allot further equity with leading shareholders.
the allotment or which has taken place securities up to an aggregate nominal in the preceding six-month period and value of 18,505,732, again representing The allotment and the disapplication is disclosed in the announcement of the approximately one third of the nominal of pre-emption rights resolutions comply allotment.
The authority under Resolution value of the issued share capital of the with the Share Capital Management 16 is limited to a nominal value of Company as at the date of this report.
Guidelines issued by the Investment 2,775,859, equivalent to approximately This additional authority may only be Association in July 2016 and the 5% of the nominal value of the ordinary applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues.
disapplication of pre-emption rights share capital of the Company in issue resolutions follow the resolution templates as at the date of this report.
issued by the Pre-Emption Group in May 2016.
98 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED If the resolutions are passed, the authorities Resolution 18: will expire at the conclusion of the next Notice of General Meetings Annual General Meeting of the Company The Companies Shareholders Rights or, if earlier, 10 August 2018, this being the Regulations 2009 the Shareholders date 15 months from the passing of the Rights Regulations, increased the notice resolutions, whichever is the earlier.
period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders Resolution 17: approve a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
At the Amend Article 94 Directors fees annual general meeting of the Company of the Articles of Association held in 2015, shareholders authorised the Resolution 17 is a proposal to amend calling of general meetings, other than Article 94 of the Articles of Association an annual general meeting, on not less to increase the limit on Directors service than 14 clear days notice.
Resolution 18 fees as distinct from salary, remuneration seeks the approval of shareholders to and other payments to the executive renew the authority to be able to call directors from the current 500,000 to general meetings other than an annual 750,000 per annum.
This is to allow the general meeting on 14 clear days Company some headroom in relation to notice.
The flexibility offered by Resolution any further appointments of Non-Executive 18 will be used where, taking into account Directors or increases in Directors fees.
the circumstances, the Directors consider There is no current intention to utilise the this appropriate in relation to the business proposed increased limit and the level of of the meeting and in the interests of the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors Company and shareholders as a whole.
will continue to be monitored by the The Company undertakes to meet the Board, which intends that all such fees requirements for electronic voting under should be in line with market practice.
the Shareholders Rights Regulations before calling a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
By order of the Board Christopher Szpojnarowicz Company Secretary 22 February 2017 Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 99 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES INRESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for the the Annual Report and Accounts and the maintenance and integrity of the Group and parent company financial corporate and financial information statements in accordance with applicable included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Company law requires the Directors financial statements may differ from to prepare Group and parent company legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to Each of the Directors, the name of whom prepare the Group financial statements are set out on pages 54 and 55, confirms in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by that to the best of his or her knowledge: the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company r The Annual Report and accounts taken financial statements on the same basis.
as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Under company law, the Directors must information necessary for shareholders not approve the financial statements to assess the Companys position unless they are satisfied that they give and performance, business model a true and fair view of the state of affairs and strategy of the Group and parent company and r The financial statements, prepared in of their profit or loss for that period.
accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and In preparing each of the Group and fair view of the assets, liabilities, parent company financial statements, financial position and profit and loss the Directors are required to: of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken r Select suitable accounting policies as a whole and then apply them consistently r The Directors Report includes r Make judgments and estimates that a fair review of the development are reasonable and prudent and performance of the business r State whether they have been prepared and the position of the issuer and in accordance with IFRSs as adopted the undertakings included in the by the EU consolidation taken as a whole, r Prepare the financial statements on together with a description of the the going concern basis unless it is principal risks and uncertainties that inappropriate to presume that the they face.
Group and the parent company will continue in business.
R S Smith J Lister Director Director The Directors are responsible for keeping 22 February 2017 adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
