4 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 OUR PURPOSE Home for success The best home... We provide a high quality and secure living Individually and environment where young people can develop collectively, our 1,450 academically and socially.
people are driven by Because we know that while, for most people, a common purpose: University is a time of excitement and opportunity, it can also be a time of anxiety and stress.
Our to provide the students research shows that students who feel well who live with us a Home integrated are more resilient and better equipped for Success.
This means to navigate the transition to University.
We therefore aim to provide an environment, which, in every way, providing the best home helps them achieve this.
for all students, helping them grow and succeed at University and beyond.
for all students... We understand that a University education is We do so through the nowadays a significant investment for young people passion of our people, and believe that no-one should miss out simply great properties and a because of their personal circumstances.
deep-rooted commitment We therefore offer a variety of accommodation at different price points, ranging from rooms with to customer service for shared bathrooms, to clusters of ensuite bedrooms both our students and with shared kitchens and living spaces to selfcontained studio apartments.
In addition, the Unite our University partners.
Foundation is currently providing accommodation and a generous living allowance for 134 students from severely disadvantaged backgrounds at Universities across the UK.
helping them grow and succeed... For many people, University is where the academic foundations of their career are laid.
But, for every generation of students, University is more than simply a stepping stone to a job.
It moulds them as individuals and provides a critical bridge to adulthood, where they can learn the interpersonal skills they will need for life.
We therefore aim to create an environment that is caring and supportive but also allows our students to express their natural desire for independence.
at university and beyond... We believe that where a student lives has a material impact on their academic and social experience of University and, ultimately, their lives.
Through our people, our buildings and our focus on customer service, we aim to help our students make the transition from teenagers to resilient adults, equipped for everything that lies ahead.
We regularly measure how well we are meeting their needs and are continuously looking for ways to improve our proposition.
