70 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE REPORT their behaviours and prevent fire related Activities in 2016 incidents.
Security can be a challenge There have been positive improvements and an external review has been throughout the year to embed the Keep undertaken to ensure that strengths and uS Safe agenda to develop safe and weaknesses are identified and appropriate healthy employees and customers.
measures designed and built in to protect both student and employee alike.
The most trusted brand is at the forefront of our minds and our core values are at During the year, we appointed the British the heart of health and safety: Safety Council as our new safety auditor.
They are conducting an external review r We care about the health, safety and of our H&S Management System to ensure wellbeing of our employees and the appropriate systems and procedures customers and it is at the heart of are developed and being implemented.
everything we do This provides assurance that the r We lead by developing robust systems Sir Tim Wilson Chairman appropriate checks and measures are and promoting good practice being carried out.
r We unite with stakeholders to develop positive engagement Sir Tim Wilson r We deliver by always seeking continuous Chair Health and Safety Committee improvement and good practice.
22 February 2017 Health and Safety Committee The H&S Management System HSG 65 Chairs overview has been developed and implemented Committee overview The Health and Safety Committee to include robust policies, procedures Composition ensures effective governance of the and hazard controls.
The scope of the r Sir Tim Wilson Chair health, safety and wellbeing of our system is to implement effective policies, r Elizabeth McMeikan employees, customers, contractors hazard controls, health and safety r Richard Smith and other visitors to our properties.
It is training, equipment management, paramount the business recognises that effective communication, occupational Richard Simpson Group Property health and safety does not stand still, health provision, auditing and review, Director, Steve Batley Estates Director, there will always be lessons to learn and document control as well as identifying Julie Jarvey Head of Health and Safety scope for continuous improvement.
I am where legal compliance is required.
and Anthony Arnold Construction committed to ensuring that health and The Group H&S Policy documents the Director regularly attend meetings safety is at the heart of everything that Groups commitment to a safe working of the Committee.
the business does and have visited environment and ensure the safety of a number of our properties this year, our employees and anyone who may Role accompanying the city and health and be affected by our business as well The role of the Health and Safety safety teams, understanding and seeing as demonstrating compliance with Committee is to: for myself how health and safety is being legislative requirements.
The policy is a implemented within the business and formal mechanism for the adherence r Ensure that the Groups health and a positive culture is being established.
of the principles of the H&S Management safety policies and procedures are System HSG 65 and sets out our aims, reviewed annually and effectively Unite Students is home to 49,000 students details the structure of our organisation implemented to ensure legal and their safety, wellbeing and security and how we will manage and promote requirements are met as well as striving is imperative.
We work closely with our health and safety objectives.
for best practice stakeholders including Universities and r Ensure that the business is aware of emergency services to ensure that health regulatory changes and understands and safety is at the heart of our most the impact upon the business trusted brand.
It is recognised that fire r Remain updated on performance is the biggest hazard to the operating and any major health and safety portfolio and the business is proactive incidents so as to ensure management in its approach to fire safety, setting up identifies and implements appropriate a primary fire authority agreement with corrective actions.
the Avon Fire Authority, which ensures appropriate advice and guidance to our strategic fire prevention decisions.
A successful fire safety campaign has been delivered to students focusing on cooking safely.
This will directly influence Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 71 Along with embedding our H&S External audit Management System through HSG 65, The British Safety Council was appointed THE ORGANISATIONAL the key improvements this year have to undertake a best practice audit of the included: H&S Management System HSG 65 and CULTURE WITHIN UNITE its effectiveness.
The audit focused on key r The implementation of regional health areas including: policy and organisational STUDENTS AS A and safety committees to ensure responsibilities, strategy and planning, BUSINESS WAS FOUND effective consultation with employees implementation and operation, r A full review and update of the performance measurement, evaluation TO BE OUTSTANDING, IT operations risk assessments to ensure and review, leadership and commitment.
adequate hazard control It also benchmarked performance WAS OBVIOUS TO THE r Revised contractor management and indicators, which formed part of the permit to work system to manage SURVEY TEAM THAT ALL evaluation and included: continual hazardous work activities improvement, leadership, stakeholder STAFF THAT REPRESENT r Improved induction training platform engagement, risk management and which encompasses host videos and health and wellbeing.
The H&S UNITE STUDENTS ARE augmented reality learning and an Management System was awarded a associated handbook.
The videos three-star rating, with a number of areas COMPLETELY COMMITTED focus on driving for work, lone working, of good practice identified as well as TO THE ORGANISATIONS safety signage, housekeeping areas for continuous improvement to maintenance hazards such as attain best practice and strive for a FOUR CORE VALUES, IN chemicals, machinery, asbestos and four-star rating next year.
THATTHEY CARE, LEAD, There is an interactive game for The lead auditor was impressed with UNITE AND DELIVER accident, incident and near misses.
the properties, commenting: If my child The augmented reality technology needed student accommodation I would is based on hazard spotting and picks Security risk review report definitely ensure they stayed with Unite.
up key areas of risk that employees are WSP Parson Brinckerhoff likely to come across The British Safety Council has also r Updated property inspections with undertaken an audit for the property Crisis management also forms part of monthly city and quarterly team checks development operations of their principal this work and it is imperative to test our as well as additional development contractors and principal designer, visiting emergency preparedness and response site inspections three development sites and reviewing plans and procedures.
Hence, an r Quarterly health and safety reviews appropriate documentation.
As a result emergency test took place at an with all three framework development of these audits appropriate stakeholders operating property in London.
A review contractors which include directors are now being consulted and regular of the exercise has enabled the sharing and health and safety representatives meetings set up to work together on of good practice and lessons learnt, to r An external audit has also been taking recommendations forward.
drive further improvements and build undertaken of property development on the positive engagement with the sites and encompassed the principal Security emergency services.
contractor and principal designer WSP Parson Brinckerhoff undertook r Unite branding has been introduced an external security review providing on the development sites to drive the comprehensive recommendations for message from a client perspective continuous improvement.
A senior level r External benchmarking of site steering group is establishing the strategy inspection scores via Considerate with a clear roadmap for security to be Constructor Scheme CCS, and UKCG built into our projects design, layout and r Elevated Unite health and safety profile customer impact.
A business security by becoming a client partner consultant is being appointed to take of the CCS the lead and provide the necessary r Implemented a Yellow Card system advice and guidance to ensure the at the development sites to halt works recommendations are taken forward.
immediately if there is significant concern over health and safety.
72 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED This will drive focus on fire security through: to look for signs and signpost help.
The student support services team provides FIRE SAFETY r Integrating fire strategy decisions into support to employees and students the development journey alike and works closely with the University r Fire Safety Management policies and support teams.
procedures, risk assessments, training, fire records Incidents r Maintenance Regimes testing and Operations planned preventative maintenance Incidents involving our employees, r Specification for new builds and customers or visitors: developments.
r Five reportable injuries under RIDDOR We have completed a benchmarking to employees relating to injuring exercise and produced a fire risk review themselves following a fall or knock which provides clear direction for r 314 minor non-reportable incidents designing out risk and suggestions for employees 166, customer 125, fire safety strategies.
The external fire risk assessment Development Richard Bobruk joined us in August as programme is being implemented with During 2016, there have been four our Primary Fire Authority Lead Fire a three-year rolling cycle and internal RIDDOR reportable incidents and 20 Officer photo above with Alastair annual reviews.
Clearer risk ratings minor incidents in our development Weston, Health and Safety Manager have been established with prioritisation activity.
This performance is within our on the left and Richard Bobruk, Avon and accountability.
Unite Students internal benchmarks Fire and Rescue on the right.
beating the industry standard as follows: Mental health and wellbeing Incidents KPI Benchmark Mental health issues are of grave concern 4 RIDDOR 0.23 0.30 to the Higher Education sector and also 20 minor 1.13 5.00 to us at Unite, especially since we are their home while at University.
Employees KPI calculated as: No.
of incidents x 100,000 receive mental health first aid training hours hours worked Development incidents for 2016 NonRIDDOR reportable Project Hours incidents incidents Stapleton House 317,024 0 0 Olympic Way 365,810 1 1 Greetham St 281,443 0 2 Causeway End 239,090 1 4 Far Gosford 150,849 0 1 Tara House 238,857 2 2 St Leonards 96,544 0 10 Millennium View 79,515 0 0 BRI Bristol 5,780 0 0 TOTALS 1,766,912 4 20 The focus for continuous improvement by initiating a contractor forum to share Priorities for 2017 includes: prioritising and progressing good practice, lessons learnt and ensure Our vision for the next three years is the fire risk review, crisis management, the very best contractors work on the journey to interdependence with security review and external audit our properties.
empowerment in day to day health recommendations and actions.
and safety management at the core Specific topical projects include of everything we do.
bespoke manual handling training and assessment, integrating wellbeing into the Our aim is to ensure the health, safety management system, near miss reporting and wellbeing of employees, and have campaign and engaging with our a positive influence on customers stakeholders on health and safety and contractors.
