STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 5 OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY Delivering our purpose through our business model 1 Great service A customer GROWING experience Delivered that students by passionate HOME FOR TOTAL and Universitie s people RETURNS value SUCCESS 2 3 Brilliant Growing & properties sustainable earnings Unite Students is the sector-leading We operate through two main Business Units: Delivering great customer service and manager and developer of student Operations and Property.
Our Operations building strong relationships with our accommodation, with a high quality, unit is responsible for the portfolio, including University partners, the communities in well-located portfolio of approximately those owned by our co-investment vehicles, which we operate, our customers, 140 properties in the UKs strongest USAF and LSAV.
We aim to deliver operating suppliers and 1,450 employees is crucial University towns and cities.
We have a cashflows and earnings, delivering to our success.
customer-focused approach and work sustainable annual growth in rental income We work strategically with University closely with our University partners to and profits, increasing the value of leaders, using our knowledge and provide a seamless service to over 49,000 our investment portfolio through the experience to help them with the students, providing them with a safe and strengthening of our brand.
Our operating realisation of their estates and residences secure home at a wide range of price platform PRISM enhances and improves strategies.
We invest in our employees and points and room sizes, tailoring our service our operational capabilities, delivering support their development, helping them to meet their needs.
improvements to customer services, achieve their personal and professional revenue management and demonstrating Our focused business model seeks to potential.
We work closely with the local the efficiencies of scale.
deliver low double-digit total returns and community, from the early stages of sustainable, growing earnings, by The Property business unit is responsible development and planning to providing maintaining our competitive advantage, for our development and asset opportunities for students living with us to growing and maintaining the highest management strategy and oversees our volunteer and bring positive benefits to quality portfolio and being the most two co-investment vehicles.
We identify the area in which they live.
Overall, we trusted brand in the sector, underpinned and manage acquisitions, disposals and aim to provide the homes and services by a strong capital structure.
the development of operational assets that enable and support our students that enable us to leverage our highly personal and academic achievements.
11 26 34 Read more: Market review Read more: Principal risks Read more: Property review and uncertainties 12 40 Read more: Relationships Read more: Financial review 30 Read more: Operations review 44 Read more: Up to uS In 2016 we welcomed our largest ever number of students, 49,000.
We are the first home from home for the majority of our students meaning that almost one in 10 first year students live with us.
We are responsible for more students than any single University.
STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 7 PRISM We launched our innovative technology solution, PRISM, which provides a huge range of benefits for our students.
We will be able to process their bookings much quicker and book them into their rooms faster when they arrive to stay with us.
PRISM also has the capacity to speed up how we can respond to student requests on maintenance issues.
15 For more information Ambassador programme In 2016 we piloted our Student Ambassador programme, which aimed to identify students living with us who were willing and passionate to share their own first-hand experience to help our new students throughout their time with us.
The 12 initial Ambassadors were recruited across four city locations and actively engaged in helping new students, particularly during the on-boarding experience.
The Ambassadors quickly became recognised by new arrivals as the go to people to help them to settle in and the programme will continue to develop.
Focus on employability As part of our Home for Success commitment, our Employability initiative identifies DELIVERING ways in which we can help students and their friends to be successful in increasing FOR OUR their employability once they finish their University studies.
The Student Ambassador programme piloted in 2016 was seen as a potential stepping stone to identifying such STUDENTS future opportunities, while our online Student Life Hub was also further developed in 2016 to include employability tips.
Meanwhile, for students who finished their University course in 2016, the Unite Students Internship programme gave students the space and tools to learn more about our business, while building employable skills.
Ten students joined us as interns in 2016, working in all parts of the business.
45 For more information STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 9 Further strengthening our University partnerships Dedicated University partnership team working collaboratively with our 60 University partners.
70% of 2016 openings are let to Universities under nomination agreements DELIVERING 58% of all rooms let through FOR OUR University agreements 16 For more information UNIVERSITIES First move into on-campus in Birmingham Aston Student Village ASV acquisition in central Our long-term agreements with more Birmingham comprises than 60 Universities across England and 3,100 rooms in our first move on-campus.
Scotland guarantee that more than 50% of our students are allocated rooms in our buildings.
As student numbers increase 34 For more information and Universities seek to attract students, they look to us to support them by I just think the Unite product providing attractive accommodation is inspirational.
I think as a brand, theyre ahead that fits with their student strategies.
of other providers in that theyve kept the prices not at an unreasonable level.
Unite Students Reputation Survey, 2016 an independent survey of Higher Education institutes 21 For more information 10 Investors in People Gold Unite Students joined the elite group of UK companies to achieve the coveted Investors in People Gold accreditation in 2016.
Developing our teams continues to be a priority for us and this accolade recognises that by providing effective programmes across the company, our teams can deliver excellent customer service, while offering a great place to work with a clear commitment to developing employees.
Living Wage 2016 We were proud to receive the Living Wage accreditation Training We have continued to develop our comprehensive range of high quality training courses and development programmes for our employees at all levels.
In total, 4,100 training days were delivered to help employees evolve their skills and grow in tandem with the company.
Our leadership framework has also continued to mature, with 43 delegates attending leadership courses throughout the year including the programmes Becoming a Supervisor, Becoming a Manager and leadership development.
4,100 We offered a total of 4,100 training days in 2016 Other related content 15 Chief Executives review 30 Operations review STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 11 DELIVERING FOR OUR PEOPLE We have 1,450 employees at Unite Students with the majority working with our students in 24 towns and cities.
They are supported by 250 people in our Bristol support centre.
Our property and development team have a central London base.
