BOARD OF DIRECTORS Appointment to the Board theMiddle East and Africa having originally joined as president of Bruno Angelici was appointed to the Vectura Board on 1 December ICIPharmaceuticals France.
Prior to this, he was at Baxter, a US-based 2013 and became Non-Executive Chairman in February 2014. global supplier of medical devices.
He has extensive international business Following the merger with Skyepharma in June 2016, Bruno became leadership experience, including in the US, and brings a deep understanding Chairman of the enlarged Vectura Group plc.
to the Company of the medical device and pharmaceutical industries.
Experience and expertise Current external appointments Bruno has an MBA Kellogg School of Management and business and Bruno is a non-executive director of Smiths Group plc, a technology law degrees from Reims.
In March 2017, Bruno stepped down as a non-executive director of Novo Nordisk A S, a global healthcare company and world leader Brunos career includes senior management roles in pharmaceutical Bruno Angelici indiabetes care.
He is a member of the Global Advisory Board of and medical device companies.
Bruno retired from AstraZeneca in Non-Executive Chairman Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd, Japan, the largest pharmaceutical 2010 as Executive Vice President International after a 20-year career.
company in Asia, and a member of the supervisory board of Wolters He was responsible for Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin America, N R Kluwer NV, a global information services and publishing company.
Appointment to the Board autoimmunity RIA strategy which included the acquisitions of Almiralls James Ward-Lilley was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Vectura in respiratory business and Pearl Therapeutics.
Prior to this, James led the September 2015 and became CEO of the enlarged Group following the AstraZeneca investor relations team from 2011 to 2012.
His extensive merger with Skyepharma in June 2016. international management career at AstraZeneca spanned 28 years across a variety of commercially focused roles.
James progressed from Experience and expertise sales and marketing roles in the UK through to country head of Belgium James holds an Institute of Marketing Diploma, a BA Hons degree and and Luxembourg.
He then led AstraZenecas business in China to become an MBA.
the number one pharmaceutical company in that market.
James went Prior to joining Vectura, James was a senior executive at AstraZeneca, on to become regional vice president for Central Eastern Europe and being vice president respiratory, inflammation & autoimmunity, global the Middle East, where the business enjoyed strong growth.
James Ward-Lilley product and portfolio strategy GPPS.
In this role James had responsibility Chief Executive Officer Current external appointments for the development of AstraZenecas respiratory, inflammation and James does not currently hold any other directorships.
Appointment to the Board Andrew brings to the role over 25 years experience in senior finance Andrew Derodra was appointed Chief Financial Officer CFO on and commercial roles in multinational FTSE 100 companies.
Prior to 10June 2016 having previously been appointed CFO of Skyepharma Skyepharma he was with Tate & Lyle where he was Group Vice President inNovember 2013.
Previously, at SABMiller, he held a succession of commercial and strategic roles culminating in business Experience and expertise transformation director Europe.
He held senior finance roles in several He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants industries and sectors with Diageo, British Airways and Reed Elsevier.
and holds a BA Hons in mathematics from Oxford University.
Current external appointments Andrew does not currently hold any other directorships.
Andrew Derodra Chief Financial Officer Appointment to the Board ofCritical Therapeutics, Inc. a US listed pharma company following Trevor joined the Vectura Board in June 2012.
It was announced that six years as the companys chief operating officer.
Trevor led Trevor would leave the Board on 25 May at the 2017 AGM.
CriticalTherapeutics in setting up commercial partnerships, product in-licensing and out-licensing, managing drug development and Experience and expertise NDAfilings, commercial product manufacturing and mergers and He has a BSc in microbiology from the University of Reading and acquisitions.
Trevor previously held international management aPhDin microbial biochemistry from the University of Wales.
Heholds positions in the pharma sector at Sepracor, Scotia Pharmaceuticals, an MBA from Henley Management College.
Accenture, GlaxoWellcome Research and Development and Trevor was appointed Chief Operations Officer in July 2011, having joined SimbecResearch Limited.
Vectura in January 2010 as President of US Operations.
Prior to Vectura, Trevor Phillips Current external appointments Trevor gained extensive international experience in organisational Chief Operations Officer and Trevor does not currently hold any other directorships.
leadership, management and pharmaceutical drug development President of US Operations inanumber of senior roles.
This included as CEO and president Appointment to the Board Operations at IVAX, Chief executive officer of Faulding Pharmaceuticals, Frank Condella was appointed as non-executive chairman of vice president of the Specialty Care Products business at Roche and Skyepharma on 1 January 2010, having originally joined that companys vice president and general manager of the Lederle unit of American board as chief executive officer in March 2006.
Following the merger Home Products Pfizer.
with Vectura, he was appointed to the Board on 10 June 2016 as Current external appointments Non-Executive Vice Chairman.
Frank is a non-executive director of Juniper Pharmaceuticals Inc,.
Experience and expertise andPalladio Biosciences Inc,.
He holds a BS in pharmacy and an MBA from Northeastern University, US.
Frank brings over 30 years experience in the pharmaceutical industry to Frank Condella the Board.
He is a non-executive director of Juniper Pharmaceuticals Inc. Non-Executive Vice Chairman and Palladio Biosciences Inc.
Previously, he was president and CEO of Juniper Pharmaceuticals, has served as a non-executive director of A N Fulcrum Pharma Ltd and Prosonix Ltd and was president ofEuropean 52 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE Appointment to the Board Current external appointments Dr Susan Foden joined the Vectura Board in January 2007.
Susan holds a number of non-executive directorships with both public and private companies in the biotech and healthcare field, including Experience and expertise BTGplc, BerGenBio ASA, the Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult and She holds an MA and a DPhil in biochemistry from Oxford University.
Susan brings significant experience in venture capital, UK biotech andhealthcare companies to the Board.
Prior to undertaking a plural career, from 2000 to 2003 she was an investor director with the London-based venture capital firm Merlin Biosciences Limited, andwaschief executive officer of the technology transfer company Susan Foden Cancer Research Campaign Technology Ltd from 1987 to 2000.
Non-Executive Director N R Appointment to the Board Current external appointments Dr Per-Olof Andersson joined the Vectura Board in April 2015.
Per-Olof does not currently hold any other directorships.
Experience and expertise He holds a degree in medicine from Lund University, Sweden.
Per-Olof is an expert in international research and development withinthe pharmaceuticals, bio-pharmaceuticals and speciality pharmaceutical industry and has considerable experience in respiratory therapeutic development.
In 2011, Per-Olof retired from Almirall where he was executive director for R&D and a member Per-Olof Andersson oftheboard of directors.
Prior to joining Almirall in 2006, Per-Olof Non-Executive Director hada distinguished international career at Pharmacia and Pfizer overaperiod of nearly 20 years.
Since 2011, Per-Olof has been an A N independent consultant advising biotech and pharma companies.
Appointment to the Board Current external appointments Neil Warner was appointed to the Board of Vectura as a Non-Executive Neil is senior independent director and audit committee chair of Director in February 2011.
Trifastplc, a global leader in design, technology and manufacturing ofindustrial fasteners for the automotive and technology sectors.
Experience and expertise Heisalso a non-executive director, chair of the audit committee and Neil holds an economics degree from the University of Leeds and is a member of the remuneration committee of Directa Plus plc which Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Directa Plus is one of the worlds Neil brings significant financial and leadership experience in multinational largestproducers of graphene-based materials marketed under listed companies.
He was finance director at Chloride Group plc, itsGraphene Plus G brand, which can be used by third parties aposition he held for 14 years until the companys acquisition by inawide variety of industrial and commercial applications.
Neilwas Neil Warner Emerson Electric.
Prior to this, Neil spent six years at Exel plc formerly formerly the non-executive chairman of Enteq Upstream plc, a Non-Executive Director Ocean Group plc and acquired by DHL Deutsche Post in December 2005, specialist reach and recovery products and technologies provider where he held a number of senior posts in financial planning, treasury tothe upstream oil and gas services market.
He has also held senior positions in Balfour Beatty plc formerly BICC Group plc, Alcoa and  and was a non-executive director of Dechra Pharmaceuticals plc, where he was the senior independent director and chair of the audit committee.
Appointment to the Board andNew Oncology AG.
Beside his business responsibilities he has Thomas Werner was appointed to the Board of Skyepharma as a previously served for many years on the board of trustees of the Non-Executive Director in May 2009 and joined the Board of Vectura PaulEhrlich Foundation and the Robert Koch Foundation and was following the merger in June 2016. adirector of the American Chamber of Commerce in Germany representing healthcare companies.
Experience and expertise He holds a degree in chemistry from the University of Gttingen.
Current external appointments Thomas is chairman of Fertin Pharma, a Danish medicated chewing Thomas Werner has over 30 years of experience in the pharmaceutical gum company, and sits on the boards of Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd industry, previously as senior vice president of GlaxoSmithKline where and BSN Medical.
He is chairman of the investor advisory committee he was managing director for Germany and also co-ordinated its Thomas Werner ofthe Seventure France Health for Life capital investment fund.
Prior to that, he was responsible for Non-Executive Director Glaxo Wellcome Germany and Central Europe, Bristol-Myers Squibb Germany and Convatec Germany Central Europe.
He has held R A variousnon-executive positions including Riemser Pharma GmbH Committee membership: R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee Committee Chairman Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 53
