STRATEGIC REPORT VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the provisions in the UK Corporate Governance The principal, plausible stress tests in accordance with the Groups Code C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision, the Directors have assessed principal risks and uncertainties are: theviability of the Group over a three-year period.
The Directors a significant delay in the launch of VR315 US and, following assessment has been made with reference to the Groups current launch, significantly lower performance: strategy, strong balance sheet including the availability of the 50m a significant reduction in product supply inflows for flutiform revolving credit facility and the Groups principal risks as described from either a reduction in demand or an inability to supply: in this Strategic report.
lower in-market sales prices of flutiform due to competition, Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not technological change or regulatory body action: beviable over a longer period, a three-year period is considered appropriate given the nature of forecasting in the pharmaceutical slower than expected sales growth in Seebri Ultibro market and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
This period Breezhaler in EU ROW and lower than expected royalties is more than double that used for the going concern assessment fromthe Groups other on-market products: and and is within the terms of the Groups revolving credit facility.
This significant delays in contracting with new or existing partners.
period therefore provides the Board with an appropriate degree ofconfidence while still providing a suitable longer-term outlook.
As a worst case, the combined impact of these downside scenarios was assessed against the Groups liquidity.
In making their assessment, the Directors have undertaken asensitivity analysis of its forecast cash flows and liquidity.
Based on the assessment and stress testing, the Directors have Thekeyassumptions underpinning the assessment during areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue theperiod are as follows: inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three-yearperiod.
approval of VR315 US by the FDA and launch by the Groups partner, Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC through its wholly-owned Going concern subsidiary, West-Ward Pharmaceuticals : At the time of approving the financial statements the Directors have changes to flutiform net in-market sales prices, growth of a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have product supply volumes and the related supply margin: adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern manufacturing and assembly of flutiform by Sanofi continues basis of accounting in preparing the 2016 Report and Accounts.
inline with contractual obligations: continued growth of net sales of Seebri Ultibro Breezhaler inEU ROW: and progress of the Groups R&D pipeline including the timing ofmilestones, partnering and R&D expenditure.
