GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES The Directors report comprises pages 85 to 87 of this report, Capital structure together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements byreference.
in the companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 25 Ordinary share capital.
The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Group for the period ended 31 December 2016.
The Company has two classes of shares.
Ordinary shares of 0.025p The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with each, are referred to as Ordinary Shares.
These carry no right to the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules fixed income.
Each Ordinary Share carries the right to one vote at and the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014. general meetings of the Company.
Ordinary Shares are listed on theLondon Stock Exchange.
Description of operations, principal The Company also has Redeemable Preference Shares of 1.00 each.
activities and review of business These shares are not listed on any exchange and carry no rights to The strategic review of the business of the Company and its dividend or other distribution.
Holders have the right to receive subsidiaries is given on pages 1 to 49.
Certain information required notice of meetings and to attend, but not to vote at the same.
for disclosure in this report in accordance with the Listing Rules is provided in other appropriate sections of this Annual Report.
These Pursuant to the general provisions of the Articles of Association include the: andprevailing legislation, there are no specific restrictions on the size ofa holding.
The Directors are not aware of any restrictions on Corporate governance report on pages 50 to 62: thetransfer of Ordinary Shares in the Company other than certain Directors remuneration report on pages 63 to 84, including restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law and Directors interests in shares: regulations, e. g. insider trading laws, and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority whereby certain employees Operating review on page 39 in respect of the Groups activities of the Company require the prior approval from the Company to in the fields of research and development where the outlook deal in the Companys securities.
section covers likely future developments in the business of the Company and its subsidiaries : The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights and the transfer Financial review on pages 36 to 42: ofsecurities.
disclosures on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions Director Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 27 Share-based and employee gender and human rights which are included in payments.
Shares were issued and allotted during the period only the Corporate responsibility report on pages 44 to 49: and in relation to the administration of the Employee Share Plans.
Shares held by the employee benefit trusts are not voted by the Trustees disclosures on financial instruments: and capitalised interest in of each Trust.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys These disclosures are, accordingly, incorporated into this report share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Directors Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Directors who served during the period were as follows The statements of compliance with the principles of the Code as inalphabetical order : published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 areset out on page 51.
Bruno Angelici Chairman Per-Olof Andersson Independent Non-Executive Director Results and dividends Frank Condella Non-Executive Vice Chairman The Group made a loss after tax for the nine months to 31December 2016 of 32.1m year to 31 March 2016: profit of5.0m.
The Directors do Andrew Derodra Chief Financial Officer not recommend payment of a dividend.
Susan Foden Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Trevor Phillips Chief Operating Officer and President Political donations ofUS Operations The Company made no political donations during the period.
The Group has a policy of not making donations to any EU political party James Ward-Lilley Chief Executive Officer and will continue to adhere to this policy.
Neil Warner Independent Non-Executive Director Thomas Werner Independent Non-Executive Director Employees Further information on our employees including the learning, health Andrew Oakley Retired with effect from 10 June 2016 and safety, communication and equal opportunities, and the John Brown Retired with effect from 10 July 2016 employment of disabled persons is contained in our Corporate With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, responsibility report on page 45. theCompany is governed by its Articles, the 2014 UK Corporate Human rights Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
While Vectura does not have a Human Rights policy, it has published the steps we have taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not present in our supply chains or business and the Board has adopted an Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 85 DIRECTORS REPORT ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Directors continued to the Articles.
These powers are referred to shareholders at each The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of Annual General Meeting for renewal.
The matters reserved for the Board are available Directors interests on the Companys website, www.
Details of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company, The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary together with details of the share incentives granted to them, are resolution of the Companys members or by a resolution of the Directors.
disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 80 to 81 All the Directors will retire at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and As at the date of this report, the Directors of the Company had a stand for re-election with the exception of Trevor Phillips who will beneficial interest in an aggregate of 1,633,452 ordinary shares, not stand for re-election and will leave the Board from the AGM.
representing 0.24% of the Companys total votingrights.
The Boards recommendations concerning reappointment are contained in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 59.
Directors indemnities and Directors and Officers liability insurance Biographical details of the Directors are available on pages 52 and The Company did not make any qualifying third-party indemnity 53 and in the Notice of Meeting.
provisions for the benefit of its Directors during the period and The powers of the Directors are determined by applicable legislation none are in force at the date of this report.
The Company and the and the Companys Articles of Association.
As provided in those Articles, Group maintain insurance policies for its Directors and Officers in the Directors may exercise all the Companys powers provided that respect of liabilities which could arise in the discharge of their duties.
the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such Contracts of significance in which a Director is interested powers must be exercised by the Companys members.
The Directors No Director was interested in a contract with the Company during have been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares, pursuant the period except in relation to the terms of their appointment.
Shareholders Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2016 and 17 March 2017, being the latest practicable date, the Company had received notifications, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR5 over shares and financial instruments, as detailed in the table below: As at 31 December 2016 As at latest practicable date Percentage of Percentage of voting rights voting rights Number of and issued Number of and issued Ordinary Shares share capital Ordinary Shares share capital HBM Healthcare Investments Cayman Ltd 70,274,572 10.46 67,835,991 10.01 Invesco Ltd 65,867,848 9.81 65,867,848 9.81 Aviva plc and subsidiaries 24,597,102 3.67 24,597,102 3.67 AXA Investment Managers SA 21,769,423 3.24 21,769,423 3.24 Acquisition of the Companys own shares Change of control The Company made no purchases of its own shares in the period The Company, and various subsidiaries, are party to a number under review.
The employee benefit trusts purchased 739,661 ofagreements which have change of control clauses.
If triggered, shares during the year to meet the awards requirements of the these could lead to delays in product development programmes Employee Share Incentive Plan and the delivery of shares arising and or product commercialisation.
In the event of a takeover bid, from exercises of options granted under the Long Term Incentive there are no specific agreements between the Company and its Plan or Listing Rule 9.4.
Directors providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise.
A resolution will be proposed at the 2017 AGM to give the Company authority to acquire Ordinary Shares following expiry of the current Annual General Meeting authority.
The directors will use this authority only after careful The 2017 Annual General Meeting of the Company will take place consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at atthe offices of Clifford Chance, 10 Upper Bank Street, London E145JJ the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels at 10.30 a. m. on Thursday 25 May 2017.
Please refer to the Notice and the overall position of Vectura.
In particular, this authority will ofAnnual General Meeting for details of the business to be be exercised only if the Directors believe that it is in the best interests transacted at the meeting.
of shareholders generally and will increase earnings per share.
Post balance sheet events Acquisitions and disposals There were no disclosable post balance sheet events.
On the 10 June 2016, and further to shareholder approval, the Company completed its acquisition of Skyepharma PLC.
There were no other significant acquisitions or disposals during the period.
86 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE Going concern Independent auditor The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and In accordance with the tender for audit services described inthe the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence Corporate governance report, a resolution to appoint a newauditor for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the or reappoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Details will be provided inthe Notice of AGM.
Internal control Directors remuneration The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the assessment The Remuneration report on pages 63 to 84 sets out the remuneration of risks and the internal control framework that Vectura operates policies operated by the Company and disclosures on Directors and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal remuneration and other disclosable information relating to control in operation in the Group for the period covered by this Directors and officers and their interests.
Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
By order of the Board The UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers that the Company applies the principles of the John Murphy UK Corporate Governance Code of the Financial Reporting Council, General Counsel and Company Secretary as described in the Corporate governance report on pages 50 to 51 20 March 2017 andhas complied with all relevant principles and provisions of theCode.
As required by the Listing Rules of the FCA, the Auditor has considered the Directors statement of compliance in relation Vectura Group plc tothose points of the Code which are specified for their review.
One Prospect West TheDirectors consider that the Annual Report and financial statements, Chippenham taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Wiltshire SN14 6FH the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys United Kingdom and the Groups performance, business model andstrategy.
Registered No: 3418970 Directors responsibility statement In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the current Directors listed on page 85 confirm, to the best of their knowledge, that: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group and the undertakings included inthe consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by theGroup.
Disclosure of audit information The Directors confirm that, as at the date of this Annual Report being approved, so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys independent auditor is unaware and that he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys independent auditor is aware of that information.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 87
