Our Business Model Our business model How it works What we do Acquisition and ongoing ownership of freehold We reposition We refurbish We redevelop Workspace acquires the freehold of properties We carry out light internal We grow our footprint by We create brand new business across London and operates them as business refurbishments to drive rents expanding existing properties centres on existing sites as part centres, providing leased accommodation to New and enhance the property and adding new oors.
of mixed-use developments in and Growing Companies.
We are not a trader but value.
partnership with residential Acquisition and hold our assets for the long-term, driving them for During the year, we completed developers.
Owning the freehold enables Workspace In 2015 16, we carried out three refurbishments at The ongoing ownership to constantly upgrade and transform its properties repositioning projects at Print Rooms, Vox Studios The redevelopment at Grand Union of freehold to increase their value, as well as to reshape the Westbourne Studios and and Cargo Works.
Studios opened in March 2016. portfolio as and when we choose.
We will dispose of properties where we believe we can no longer add value or if the property falls below our robust return targets.
Community benefits Workspace targets New and Growing Companies From an initial enquiry to taking New and Growing Companies need Regular events provide customers as our principal market segment and a key out a lease for our space, every shorter exible leases to meet the with valuable business insights and differentiator for our customers is our unique offer.
touch point with a customer is changing demands on their business.
networking opportunities, while our There are five key aspects of our offer: dealt with by the Workspace Workspace provides leasing carefully selected partners offer in-house team, without the need arrangements that limit the property further support and services.
We We We for agents, lawyers or brokers.
risk for customers and enable them reposition refurbish redevelop Once a customer moves in, Centre to change their space requirements 5.
Collaborative environments Managers provide the support as their business grows.
Our business centres are designed needed and work to build to facilitate collaborative working communities at each of our sites to 3.
Super-fast resilient technology between customers with cafs, breakCustomer offer create synergistic benets for our We provide a digital infrastructure that out spaces, co-working areas and customers to meet and potentially gives our customers the businessmeeting rooms.
Around 50% of our work with other small businesses.
customers trade with one another.
Drives advocacy Encouraging advocacy Our aim is to build long-term advocacy from our We run a referral scheme We work hard to showcase our customers, employees and suppliers which helps called Member get member customers businesses and help to sustain the value of the business over the for our customers who promote them through social Drives longer term.
recommend Workspace to media, videos, articles in our others, with rewards given if customer magazine and through advocacy their recommendation results inviting them to attend events or in a new customer taking speak on panels at our business space.
Creates value Sharing and sustaining value Our business model is set up to capture the value The value we create is shared Our employees benefit from salaries, that we create and we do so in two ways: with our shareholders in the bonus arrangements and an Driving rental income from leasing space.
form of a progressive dividend employee share scheme.
policy and growth in the value Benefiting from yield movement in the year.
This year we value increased the total dividend by 25% to 15.05 pence per share.
Our environment Our people Our communities Our suppliers and partners Managing our environmental impact in a proactive Our people form the heart of Our sites have a central place As a business, we recognise and positive way is important to us.
They drive our in the many communities we that our success is partially successes and make our occupy across London.
It is dependent on the strong Underpinned by our resources We have a varied portfolio of buildings and work hard business what it is today.
important to us that these areas relationships that we develop and relationships to merge appropriate environmental technologies with thrive and we feel very strongly with our suppliers and partners.
the historic features of our buildings.
that we have a responsibility to help make this happen.
"34""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information How it works What we do Acquisition and ongoing ownership of freehold We reposition We refurbish We redevelop Workspace acquires the freehold of properties We carry out light internal We grow our footprint by We create brand new business across London and operates them as business refurbishments to drive rents expanding existing properties centres on existing sites as part centres, providing leased accommodation to New and enhance the property and adding new oors."
partnership with residential hold our assets for the long-term, driving them for During the year, we completed developers.
Owning the freehold enables Workspace In 2015 16, we carried out three refurbishments at The to constantly upgrade and transform its properties repositioning projects at Print Rooms, Vox Studios The redevelopment at Grand Union to increase their value, as well as to reshape the Westbourne Studios and and Cargo Works.
for agents, lawyers or brokers.
risk for customers and enable them Once a customer moves in, Centre to change their space requirements 5.
Super-fast resilient technology between customers with cafs, breakcreate synergistic benets for our We provide a digital infrastructure that out spaces, co-working areas and customers to meet and potentially gives our customers the businessmeeting rooms.
Drives advocacy Encouraging advocacy Our aim is to build long-term advocacy from our We run a referral scheme We work hard to showcase our customers, employees and suppliers which helps called Member get member customers businesses and help to sustain the value of the business over the for our customers who promote them through social longer term.
recommend Workspace to media, videos, articles in our others, with rewards given if customer magazine and through their recommendation results inviting them to attend events or in a new customer taking speak on panels at our business space.
This year we increased the total dividend by 25% to 15.05 pence per share.
It is dependent on the strong We have a varied portfolio of buildings and work hard business what it is today.
important to us that these areas relationships that we develop to merge appropriate environmental technologies with thrive and we feel very strongly with our suppliers and partners.
"Left page: Club Workspace, 160 Fleet Street, Midtown Right page: Break-out area, 160 Fleet Street, Midtown 35""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
