Going Concern and Viability Statement Going Concern Sensitivity analyses are prepared to understand the impact The Groups activities, strategy and performance are of the identied risks on solvency and liquidity.
The specic explained in the Strategic Report on pages 04 to 61. risks which were evaluated are as follows: Further detail on the financial performance and financial Specific Risk Sensitivity position of the Group is provided in the financial risk category analysis statements on pages 131 to 163.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a A decline in demand Valuation: Reductions in reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company for space from Customer: pricing and have adequate resources and sufficient headroom on the New and Growing London: Brand occupancy as Groups bank loan facilities to continue in operational Companies which experienced existence.
For this reason, the Directors believe that it is impacts on occupancy during the last appropriate to continue to adopt the Going Concern basis and pricing levels.
recession over a in preparing the Groups accounts.
Viability Statement Changes in the Valuation: Expansion In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of London real estate London in yields as the Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the environment which experienced Group over a longer period than the 12 months that has in impact on commercial during the last practice been the focus of the Going Concern statement.
The assessment is based on the Groups Strategic Review which is performed on an annual basis by the Board and Terrorist events in London: Reduction of Executive Committee.
The Strategic Review includes a London impacting Business 10% in pricing debate of the Groups strategy and business model, which on the infrastructure Interruption and 10% are central to understanding the future prospects of the and attractiveness of reduction in business and a review of the Groups five-year plan.
London as a global occupancy Particular attention is given to existing development and centre for business within one year.
redevelopment commitments, long-term nancing and culture.
arrangements, compliance with nancing and REIT covenants and existing macro-economic factors.
Changes in the Financing Inability to The Groups Strategy and business model are described on economic and refinance debt pages 21 to 31 and on pages 34 to 35.
UK regulatory facilities falling environment impacting due in the The Groups five-year plan is underpinned by a detailed on the availability and five-year period.
financial model based on assumptions around the key pricing of debt.
drivers of revenue, profit, capital expenditure and cash ow.
The key assumptions underpinning the plan are: The Board conducted this review for the five-year period to Conservative growth in pricing with stable occupancy 31 March 2021 which was selected for the following reasons: levels for the like-for-like properties.
Refurbishment and redevelopment schemes are a The Groups strategic review covers a five-year period.
delivered in line with current plans and reach stabilised occupancy levels within one to two years at current b Our current project pipeline spans five years.
This covers market-based pricing levels.
the time for the currently planned major refurbishments The Retail Bond, which becomes repayable in October and redevelopments to progress from initiation to 2019 and revolver bank facilities of 150m, which completion.
become repayable in June 2021, can be extended or refinanced on acceptable terms.
c The average period to maturity of the Groups committed facilities is 4.8 years.
The Group benets from having some 4,000 customers spread across 69 locations in London.
These customers are The conclusion of these sensitivity analyses is that the in a wide range of sectors with no sector representing Group would have adequate headroom in its facilities and more than 10% of total rent roll and no individual customer covenants to continue operations for the period under representing more than 1% of total rent roll.
On this basis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in The Board has considered the key risks and mitigating operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the factors that could impact the Group, details of which can five-year period stated above.
Those risks that could have an impact on the ongoing success of the Groups strategy were identied and the resilience of the Group to the impact of these risks in severe yet plausible scenarios has been evaluated.
"52""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
