"Our Market 07 London property market 07 L ondon development market 08 London for New and Growing Companies 10 Workspace in the competitive landscape Caf at Grand Union Studios, Ladbroke Grove 06""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information London property market London continues to be one of the worlds most attractive cities for investment in commercial real estate."
In the first three months of 2016, a total of 3.5bn was invested in London offices, with total investment volumes remaining on a par with the same period in 2015.
The market continues to be dominated by international investors, who were involved 1 in 67% of all transactions.
At Workspace, we have been successful in acquiring five new properties in the year and have stepped away from many more transactions where weve seen pricing move beyond levels we are comfortable with, given our robust IRR targets.
During the year, we have seen the market shift as geopolitical uncertainties, including concerns over a slowdown in China and the EU referendum in the UK, have led to a pause for breath from some capital market investors.
Our confidence in our business model is high, with our business centres proving hugely popular across a wide range of London locations.
With the proven success of our model in newly developed buildings, converted warehouses and refurbished mid-century office blocks, we are able to take advantage of a wider variety of acquisition opportunities.
In the last year, for example, we have acquired successfully in core locations, such as Clerkenwell and Islington, as well as in emerging areas of London, such as Wood Green, Surrey Quays and Earlsfield.
London development market In the first quarter of 2016, construction of commercial property in London was at its highest level since 2008 with construction starts up about 20% 2 from the previous quarter.
This is in response to a vacancy rate in London 3 running at 2.8% compared to a long-term average of 5.3%.
Construction inflation has continued to rise in London, with contractors being selective in the size and types of contract they are prepared to bid on.
Source: The JLL and Glenigan UK Commercial Construction Activity Index.
"07""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Market continued In response to the tight construction market, Workspace has forged long-term relationships with a select number of contractors and trade contractors in order to ensure that competitive prices are achieved for new construction projects."
In addition, Workspaces redevelopment model, whereby third party developers or housebuilders build and return new commercial property to Workspace, has proved particularly successful in removing the risk of inflation.
London for New and Growing Companies London continues to be a vibrant home for business and is maintaining its draw for highly skilled individuals seeking employment.
It is the leading global centre for talent and high-skills work, employing 47% of all high-skill 1 workers across Europes leading business cities.
It is little wonder then that the demand for office space in London is increasing.
Office employment rose by 29.3% in the 10 years to 2014 and it is forecasted to rise by a further 2 11% in the subsequent five years.
Against this backdrop, Workspace is seeing continued strong demand for the tailored product we provide in our business centres for New and Growing Companies.
The forecast rise in office London is the leading employment between global centre for talent 2014 and 2019 and high-skills work 11% No.
"08""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Responding to market trends Market trend Workspace response The population of London continues to grow and more We continue to add business centre space all over and more small businesses are making London their London and expect to deliver nearly 600,000 sq."
new and upgraded space in the next three years to cater for the ongoing demand from New and Growing Companies.
Investment in infrastructure in London continues apace We are acquiring and refurbishing or redeveloping and improved transport links are opening up new areas of properties in areas where we see regeneration London, as well as encouraging more travel into the city.
For example, our properties in and around Farringdon will greatly benefit from Crossrail.
Ways of working continue to adapt with small businesses We are rolling out building-wide Wi-Fi across our becoming increasingly mobile and less tied to a fixed portfolio so that customers can move between them location.
and remain connected to their network.
Businesses are becoming more and more digitally We invest heavily in the technology infrastructure in dependent and have greater requirements than ever for our buildings and have developed a tailored, business high-speed, resilient connectivity.
grade connected services offer for customers.
We continue to invest in technology for our own business and operating systems to ensure we remain ahead of customer trends.
Co-working has moved to the mainstream as the Workspace was an early mover into co-working, opening importance of the community has grown, whether online Club Workspace in 2011, and we have continued to or physical.
expand that offer, now with 16 locations around London.
In addition, our programme of business insight events for all customers encourages networking and inter-trading.
Occupiers are expressing a deeper interest in their We have engaged Jones Lang LaSalle to undertake a environmental footprint and their impact on the Healthy Buildings study assessing the sustainability of communities in which they operate.
our buildings and the impact of that on our customers.
We run a number of programmes to engage with our local communities, including Inspiresme Week, which saw 71 students take up work placements with Workspace and its customers and resulted in four students being offered further employment.
"09""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Market continued Workspace in the competitive landscape Investors often ask who our competitors are and its a difficult question to answer as our business model is unique."
The commercial real estate landscape in London, and the various offers that are available to business occupiers in that market, sits along a spectrum that covers everything from the conventional landlord on the one hand to the fully serviced office operator on the other.
On one end are traditional landlords who own freehold portfolios and let large amounts of space, unfurnished, to tenants on long-form leases with little or no flexibility.
The landlords provide very limited services and the buildings, which tend to have a corporate design, require minimal operational management or interaction with customers.
On the other end of the spectrum, serviced office operators take space on a long leasehold basis and sublet it, fully furnished, typically charging tenants by the desk, plus additional charges for bureau services ranging from concierge and admin support to call answering.
Historically the space let by these operators again leaned towards corporate design, however over the last few years, new players have entered the serviced office market bringing with them more modern designs and a bias towards co-working and break-out spaces.
Workspace has long sat in the middle of this spectrum for several reasons.
In one sense, we are a conventional landlord as we own our real estate.
However, we are unique in letting our space on flexible leases that can be broken at short notice.
We refer to customers, rather than tenants, and build relationships with them to better understand how we can meet their needs and help their businesses grow.
We charge by the square foot with a service charge that covers communal facilities, such as lifts, and customers pay for their connected services and utilities on top.
We ensure that all our business centres are equipped with facilities such as on-site cafs, break-out spaces for networking and a rolling calendar of business insight events.
Unlike serviced office operators, we do not furnish the units we let as we know our customers want to personalise their space, putting their own brand on it.
"10""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information What makes us different in the market?"
Understanding what works for our properties, customers and our shareholders...
"Entrance at Grand Union Studios, Ladbroke Grove 11""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Market continued Ownership Ownership works also gives us We own the the freedom freehold of to adapt our ISLINGTON our properties buildings as which allows us customer to reshape our requirements portfolio as and and trends when we choose."
We This year we can refurbish, were able to redevelop and SHOREDITCH KINGS move quickly reposition our CROSS in selling light properties, STRATFORD BETHNAL GREEN industrial adding more OLD STREET FARRINGDON properties space where PADDINGTON when we saw possible and WEST opportunities constantly END THE to capture upgrading CITY significant value.
LONDON CANARY BRIDGE WHARF WATERLOO VICTORIA EARLS COURT KENNINGTON Number of properties owned by Workspace 69 BATTERSEA Total sq.
"ft. 3.8m All of our properties are in zones 1-5 12""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information ISLINGTON SHOREDITCH KINGS CROSS STRATFORD BETHNAL GREEN OLD STREET FARRINGDON PADDINGTON WEST END THE CITY LONDON CANARY BRIDGE WHARF WATERLOO VICTORIA EARLS COURT KENNINGTON BATTERSEA Like-for-like property Acquisitions Redevelopments Refurbishments Crossrail Northern Line extension 13""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Market continued Flexibility works The short break clause on our two or three-year lease gives our customers the freedom to grow their business."
The space we provide to our customers is entirely flexible and can be personalised to suit their business and their brand.
"Break-out space at Chester Break-out area at House, Kennington Park 160 Fleet Street, Midtown 14""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Our governance Financial statements Additional information Super-fast, The contract resilient that customers technology sign for their works connectivity is Our properties as flexible as the have a digital lease they sign infrastructure it matches the that provides length of that business-class lease."
connected services to support growing businesses.
The network is secure, super-fast and resilient and our buildings are enabled with intelligent Wi-Fi, allowing our customers to work how and where they want.
"Break-out area at 160 Fleet Street, Midtown 15""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Market continued Club Workspace locations across London 16 Club Workspace at Vox Studios, Vauxhall 16""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Collaboration Our latest works customer survey The design of revealed that our business around 50% of centres, with customers sell their cafs, to others within break-out spaces, the building and co-working around 50% areas and buy from other meeting rooms, customers in encourages the building."
collaboration between customers who want to exchange ideas and network with like-minded businesses.
"17""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
