58 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report Our Board in 2017 Diversity, skills and composition Gender diversity Skills and experience Board tenure Age Non-Executive Directors only A.
Retail Commercial Banking 6 out of 9 D. A. C. A.
Financial markets wholesale banking 8 out of 9 corporate clients B.
Insurance 3 out of 9 C. Prudential and conduct risk in 8 out of 9 A.
56-65: 8 Core technology operations 4 out of 9 C. 5-6 years: 4 C. 66-75: 1 Government regulatory D. 7-8 years: 1 8 out of 9 Consumer marketing distribution 7 out of 9 Strategic thinking 9 out of 9 Data as at 31 December 2017.
Board and Committee composition and attendance in 2017 Nomination and Audit Board Risk Remuneration Responsible Board member Board meetings Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Business Committee C Lord Blackwell C 10 10 8 8 8 8 7 7 5 5 Antnio Horta-Osrio 10 10 Juan Colombs 10 10 George Culmer 10 10 C Alan Dickinson 10 10 8 8 8 8 8 8 7 7 C Anita Frew 10 10 8 8 8 8 8 8 7 7 3 5 3 C Simon Henry 10 10 8 8 8 8 1 Lord Lupton 5 5 4 4 4 4 2 C 3 Nick Luff 4 5 4 4 4 4 3 4 Deborah McWhinney 9 10 8 8 8 8 Nick Prettejohn 8 10 7 8 8 8 4 Stuart Sinclair 10 10 8 8 7 7 4 4 2 Anthony Watson 5 5 3 4 3 4 4 4 4 4 5 C Sara Weller 10 10 4 4 8 8 7 7 5 5 1 Lord Lupton joined the Board and respective Committees on 1 June 2017.
2 Nick Luff and Anthony Watson retired from the Company on 10 May and 11 May respectively.
3 Simon Henry succeeded Nick Luff as Audit Committee Chairman with effect from 1 May 2017.
4 Stuart Sinclair was appointed to the Responsible Business Committee with effect from 1 April 2017.
5 Sara Weller joined the Nomination and Governance Committee on 11 May 2017.
C Chairman Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Key focus areas The Board sets the strategy, oversees its delivery and establishes the culture, values and standards of the Group.
The Board ensures that the Group manages risk effectively, monitors financial performance and reporting and ensures that appropriate and effective succession planning arrangements and remuneration policies are in place.
It provides and encourages entrepreneurial leadership across the Group within this framework.
Below are details of the main topics discussed by the Board during the year.
Discussions and decisions Group performance report Board effectiveness and Chairmans performancereviews Regular Governance Finance report, including budgets, forecasts updates and and capital position AGM documentation approval and subsequent stakeholders voting results briefing Risk report Review and approval of the Corporate Customer performance dashboard Governance Framework Chairmans report Review and approval of various Group policies Reports from Committee Chairmen including the Code of Responsibilities, Signing Authorities, Group Statement on Modern Slavery, and Board and GEC Members Dealing Policy 2017 budget Investor relations updates Financial Dividend approval Committee and meeting simplification review 5 year operating plan Draft results and presentations to analysts Ring-fencing progress updates Funding and liquidity plans Regulatory Whistleblowing updates Capital plan Regulatory updates Basel Pillar 3 disclosures Senior Manager and Certification Regime Annual Report and Form 20-F FCA strategic review of retail banking businessmodels Two strategy away days to review progress in implementing the Groups strategy see Strategy Approval of Group risk appetite page13 for further details Risk Review of Group non-traded market risk plan Deep Dives on various elements of market management development and business strategy see below Cyber security briefings MBNA integration Review of conduct risk Consideration and approval of large transactions Review and approval of PRA and EBA stress testing results Cloud strategy, which supports the transformation of the Groups IT architecture Review and approval of the Risk ManagementFramework Helping Britain Prosper Plan Conduct, culture and values Culture Dashboard Culture and Responsible business report values Deep dive sessions The Board regularly takes the opportunity to hold deep dive sessions In 2017 deep dive sessions were held on the following topics: with senior management outside formal Board meetings.
The purpose IT architecture strategy of the sessions is to provide the Board with deeper insight into key areas of strategic focus, whilst providing Directors with a greater Customer journeys understanding and appreciation for the subject matter to help drive Interest only mortgages better quality of debate and enhance knowledge.
The sessions are Consumer credit structured to allow plenty of opportunity for discussion and include presentations and videos.
Open banking IFRS9 implementation Cloud strategy 60 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Governance in action Overseeing strategy Integrating MBNA Lloyds Bank Corporate In the immediate period following the Groups development Markets announcement of its milestone acquisition of The Board held two strategy offsite meetings On 1 June, 2017, I was appointed a MBNA in December 2016, work commenced during the year, giving the Directors the Non-Executive Director of Lloyds Banking to achieve regulatory approval from both opportunity to focus solely on strategic Group and also as Chairman designate of the Competition & Markets Authority issues.
The first of these was held in June, and the newly created non ring-fenced bank CMA and the Financial Conduct Authority concentrated on the priorities of the business subsidiary, which is called Lloyds Bank FCA, and also to prepare for the first day and the four strategic pillars which will help Corporate Markets plc LBCM, subject to of legal ownership, known as Completion.
the Group progress towards the Bank of the regulatory consent.
Since then, we have been Unconditional CMA approval was achieved on Future.
During the second half of the year, engaged in a complex, intense and detailed 5 May 2017 and FCA approval of the Groups the priorities agreed at the first meeting were programme to meet all the conditions which Change in Control application was received on developed and the second meeting held in the PRA and FCA have set in order to enable 19 May 2017.
November provided an opportunity to discuss them to give us full authorisation to conduct these further, along with financial plans.
In readiness for Completion on 1 June 2017, the non ring-fenced activities of the Group, many activities were completed to support which are required as part of the ring-fencing Antnio Horta-Osrio reflected on the a smooth transition of ownership from Bank regulations for UK banks.
offsitemeetings: of America, such as a review of some 470 IT Our first, and surely the most important applications to ensure services could continue, task, was to appoint a Board and senior critical policy changes in MBNA to align to the management team to LBCM.
The Board Group and the introduction of a management The Board offsite meetings are especially comprises eight Directors, three of whom structure and governance approach which was important in providing an opportunity to are independent Non-Executive Directors aligned to the Groups organisational design focus on strategic issues, taking a view of recruited from outside the Group and all of and risk management framework.
the longer-term outlook for the Group.
whom have wide experience of banking, two The Legal Day 1 Event completed seamlessly Directors Designate Group executives serving on 1 June 2017 with no operational issues.
in a non-executive capacity and subject to In June we debated the priorities of the Since then, we have completed a detailed regulatory approval, the Chief Executive, Chief business and the four strategic pillars which will operating model review to identify how best Financial Officer, and myself as Chairman.
help the Group progress towards the Bank of we integrate the MBNA and existing Lloyds This composition supports LBCMs legal and the Future.
It was extremely helpful to gain the Banking Group Cards businesses to ensure regulatory requirements for independent input of our Board members, leveraging the we preserve and enhance areas of value decision making within the overall framework broad range of experience and perspectives creation and opportunities to improve the of Group policies and controls.
At the the Board has, resulting in a set of clear customer experience for all of our 8million same time we have made good progress in strategic priorities we will focus on.
appointing the rest of the senior management In November the Board debated the detailed team of LBCM, such as the Chief Risk Officer, The integration programme has moved strategic priorities, associated delivery plans Chief Operating Officer, Chief Internal into the delivery phase and has developed and financial projections.
The collective Auditor and Treasurer from both within plans with Bank of America to complete the experience and expertise of the Board was and outside the Group.
The bank received customer, systems and process integration by brought to life in challenging and scrutinising authorisation from the PRA and FCA in July early 2019. our plans ensuring we can further transform 2017, subject to conditions.
Our current plans the Group and deliver sustainable value are to operationalise the bank, and receive to our stakeholders over the course of the full authorisation for it to commence trading plan.
The Boards focus on continuing to put during 2018, leaving us good time to complete the customer at the heart of everything we the process before the ring-fencing regulations There is a rigorous governance process to do, whilst recognising the increasing and come into force on 1 January 2019. oversee design decision and integration critical role of technology, aligned well with Since receiving the banks conditional execution, which ensures appropriate the teams proposals and reinforced our aim authorisation in July 2017, the Board has to become the best bank for customers, and timely updates and escalations up to concentrated on creating a bespoke colleagues and shareholders.
Governance Framework, including the vital Risk Management Framework, which is fit for purpose for LBCM, but also which is consistent and fits within the Group Governance Framework.
In essence, LBCM must comply with each and every governance and risk requirement of the Group, but has the right and duty to manage the non ring-fenced bank within any narrower parameters set by the LBCM Board.
Lord Lupton Chairman Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Lord Luptons induction This contained key corporate Last Board effectiveness review Risk management Induction pack prepared documents, such as: Minutes of the last 12 months Risk profile, appetite, risk and sent to Lord Lupton Role of Director Board meetings management and internal prior to and onappointment control procedures Group policies such as antiLast three Board packs bribery, expenses, gifts and Shareholders Financial and strategic hospitality, and share dealing Shareholder analysis analyst Latest Annual Report The role of a director and reports statutory duties, including Corporate history, with a Voting and shareholder Companies Act liabilities, summary of significant events feedback from the last AGM Listing Rules, Disclosure Group management structure Guidance and Transparency Notices of any general chart and business unit details Rules and SEC Rules meetings held in the last Key performance indicators, threeyears Directors and officers including KPIs on which liabilityinsurance incentive plans are measured General Board and its Committees Latest Strategic plan Recent press cuttings, reports and articles concerning Directors, Executive Guide to ring-fencing theCompany Management and Company Secretary biographies and Governance Glossary of Company-specific contact details jargon acronyms Corporate Governance Schedule of Board Committee Framework Training aspects membership Articles of Association The use of the electronic Schedule of Board and boardportal Committee meetings and Board calendar The Senior Managers and Certification Regime Meetings were held during May Digital and transformation Meetings were also held Meetings with senior and June with all the GEC to specifically to deal with Group operations management discuss aspects such as: regulatory aspects, including: Commercial Banking Customer products Ring-fencing Corporate affairs andmarketing Corporate governance and the Treasury Insurance risk Companies Act Scottish Widows and the Retail and consumer credit risk Whistleblowing Insurance Board People, Legal and Strategy Wholesale Banking conduct risk and remuneration rules Retail and Consumer Finance Commercial Banking Financials including Site visits to the New York, Ongoing programme of meetingthe internal and Jersey and Singapore offices meetings, deep dives Risk external auditors and training sessions Branch visits to Jersey Markets developed in respect of Regulators Floor walks and informal the non ring-fenced bank, Establishing the Board and Capital management engagement with colleagues including: governance procedures andliquidity Culture 62 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Engaging with our stakeholders Shareholders Customers Colleagues Investor Relations has primary responsibility The Groups aim is to become the best bank The Group intranet is used by the Directors for managing and developing the Groups for customers, colleagues and shareholders.
During the external relationships with existing and As part of this, the Board constantly year, this has included: potential institutional equity investors reviews the strategy, receives updates on podcasts and videos detailing full year and analysts.
With support from senior implementation and reviews progress as and half year results and details of the management, they achieved this through part of the governance process.
transformation within the Group and a combination of more than 800 meetings futureplans: One of the deep dives held by the Board and various presentations in 2017.
The Q&A sessions with the Group Chief during the year focused on the Customer presentations were primarily aligned to Executive, where selected colleagues were Journey.
This provided the Board with results and included content on strategic given the opportunity to put questions an update on the progress made on the progress and financial and operational directly to him: and Customer Journey transformation and performance.
In addition to this direct annual end of year message to all gave the Board the opportunity to enhance shareholder engagement, Investor Relations colleagues from the Chairman.
their understanding and to consider and provides regular reports to the executive feedback on future plans.
Colleague feedback sessions are arranged team and Board on key market issues and on a regular basis where colleagues join the shareholder concerns.
Further to the launch of mobile branches Chairman for informal discussion over lunch which serve local communities, an example The Company Secretary has a team or dinner.
These took place during the year was displayed at the 2017 AGM.
More dedicated to engaging with retail in various locations, including Dunfermline, information regarding mobile branches can shareholders who, with support from the London, Bristol, Liverpool and Jersey.
Companys registrar Equiniti Limited, The Chairman hosts regular colleague deliver the Groups shareholder service The Board receives regular updates and breakfast meetings which are also attended reports detailing the findings of the ongoing strategy, including the AGM.
Secretariat provide feedback to the Board customer surveys and feedback programme.
Helping Britain Prosper LIVE event was and appropriate Committees to ensure the Members of the Board have visited branches views of retail shareholders are received attended by 4,000 colleagues at the ExCel in various locations including Nottingham, centre in London in March.
Important shareholder Liverpool and Jersey during the year to help information, including details on the provided everyone with more details about build understanding of the business and the future of the Group and the opportunity arrangements for the 2018 AGM, can be meet with colleagues.
found on pages 263264. to see first-hand how we are helping Britain prosper every day.
Speeches were given The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders by the Group Chief Executive and Chief to hear directly from the Board on the Financial Officer, which were broadcast live.
Groups performance and strategic The Chairman of the Remuneration direction, and importantly, to ask questions.
over 200 shareholders represented Committee held a meeting during the year with the unions.
over 65 per cent of total voting rights voted all resolutions voted on by way of a poll.
Members of the Board have visted several The Board receives regular investor Group offices and service centres during the year including Chester, Reading, Swindon feedback and engages with shareholders, this includes: and Edinburgh.
meetings between the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of theRemuneration Committee and institutional shareholders: regular communications from the Group Chief Executive including correspondencewith both retail and institutional shareholders: investor meetings, roadshows and the AGM.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Lord Blackwell visits Liverpool In July Lord Blackwell visited Liverpool, splitting his time between meeting colleagues and charities supported by the England and Wales Foundation.
Regulators and Communities Colleagues took the opportunity to present details of how they are implementing government strategic priorities: an update on the apprenticeship training programme: Members of the Board regularly meet Members of the Board met with some of the how fraud is managed: and the impact with various organisations and institutions, organisations which are beneficiaries of the on customers.
Lord Blackwell also met including the Bank of England, the FCA, Groups independent charitable Lloyds Bank representatives from the local PPI team, who thePRA, CBI and accounting bodies.
Foundation for England and Wales and Bank discussed the end-to-end PPI complaint of Scotland Foundation.
handling process, focusing on the key parts Members of the Board also participate in undertaken in Speke and Chester.
the Bank Governance Leadership Network, The Chairman also attended Lloyds Bank which addresses key issues facing global Foundation for England and Wales A networking lunch was held, with Lord banks and provides opportunities for Westminster Parliamentary Reception Blackwell presenting a keynote speech to discussions between leading global banks, in November, where more than 50 colleagues.
This was followed by a Q&A and other stakeholders across a range of 100representatives of small and local session at the Groups Speke office, after activities throughout the year.
Core themes charities were joined by MPs, government which he visited the Rotunda charity, an include regulation and supervision of banks ministers and representatives from the accredited training centre and community risk governance and oversight, the future of Group.
The reception highlighted the hub.
The England and Wales Foundation the banking industry, rebuilding trust and work of small and local charities tackling has been supporting the charity since culture and changing business models and disadvantage across England.
In 2017, Rotunda was awarded a strategic challenges.
further grant to support a pilot project The Board engages with the work of the which aims to demonstrate how a local Representatives of the regulator both PRA Foundations through the Responsible community organisation can produce and FCA observed Board and Committee Business Committee.
See page80 for better services and outcomes for those meetings in 2017. moreinformation.
with offender records and who are long Almost 260,000 hours of volunteering by term unemployed.
colleagues were delivered in 2017, of which 44percent were skills-based volunteering.
More than 5,000 colleagues took part in volunteering over the period of a week in the As part of our Helping Britain Groups Give & Gain volunteering campaign.
Prosper Plan, we have committed to supporting the communities in which we serve and it is a matter of great personal pride that the Lloyds Bank Foundation is able to support this Whistleblowing worthy cause.
We encourage colleagues to speak up if they suspect wrongdoing or witness behaviours Lord Blackwell that do not meet the standards set out in our Codes of Responsibility or Group policies Chairman and procedures.
This whistleblowing service is known internally as Speak Up and it gives colleagues a way to raise concerns confidentially and without fear of reprisal.
The Group has an established Speak Up Champion Anita Frew, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, a dedicated team to handle disclosures the Colleague Conduct Management Team CCMT and a third party supplier Expolink which colleagues can contact anonymously.
There is a clear Speak Up Policy that sets out its commitment to listening to colleague concerns and protecting those who raise concerns from any detriment.
The Policy provides information on how concerns can be raised and to whom.
It also confirms that the Group has zero tolerance of retaliation and provides assurance around confidentiality and anonymity where required.
Whistleblowing continues to be a topic of public and regulatory concern: it is essential that colleagues feel confident reporting wrongdoing and are able to trust the process.
A healthy culture encourages asking questions, raising concerns and admitting mistakes.
This type of culture influences employee actions, decision-making and behaviour.
In the reporting period, Speak Up has been embedded into Group culture through communication and awareness campaigns, training to all colleagues and the leadership team regularly considering speak up arrangements as part of its annual review of the system of internal control.
64 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued How our Board works Meetings, activities and processes Board meetings A yearly planner is prepared by the Company Secretary to map out the flow of key items of business to Start of the year the Board.
Board venues are agreed and colleagues in the areas that the Board will visit are engaged at both senior management and operational level.
The Chairman holds monthly meetings to review the draft agenda and planner with the Company Agenda set Secretary and Chief of Staff, as well as quarterly meetings with a wider group of central functions, to identify emerging issues.
The draft Board agenda is discussed between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and reviewed at GEC meetings.
Matters may be added to agendas in response to external events, Non-Executive Director requests, regulatory initiatives and the quarterly Board topic review meetings.
Templates and guidelines are included within targeted training for authors of papers to ensure Papers compiled consistency and high quality of information.
and distributed Meeting packs are uploaded and communicated to all Directors via a secure electronic board portal typically a week in advance of the meeting to ensure sufficient time to review the matters which are to be discussed and seek clarification or any additional information.
Executive meetings are held ahead of all Board and Committee meetings to ensure all matters being Before the meeting presented to the Board have been through a thorough discussion and escalation process.
Committee meetings are held prior to Board meetings, with the Chairman of each Committee then reporting matters discussed to the Board.
Non-Executive discussions and informal dinners are held prior to most Board meetings, some of which also include the Group Chief Executive.
Board meetings have certain standing items, such as a report from the Group Chief Executive and Board meeting ChiefFinancial Officer on Group performance, reports from Committee Chairmen and updates from GEC members.
Topics for deep dives or additional items are discussed when required and include business, governance and regulatory updates.
The Board makes full use of technology such as video conferencing, teleconferencing, a Board portal and tablets devices in its meeting arrangements.
This leads to greater flexibility, security and efficiency in Board paper distribution and meeting arrangements.
The Board meetings offer the Board the chance to meet colleagues within the business, and if any After the meeting additional meetings are required to provide more details, these are arranged.
Minutes and matters arising from the meeting are produced and circulated to the Directors for review and feedback.
Those responsible for matters arising are asked to provide updates to the next meeting by way of an update paper.
Where further training or awareness is identified, such as new Beyond Board meetings technology, regulations or sector advances, deep dives are held with the Non-Executive Directors see attendance at Board and Committee relevant field expert to provide overviews, chances to raise questions, meetings as only one part of their role.
In addition to the annual and debate the impacts on business in an informal setting.
schedule of Board and Committee meetings, the Non-Executive In April, the Board held a joint discussion with the Board of Scottish Directors undertake a full programme of activities and engagement Widows Group Limited allowing in-depth focus on insurance matters.
each year, as set out on page 6263.
The Executive Directors make decisions within clearly defined Non-Executive Directors regularly meet with senior management and parameters which are documented within the Corporate Governance spend time increasing their understanding of the business through Framework, although where appropriate, any activities outside the site visits, formal briefing sessions or more informal events including ordinary course of business are brought to the full Board for their breakfast meetings with senior staff.
These informal meetings allow consideration, even if the matters fall within the agreed parameters.
The Directors greater time to discuss business in an informal setting, Corporate Governance Framework helps to ensure that decisions are ensuring that there is sufficient time for the Board to discuss matters made by the management with the correct authority.
of a material nature at Board meetings.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 The Board recognises the need to be adaptable and flexible to respond The right processes in place to deliver on to changing circumstances and emerging business priorities, whilst our strategy ensuring the continuing monitoring and oversight of core issues.
During the year, there were 10 scheduled Board meetings, with details The Group has a comprehensive and continuous agenda setting and of attendance shown on page 58.
In addition to formal meetings, the escalation process in place to ensure that the Board has the right Board meets as necessary to consider matters of a time-sensitive nature.
information at the right time and in the right format to enable the The Chairman and the Chairmen of each Committee ensure Board Directors to make the right decisions.
The Chairman leads the process, and Committee meetings are structured to facilitate open discussion, assisted by the Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
Through their opening remarks, the Chairmen set process ensures that sufficient time is being set aside for strategic the focus of each meeting.
discussions and business critical items.
The Board is supported by its Committees which make recommendations The process of escalating issues and agenda setting is reviewed at least on matters delegated to them under the Corporate Governance annually as part of the Board Effectiveness Review with enhancements Framework, in particular in relation to internal control risk, financial made to the process, where necessary, to ensure it remains effective.
reporting, governance and remuneration issues.
Details of the meeting process are provided on page 64.
The management of all Committees is in keeping with the basis on which The Non-Executive Directors also receive regular updates from the meetings of the Board are managed.
Each of the Committees structures Group Chief Executives office including a weekly email which gives facilitates open discussion and debate, with steps taken to ensure context to current issues.
In-depth and background materials are adequate time for members of the Committees to consider proposals regularly provided via a designated area on the Board portal.
A full schedule of matters reserved for the Board and Terms of In the rare event of a Director being unable to attend a meeting, the Referencefor each of the Committees can be found at Chairmen of the respective meetings discusses the matters proposed www.
com with the Director concerned, seeking their support and feedback accordingly.
The Chairman subsequently represents those views at themeeting.
IT Resilience and cyber security Professional development and training At the Board meeting in May 2017, the Board took part in an programme at a glance advanced scenario testing exercise to simulate real life cyber-attack scenarios.
The purpose of this was to enhance the Boards understanding of the processes and controls in place, and to rehearse the actions required from the Board at the different stages of an incident if such an event should occur in reality.
IT resilience and the dynamic threat posed by cyber risk are recognised as key risks and are a central area of focus for the Board Training and Risk Committee.
information sessions Important and or material issues continue to be brought to the full Board Risk Committee for information, consideration and discussion as appropriate.
Site visits: During the year, the sub-committee of the Board Risk Committee Briefing material Board dinners dedicated to IT resilience and cyber security considered a wide on Board portal and breakfast range of issues including: meetings cyber and IT controls: technology resilience: cyber security: and roles and responsibilities of the Chief Security Officer.
See page 78 for more information.
Management and one-to-one Deep dives meetings on key topics 66 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Assessing our effectiveness How the Board performs and is evaluated Highlights from the 2017 review The Board is in the third year of its three year evaluation cycle.
An The reviews concluded that the performance of the Board, its 1 external evaluation was conducted in 2015, facilitated by JCA Group, Committees, the Chairman and each of the Directors continues to be with an internal evaluation having been carried out in 2016 and this effective.
All Directors demonstrated commitment to their roles.
The annual evaluation is facilitated externally at least once every Having been Board members for more than six years, a particularly three years and an externally facilitated evaluation will be conducted in rigorous review of Anita Frews and Sara Wellers independence was 2018.
The Chairman of the Board leads the annual review of the Boards undertaken.
The Nomination and Governance Committee concluded effectiveness and that of its Committees and individual Directors with they were both still sufficiently independent.
the support of the Nomination and Governance Committee, which he also chairs.
Performance evaluation of the Chairman is carried out by the Many Directors commented favourably on the performance of the Board as a whole, describing it as hardworking, conscientious, expert, Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Highlights mentioned by several Directors were the continued value of deep dives, the offsite strategy session described by one Director as a model of open discussion : 2017 evaluation of the Boards performance the openness of Executives to interacting with the Board members The 2017 evaluation was conducted internally between October 2017 and sharing issues, the discussion on executive succession: the process and December 2017 by the Company Secretary, and was overseen by for keeping the Board aware of important issues which arise between the Nomination and Governance Committee.
meetings: the further development of Group Internal Audit: the usefulness of the Risk Sub-Committees and the Cyber Security Advisory The 2017 review sought the Directors views on a range of topics Panel and the Non-Executive Director only discussions.
Directors also including: strategy: planning and performance: risk and control: Board spoke highly of the work done by the Chairman and the Chairmen of the composition and size: balance of skills and experience: diversity: culture Committees in structuring agendas and ensuring that business is covered and dynamics: the Boards calendar and agenda: the quality and at the meetings.
timeliness of information: and support for Directors and Committees.
The actions from the 2016 Board Effectiveness Review have been If Directors have concerns about the Company or a proposed action recognised by Directors as helpful, particularly, the requirement that which cannot be resolved, it is recorded in the Board minutes.
Also on links to strategy are identified in Board papers.
Many think that more resignation, Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to provide a written needs to be done to make Board papers more concise and focused and statement of any concerns to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board.
that less meeting time should be used for presentations.
No such concerns were raised in 2017 and up to the date of this report.
Points raised in the 2017 Board effectiveness Internal evaluation process review OCTOBER 2017 The review identified a number of areas for improvement in the Boardseffectiveness.
Questionnaires issued to all Directors by the Company Secretary for completion.
Board papers and presentations to the Board The most common observation by Directors concerned the volume and OCTOBER DECEMBER 2017 content of information contained within Board papers, which was also linked to observations in favour of reducing the amount of time spent Individual meetings held between each Director and the Company on presentations in Board meetings.
Directors would like to receive Secretary to discuss responses and opportunity for Directors to more concise reports, highlighting important points and avoiding raise any other matters concerning the Board or its Committees.
unnecessary volume and repetition, along with having fewer and DECEMBER 2017 JANUARY 2018 shorterpresentations.
Stakeholder feedback Report prepared by the Company Secretary based on the questionnaire results and matters raised in individual meetings.
Directors believe that they receive good information on regulatory and customer feedback.
Several Directors would like to receive JANUARY 2018 morefeedback from stakeholders other than regulators and customers, including shareholders and bond holders.
The views of Draft report discussed by the Company Secretary with shareholders on remuneration matters are well represented at the theChairman.
Final report discussed at a meeting of the Board.
The Board Responsible Business Committee Terms of Reference discussion was subsequently considered by the Nomination and Governance Committee.
A number of Directors suggested that the Terms of Reference of the Responsible Business Committee be reconsidered, now that it has been APRIL 2018 in operation for a full year, in order to avoid duplication of effort in areas covered by other Committees.
Actions to be recommended to the Board by the Nomination and Governance Committee to reflect the Board discussion in January.
Non-Executive Director recruitment Subsequently the Board will consider the recommendations and While there was general agreement that the balance of skills within the Board was good, a number of Directors asked that the following agree an action plan.
experience be borne in mind for future recruitment of Directors to JULY 2018 supplement the experience of the current Directors in these areas : major change management: finance: accounting and data.
Update to be provided to both the Nomination and Governance Some Directors mentioned the importance of maintaining, and Committee and the Board detailing progress against the enhancing, gender diversity in the Board.
1 Aside from assisting with senior recruitment, benchmarking and succession planning, JCAGroup has no other connection to the Company.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Progress against the 2016 internal Board effectiveness review During the year, work focused particularly on the quality and quantity of papers and to the linkage of agenda items to the Bank of the Future strategy.
A summary of the Boards progress against the actions arising from the 2016 effectiveness review are set out below.
Recommendations from the 2016 evaluation Actions taken in 2017 More frequent linkage to strategy in the Two in-depth strategy away days held during the year: Links to regular business of the Board.
The programme of regular deep dives and discussion topics strategy established in 2016 continues: All papers submitted to Board meetings include clear links tostrategy.
Request from Directors to receive more Executive summaries have been shortened and a brief section on Volume concise reports with clearer signposting of debate and challenge has been included: of Board thekey issues.
Revised Board template and clear guidance in place in respect Committee of both papers submitted to meetings and presentations given papers during meetings.
Review and continue to evolve the quality and Continued progress on focusing material and presentations on key Conduct content of Board papers to ensure effective issues for the Board.
of Board use of meetings and improve discussions.
Committees Internal control material risks, and to ensure management actions are in place to address Board responsibility key gaps or weaknesses in the control framework.
Business areas and The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and internal head office functions assess the controls in place to address all material control systems, which are designed to facilitate effective and efficient risk exposures across all risk types.
The CER considers all material operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Directors Senior management approve the CER findings which are reviewed and and senior management are committed to maintaining a robust independently challenged by the Risk Division and Group Internal Audit control framework as the foundation for the delivery of effective risk and reported to the Board.
Action plans are implemented to address management.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibilities in any control deficiencies.
relation to the Groups risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Reviews by the Board In establishing and reviewing the risk management and internal control The effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems systems, the Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee, which risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its also receives reports of reviews undertaken by the Risk Division and business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, the likelihood Group Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the of a risk event occurring and the costs of control.
The process for Companys auditor,  LLP which include details identification, evaluation and management of the principal risks faced of significant internal control matters that they have identified, and has by the Group is integrated into the Groups overall framework for risk a discussion with the auditor at least once a year without executives governance.
The Group is forward-looking in its risk identification present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
processes to ensure emerging risks are identified.
The risk identification, evaluation and management process also identifies whether the The Groups risk management and internal control systems are regularly controls in place result in an acceptable level of risk.
At Group level, a reviewed by the Board and are consistent with the Guidance on Risk consolidated risk report and risk appetite dashboard are reviewed and Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business regularly debated by the Group Risk Committee, Board Risk Committee Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council and compliant with and the Board to ensure that they are satisfied with the overall risk profile, the requirements of CRD IV.
They have been in place for the year under risk accountabilities and mitigating actions.
The report and dashboard review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report.
The provide a monthly view of the Groups overall risk profile, key risks and Group has determined a pathway to compliance with BCBS 239 risk data management actions, together with performance against risk appetite aggregation and risk reporting requirements and continues to actively and an assessment of emerging risks which could affect the Groups manage enhancements.
performance over the life of the operating plan.
Information regarding the main features of the internal control and risk management systems Continuous improvement in relation to the financial reporting process is provided within the risk The Groups Controls Frameworks are continuously improved and management report on pages 107156.
The Board concluded that enhanced, addressing known issues and keeping pace with the the Groups risk management arrangements are adequate to provide dynamic environment.
Progress continues to be made in IT, Cyber and assurance that the risk management systems put in place are suitable Conduct.
The 2017 CER assessment provides reasonable assurance with regard to the Groups profile and strategy.
that the Groups controls are effective or that where control weaknesses are identified, they are subject to management oversight and action Control effectiveness review plans.
The Audit Committee, in conjunction with the Board Risk An annual control effectiveness review CER is undertaken to evaluate Committee, concluded that the assessment process was effective and the effectiveness of the Groups control framework with regard to its recommended them to the Board for approval.
68 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code applied to the 2017 financial year.
The Group confirms that it applied the main principles and complied with all the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
The Code is publically available at www.
The statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Annual report on remuneration are set out on pages 84 and 88.
The Group has adopted the UK Finance Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure and its 2017 financial statements have been prepared in compliance with its principles.
The Boards Role The Group is led by an effective, committed unitary Board, which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The Groups Corporate Governance Framework, which is reviewed annually by the Board, sets out a number of key decisions and matters that are reserved for the Boards approval.
Further details can be found online at www.
Independent Responsibilities Lord Blackwell leads the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance.
He sets the Boards agenda Chairman and builds an effective and complementary Board.
The Chairman leads Board succession planning and ensures effective Lord Blackwell communication with shareholders.
Antnio Horta-Osrio manages and leads the Group on a day-to-day basis and makes decisions on matters affecting the Executive Directors operation, performance and strategy of the Groups business.
He delegates aspects of his own authority, as permitted Group Chief Executive under the Corporate Governance Framework, to other members of the Group Executive Committee.
He provides Antnio Horta-Osrio leadership and direction to senior management and coordinates all activities to implement the strategy and for managing the business in accordance with the Groups risk appetite and business plan set by the Board.
Chief Financial Officer George Culmer Under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, George Culmer and Juan Colombs make and implement decisions in all matters affecting operations, performance and strategy.
They provide specialist knowledge and experience to the Board.
Together with Antnio Horta-Osrio, George Culmer and Juan Colombs design, develop and implement strategic plans and deal with day-to-day operations of the Group.
During the year Juan Colombs was appointed to the role of Chief Operating Officer in September 2017.
Prior to this he served as the Groups Chief Risk Officer.
Chief Operating Officer Juan Colombs Non-Executive Directors As Deputy Chairman, Anita Frew would ensure continuity of chairmanship during any change of chairmanship.
She supports the Chairman in representing the Board and acting as a spokesperson.
She deputises for the Chairman and Deputy Chairman and is available to the Board for consultation and advice.
The Deputy Chairman represents the Groups interests to official Senior Independent enquiries and review bodies.
Director As Senior Independent Director, Anita Frew is also a sounding board for the Chairman and Chief Executive.
She acts as a Anita Frew conduit for the views of other Non-Executive Directors and conducts the Chairmans annual performance appraisal.
She is available to help resolve shareholders concerns and attend meetings with major shareholders and financial analysts to understand issues and concerns.
Alan Dickinson Simon Henry 1 Nick Luff 2 Lord Lupton The Non-Executive Directors challenge constructively and help develop and set the Groups strategy.
They actively Deborah McWhinney participate in Board decision-making and scrutinise management performance.
The Non-Executive Directors satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and review the Groups risk exposures and controls.
The Non-Executive Nick Prettejohn Directors, through the Remuneration Committee, determine the remuneration of Executive Directors.
Stuart Sinclair 1 Anthony Watson Sara Weller Company Secretary The Company Secretary advises the Board on matters such as governance and ensures good information flows and comprehensive practical support are provided to Directors.
He maintains the Groups Corporate Governance Framework Malcolm Wood and organises Directors induction and training.
The Company Secretary communicates with shareholders as appropriate and ensures due regard is paid to their interests.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
1 Nick Luff and Anthony Watson resigned from the board with effect from 10 May and 11 May 2017, respectively.
2 Lord Lupton joined the Board with effect from 1 June 2017.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 A2.
Division of responsibilities There is clear division of responsibility Directors who take on or change roles during the year attend induction at the head of the Company, which is documented in the Groups meetings in respect of those new roles.
The Company Secretary maintains a training and development log for A3.
Role of the Chairman The Chairman has overall responsibility for each Director.
the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
Provision of information and support The Chairman, supported Lord Blackwell was independent on appointment.
by the Company Secretary, ensures that Board members receive appropriate and timely information.
Role of the Non-Executive Directors The Board has a Senior Independent Director SID, Anita Frew, who acts as a sounding board The Group provides access, at its expense, to the services of to the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
She can be contacted by independent professional advisers in order to assist Directors in the role.
shareholders and other Directors as required.
Anthony Watson served as Board Committees are also provided with sufficient resources to SID until 11 May 2017. undertake their duties.
The Non-Executive Directors challenge constructively and help develop All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary in and set the Groups strategy.
relation to the discharge of their duties.
Meetings are held between the Non-Executive Directors in the absence B6.
Board and Committee performance and evaluation An externally of the Executive Directors, and at least once a year in the absence of facilitated performance evaluation was completed in 2015, with internally theChairman.
facilitated evaluations having taken place in 2016 and 2017.
More Further information on meeting arrangements and the responsibilities of information can be found on pages 6667, along with the findings, the Directors are given on pages 6465 and 68 respectively.
actions, and progress made during the year.
Re-election of Directors At the 2017 AGM, all Directors were B.
Effectiveness subject to re-election with the exception of Anthony Watson, who stepped down after the AGM and Nick Luff, who stepped down prior to B1.
The Boards composition The balance of skills, experience, the AGM.
All Directors will be standing for re-election, and in the case of independence, and knowledge on the Board is the responsibility of the Lord Lupton, election by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Nomination and Governance Committee, and is reviewed annually, or whenever appointments are considered.
C. Accountability The majority of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors as shown on page 68.
Financial and business reporting The Directors and Auditors Statements of Responsibility can be found on pages 83 and B2.
Board appointments The process for Board appointments is led 158respectively.
by the Nomination and Governance Committee, which then makes a recommendation to the Board.
Information on the Companys business model and strategy can be found on pages 137.
More details about succession planning can be found on page 72.
More information about the work of the Nomination and Governance C2.
Risk management and internal control systems See page 67 for Committee can be found on pages 7072. more detail regarding internal control.
Time commitments The time commitments of the Directors are The Audit Committee is responsible for the effectiveness of internal considered by the Board on appointment and annually.
controls and the Risk Management Framework.
Further information can be found on pages 7376.
The Chairman considers any new external appointments which may impact existing time commitments.
The Board Risk Committee is responsible for the review of the risk culture of the Group, setting the tone from the top in respect of risk Non-Executive Directors are required to devote such time as is necessary management.
Further information can be found on pages 7779. for the effective discharge of their duties.
The estimated minimum time commitment set out in the terms of appointment is 35-40 days per The Directors viability statement and confirmation that the business is a annum including attendance at Committee meetings.
For Committee going concern can be found on page 82.
Chairmen and the SID, this increases to a minimum of 45 to 50 days.
Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit reality, the time devoted on the Groups business by the Non-Executive Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities Directors is considerably more than the minimum requirements.
and makes recommendations to the Board.
Full information on the Audit Executive Directors are allowed to hold no more than one Committee can be found on pages 7376.
Non-Executive Director role in a FTSE 100 company and may not take on the Chairmanship of such acompany.
D. Remuneration The Chairman is committed to this being his primary role, limiting D1.
Level and elements of remuneration The Directors Remuneration his other commitments to ensure he can spend as much time as the Report on pages 84102 explains the work of the Remuneration rolerequires.
Committee and provides full details regarding the remuneration of Directors.
The Remuneration Policy can be found in the 2016 Annual There are no Directors whose time commitments are considered to be a Report and Accounts.
Training and development The Chairman leads the learning and E. Relations with Shareholders development of Directors and the Board generally and regularly reviews E1.
Shareholder engagement Details of engagements with and agrees with each Director their individual and combined training shareholders during the year can be found on page 62. and development needs.
Use of General Meetings The 2018 AGM will be held on 24 May Ample opportunities, support and resources for learning are 2018.
The whole Board is expected to attend and will be available to provided through a comprehensive programme, which is in place answer shareholders questions.
throughout the year comprising both formal and informal training and informationsessions.
To facilitate shareholder participation, electronic proxy voting and voting through the CREST proxy appointment service are available.
All votes The Chairman personally ensures that on appointment each Director are taken by way of a poll to include all shareholder votes cast.
receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
The emphasis is on ensuring the induction brings the business and its issues alive for A webcast of the AGM is carried out to allow shareholders who cannot the new Director, taking account of the specific role they have been attend in person to view the meeting live.
appointed to fulfil and the skills experience of the Director to date.
An outline of the induction programme for Lord Lupton can be found on page 61.
70 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Nomination and Governance Committee report The Group aspires to the highest standards of corporate and internal governance in accordance with the expectations of the Board.
During the year, the Committee dedicated Dear Shareholder Committee purpose a substantial part of its time to Executive The Nomination and Governance Committee and responsibilities succession planning, building on the progress the Committee continued to keep under The purpose of the Committee is to keep made over the previous years.
The work review the structure, size and composition of the Boards governance, composition, skills, undertaken included additional analysis and the Board and its Committees.
At the core experience, knowledge, independence and benchmarking, which led to the establishment of the process is an ongoing assessment succession arrangements under review and of development plans for identified candidates led by me of the collective Boards technical to make appropriate recommendations to the further details can be found opposite.
These and governance skill set.
These assessments Board to ensure the Companys arrangements were important considerations in the executive provide an essential analysis of the skills and are consistent with the highest corporate reorganisation announced in the summer.
experience of the Non-Executive Directors governance standards.
The Group aspires to the highest standards relative to the required and desirable Board The Committee reports to the Board on how of corporate and internal governance in competencies to help ensure that the Board it discharges its responsibilities and makes accordance with the expectations of the continues to have an appropriate range and recommendations to the Board, all of which Board, ensuring that governance is in depth of Non-Executive skills.
have been accepted during the year.
The compliance with the latest regulation.
As detailed in last years annual report and Committees terms of reference can be found As part of this, the Boards Diversity Policy following our announcement in February 2017, at www.
com our-group was reviewed by the Committee during the Nick Luff and Anthony Watson left the Board corporate-governance.
The review included the consideration of in May 2017.
These departures resulted in the aspects of new and emerging best practice positions of Senior Independent Director and and regulatory developments in the area of Committee composition, Audit Committee Chairman becoming vacant.
senior management and Board diversity.
skills and experience The Committee reviewed both internal and This led to amendments to the existing policy external candidates for the position of Senior To ensure a broad representation of explicitly to broaden the range of diversity Independent Director.
It was subsequently experienced and independent Directors, criteria which will be taken into consideration agreed that Anita Frew would become the membership of the Committee comprises the in future appointments.
Specifically, the policy Senior Independent Director and Simon Henry Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, who is also now includes race, age, gender, educational would become the Chairman of the Audit the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and professional background as attributes.
Further details in respect of both and the Senior Independent Director, the Lord Blackwell of these appointments are provided below.
Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, and Chairman, Nomination and the Chairman of the Responsible Business In addition to these changes, a thorough Governance Committee Committee.
The Group Chief Executive recruitment process was initiated and attends meetings as appropriate.
overseen by the Committee to select suitable candidates for the roles of Non-Executive Details of Committee membership and Director of the Company and Chairman of meeting attendance can be found on page58.
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc, who would During the year the Committee considered provide the required skill set, experience and a number of issues relating to the Groups knowledge whilst complementing the existing governance arrangements, both internal Board of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
It assisted the Chairman in of this Lord Lupton was appointed to the keeping the composition of the Board and Board in June 2017.
Lord Lupton was chosen its Committees under review and it leads the for this role as he brings not just his experience search process for nominations to the Board.
of UK banking and capital markets, but also his extensive corporate advisory experience These issues are summarised on the next page.
which will be of particular value to our overall Commercial Banking activities.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Activities during the year KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION Change in Senior Anita Frew as Senior Independent Director The Committee considered a range Board changes Independent Director and of external and internal candidates for this position the external candidates were and Board 1  sourced by JCA Group, and agreed that Anitas significant board, financial and composition investment management experience, including as a Senior Independent Director, made her ideally suited to take on the role.
Simon Henry as Audit Committee Chairman Simon had been a member of the Audit Committee since June 2014, and the Committee agreed that his background and experience enable him to fulfil the role of Audit Committee Chairman and for SEC purposes the role of Audit Committee financial expert.
New Non-Executive Director The external search firm JCA Group provided an extensive list of candidates.
The Committee selected and shortlisted candidates, interviews were carried out with various members of the Board, and the process resulted in the appointment of Lord Lupton to the Board in June.
Details of Lord Luptons induction are provided on page 61.
Structure and composition From the ongoing assessment of the Board members, the Chairman creates a skills of the Board matrix which the Committee uses to track the Boards strengths and identify gaps in the desired collective skills profile of Board members, giving due weight to diversity in its broadest sense.
Recommendations are made to the Board as appropriate.
Developing the succession During the year, the Committee, led by the Chairman, reviewed the succession plans for Succession plans for senior management, key senior management roles.
Full details of the process are provided on the next page.
planning and establishing and agreeing development plans.
Formation of Lloyds Bank In addition to the appointment of Lord Lupton as Chairman of the new bank, the Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc, Committee also oversaw the selection of the Board members.
This involved shortlisting Corporate including the establishment external candidates for the position of independent non-executive directors with the Markets plc 1 of the Board and its help of an external recruitment provider, Russell Reynolds, meeting with the candidates governancestructures.
on a one-to-one basis and reviewing both the individuals and overall composition of the new board before making recommendations to the Group Board.
In addition to the composition of the board, the Committee has also reviewed the governance framework, including the Terms of Reference of the preparatory board.
The preparatory board preceded the formation of the operating board, and was established by the Group board to oversee the establishment of the company, board and structure.
Performance of the annual During the year, the Committee met its key objectives and carried out its responsibilities Annual effectiveness review of the effectively, as confirmed by the annual effectiveness review.
Full details of the review effectiveness Board and its Committees.
can be found on pages 6667. review The Committee oversees Annual review of the Corporate Governance Framework Governance various aspects of corporate Helping to establish governance for the non ring-fenced bank, including agreeing the governance, and during the Terms of Reference to the non ring-fenced bank preparatory board year, the key activities included Annual review of the share dealing policy for Directors and GEC the following: Received reports from the Chairman on communications with shareholders Approved the appointment of Trustees to the Banks Foundations Reviewed and proposed a training schedule for Non-Executive Directors Received governance reports from the Company Secretary detailing updates and changes to regulation and best practice The Board Diversity Policy was In addition to the changes noted in the Chairmans letter on page 52, Board Diversity reviewed by the Committee appointments must also take into account independence and knowledge in addition to during the year.
specific skills and experience to ensure a diverse Board composition.
The full Diversity Policy can be found at www.
A review as to whether The Committee conducted a review of the role, including capabilities and time Independence Non-Executive Directors were commitment of all the Directors of the Company.
This review was undertaken with and time demonstrably independent and reference to the individual performance and conduct in reaching decisions.
It also took commitments free of relationships and other account of any relationships that had been disclosed.
Details of conflicts of interest can circumstances that could affect be found on page 81.
Based on its assessment for 2017, the Committee is satisfied that, their judgement.
throughout the year, all Non-Executive Directors remained independent as to both character and judgement.
All Directors were considered to have appropriate roles, including capabilities and time commitments.
A review of the Groups In addition to the existing methods of training for the Directors, the Board accepted Training approach to the training of a recommendation from the Committee that Non-Executive Directors should be Non-Executive Directors.
provided with a mandatory training programme, ideally available online, based on relevant core modules which are part of the mandatory training programme undertaken by all colleagues.
Members of the Committee are currently testing training modules andwill feedback comments to the Committee in spring 2018 before it is considered for roll-out to the rest of the Board.
1 Aside from assisting with senior recruitment, benchmarking and succession planning, JCAGroup, Russell Reynolds, Egon Zehnder and YSC Consulting have no other connection to the Company.
72 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Succession planning in detail Board Diversity Policy Good succession planning contributes to the delivery of the Groups The Board Diversity Policy sets out the Board of Lloyds Banking Groups strategy by ensuring the desired mix of skills and experience of Board approach to diversity and provides a high level indication of the members now and in the future.
The Board is also committed to Boards approach to diversity in senior management roles which is recognising and nurturing talent within executive and management governed in greater detail through the Groups policies.
levels across the Group to ensure the Group creates opportunities to The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that its membership develop current and future leaders.
The role of succession planning in reflects diversity in its broadest sense.
A combination of demographics, promoting diversity is recognised and the Group has a range of policies skills, experience, race, age, gender, educational and professional which promote the engagement of under-represented groups within the background and other relevant personal attributes on the Board is business in order to build a diverse talent pipeline.
important in providing the range of perspectives, insights and challenge The Company continues to review and identify potential future executive needed to support good decision making.
talent and during the year the following activities were undertaken to New appointments are made on merit, taking account of the specific develop the talent pipeline further: skills and experience, independence and knowledge needed to ensure Assessment of potential candidates for senior management positions a rounded Board and the diversity benefits each candidate can bring to undertaken by the Group Chief Executive with the Chairman, using the overall Board composition.
a range of criteria and benchmarking facilitated by executive search Objectives for achieving Board diversity may be set on a regular basis.
On 1 and board consulting firm Egon Zehnder.
Details of assessment gender diversity the Board has a specific target to maintain at least three criteria are provided below.
External candidates were identified by female Board members and, recognising the emerging target for FTSE executive search firm, JCA Group to provide a reference benchmark companies to move towards 33 per cent female representation, to take and identify where recruitment might be required.
opportunities to increase the number of female Board members over Assessments were discussed by the Committee, also taking into time where that is consistent with other skills and diversity requirements.
consideration discussions with the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board also places high emphasis on ensuring the development of Individual development plans established for each internal candidate, diversity in the senior management roles within the Group and supports and validated with individuals.
and oversees the Groups objective of achieving 40 per cent of senior roles held by female executives by 2020, along with other metrics which Development actions commenced.
promote the engagement of other under-represented groups within the Evidenced progress against the development plans reported to the business.
This is underpinned by a range of policies within the Group Committee and PRA in the third quarter.
to help provide mentoring and development opportunities for female executives and to ensure unbiased career progression opportunities.
Assessment of candidates Progress on this objective is monitored by the Board and built into Each of the potential candidates for senior management positions its assessment of executive performance.
You can read more on the was assessed by the Group Chief Executive and Chairman using the Groups diversity programmes on page 21 of the strategic report.
following criteria with input from Egon Zehnder by way of competency, A copy of the Board Diversity Policy is available on our website at psychometric and potential assessments and market benchmarking, www.
com responsible-business and information and in the case of non-GEC members, also with further input from on Board diversity can be found on page 58.
1 YSC Consulting a premier leadership consultancy, who use a biographical assessment methodology.
The results were then discussed Female representation on the Board is currently 25 per cent based on and reviewed by the Nomination and Governance Committee and three female directors and nine male directors.
subsequently in a meeting with all Non-Executive Directors.
Assessment Criteria Leadership: Breadth of banking experience: Strategy Retail People Commercial Delivery Treasury Capital Judgement values Insurance Technology Governance experience: Personal: Board Drive Investor Resilience Candidates were scored from 1 to 5 for each of the above categories, being 5 very strong versus requirements, 3 average not a distinctive strength and 1 weakness development needed.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Audit Committee report The Committee continues to deliver on its key responsibilities, ensuring focus is maintained on the Groups control environment.
and also provided important recommendations Dear Shareholder Committee composition, on the application of best practice.
These have It was both an honour and a pleasure to take on skills and experience been incorporated in the future audit plan and in the role as Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee acts independently of the providing a fit for purpose approach for audit in the Committee in May 2017, and I would like executive to ensure that the interests of the the rapidly changing environment.
to record my thanks and recognition to Nick shareholders are properly protected in relation This report covers in more detail how the Luff for his excellent performance in this role to financial reporting and internal control.
Committee operates and the issues on which in the preceding four years, on behalf of the All members of the Committee are we focused.
Noting the environment in which Board and the Company.
independent NonExecutive Directors with we operate I am pleased to be able to report 2017 was a year of significant change and competence in the financial sector and their that in the opinion of the Audit Committee, challenge for the Committee.
In addition to biographies can be found on pages 5455. your Company has met its obligations for welcoming Lord Lupton to the Committee we With effect from 1 July 2017 the Committee financial reporting and disclosure and that the saw the establishment and embedding of new welcomed Lord Lupton, who brings extensive internal control framework is both effectively leadership in the internal audit function, and financial experience.
Simon Henry is a designed and operated.
the first full calendar year of the new senior Chartered Global Management Accountant Simon Henry partner for external audit.
The Committee and has extensive knowledge of financial Chairman, Audit Committee oversaw the preparation for various new markets, treasury, risk management and accounting standards and regulatory international accounting standards.
He is a requirements, including IFRS9 Accounting member having recent and relevant financial Committee purpose for financial instruments, and the structural experience for the purposes of the UK and responsibilities ringfencing of relevant activities within Corporate Governance Code and is the Audit The purpose of the Committee is to monitor theBank.
Committee financial expert for SEC purposes.
and review the Groups financial and narrative The members of the Committee keep their Over half of the Committees time is typically reporting arrangements, the effectiveness skills up to date with Board deep dives and spent on financial reporting and integrity of of the internal controls including over scheduled Audit Committee training.
The information provided to external parties.
In financial reporting and the risk management focus of specific Audit Committee training this 2017 we focused on assessing judgements and framework, whistleblowing arrangements year has been on IFRS 9. outcomes relating to conduct issues, credit and each of the internal and external audit During the course of the year, the Committee performance and various material accounting processes, including the statutory audit of issues and changes.
The latter included the held separate sessions with the internal and the consolidated financial statements and the external audit teams, without members of the completion and integration of the acquisition independence of the statutory auditor.
of the MBNA credit card business.
For details of The Committee reports to the Board on how the Committee was run, see page 64.
In particular we reviewed provisions for how it discharges its responsibilities and Annually the Committee undertakes an payment protection insurance PPI, costs and makes recommendations to the Board, all of effectiveness review.
The review forms provisions which had exceeded 18billion which have been accepted during the year.
part of the Board evaluation process with by the end of the year.
While PPI itself will A full list of responsibilities is detailed in the Directors being asked to complete parts of be finalised as an issue by mid2019, the Committees terms of reference, which can the questionnaire relating to the Committees Committee will continue to focus on both be found at www.
com of which they were members.
The findings of legacy and emerging conduct issues as a ourgroup corporategovernance.
In satisfying the review were considered by the Committee matter of priority.
its purpose, the Committee undertakes the at its January meeting followed up with functions detailed within Disclosure and The external environment for the Bank remains telephone calls from the Audit Committee Transparency Rule 7.1.
challenging from both a regulation and chairman with each of the Committee competition perspective.
As a result the Bank members.
On the basis of the evaluation the During the year the Committee considered is in the process of transforming its business a number of issues relating to the Groups feedback was that the performance of the model and ways of working, primarily through Committee continues to be effective.
financial reporting, these issues are increasing digitisation of all its activities.
This summarised on the next page, including Whilst the Committees membership creates both risk and opportunity for financial discussion of the conclusions the Committee comprises the NonExecutive Directors noted reporting and internal controls, and the reached, and the key factors considered by the on page 58, all NonExecutive Directors may Committee has already spent significant time Committee in reaching its conclusions.
attend meetings as agreed with the Chairman considering the implications of this significant of the Committee.
The Group Financial In addition, the Committee considered a level of change.
Controller, Chief Internal Auditor, the external number of other significant issues not related I am pleased to be able to report a successful auditor, the Group Chief Executive, the Chief directly to financial reporting, including conclusion to the planned transformation of the Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer and the internal controls, internal audit and external Group Internal Audit function, and during the Chief Operating Officer also attend meetings audit.
These issues are also discussed in detail year we carried out a thorough independent of the Committee as appropriate.
Details in the next section, including insight into the external quality assessment of the function.
This of Committee membership and meeting key factors considered by the Committee in review noted the scale and pace of improvement attendance can be found on page 58. reaching its conclusions.
74 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Financial reporting During the year, the Committee considered the following issues in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures, with input from management, Group Internal Audit and the external auditor: Activities for the year KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION In determining the adequacy of the The Committee continued to challenge the assumptions made by management Payment provision for redress payments and to determine the provision for PPI redress and administration costs.
The Protection administration costs in connection Committee oversaw continued use of sensitivities reflecting the uncertainty that Insurance with the mis-selling of PPI the Group remains around the ultimate cost of PPI redress.
PPI makes a number of assumptions The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the potential impact of based on management judgement.
the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Policy Statement which confirmed a two Such assumptions include the month extension to the industry deadline now August 2019 for consumers to number of future complaints that make their PPI complaints, and on the potential impact of the Plevin case.
In the will be received and the extent to second half of the year, consideration was given to the application for a Judicial which they will be upheld: average Review in relation to the FCAs policy statement that introduced both the August redress payments: and related 2019 industry deadline and the concept that an undisclosed commission in excess administrative costs.
of 50 per cent of the premium would give rise to an unfair relationship under the During the year the Group provided Consumer Credit Act.
The Committee also reviewed managements assessment a further 1,650million to cover of the start of the related FCA media campaign.
further operating costs and The Committee concluded that the provision for PPI redress and the Groups redress, including the impact of the external disclosures were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to PPI are set out in August 2019 industry deadline.
To note 37: Other provisions on page 213 of the financial statements.
31December 2017, the Group has provided a total of 18,675million in respect of PPI mis-selling redress and administration costs.
The Group has also made provisions For packaged bank accounts, the Committee has continued to monitor the Other totalling 865million in respect of utilisation of the provision and managements assessment of both the remaining conduct other conduct matters, including exposure and the additional provisions required.
This has included reviewing the provisions 245million for packaged bank expected level of complaints and the average redress payments.
accounts: 245million for secured The Committee has understood the basis for determining the provision in respect and unsecured arrears handling of the Groups secured and unsecured arrears handling activities.
The provision activities: and 100million in includes the cost of both identifying and rectifying the customers affected.
respect of HBOS Reading, all largely The Committee has reviewed managements assessment of the compensation reflecting issues caused prior to expected to be paid to a number of customers of the HBOS Impaired Assets the implementation of the Groups Office based in Reading for economic losses, ex-gratia payments and distress and Conduct Strategyin 2013. inconvenience following the conviction of two former HBOS employees.
The Committee was satisfied that the provisions for other conduct matters were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to other conduct provisions are set out in note 37: Other provisions on page 213 of the financial statements.
The Committee discussed the The Committee discussed the accounting considerations for the planned transfer Ring-fencing accounting and control implications of assets and liabilities from Lloyds Bank plc and its subsidiaries to the Groups non of the Governments structural ring-fenced bank.
The issues considered included the effect of transactions between reform programme ring-fencing.
entities under common control, hedge accounting and the impact of applying the hold to collect business model under IFRS9.
The Committee also considered specific financial control risks associated with the implementation of ring-fencing and the risk management framework being implemented to mitigate these risks.
Determining the appropriateness The Committee challenged the level of provisions made and the assumptions Allowance for of impairment losses requires the used to calculate the impairment provisions held by the Group.
impairment Group to make assumptions based The Committee was satisfied that the impairment provisions were appropriate.
losses on on management judgement.
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in note 51: Financial loans and risk management on page 240 of the financial statements.
The allowance for advances impairment losses on loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2017 was 2,201 million 31 December 2016: 2,412 million.
A deferred tax asset can be The Committee considered the recognition of deferred tax assets, in particular Recoverability recognised only to the extent that the forecast taxable profits based on the Groups operating plan, the split of these of the it is recoverable.
The recoverability forecasts by legal entity and the Groups long-term financial and strategic plans.
deferred of the deferred tax asset in respect The assessment also included the impact of the changes in Group structure that tax asset of carry forward losses requires will be made to comply with ring-fencing requirements.
consideration of the future levels of The Committee agreed with managements judgement that the deferred tax taxable profit in the Group.
assets were appropriately supported by forecast taxable profits, taking into account the Groups long-term financial and strategic plans.
The disclosures relating to deferred tax are set out in note 36: Deferred tax on page 211 of the financial statements.
The Groups deferred tax asset at 31 December 2017 was 2,284 million 31 December 2016: 2,706 million.
Determining the appropriate The sale of Vocalink was considered by the Committee during the year.
The One-off accounting for certain one-off Committee reviewed the accounting proposed by management and was satisfied transactions transactions requires management that it was appropriate.
to assess the facts and circumstances specific to each transaction.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION The Group has open tax The Committee took account of the respective views of both management and the Uncertain tax matters which require it to make relevant tax authorities when considering the uncertain tax positions of the Group.
The positions judgements about the most likely Committee also understood the external advice obtained by management to support outcome for the purposes of the views taken.
The Committee was satisfied that the provisions and disclosures made in respect of uncertain tax positions were appropriate.
The relevant disclosures are set out in note47: Contingent liabilities and commitments on page 224 of the financial statements.
The Group must make both The Committee considered the assumptions underlying the calculation of the Retirement financial and demographic defined benefit liabilities.
The most critical assumptions reviewed were in respect benefit assumptions of a judgemental of the mortality assumptions, inflation and the discount rate, which have been obligations nature to determine the value of updated to reflect the Groups recent experience, the latest CMI mortality tables the defined benefit obligation.
and the results of the latest full actuarial review of the Groups main schemes.
The Committee was satisfied that the Groups quantitative and qualitative disclosures made in respect of retirement benefit obligations are appropriate.
The relevant disclosures are set out in note 35: Retirement benefit obligations on page206 of the financial statements.
The defined benefit obligation at 31December 2017 was 44,384 million 31 December 2016: 45,822 million.
The Group completed its acquisition The Committee reviewed a summary of the key assumptions underlying the fair MBNA of MBNA on 1 June 2017. value adjustments made by management to the acquired MBNA assets and acquisition liabilities.
The Committee was satisfied with the key assumptions made.
The disclosures relating to the acquisition are set out in note 22: Acquisition of MBNA Limited on page 197 of the financial statements.
Determining the value of the VIF The Committee challenged the economic and non-economic actuarial assumptions Value-Inasset and insurance liabilities made by management which underpin the calculation of the VIF asset and the Force VIF is judgemental and requires insurance liabilities.
The most significant assumptions were in respect of annuitant asset and economicand non-economic mortality, workplace pension persistency and expenses.
The annuitant mortality insurance actuarial assumptions.
assumptions were updated to recognise recent experience and for the latest liabilities industry improvement model: the assumptions for workplace pension persistency were updated to reflect the introduction of new pension freedom: and the Groups expense assumption was updated to reflect new outsourcing arrangements.
The Committee was satisfied that the value of the VIF asset and insurance liabilities were appropriate.
The VIF asset at 31 December 2017 was 4,839million 31 December 2016: 5,042 million.
The disclosures are set out in note24: Value of in-force business on page 198 and note 31: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts on page 202 ofthe financial statements.
The liability arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts at 31December 2017 was 103,413 million 2017:94,390million.
The Directors are required to confirm The Committee assisted the Board in performing its assessment of the viability Viability whether they have a reasonable of the Company and the Group with input from management.
The viability statement expectation that the Company and assessment, which was based on the Groups operating, capital and funding plans, the Group will be able to continue to included consideration of the principal and emerging risks which could impact the operate and meet their liabilities as performance of the Group, and the liquidity and capital projections over the period.
they fall due for a specified period.
The Committee was satisfied that the viability statement could be provided and The viability statement must also advised the Board that three years was a suitable period of review.
disclose the basis for the Directors The viability statement is disclosed on page 82 of the Directors report.
conclusions and explain why the period chosen is appropriate.
The Committee has devoted a The Committee has been briefed on the Groups IFRS 9 implementation IFRS 9 substantial amount of time to programme throughout 2017 and in prior years and held a session dedicated understanding and challenging to IFRS 9 in October 2017.
IFRS 9 has three critical elements: classification management on its IFRS 9 and measurement, impairment, and hedging.
The Group has not adopted implementation programme.
the hedging rules within IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 a permitted option and, The Group adopted IFRS 9 on accordingly, the Committees focus has been on classification and measurement, 1January 2018. and impairment.
The Committee has received regular updates facilitating detailed discussion and challenge, including a dedicated extended session to review the key decisions taken by management to implement IFRS 9.
During these updates, the Committee has discussed the Groups processes to assess the classification and impairment of its financial assets: the proxies and simplifications used in the data for the models, noting the Model Governance Committees approval of the integrity, adequacy and methodology of the Groups critical models: the estimated financial and capital impact including the Groups approach to the transitional arrangements : the industry-wide concerns raised by the PRA and the Groups response to these concerns: the key methodology decisions made by management: and the changes to the Groups key controls and governance.
The Committee has discussed the The Committee discussed the Groups approach to the new revenue standard Other requirements of IFRS 15 Revenue, IFRS 15.
The standard does not apply to transactions that are accounted for in accounting which the Group adopted on accordance with IFRS 9 and, as a result, the impact on the Group is not significant.
standards 1January 2018, and IFRS IFRS 16, the new leasing standard, is not effective until 1 January 2019.
The main 16 Leases, which the Group impact on the Group will be on its property leases which will move on-balance expects to adopt sheet.
The Group will recognise a right of use asset and a corresponding liability.
The Committee has discussed the Groups progress on its implementation plans for the standard during 2017 and will continue to discuss the Groups plans and the impact of the standard on the Group during 2018.
76 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Auditor independence and remuneration Other significant issues Both the Board and the external auditor have safeguards in place to The following matters were also considered by the Committee during protect the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The the year: Committee continues to operate a policy approved during 2016, and amended in 2017 to regulate the use of the auditor for non-audit services Risk management and internal control systems Full details of the internal control and risk management systems in to ensure compliance with the revised Ethical Standards for Auditors from the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
relation to the financial reporting process are given within the risk management section on pages 107156.
Specific matters that the In order to ensure the objectivity and independence of the external Committee considered for the year included: auditor, the policy sets a financial threshold above which all non-audit services provided by the external auditor must be approved in advance the effectiveness of systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk management: by the Committee, with additional provision made for the approval of non-material services which are below the threshold by certain members the extent of the work undertaken by the Finance teams across the of senior management.
The policy further formalises within the Group Group and consideration of the resources to ensure that the control the restriction on the provision of non-audit services by the external environment continued to operate effectively: and auditor which the FRC considers to be prohibited.
the major findings of internal investigations into control weaknesses, The total amount of fees paid to the auditor for both audit and non-audit fraud or misconduct and managements response along with related services in 2017 is disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements any control deficiencies identified through the assessment of the on page 187. effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting under the External auditor US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor.
The Committee was satisfied that internal controls over financial During the year, the Committee considered the auditors terms reporting were appropriately designed and operating effectively.
of engagement including remuneration, its independence and objectivity and approved the audit plan including methodology and risk Group Internal Audit identification processes.
Mark Hannam has been PwCs senior statutory In monitoring the activity, role and effectiveness of the internal audit audit partner for the Group and the Company since the beginning of function and their audit programme the Committee: 2016, and attends all meetings of the Committee.
monitored the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit and their audit The Committee also considered the effectiveness and performance of programme through quarterly reports on the activities undertaken the auditor and the audit process.
and a report from the Quality Assurance function within Group Internal Audit: The process was largely based on an assessment of responses received to a questionnaire from the Chairman of the Audit Committee and approved the annual audit plan and budget, including resource and business areas as well as Finance, Risk, Legal and Group Internal Audit.
reviewed progress against the plan through the year: The Committee considered also the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection oversaw the performance of an External Quality Assessment in line Report published in June 2017.
Following review of the feedback from the with CIIA standards and reviewed the findings and recommendations: process the Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the auditors performance and recommended to the Board a proposal for the reoversaw the process for the appointment of the Chief Internal appointment of the auditor, to be approved at the Companys AGM.
Auditor:and Statutory Audit Services compliance considered the major findings of significant internal audits, and The Company and the Group confirm compliance with the provisions of managements response.
The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Speak Up the Groups whistleblowing service Responsibilities Order 2014 for the year to 31 December 2017.
The Committee received and considered reports from management on the Groups whistleblowing arrangements including summaries of cases PwC has been auditor to the Company and the Group since 1995, having and ongoing reviews of the Whistleblowing Governance Structure.
On previously been auditor to certain of the Groups constituent companies.
consideration of the reports submitted, the Committee was satisfied PwC was re-appointed as auditor with effect from 1January 2016 with the actions which had been taken, the reports first having been following a tender process conducted in 2014 in respect of the audit considered and approved by the Boards Whistleblowing Champion, contract for the 2016 financial year.
There will be a mandatory rotation for Anita Frew.
the 2021 audit, and a competitive tender process will be conducted in advance of this time, if not earlier.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Board Risk Committee report The Groups effective management of risk helps underpin its low risk and customer focused business model.
During the year the Committee met its key Dear Shareholder Committee purpose objectives and carried out its responsibilities I am pleased to report on how the Board Risk and responsibilities effectively.
Details of Committee membership Committee the Committee has discharged The purpose of the Committee is to review the and meeting attendance can be found on its responsibilities throughout 2017. risk culture of the Group, setting the tone from page 58. the top in respect of risk management.
The The Committee has continued to give detailed As the most senior risk committee in the Committee is also responsible for ensuring the consideration to existing and emerging risks, Group, the Committee interacts with other risk culture is fully embedded and supports through a balanced agenda which ensures related risk committees, including the Group at all times the Groups agreed risk appetite, sufficient focus on standing areas of risk Risk Committee.
Such interaction assists covering the extent and categories of risk management, together with specific attention with the agenda planning process, where in which the Board considers as acceptable for being given to those emerging risks which addition to annual agenda planning, matters the Company.
are considered to be of ongoing importance considered by the Group Risk Committee are to the Group and its customers.
During the In seeking to achieve this, the Committee reviewed to ensure escalation of all relevant year, the Committee continued to make use assumes responsibility for monitoring the matters to the Board Risk Committee.
of dedicated sub-committees to focus on Groups Risk Management Framework, particular areas, such as IT resilience and which embraces risk principles, policies, Matters considered by cyber security, where the dynamic nature and methodologies, systems, processes, significance of related risks and challenges the Committee procedures and people.
It also includes the continues to evolve.
review of new, or material amendments to Over the course of the year the Committee risk principles and policies, and overseeing considered a wide range of risks facing the Focus has also been given to the successful any action resulting from material breaches of Group, both standing and emerging, across all execution of a number of significant regulatory such policy.
key areas of risk management, in addition to change programmes, proactive identification risk culture and risk appetite, as noted above.
and resolution of conduct issues, and the More details on the Groups wider approach challenges and opportunities arising from to risk management can be found in the risk As part of this review, certain risks were the introduction of open banking and the management section on pages 107156.
Full identified which required further detailed second Payment Services Directive.
Increasing details of the Committees responsibilities are consideration.
Set out on the following pages levels of UK consumer indebtedness were set out in its terms of reference, which can be is a summary of these risks, with an outline also reviewed, and whilst overall controls found at www.
com ourof the material factors considered by the were found to be robust, with management group corporate-governance Committee, and the conclusions which were actions being taken to increase risk mitigation ultimately reached.
and to minimise customer detriment: close Committee composition, During 2017, the Committee continued to monitoring will continue into 2018.
Progress utilise established sub-committees to provide skills, experience and across each of these areas will be a key additional focus on Financial Markets, IT ongoing focus for the Committee during 2018. operation Resilience & Cyber, and Stress Testing & Alan Dickinson, Chairman of the Committee, The environment within which the Group Recovery Planning.
These sub-committees operates continues to be subject to is a highly regarded retail and commercial enable members of the Committee to banker, having spent 37 years with the Royal considerable change.
Uncertainties, dedicate additional time and resource to including the EU Exit and wider geo-political Bank of Scotland, most notably as Chief achieving a more in-depth understanding of Executive of RBS UK, overseeing the groups risks continue to provide challenges, and the topics covered, and enable further review the Committee will continue to monitor Retail and Commercial operations in the UK.
and challenge of the associated risks.
The Committee is composed of independent developments and any associated impact on the Groups risk profile.
Non-Executive Directors, who provide core banking and risk knowledge, together with The Committee has concluded that the Group breadth of experience which brings knowledge continues to have strong discipline in the from other sectors, and a clear awareness of management of both emerging and existing the importance of putting the customer at the risks, and the Committees work continues to centre of all that the Group does.
help support the Group in achieving its core All Non-Executive Directors are members aim of operating as a safe, low risk bank.
of the Board Risk Committee.
The Chief Risk Alan Dickinson Officer has full access to the Committee Chairman, Board Risk Committee and attends all meetings.
The Chief Internal Auditor and members of the Executive also attend meetings, as appropriate.
78 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Activities during the year KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION A resilient IT environment is Given the dynamic nature and significance of IT and cyber risks, the Board Risk Committee IT and cyber critical to providing reliable sub-committee on IT resilience and cyber continues to enable more in depth consideration risk services to our customers of these risks to the Group.
During the year, the sub-committee gave consideration to a wide and enabling sustainable range of issues including enhanced assurance for cyber critical third parties, cyber and IT growth.
The dynamic cyber controls, Technology Resilience and Cyber Programme updates, Cyber Strategy, and roles risk and the potential for and responsibilities of the Chief Security Officer.
Alongside this an advisory panel comprised external attacks threatens the of external industry experts provides the sub-committee with an external view of current and confidentiality and integrity evolving industry wide cyber security threats, challenges and developments.
of electronic data or the Conclusion: Whilst there have been significant improvements in cyber capability and the availability of systems.
These Group is within Board risk appetite in relation to its industry benchmark, the Committee will are key risks for the Group continue to challenge the Group to further improve its ability to mitigate and respond to cyber and a central area of focus for risk.
Technology resilience will also remain a key focus for 2018 as the Group continues to invest the Committee.
The Committee recognises In order to maintain and enhance the Groups strategic position, it continues to invest in new Strategy the risks associated with an initiatives and programmes.
The Group acknowledges the challenges faced with delivering execution extensive discretionary and this strategy alongside the extensive regulatory and legal change agenda whilst additionally risk regulatory change agenda.
In the development of the strategy, the Group considers Assessments have been these demands against the capacity of the organisation to ensure successful delivery for both performed to establish customers and shareholders.
achievability of its plans whilst Conclusion: Whilst initial planning has been undertaken to satisfy the Board that the Group new metrics will be introduced can deliver against its planned change objectives, new metrics are being introduced to for ongoing risk monitoring enable effective performance monitoring, risk management and the assessment of delivery and management.
challenges including subject matter capacity and capability.
These risk metrics will be managed across the Group but reported to Board on a regular basis.
Managing regulatory risk The Committee continues to focus on ensuring we have effective controls and oversight Regulatory continues to be a key focus to comply with existing regulatory obligations.
The Committee has also been focused and legal risk within the Group due to the on overseeing the successful execution of a number of significant, complex and significant amount of highly interdependent regulatory change programmes including ring-fencing, EU General Data complex and interdependent Protection Regulation, Payment Services Directive II PSD2, Markets in Financial Instruments regulatory reform that we Directive II, and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS 239.
Given the have had to manage.
significance of ring-fencing, monthly programme reporting has been presented to Board and due consideration given to governance and compliance within the ring-fenced bank.
Conclusion: The Group has placed significant focus on ensuring compliance with these complex regulatory changes.
Regulatory risk will remain a key area of focus for the Committee in 2018 given the importance of complying with our regulatory obligations.
Managing operational The Committee continues to focus on ensuring the Group has an effective framework for Operational risk continues to be a key managing operational risk, including enhancing the use of key risk and control indicators and risk focus within the Group scenarios.
The Committee has considered a number of reports in relation to the operational due to the complexity and risk framework, cyber, IT resiliency, user access management and Cloud computing.
volume of change, the Conclusion: The Group has made progress in enhancing its management of operational Groups IT infrastructure, risk.
The Group will continue to focus on enhancing the maturity of its operational risk cyber risk, and reliance on framework to ensure it is proactive, forward looking and effective in managing the 21st third party suppliers.
century risks in a digital world, including execution, model, cyber IT and third party risk.
The Committee continues to Throughout 2017, the Committee has considered reports on the proactive identification and Conduct risk focus closely on the Groups resolution of conduct issues which directly impact customers customer conduct risks and management of conduct risk.
those which can undermine market integrity market conduct risks.
The pace and quality of remediation remained a focus, including root cause analysis to establish lessons learned and help prevent similar issues in the future.
Consideration was also given to the conduct risks associated with the treatment of customers in vulnerable circumstances, with a particular focus on those in financial difficulties.
In addition the Committee continues to consider developments in the Groups conduct culture as well as reports on rectification programmes, complaints and conduct risk appetite metric performance.
Conclusion: Whilst good progress has been made in 2017, to continue embedding the Groups conduct strategy initiatives into business as usual, ongoing improvement in the Groups conduct risk profile will remain a priority for the Group in 2018 and will continue tobe a subject of focus for the Committee.
The Committee reviewed The macroeconomic and market context was reviewed to ensure understanding of the key Consumer key metrics for the motor drivers of increased consumer lending: this included an examination of the overall market lending finance, credit cards, growth in consumer lending, changes in indebtedness, a comparison to pre-crisis levels indebtedness personal loan and personal and a review of the growth rate of each consumer credit product within the portfolio.
The current account overdraft key macroeconomic drivers of credit losses including the specific impact of debt to income portfolios to understand were also reviewed.
Underwriting standards, credit quality and the programme of ongoing the risks associated with improvements to strengthen indebtedness and affordability controls were assessed to persistent indebtedness.
ensure that risk appetite for the consumer lending portfolios remains appropriate.
Conclusion: Regular monitoring continues to assist the Committee in its assessment of indebtedness of the consumer lending portfolios, with management continuing to take action to mitigate potential risks associated with increased indebtedness and to continue toreview the appropriate treatment of vulnerable customers.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION The Committee Given the increase in data regulation, data remains a key risk for the Group and remains Data risk continues to focus on the a critical area of focus for the Groups regulators.
The Committee has monitored and Groups risks associated reviewed the risks associated with the introduction of PSD2, including the need to ensure with data management, there is appropriate control and ownership of data as the use of Third Party Providers including governance, TPPs becomes more prevalent.
With the introduction of GDPR, the Committee has control and privacy.
overseen actions within the Group to ensure clear control and management of customer data, including assessing its accuracy and how its used.
It is increasingly important for the Committee to ensure the Group has effective controls in place to manage any potential data breaches, including a defined escalation route to the FCA and the ICO.
Conclusion: The Group continues to enhance the controls required to manage the data environment effectively, whilst the Committee ensures the necessary risk oversight of the delivery of required regulatory changes relating to data.
Reviews were undertaken of In reviewing the UK Secured portfolio, specific consideration was given to the risks UK Secured the risks associated with the associated with maturing residential interest only mortgages.
The Committee reviewed and buy-to-let UK residential interest only repayment rates, in-life and past-term customer engagement and treatment strategies, portfolio and the Groups credit risk performance including debt-to-value ratios, and the Groups risk appetite for participation in the buy-tofuture originations.
The Groups participation in the buy-to-let segment was also reviewed, including the design and implementation of underwriting changes in response to taxation changes and new supervisory standards for portfolio landlords.
Conclusion: The Committee continues to monitor closely trends in the residential interest only portfolio and the progress of managements initiatives to further enhance customer treatment.
The Committee was satisfied that additional underwriting controls within buyto-let provided adequate safeguards to support continued participation in line with the Groups risk appetite limits.
Open banking and PSD2 The UK payments landscape is experiencing a period of unprecedented change.
Open Open banking present strategic and banking, mandated by the Competition Markets Authority, will allow TPPs to offer new and payments operational challenges as services through Application Process Interface technology, providing customers with well as opportunities and alternative means of access to their bank accounts governed by explicit customer consent.
is a central area of focus for PSD2 classifies these TPPs as Account Information Service Providers and Payment Initiation theGroup.
The aim of these changes is to promote competition and enhance customer choice.
The changes create a number of key risks including but not limited to security risk, data risk and fraud risk as sensitive and confidential customer information is shared more widely than current practice.
The Group is alert to the potential new vectors for fraud and risks to consumers flowing from these channels, particularly in relation to data security.
Additional controls and mitigations have been developed.
The Committee received updates throughout 2017 through the consolidated risk report regarding the requirements of the legislation and how the Group is planning to achieve compliance.
Conclusion: Initial legislative changes required compliance in January 2018 and furtherregulatory requirements will come into force by the third quarter of 2019 when strong customer authentication becomes mandatory.
The Committee will continue to review progress throughout 2018 as further developments are delivered by the Groupwide programme.
Negotiations are on-going The key risks for the Group include adverse movements and volatility in Financial Markets, EU exit to determine the terms of impact on our customer credit profiles and the ability to operate cross border.
When the UKs exit from the EU.
reviewing the possible impacts of the EU exit, the Committee has given consideration The uncertainty regarding to the Groups strong UK focus and UK-centric strategy.
The Committee continues to the timing and the process review the effectiveness of risk management across the Group and the actions taken to itself could affect the better understand the impact on our customers, as well as close monitoring of positions in outlook for both the UK and Financial Markets.
These actions not only include continued support to all our customers, global economy.
but in addition the Group has ensured our Commercial Banking customers consider their relevant trading and financial impacts.
Conclusion: The EU exit plans continue to be closely monitored by the Committee via a suite of early warning indicators and risk mitigation plans, including the possible loss of passporting arrangements into Europe.
Residual value risk of motor Consideration was given to new car registrations, used vehicle prices and provision adequacy Residual value finance businesses was in the context of Group exposure to residual value risk in the growing motor finance risk in Motor monitored over the year.
The Committee also monitored exposure to residual value risk via risk appetite.
Finance Conclusion: Residual value risk exposure continues to perform in line with appetite and the portfolio Committee will continue to closely monitor trends in the used car market and automotive sector as a whole.
The Committee recognises The Committee discussed, during the year, the current model landscape, trends in Model risk the importance of the performance and actions being taken to resolve material model issues.
The Committee Group Executive and considered regulatory impacts and the action being taken by the Group as well as the Board holding a benchmarking the Groups approach to the industry.
strong understanding Conclusion: Whilst good progress was made in 2017, the demand for models and model of the Groups models, related activity is expected to increase, with key drivers being the Group strategy and the their associated risks and need for increased automation and analytics as well as increasing regulatory demands.
will be an increased focus by the Committee in 2018 on model risk management to address these challenges.
80 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Responsible Business Committee report Doing business responsibly is at the heart of strengthening trust in our Group and the industry.
responsible business report and Helping Dear Shareholders How the Committee spent Britain Prosper Plan, which the Committee itstime in 2017 I am pleased to report on the Responsible recommends to the Board for approval.
Business Committees RBC second full year of The Chairman of the Committee reviews operation in 2017. the forward agenda regularly to ensure that Committee composition, the appropriate topics are considered and Doing business responsibly is central to our attendance at meetings and adequate time is allocated for members to purpose to Help Britain Prosper, and supports provide input to proposals at meetings.
effectiveness review our strategy to be a low risk, customer focusedbank.
Alan Dickinson, Chairman of the Board During the year, the Committee considered Risk Committee, attended all meetings.
in detail the development of the Groups At its meetings, the RBC oversaw a wide Representatives from Group Internal Audit responsible business approach, including a range of responsible business activities, which and the Chief Operating Office are invited to sustainability strategy.
Detailed discussions included our substantial investments to provide meetings as appropriate.
took place with colleagues from relevant opportunities for those starting out, whether business areas and external advisers at which as first time home buyers, small business Representatives of the regulators attended proposals were considered and challenged startups, social entrepreneurs or apprentices.
meetings as observers in January FCA and leading to a change of focus on some areas July 2017 PRA.
We also reviewed work being done to tackle of the approach.
The Committee contributed disadvantage in communities across the UK, During the year, the Committee met its key to the plans for strengthening the Groups through our four Charitable Foundations, our objectives and carried out its responsibilities ongoing commitment to supporting basic, partnership with Mental Health UK, and our effectively, as confirmed by the annual workplace and specialist digital skills in the support for vulnerable customers, including effectiveness review.
The Committee UK during 2018 and provided perspectives on those struggling with low financial skills or illness.
will consider the output from the 2017 how this could best be achieved.
effectiveness review and whether any changes To respond to a rapidly changing external The Committee also considered the need to be made to the way it works.
environment, the RBC also reviewed emerging followingtopics: areas such as the impact of climate change on Details of the committee membership and a regular progress report from the Chairman UK businesses, individuals and communities, meeting attendance can be found on page58.
of the executive level Group Customer First and ways in which we can support enhanced Committee see page 114 on the approach UK productivity through the strengthening of to customers, conduct and culture: digital skills, particularly for individuals, small businesses and charities.
a report from Group Sourcing on working in RBC Chairmans visit to a responsible way with the Groups suppliers: Many of these activities are described in our Elizabeth Fry charity 2018 Helping Britain Prosper Plan, which is an oversight of the processes which provide developed annually with the RBC to reflect reassurance that customer rectifications are the ways in which Lloyds Banking Group, both In August 2017, Sara Weller visited the managed responsibly: directly as the largest corporate tax payer and Elizabeth Fry Charity in Reading, which has the benchmarking of trust amongst a substantial UKwide employer and indirectly, received a grant of around 70,000 from stakeholders and customers against financial contributes to the wider economic and social the Lloyds Bank Foundation for England services companies and acknowledged health of Britain.
The charity runs one of only six leaders in other industries: approved premises for women released I would like to thank the many thousands of from prison on bail, on license or as part of the outputs from colleague surveys in colleagues who have dedicated their time and a community order.
The charity supports relation to the Groups role as a responsible energy to supporting these activities and I very residents to deal with some challenging business: and much hope you enjoy and find it interesting to issues, such as substance abuse or mental read about the Committees work.
the draft Modern Slavery Statement, before health problems and equips them with recommending to the Board for approval.
Sara Weller the skills to live and hopefully work more Chairman, Responsible Business Committee independently within 36 months.
After Committee purpose the visit Sara Weller commented: my visit reinforced the message that the The purpose of the Committee is to oversee Foundations actively seek out and make the Groups strategy and plans for becoming a difference for the most disadvantaged a leader in responsible business as part of the people in our society.
Supporting them is objective to help Britain prosper: the activities something in which we, as a Group, take which have an impact on the Groups behaviour great pride.
and reputation as a trusted, responsible business: and the development of the Groups
