Governance compliance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code All Directors are expected to commit sufficient A snapshot of how Barclays complies with the time to fulfil their duties to Barclays.
In 2017, requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code Directors attendance at scheduled Board meetings was 97% and across the scheduled the Code is set out below.
For further information, Board Committee meetings was an average of see pages 80 to 84.
The Board assesses its effectiveness and that of its Committees and the individual Directors annually in a process that is externally facilitated by an independent third party.
Directors are subject to election or re-election each year by shareholders at the AGM.
Barclays Charter of Expectations sets out responsibilities for providing the Board with accurate, timely and high-quality information necessary for it to fulfil its duties.
Leadership Effectiveness There is clear division of responsibilities The skills, knowledge and experience needed The Board, assisted by its Risk between the Chairman, who runs the Board, for an effective Board are recorded on a skills and the Group Chief Executive, who runs the matrix, which is used by the Board and Reputation Committees, Groups business.
Individual roles on the Board Nominations Committee to inform Director conducts robust assessments and their responsibilities are set out in recruitment, induction and ongoing Barclays Charter of Expectations.
of the principal risks facing The Senior Independent Director, Sir Gerry The composition of principal Board Barclays.
Grimstone, provides a sounding board for the Committees meets the independence criteria Chairman, acts as an intermediary for the of the Code and there is appropriate crossother Directors when necessary and is membership to further promote effectiveness.
Accountability available to shareholders if they have concerns The Board is responsible for setting Barclays 11 of 14 Directors are independent nonthat have not been addressed through the risk appetite, that is, the level of risk it is executive Directors 79%, while the normal channels.
prepared to take in the context of achieving Chairman was independent on appointment.
The Board has set out Barclays culture, values As at the date of this report, there are three and behaviours in Barclays Purpose and Barclays Enterprise Risk Management female Directors 21%, compared to our Values and The Barclays Way, which are Framework is designed to identify and set target of 33% by 2020 which the Board embedded throughout the Group.
minimum requirements in respect of the main remains committed to achieving.
risks to achieving the Barclays strategic Directors are expected to provide rigorous and The Board Nominations Committee regularly objectives and to provide reasonable constructive challenge on matters that, owing considers Board and senior management assurance that internal controls are effective.
to their strategic, financial or reputational succession plans.
implications or consequences, are considered The Board, assisted by its Risk and Reputation significant to the Group.
Appointments to the Board are made via a Committees, conducts robust assessments of formal, rigorous and transparent process, the principal risks facing Barclays, including based on merit, taking into account the skills, those that would threaten its business model, experience and diversity needed on the Board future performance, solvency or liquidity.
It in the context of Barclays strategic direction.
reports on this in the annual viability statement on pages 40 and 41.
38 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information The Directors also review the effectiveness of Engagement The Chairman and Senior Independent the Groups systems of internal control and risk management.
Director, together with other Board representatives and the Company Secretary, The Board has put in place processes to hold meetings with investors focusing on support the presentation to shareholders of corporate governance matters.
fair, balanced and understandable The Chief Executive and Group Finance information.
Director present quarterly results briefings and The Board Audit Committee, comprising the Group Finance Director holds briefings for independent non-executive Directors, equity and debt sell-side analysts.
oversees the effectiveness of Barclays internal and external auditors.
The Board Remuneration Remuneration Committee seeks the views of The Board Remuneration Committee, Barclays major shareholders comprising independent non-executive Directors, sets overarching Group on remuneration matters.
This remuneration policy and approves the engagement is meaningful remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, the executive Directors and other senior and contributes directly to the executives.
The Board Remuneration Committee seeks the views of Barclays major shareholders on Regular engagement with Barclays brokers remuneration matters.
This engagement is ensures that the Groups strategy and meaningful and contributes directly to the performance is being communicated decisions it makes.
effectively and provides a better Barclays reward framework is simple and understanding of investor views.
transparent and is designed to support and The Board receives feedback on investor drive business strategy and long-term relations activity, along with regular reports of success.
changes in holdings of substantial To ensure alignment with shareholder shareholders and reports on share price interests, a significant part of performancemovements.
related pay is delivered through Barclays A number of events are held throughout the shares.
year to maintain an open dialogue with Unvested deferred remuneration is subject to investors, of which the AGM is the most malus.
Clawback also applies to any variable important.
remuneration awarded to Material Risk Takers after 1 January 2015. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 39
