Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance Review 71 Corporate Governance Review Corporate governance compliance and statements Overview RELX PLC, which has its primary listing on the main market of Corporate structure the London Stock Exchange, has complied with the provisions RELX PLC is a publicly-listed holding company with its shares of the UK Code during the year ended 31 December 2017. traded on the London and New York stock exchanges.
Its principal asset is the shares that it owns in RELX Group plc, which RELX NV, which has its primary listing on the Euronext represent 52.9% of the outstanding shares of RELX Group plc.
Amsterdam Stock Exchange, has also complied throughout the year with the UK Code.
RELX NV is a publicly-listed holding company with its shares traded on the Euronext Amsterdam and New York stock A description of how both RELX PLC and RELX NV have applied exchanges.
Its principal asset is the shares that it owns in the main principles of the UK Code is set out on pages 72 to 80.
RELX Group plc, which represent 47.1% of the outstanding A copy of the UK Code can be found on the FRC website at shares of RELX Group plc.
uk RELX Group plc holds all of the operating businesses, For information on the application of the Dutch Code by subsidiaries and nancing activities of the Group.
The Groups RELX NV, please see the Corporate Governance Statement of corporate structure is shown below: RELX NV which is available on our website, www.
com The Directors of RELX PLC and RELX NV are required by the UK RELX NV RELX PLC Code to make certain statements in relation to provisions contained in the UK Code.
The locations of those statements are as follows: 52.9% 47.1% Page 2 to 63 for the Strategic Report explaining the Groups RELX Group plc business model and the strategy for delivering the objectives ofthe Group Page 60 for conrmation that the Directors have carried out RELX PLC and RELX NV each have equal voting rights in arobust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, RELX Group plc.
RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc are including those that would threaten its business model, future managed on a unified basis.
RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group performance, solvency or liquidity plc and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are together known as RELX Group or the Group.
Page 79 for conrmation that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the In 2013, RELX NV adopted a unitary Board structure.
In 2015, information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups we implemented a number of significant steps to simplify and position and performance, business model and strategy modernise our corporate structure, which resulted in all of Page 80 for an explanation of how the Directors have assessed our businesses being owned by one company, RELX Group plc, the prospects of the Group, taking into account the Groups with consolidated accounts, all share listings having a 1 to 1 current position and its principal risks equalisation ratio and the membership of the Boards being fully aligned.
In 2016, the dividends between the shareholders of the Page 79 for the statement on the status of the Group as a two parent companies were fully equalised.
going concern Approach to corporate governance The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV have implemented standards of corporate governance and disclosure policies applicable to companies listed on the London, Amsterdam and New York stock exchanges.
The effect of this is that a standard applying to one will, where not in conict, also be observed by theother.
In 2016, revised versions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code the Dutch Code were published by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC and the Dutch Monitoring Committee respectively, with the UK Code applying to RELX PLC and the Dutch Code applying to RELX NV from 1 January 2017.
The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV support the principles of corporate governance set out inthe revised codes.
72 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 These are set out in the Terms of Reference for each Committee Application of UK Corporate Governance which can be found on our website at www.
Code Principles The membership and activities of these Committees are described on pages 81, 83 and 103.
Leadership There are additionally a number of approved delegated authorities in place from the Boards to the Chief Executive officer and other Role of the Boards and its Committees senior executives which relate principally to the day-to-day The Boards of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc the management of the business.
Boards, which are managed on a unied basis, are responsible for providing leadership of the Group within a framework of Chairman and Chief Executive division of responsibilities appropriate and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed, There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman, who leads and then managed in a manner which promotes the success of the the Boards, and the Chief Executive officer, who is responsible for Group.
The Boards are also responsible for overseeing the the day-to-day management of the Group, which are set out in Groups strategy and performance, financial reporting, internal writing.
The adjacent table illustrates the key responsibilities control and risk management framework, and corporate of the Directors.
This division of responsibilities, in addition to governance processes.
the schedule of matters reserved for the Boards and Terms of Reference for each Committee, ensures that there are appropriate Their oversight role is implemented on a day-to-day basis through controls in place to prevent any individual from having unfettered the operation of a framework of responsibilities and delegated powers of decision.
There is a schedule of matters reserved for the approval of the Boards, which generally includes those matters that are considered material to the current or future financial performance of the Group.
These include matters such as the approval of material acquisitions, major capital expenditure, Group strategy and budgets, the Groups financial statements and its dividend policy.
In order to allow the Boards sufficient time to give these matters due attention, a number of other responsibilities have been delegated to four principal Board Committees.
Board Committees The Boards have established a number of Committees, to which they have delegated certain powers.
The structure of these Committees and a summary of their key responsibilities are set out below.
All the Committees have written Terms of Reference, whichare available on our website: www.
com The Boards Audit Committees Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Corporate Governance Responsible for the oversight Responsible for considering the Responsible for keeping under Committee ofnancial reporting, risk remuneration of the Groups review the composition of the Responsible for reviewing management and internal Executive Directors and the Boards and the Board ongoing developments and control policies, and the Chairman, and advising on Committees, and the bestpractice in corporate effectiveness of the internal remuneration of senior recruitment of new Directors.
governance, assessing the andexternal audit processes.
The Committee comprises only performance of the Directors, The Committees comprise only The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors.
and monitoring the structure, independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors.
Report of the Audit Directors Remuneration Report of the Nominations Committees page 103 Report page 83 Committee page 81 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance Review 73 Effectiveness Roles of the Directors Board composition Chairman The Boards of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc are Provides leadership of the Boards, ensuring that they unitary boards and are comprised of the same Directors.
function effectively In order for the Boards to discharge their duties and Ensures that all Directors are sufciently appraised responsibilities effectively, they have an appropriate balance of matters to make informed judgements, through the of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group.
provision of accurate, timely and clear information The Nominations Committee reviews, on an ongoing basis, the Promotes high standards of corporate governance composition of the Boards and their committees to ensure that Sets the agenda and chairs meetings of the Boards balance remains appropriate.
Chairs the Nominations and Corporate Governance The name of each Director, their role on the Boards and their Committees biographical details as at the date of this report appear on Facilitates the effective contribution of all of the Directors pages 66 to 67.
The Boards currently comprise the Chairman, two Executive Directors and eight independent Non-Executive Ensures effective dialogue with shareholders Directors, who bring a wide range of skills and experience to Ensures the performance of the Boards is assessed theirroles.
A prole which identies the skills and experience annually ofeach Director is available on our website at www.
Ensures effective induction and development of Directors Asummary of the balance of skills of the Non-Executive Directors can be found on page 74.
Chief Executive officer Day-to-day management of the Group The Nominations Committee and the Boards also consider diversity, including gender, length of tenure and nationality as important Develops and ensures implementation of the Groups factors when reviewing the composition of the Boards.
A summary strategy and commercial objectives of these can be found on page 74.
Currently, 36% of the Boards are Ensures that the decisions of the Boards are implemented made up of women, compared to the Groups target of 30%.
Promotes high standards of corporate governance Informs and advises the Chairman and Nominations Committee on executive succession planning Leads communication with shareholders Chief Financial officer Day-to-day management of the Groups financial affairs Ensures that a robust system of internal control and risk management is in place Maintains high-quality reporting of financial and environmental performance internally and externally Supports the Chief Executive officer in developing and implementing strategy Senior Independent Director Leads the Boards annual assessment of the performance of the Chairman Available to meet with shareholders on matters where usual channels are deemed inappropriate Deputises for the Chairman, as necessary Serves as a sounding board for the Chairman and acts as an intermediary between the other Directors, when necessary Non-Executive Directors Constructively challenge and provide advice to the Executive Directors Effectively contribute to the development of strategy Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and monitor the delivery of the Groups strategy Serve as members of Board Committees and chair the Audit and Remuneration Committees 74 74 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Balance of our Boards BALANCE OF EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS GENDER DIVERSITY Executive: 2 Female: 4 Chairman: 1 Male: 7 Non-Executive: 8 LENGTH OF TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NATIONALITY OF DIRECTORS Swedish: 1 German: 1 Less than three years: 3 Dutch: 2 Seven to nine years: 3 British: 4 American: 3 Three to six years: 3 Areas of significant skills and expertise of Percentage of the the Non-Executive Directors on the Boards Non-Executive Directors Knowledge of corporate governance issues for listed companies 100% 100% Operational experience in the Groups main geographical markets Human resource management and executive remuneration 100% Corporate responsibility 100% Corporate strategy and organisation 100% Marketing and customer relations 78% Financial and organisational audit 78% Executive board experience in a large international listed company 75% 78% Operational experience in the telecommunications and information technology sectors 67% Legal matters 67% Banking, tax and corporate finance 56% Operational experience in the Groups product markets 33% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance Review 75 Key activities of the Boards The Boards meet regularly throughout the year and, in 2017, held seven scheduled meetings.
The Boards' schedule ensures that all relevant matters are considered during those meetings.
The Boards schedule is set by the Chairman, with support from the relevant Company Secretary.
Additionally, throughout the year, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors present on a regular basis.
In 2017, the Board considered the following: Business and Financial Strategy, Business and Risk, Legal, Governance Shareholders Performance Functional Reviews and Regulatory Matters Investor Relations Reports from the Chief Strategy and business The Groups principal activities Executive officer and presentations, including risks and ongoing Dividend declarations Chief Financial officer two full-day strategy monitoring of risk and policy on the Groups actual and reviews management and internal Share buyback forecasted operational control Budgets and Annual programme and financial performance Strategy Plan 2017-2020 The Groups Operating Approval of shareholder Annual and Interim and Governance Updates on major communications, such Financial Results Principles acquisitions, investments as the Annual Report Annual Review of and disposals Board succession and Notice of General Invested Capital and executive talent Capital Structure and Meetings management Funding requirements Appointments and re-appointments to the Boards and appointment to Boards Committees Litigation update Reports from the Committee Chairmen on the key activities of the Boards Committees The Terms of Reference for each Board Committee Independence of the Non-Executive Directors Board appointments The Boards review the independence of the Non-Executive RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders maintain their rights to Directors every year, based on the criteria as set out in the UK appoint individuals to their respective Boards in accordance with Code.
In accordance with the UK Code, the independence criteria the provisions of the articles of association of these companies.
are not applied in respect of the Chairman after his appointment.
However, no individual may be appointed to the Boards unless Notwithstanding this, Sir Anthony Habgood met the independence recommended by the joint Nominations Committee.
Members criteria contained in the UK Code when he was appointed of that Committee abstain when their own re-appointment is Chairman in 2009.
The Boards consider all Non-Executive being considered.
Directors other than the Chairman to be independent of As a general rule, letters of appointment for Non-Executive management and free from any business or other relationship Directors provide that, subject to annual re-election by which could materially interfere with their ability to exercise shareholders, individuals will serve for an initial period of three independent judgement.
The membership of the Audit, years, and are typically expected to be available to serve for a Remuneration and Nominations Committees also meet the second three-year period, if invited to do so.
They may also be independence criteria under the Code.
invited to serve for a third period of three years.
The NonExecutive Directors letters of appointment set out the expected Succession planning time commitment required by the Company to full their duties.
The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the composition The notice period applicable to the Non-Executive Directors is of the Boards and the status of succession plans.
The notice period applicable to the service contracts updated annually on senior management succession planning, of the Executive Directors is 12 months.
Details of the terms of and during the year, they received a detailed presentation from appointment and the remuneration of both Executive and the Chief Human Resources officer on the first three tiers of Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Directors management below the Chief Executive officer.
Directors also Remuneration Report, on pages 83 to 95. have regular contact with succession candidates for senior and executive management positions.
76 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 In compliance with the UK Code, all Directors seek re-election Board induction and development by shareholders annually, except for those Directors retiring The Chairman and the Company Secretary are responsible for immediately after the respective Annual General Meetings.
ensuring that an effective induction programme takes place for allnew Directors.
Following appointment and as required, all Board and Committee changes Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction, which is Changes during the year in the composition of the Boards and designed to meet their individual needs based on their knowledge Board Committees are set out in the table on page 77. and experience.
This includes the provision of a comprehensive brieng pack which contains information on the Groups The ongoing evolution of the Boards continued in 2017, with businesses, as well as other relevant information to assist that Suzanne Wood appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in performing their duties.
Ms Wood was also appointed as a member of the Audit Committees, which will benefit from her significant financial Upon joining the Boards as a Non-Executive Director in September experience at Board level in publicly-listed companies, both 2017, an induction programme for Ms Wood was designed taking in the UK and US.
into account her previous knowledge and experience and the role that she was being asked to undertake for RELX Group.
This Following a review of the composition of the Boards Committees included meetings with the leadership teams of the main business in anticipation of Ms Wood's appointment to the Audit Committees, operating units, and also with the Chief Strategy officer, in order the Boards accepted a recommendation from the Nominations to enhance and deepen her understanding of RELX Group, its Committee that with effect from 26 September 2017: i Linda businesses and the competitive environment in which it operates.
Sanford join the Remuneration Committee and step down from She also received presentations from the Groups key corporate the Audit Committees: and ii Carol Mills step down from the functions, including Finance and Internal Audit & Risk Remuneration Committee and remain on the Audit Committees.
Management, and from a number of the Groups principal external In accordance with the articles of association of RELX PLC, advisers.
Given her first-time appointment to the Board of a Directors are normally subject to election by shareholders at the Dutch-listed company, Ms Wood was provided with an in-depth first Annual General Meeting following their appointment to the brieng on her duties as a Director under Dutch law.
Therefore, Ms Wood will stand for election by shareholders undertook a comprehensive Audit Committee programme at the 2018 RELX PLC Annual General Meeting.
including a brieng from the external auditor, designed to ensure familiarisation with the Committees oversight responsibilities.
In accordance with the UK Code, all other Directors will retire from the Board of RELX PLC at the Annual General Meeting and To ensure that the Directors continually update their skills, will offer themselves for re-election.
All Directors of RELX NV, knowledge and familiarity with the Group, they attend meetings including Ms Wood who was appointed by shareholders in in addition to scheduled Board and Committee meetings and September 2017, will retire from the RELX NV Board at the participate in site visits.
Additionally, Non-Executive Directors 2018 Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves for also have opportunities to meet RELX Group Business Leaders re-appointment.
Based on the results of an independent external and other senior executives.
As part of the annual Board evaluation of the Boards, their Committees and each Director evaluation, Directors are invited to discuss with the Chairman seeking re-election at the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the their training and development needs.
Boards have accepted a recommendation from the Nominations Committee that each of those Directors be proposed for Board information and support re-election at the 2018 Annual General Meeting of the respective All Directors have complete and timely access to the information companies.
Details of the independent external evaluation of the required to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
Boards completed in respect of 2017 18 are set out on page 77.
They have access to the services of the respective Company Secretaries, who are responsible for the accurate and timely ow of information to the Boards and advising the Chairman on all corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary of each Board attends all of its meetings.
The Directors also have access to other members of the Groups management, staff and external advisers, and may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the relevant companys expense.
Each of the Directors is expected to attend all meetings of the Board and Committees of which they are a member.
Where a Director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they are provided with the papers relating to that meeting and are able to discuss issues arising with the respective chairman and other Board and Committee members.
They are also provided with a copy of the meeting minutes.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance Review 77 Attendance at meetings of the Boards and Board Committees The table below shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Boards and the Board Committees during the year.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
Committee Corporate 1 Director appointments Boards Audit Remuneration Nominations Governance Anthony Habgood Chairman 7 7 3 3 3 3 5 5 R N C Erik Engstrom 7 7 Nick Luff 7 7 Wolfhart Hauser R N C 7 7 3 3 3 3 5 5 5 Adrian Hennah A 7 7 3 4 5 5 C Board Committee Marike van Lier Lels 7 7 4 4 5 5 membership key A C Robert MacLeod 7 7 3 3 5 5 A Audit R C 2 R Remuneration Carol Mills A R C 7 7 4 4 1 1 5 5 3 N Nominations Linda Sanford A R C 7 7 3 3 2 2 5 5 C Corporate Governance Ben van der Veer A N C 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 4 Committee Chairman Suzanne Wood 3 3 1 1 2 2 A C 1 T he Boards of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc.
In addition to the seven scheduled meetings above, in 2017 serving Directors attended two full-day strategy and business review meetings.
2 Ms Mills stepped down as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 26 September 2017.
3 Ms Sanford joined the Remuneration Committee and stepped down as a member of the Audit Committees, both with effect from 26 September 2017.
4 Ms Wood was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Boards and as a member of the Audit Committees with effect from 26 September 2017.
5 Mr Hennah was unable to attend the February meetings of the Audit Committees due to an unexpected conict which arose at short notice.
He was provided with the papers in advance of the meeting for his review and comment which was provided to the Audit Committee Chairman, and subsequent to the meeting taking place was provided with a copy of the minutes.
Board evaluation Conclusions of the 2017 review The Directors consider the evaluation of the Boards, its The review confirmed that the Boards are functioning Committees and members to be an important aspect of corporate effectively, underpinned by an appropriate blend of governance.
In 2017, the Corporate Governance Committee experience, skills, gender and nationality, and an efficient appointed an external facilitator to carry out an independent and thorough operating style led by the Chairman and Chief effectiveness review of the Boards, their Committees and each Executive officer.
It further confirmed that the Directors Director.
The facilitator was Lorna Parker, an independent continue to be appropriately involved in key decisions taken practitioner with no other connection to the Group.
Ms Parkers by the Group, monitoring the performance of the Group and review took the form of structured interviews with Directors and developing the Groups strategy, and that a sound decisionthe Company Secretaries, supported by individual questionnaires making process is in place which takes account of feedback completed by all participants.
Access to Board and Committee and challenge provided by the Non-Executive Directors.
An papers for the prior 12 months was provided to Ms. Parker.
engaged and respectful atmosphere exists where openness The review explored the following key areas: and debate are encouraged in Board discussions.
There continued to be clarity and alignment around strategy and the Board performance and effectiveness of decision-making key risks and challenges facing the Group.
In line with evolving Board composition and succession planning best practice Corporate Governance, in 2018 an area of increased focus for the Boards will be the Groups culture Talent management and executive succession leadership and values.
Additionally, the Board and their Committees will Risk management, corporate governance and compliance also focus on the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, currently expected to be published in 2018.
Agenda planning and quality of information provided by management Based on the findings of the review, the Corporate Governance Committee concluded that the Boards and their Committees Committee effectiveness function effectively and collaboratively and with an appropriate The principal findings and recommendations from the evaluation level of engagement with management.
The Committee also were discussed with the Chairman and Senior Independent concluded that the performance of each Director continues Director, following which they were presented to a meeting of to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment to their theBoards.
The review of the performance of the Chairman of the Boards was led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman was not present during discussion among the Non-Executive Directors relating to his performance.
The conclusions of the review were subsequently considered at a meeting of the Boards.
78 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 RELX Group plc Accountability The Board of RELX Group plc is responsible for the system of Internal control and risk management risk management and internal control of the Group and has RELX Group has established internal controls and risk implemented an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, management practices that are embedded into the operations monitoring and managing the principal risks faced by its of the businesses, based on the Internal Control Integrated businesses.
This process was in place throughout the year Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring ended 31 December 2017, and up to the date of the approvals of Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
Details of the Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2017.
The Board the principal risks facing the Group and how these are mitigated monitors these systems of internal control and risk management are set out on pages 60 to 63. and annually carries out a review of their effectiveness.
Additionally, in order to provide reasonable assurance against RELX Group plc has an established framework of procedures material inaccuracies or loss, and on the effectiveness of the and internal control, with which the management of each systems of internal control and risk management, the Group has business is required to comply.
The Board has adopted a adopted the three lines of defence assurance model shown below.
schedule of matters that are required to be brought to it for decision.
The Group operates authorisation and approval processes throughout all of its operations.
Access controls exist 1st Line of Defence where processes have been automated to ensure the security Group businesses maintain systems of internal control which are appropriate to the nature and of data.
Management information systems have been developed scale of their activities and address all significant to identify risks and to enable assessment of the effectiveness strategic, operational, financial and legal of the systems of internal control.
compliance risks that they face RELX Group plc has a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that provides a guide for achieving its business goals and requires ofcers and employees to behave in an open, honest, ethical 2nd Line of Defence and principled manner.
The Code also outlines condential Central functions that are responsible for procedures enabling employees to report any concerns about 1 designing policies, 2 introducing and sharing best compliance, or about the Groups financial reporting practice.
practice, 3 monitoring and evaluating compliance with RELX policies and relevant legislation and The Code is available on our website at www.
com regulation and appropriate remediation Each business area has identied and evaluated its principal risks, the controls in place to manage those risks and the levels of residual risk accepted.
Risk management and control procedures 3rd Line of Defence are embedded into the operations of the business and include the Internal audit provides independent assurance on monitoring of progress in areas for improvement that come to the effectiveness of the 1st and 2nd lines of defence management and Board attention.
The principal risks facing RELX Group businesses are regularly The Boards and Audit Committees reported to and assessed by the Board and Audit Committee.
With the close involvement of business management and central functions, the risk management and control procedures ensure Note: In addition to the Groups internal controls, the Group is also audited externally.
that the Group is managing its business risks effectively and in The report of the external auditor has been included from pages 106 to 116. a coordinated manner across the businesses with clarity on the respective responsibilities and interdependencies.
Litigation and RELX PLC and RELX NV other legal regulatory matters are managed by legal directors in The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV have each adopted a the business.
schedule of matters which are required to be brought to them for decision.
During 2017, the Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV The RELX Group plc Audit Committee receives regular reports on exercised independent supervisory roles over the activities and the identication and management of principal risks, and reviews systems of internal control of RELX Group plc.
The Boards of these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports RELX PLC and RELX NV also approved the strategy and the annual from both internal and external auditors on internal control and budgets of RELX Group plc, and received regular reports on its risk management matters.
In addition, each business area is operations, including treasury and risk management activities.
required, at the end of the financial year, to review the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management and report its findings Major transactions proposed by the Board of RELX Group plc on a detailed basis to the management of RELX Group plc.
These required the approval of the Boards of both RELX PLC and reports are summarised and, as part of the annual review of RELX NV.
The RELX PLC and RELX NV Audit Committees met effectiveness, submitted to the Audit Committee.
The Chairman on a regular basis to review the systems of internal control and of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any significant risk management of RELX Group plc.
RELX Group Operating and Governance Principles System of Internal Control Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance Review 79 Annual review Going concern As part of the year-end procedures, the RELX PLC and RELX NV The Directors of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc, having Audit Committees and Boards reviewed the effectiveness of the made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate resources systems of internal control and risk management, during the exist for the Group to continue in operational existence for the 2017 financial year.
This included consideration of risk appetite foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt dened as the Groups willingness to take on risk for each the going concern basis in preparing the 2017 financial principal risk.
Risk appetite is based on an assessment of the level statements.
In reaching these conclusions, the Directors of of residual risk, taking account of inherent risk and mitigation RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc have had due regard to effort.
The assessment is rated, in relation to the Groups the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2017, the strong objectives for the current level of residual risk, in three broad free cash ow of the Group, the Groups ability to access capital categories: reduce, accept and willing to extend.
The level of markets and the principal risks facing the Group.
residual risk which the Group is prepared to accept will vary, with a high level of mitigation effort over operational, financial and A commentary on the Groups cash ows, financial position and compliance risks.
The residual risk level for external and strategic liquidity for the year ended 31 December 2017 is set out in the risks may be extended if doing so is in line with the Groups Chief Financial Ofcers report on pages 54 to 59.
This shows that strategic objectives, values and stakeholder interests and if after taking account of available cash resources and committed shareholder returns could be increased.
As part of the annual bank facilities that back up short-term borrowings, all of the review, the Boards considered the Group's culture.
The objective Groups borrowings that mature within the next two years can be of these systems of internal control and risk management is covered.
The Groups policies on liquidity, capital management and to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve management of risks relating to interest rate, foreign exchange business objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide and credit exposures are set out on pages 147 to 152.
The principal reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material risks facing the Group are set out on pages 60 to 63. mis-statement or loss.
The Boards have confirmed, subject to the above, that as regards financial reporting risks, the respective risk management and control systems provide reasonable US certificates assurance against material inaccuracies or loss and have As required by Section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 functioned properly during the year.
In accordance with the Code, and by related rules issued by the US Securities and Exchange the Board has also considered the Groups long-term viability, Commission the Commission, the Chief Executive officer and following a robust and thorough assessment of its principal risks.
Chief Financial officer of RELX PLC and RELX NV certify in the The resulting Viability Statement is set out on page 80. respective Annual Reports 2017 on Form 20-F to be led with the Commission that they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and that they have: Responsibilities in respect of the financial designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure statements that material information relating to the Group is made known The Directors of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc are to them required to prepare financial statements as at the end of each evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls financial period, in accordance with applicable law and and procedures regulations, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committees and of the profit or loss, of the respective companies and their and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
They are responsible design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures and for maintaining proper accounting records, for safeguarding any frauds, whether or not material, that involve management assets, and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect or other employees who have a significant role in the Groups fraud and other irregularities.
internal controls The Directors are also responsible for selecting suitable presented in the RELX Group Annual Report 2017 on Form 20-F accounting policies and applying them on a consistent basis, their conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure and making judgements and estimates that are prudent and controls and procedures reasonable.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed and the RELX Group consolidated financial statements, which A Disclosure Committee, comprising the Company Secretaries of are the responsibility of the Directors of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX PLC and RELX NV and other senior managers of the Group, RELX Group plc, are prepared using accounting policies which provides assurance to the Chief Executive officer and Chief comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as Financial officer regarding their Section 302 certications.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 requires the adopted by the European Union.
Having taken into account all of Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer of RELX PLC the matters considered by the Boards and brought to the attention and RELX NV to certify in the respective Annual Reports 2017 of the Boards, the Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report on Form 20-F that they are responsible for maintaining and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and adequate internal control structures and procedures for financial understandable, and provides the information necessary for reporting and to conduct an assessment of their effectiveness.
shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, The conclusions of the assessment of internal control structures business model and strategy.
and financial reporting procedures, which are unqualied, are presented in the RELX Group Annual Report 2017 on Form 20-F. 80 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Viability statement Each year management develops a three-year strategy plan that The analysis then considers the effect of various sets of multiple reects the expected operating environment.
This plan forms risks occurring simultaneously, combined with the inability the basis for Group and divisional targets.
In 2017, our strategy to access the debt capital markets to renance scheduled is unchanged.
Our objective is to deliver improved outcomes for liabilities as they become due.
Reecting the importance of professional and business customers across industries, to help proprietary data and potential disruption or loss of data sources, them make better decisions, get better results and be more we modelled the impact of a worst-case scenario assuming the productive.
We do this by leveraging a deep understanding of invalidation of certain intellectual property rights and inability our customers to develop increasingly sophisticated information to use certain third-party information.
The analysis concluded based analytics and decision tools which combine content and that even with the simultaneous occurrence of these risks and data with analytics and technology in global platforms.
We aim no access to the debt capital markets, the Group would still have to build leading positions in long-term global growth markets sufficient funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they come due and leverage our skills, assets and resources, both to build and remain compliant with its financial covenants.
solutions for our customers and to pursue cost efficiencies.
In addition to scenario modelling, the Directors bi-annually Further details on our strategy and 2017 progress are on pages 4 review the Groups principal risks, assess the likelihood and and 5.
Whilst management selected three years for its review impact of each risk together with the effectiveness of mitigating and quantitative testing of the Groups viability, reecting the controls.
The Directors also receive regular updates from length of the annual strategy plan period, it also considered management on treasury, tax, acquisitions and divestments longer-term developments.
and periodic briengs on significant risk areas including The three-year strategic plan for our businesses includes information security, technology and legal and regulatory managements assessment of the anticipated operational risks matters.
Finally, separate from the annual strategy plan, the affecting the business and assumes that current economic Directors periodically receive updates from business area conditions broadly persist, nancing will be available on similar management on their operations, prospects and risks.
Whilst terms to those negotiated recently and interest rates will follow these reviews and discussions naturally focus more closely on market expectations.
Management then considers the viability the quantiable risks facing the business, they also cover risks of the business should unexpected events arise.
A full that may occur outside of the three-year planning period.
description of the principal risks facing our business is set out As a result of stress-testing the three-year strategic plan on pages 60 to 63 along with the mitigating controls.
In assessing and supported by regular reviews of risk during the year, the viability, a cross-functional team comprised of business unit, Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that risk, strategy and treasury personnel estimate the quantitative the Group will be able to continue its operations and meet its impact of each individual risk on the Groups revenue and profit.
liabilities as they fall due over the next three years and are not aware of any longer-term operational or strategic risks that would result in a different outcome from the three-year review.
Shareholder engagement RELX PLC and RELX NV participate in regular dialogue with their The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV commission periodic shareholders.
Each listed company reports to its shareholders reports on the attitudes and views of the companies institutional through the publication of the Groups interim and full-year shareholders and the results are presented to the respective reports, following which presentations are made by the Chairman, Boards.
The Boards also receive regular updates from the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer on the Groups Groups Head of Investor Relations on the views of shareholders business, and these are simultaneously webcast.
In addition, through abrieng which is a standing agenda item for all meetings quarterly trading updates are provided ahead of the Annual of the Boards.
General Meetings of the two listed companies and towards the end of the financial year, and a conference call with investors Annual General Meetings was held following the third-quarter trading update for 2017.
The Annual General Meetings provide an opportunity for the Boards to communicate with individual shareholders.
The In addition, a teach-in focused on developments in the Exhibitions Chairman, the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer, business was held for analysts and investors in November 2017, the Chairmen of the Board Committees, other Directors and a which was also made available on our website at www.
com representative of the external auditors are available to answer The Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer and the questions from shareholders.
Both RELX PLC and RELX NV offer investor relations team meet institutional shareholders on a electronic voting facilities in relation to proxy voting at shareholder regular basis and the Chairman also makes himself available meetings.
All shareholders have an opportunity at the AGM to put to major institutions as appropriate.
The interim and annual questions to members of the Boards about RELXs performance.
results announcements and presentations, together with the In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, details of proxy trading updates, other important announcements and corporate voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are given at the governance documents concerning the Group, are available AGM and are posted on our website following the AGM.
RELX NV has adopted a bilateral shareholder contact policy, which is also available on our website.
