pending the appointment of Mark Tucker as Chair of this with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance for directors Committee on 1 September included Jonathan Evans, Jackson issued in 2014, internal control and related financial and business Tai, Heidi Miller, David Nish and Joachim Faber, and led the reporting.
The procedures have been in place throughout the year succession process for the Group Chief Executive Officer.
The and up to 20 February 2018, the date ofapproval of this Annual process involved the engagement of independent external search Report and Accounts 2017. consultants to advise on, and support, the Committee.
It In 2014, the GAC endorsed the adoption of the COSO 2013 culminated in a recommendation from the Committee and framework for the monitoring of risk management and internal unanimous support from the Board with an announcement made control systems to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the on 12 October 2017 that John Flint would be appointed as Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. successor to Stuart Gulliver, to take effect from 21 February 2018.
The key risk management and internal control procedures include Diversity the following: The Committee took responsibility for the implementation of The Groups Global Standards Manual GSM outlines the core theBoards diversity policy against two objectives: at least 30% principles within which the Group must operate wherever we ofcandidates being women, and only using external search conduct business.
The GSM overlays all other policies and consultants signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for procedures throughout the Group.
The requirements of the Executive Search Firms.
GSM are mandatory, apply to and must be observed by all businesses within the Group, regardless of the nature or location of their activities.
Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight Committee Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board: subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the Group Chief Members Executive has been delegated authority limits and powers Laura Cha Chair within which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the Group, including the right to sub-delegate those limits and powers.
Lord Evans of Weardale Each relevant group managing director or executive Director Sir Malcolm Grant non-Director member has delegated authority within which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the business or function for which he or she is Stephen Moss non-Director member accountable.
Delegation of authority from the Board requires Lord Janvrin non-Director member those individuals to maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment of significant responsibilities and to oversee the Role and responsibilities establishment and maintenance of systems ofcontrol that are The Committee has non-executive responsibility for HSBCs appropriate to their business or function.
Authorities to enter philanthropic and community investment activities in support of into credit and market risk exposures aredelegated with limits the Groups corporate sustainability objectives.
The Committee to line management of Group companies.
The concurrence of oversees activity including both the Groups monetary the appropriate global function is required, however, to credit contributions and employee volunteering.
proposals with specified higher risk characteristics.
Credit and market risks are measured and reported at subsidiary company Principal activities and significant issues considered level and aggregated for risk concentration analysis on a during 2017 Group-wide basis.
Charitable giving Risk identification and monitoring: systems and procedures are The Committee was responsible for reviewing the Groups risk in place to identify, assess, control and monitor the material appetite for charitable donations, the budgets for future years and risk types facing HSBC.
The Groups risk measurement and long-term committed funds.
reporting systems are designed to help ensure that risks are comprehensively captured with all the attributes necessary to Community investment support well-founded decisions, that those attributes are During the year, the Committee reviewed and endorsed the accurately assessed and that information is delivered in a Groups annual community investment budget and the proposed timely manner for those risks to be successfully managed and allocation of this budget across agreed sustainability themes.
Changes in market conditions practices: processes are in place Chairmans Committee to identify new risks arising from changes in market conditions practices or customer behaviours, which could expose the The Chairmans Committee acts on behalf of the Board between Group to heightened risk of loss or reputational damage.
The scheduled Board meetings to facilitate ad hoc and other business Group employs a top and emerging risks framework at all levels requiring Board approval.
It meets when necessary, with the of the organisation, which enables itto identify current and required number of attendees determined by the nature of the forward-looking risks and to take action which either prevents proposed business to be discussed, as set out in its terms of them materialising or limits their impact.
Responsibility for risk management: all employees are responsible for identifying and managing risk within the scope Internal control of their role as part of the three lines of defence model, which is an activity-based model to delineate management The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems, the control environment.
The second line of defence sets the and for determining the aggregate level and types of risks the policy and guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provides Group is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
advice and guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under first line of defence the risk owners on effective risk the FCA Handbook and the PRA Handbook, procedures have been management.
designed for safeguarding assets against unauthorised use or Strategic plans: strategic plans are prepared for global disposal: for maintaining proper accounting records: and for businesses, global functions and geographical regions within ensuring the reliability and usefulness of financial information the framework of the Groups overall strategy.
Annual used within the business or for publication.
Operating Plans, informed by detailed analysis of risk appetite These procedures can only provide reasonable assurance against describing the types and quantum of risk that the Group is material mis-statement, errors, losses or fraud.
They are designed prepared to take in executing its strategy, are prepared and to provide effective internal control within the Group and accord HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 133 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
