Governance at a glance Governance Board of directors Chairman Executive directors at a glance Howard Davies Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson Non-executive directors Our Board The Board has fourteen directors comprising the Chairman, two Frank Dangeard Brendan Nelson executive directors and eleven independent non-executive directors, one of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
Alison Davis Baroness Noakes Biographies for each director can be found on pages 51 to 55.
Morten Friis Mike Rogers The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success Robert Gillespie Mark Seligman of RBS and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
Its role is Senior Independent Director Penny Hughes to provide leadership of RBS within a framework of prudent Dr Lena Wilson and effective controls which enables risks to be assessed Yasmin Jetha and managed.
Company Secretary In 2017, the Board and committee evaluation process was Aileen Taylor conducted internally by the Deputy Secretary and Director, Corporate Governance, and overseen by the Company Secretary.
Board in overseeing and monitoring Our Board committees Sustainable Banking Committee In order to provide effective Provides support to the Board in execution of the Groups strategic direction in relation to technology oversight and leadership, the overseeing actions being taken by Board has established a number of management to run a sustainable and innovation.
Board committees with particular long term business, with specific responsibilities.
The work of the focus on culture, people, customer, Executive Committee The Board is supported by the Board committees is discussed in brand and environmental social and their individual reports.
The terms of ethical issues.
Executive Committee comprising the executive directors and other reference for each of these committees is available on rbs.
Group Performance and senior executives.
It supports the Chief Executive in managing RBSs Remuneration Committee The full Governance report is on pages Responsible for approving businesses.
It reviews and debates relevant items before consideration 50 to 105 of the 2017 Annual Report remuneration policy and reviewing the and Accounts.
It is responsible for developing and delivering RBSs It also considers senior executive Group Audit Committee remuneration and makes strategy and it monitors and manages financial performance, capital Assists the Board in discharging its recommendations to the Board on the responsibilities for monitoring the remuneration of executive directors.
allocation, risk strategy and policy, risk management, operational issues and quality of the financial statements of RBS.
It reviews the accounting policies, Group Nominations and customer issues.
financial reporting and regulatory Governance Committee compliance practices of RBS and RBSs Assists the Board in the selection and UK Corporate Governance Code systems and standards of internal appointment of directors.
It reviews controls, and monitors the work of the structure, size and composition of Throughout the year ended 31 December 2017, RBS has complied internal audit and external audit.
the Board, and the membership and chairmanship of Board committees.
with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued Board Risk Committee It considers succession planning Provides oversight and advice to the taking into account the skills and by the Financial Reporting Council dated April 2016 except in relation Board on current and potential future expertise which will be needed on the risk exposures of RBS and future risk Board in future.
Its remit also includes to provision D. 2.2 that the Group Performance and Remuneration strategy.
It reviews RBSs compliance governance oversight.
with approved risk appetite and Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting remuneration oversees the operation of the RBS Technology and Innovation Policy Framework and submissions Committee for the Chairman and executive directors.
RBS considers that this to regulators.
The Technology and Innovation Committee was established in August is a matter which should rightly be 2017 and is responsible for assisting the reserved for the Board.
