Financial Crime Risk Management Meeting, chaired by the Group Corporate Governance Report Head of Financial Crime Risk.
Page Powers of the Board The Board 121 In exercising its duty to promote the success of the Company, the Operation of the Board 121 Board is responsible for overseeing the management of HSBC Director and Group Managing Director biographies 122 globally and, in so doing, may exercise its powers, subject to any Board of Directors 126 relevant laws, regulations and HSBC Holdings Articles of Board committees 127 Association the Articles of Association.
Internal control 133 However, certain matters, including the review and approval of Internal audit 134 annual operating plans, risk appetite, performance targets, credit Going concern and viability 134 or market risk limits, acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital Share capital and other disclosures 135 expenditure or realisation or creation of a new venture, specified Employees 138 senior appointments and any substantial change in balance sheet Statement of compliance 140 management policy, are reserved to the Board for its approval.
Operation of the Board The Board The Board regularly reviews reports on performance against The Board aims to promote the Groups long-term success, deliver financial and other strategic objectives, key business challenges, sustainable value to shareholders and promote a culture of risk, business developments, and investor and external relations.
During 2017, it also considered presentations on strategy and Led by the Group Chairman, the Board sets the Groups strategy performance by each of the global businesses and across the and risk appetite.
It also approves capital and operating plans for principal geographical areas.
achieving strategic objectives on the recommendation of All of HSBCs activities involve the measurement, evaluation, management.
acceptance and management of risk or combinations of risks.
Group Chairman TheBoard, advised by the Group Risk Committee GRC, the Conduct & Values Committee CVC and the Financial System Douglas Flint retired as Group Chairman on 30 September 2017.
Vulnerabilities Committee FSVC, promotes a strong risk Mark Tucker was appointed to the Board as an independent nongovernance culture which shapes the Groups attitude to risk.
He became nonTheBoard and these committees support the maintenance of a executive Group Chairman on 1 October 2017. strong risk management framework.
Executive Directors Under the direction of the Group Chairman, the Group Company The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows Group Chief Risk Officer are HSBC employees.
within the Board and its committees and between senior management and non-executive Directors, as well as facilitating Independent non-executive Directors induction and assisting with professional development as required.
The Board comprises a majority of independent non-executive The Group Chairman meets with the independent non-executive Directors.
Their role is to challenge and scrutinise the performance Directors without the executive Directors in attendance after each of management and to help develop proposals on strategy.
They Board meeting and otherwise, as necessary.
also review the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the Groups risk profile.
The Directors are encouraged to have free and open contact withmanagement at all levels and full access to all relevant The Board considers all non-executive Directors to be independent information.
When attending off-site Board meetings and when of HSBC and has concluded that there are no relationships or travelling for other reasons, non-executive Directors are circumstances likely to affect any individual non-executive encouraged to visit local business operations and meet local Directors judgement.
To satisfy the Rules Governing the Listing of management.
Securities on the HKEx, all non-executive Directors have provided confirmation of their independence during the year.
The nonDirectors may take independent professional advice, if necessary, executive Group Chairman was considered to be independent at HSBC Holdings expense.
Board performance evaluation Board and executive responsibilities The Board is committed to regular, independent evaluation of its The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are own effectiveness and that of its committees.
Following on from separate, with a clear division of responsibilities between the the review of the Board undertaken by JCA Group in 2016, the running of the Board and executive responsibility for running actions identified and agreed were addressed during 2017.
actions included a stronger focus for the Board on individual business unit strategy and performance, as well as opportunities Jonathan Symonds was appointed as Senior Independent Director to address particular business themes, such as digital and IT SID in April 2017 following the retirement of Rachel Lomax.
The actions that have not already been closed out from The roles of the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and this review form part of an ongoing assessment of the Group's SIDare set out in writing and are available on the website at governance framework being led by the Group Chairman.
com about-hsbc corporate-governance boardDirector performance evaluation committees.
For non-executive Directors, individual performance evaluation is The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and undertaken by the Group Chairman.
In 2017, this involved a implementation of strategy to the Group Chief Executive.
To assist discussion about each Directors individual contribution, their the Group Chief Executive in his day-to-day management of individual training and development needs, and the time theGroup, as delegated by the Board, he is supported with commitment that is required to continue to deliver the role recommendations and advice from the Group Management Board effectively.
GMB, an executive forum which he chairs.
Executive Directors individual performance evaluation is There are special meetings of the GMB that provide oversight of undertaken as part of the performance management process risk matters the Risk Management Meeting RMM, chaired by forall employees.
The results are considered by the Group the Group Chief Risk Officer and of financial crime risk the Remuneration Committee when determining variable pay awards HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 121 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
