70 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF WORK OF THE BOARD ROLE OF THE BOARD IN THE THE BOARD RIGHTS ISSUE The Board retains responsibility for the The Board is collectively responsible for the approval of certain matters which include: When preliminary discussions took place long-term success of the Group.
Its aim is to Group strategy: the annual budget: the with Aviva for the potential acquisition create and deliver sustainable shareholder dividend policy: major investments and of its interests in the APP portfolio, not value whilst being mindful of the interests of disposals: and the financial structure.
only did the Board consider whether the other key stakeholders.
Details of how the There is an approved Schedule of Matters acquisition was in line with the Companys Company generates and preserves value are Reserved for Decision by the Board, which strategy and aspirations and would enhance set out in the Strategic Report from page 04. isreviewed periodically.
shareholder returns, but we also discussed The success of the Company informs all Most Board meetings take place in the appropriate funding mix of additional equity or additional borrowing.
We were of the decisions that the Board takes, from the London but during the year meetings and mindful that the Company had relatively strategic direction of the Company, through asset tours took place in Dsseldorf, Paris recently raised equity in September 2016 to its relationship with the Groups employees: and the UK Midlands.
The Board met with through a placing.
When considering the the impact of the business on the community: management teams in these locations and funding options, thought was also given to the environment: and the interests of other had tours of the Groups property portfolios.
whether the development pipeline, which key stakeholders, including its customers The Board values meeting and hearing continued to show strong momentum, should and suppliers.
Please see Relations With from different people in the business be part funded by new equity and whether Shareholders and Other Stakeholders on who are close to the Companys markets shareholders would be supportive of doing page 82 for further information.
and who can tell the Board what they are so.
We concluded, that raising equity through seeing and hearing on the ground, as well a Rights Issue was in the best interests of INDEPENDENCE OF THE NONas from external sources who give a wider the Company.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS perspective on market trends.
During the Once the decision to acquire the year, presentations were given by JLL on the remaining part of the APP portfolio and fund it Details of the Directors, including the industrial market outlook and CBRE on the by way of a Rights Issue had been made, the skills and experience that they bring to Companys valuation results.
Marco Simonetti, Board stayed closely involved in the project the Board, are set out on page 64-65. the Business Unit Director for Southern through to completion.
Regular updates The Board comprises a Non-Executive Europe, and Andreas Fleischer, the Business were provided by the Executive Directors on Chairman, four Executive Directors, and Unit Director for Northern Europe, also gave the progress of the acquisition, the timing of seven independent Non-Executive Directors, presentations on their business areas and the transactions and the preparation of the all of who are equally responsible for the Rights Issue prospectus.
We received progress tours of the assets and developments for effective stewardship and leadership of the updates from David and Soumen, and held a which they are responsible.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors number of ad hoc Board meetings.
Directors to gain further insight on market is considered independent in character and Before the Rights Issue was launched, trends and provides the context for them to judgement.
The Chairman was considered Slaughter and May, our corporate lawyers, make strategic decisions about acquisitions, independent on appointment and the Board attended a Board meeting to take us through disposals and the development pipeline.
still considers him to be so.
An important element of this is that we took responsibility for INDUCTION TRAINING DIVISIONS OF RESPONSIBILITY ensuring the accuracy and verification of Newly appointed Directors participate in a the information contained in the prospectus The Chairman is responsible for the as well as the quality of the documentation.
structured and tailored induction programme leadership of the Board and ensuring We had advice from our corporate advisers and on appointment receive a comprehensive its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch and UBS who pack of information on the Group and its The day-to-day running of the Group provided their views on the market as well as governance structure.
is delegated by the Board to the Chief likely shareholder response to the transaction.
As we reported last year, Soumen Das Executive who is supported by the Executive We were also kept regularly informed joined the Board in January 2017 and has Committee.
The Senior Independent Director about progress from the launch of the issue had a demanding first year.
His induction is and other Non-Executive Directors challenge until it closed, both in terms of market set out in the case study on the next page.
constructively and hold the Executive reaction and investor feedback.
Throughout the rest of the year, we were Directors accountable for the delivery of the kept informed about how the proceeds of the Companys strategy.
Rights Issue had been invested, to provide The division of responsibilities of the comfort that the Directors were complying Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior with the Use of Proceeds statement in the Independent Director are set out in writing prospectus.
In addition, our corporate advisers and approved by the Board.
For further attended a Board meeting at which they information on the responsibility of each provided feedback from shareholders about Board member, see page 66. the conduct of the Rights Issue.
GERALD CORBETT 71 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KEY ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD DURING 2017 Review and discussion of strategic objectives and plans to achieve them.
STRATEGY AND LEADERSHIP Review of the Medium Term Plan.
Presentation from the Companys independent valuers on the 2016 Full year, and 2017 Half year valuation.
Rolling reviews of the performance of investments and developments over the previous three years.
Approval of the acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent interest in the APP portfolio.
Approval of three large debt transactions.
Reports on the outlook for the occupier and investment markets.
Reviews of the wider economic environment, political uncertainty and Brexit considerations.
Annual strategy day including a review of asset plans and portfolio planning.
GOVERNANCE Approval of 2016 financial results and final dividend and the 2017 Half year financial results and interim dividend.
Approval of Principal Risks and risk appetite.
Review of the conclusions of the 2016 Board evaluation.
Review of the monthly Health and Safety report.
Annual review of corporate governance and an update on corporate and regulatory changes and reporting requirements.
Presentations from the Companys brokers on shareholders analysts attitudes to the Company.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Review of investor feedback.
Approval of the Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement.
Report on Code of Ethics including the Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies.
Annual reports on community engagement and charitable giving.
Annual report on results of customer satisfaction survey.
CUSTOMERS Tours of customer assets in Dsseldorf, Paris, and the UK Midlands.
Review of people strategy, succession planning and talent management.
EMPLOYEES 2016 all employee engagement survey results.
Elizabeth and her team had planned a thorough induction programme for me to meet the team and visit some of the principal assets in my first few weeks.
However, my induction didnt go quite according to plan as events quickly overtook us.
When I started, as usual, I met with my fellow Directors and toured some of our assets on the Slough Trading Estate and Paris.
However, the business was not only in the midst of preparing for the 2016 year end as one might have expected, but soon became involved in a Rights Issue and the acquisition of the 50 per cent share in the APP portfolio that it did not already own.
These transactions quickly replaced the planned induction programme.
This was a whirlwind introduction to SEGRO and its people and accelerated considerably my knowledge and understanding of the business.
Rather than meeting people in an orderly induction programme, I was thrown into the middle of fast moving events and got to know my new colleagues and the issues which affected the business in real time.
The period between the 2016 Results and the Rights Issue SOUMEN DAS INDUCTION provided a more intensive period of investor relations than would Before joining SEGRO as CFO in January 2017, I checked in regularly normally have happened and proved valuable for me to hear firstwith David to keep in touch with the business and to ensure that I hand from shareholders their thoughts about the business.
could quickly get up to speed with the key issues facing the business Once the Rights Issue had completed, I did finally manage on joining.
I was grateful to Justin Read who found time for some to complete the rest of my induction, in particular meeting my helpful handover meetings before he retired.
This preparatory work Continental European colleagues and getting to visit plenty of assets.
SOUMEN DAS 72 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP CONTINUED STRATEGY DAY Like most Boards, at each meeting we have a full agenda of things We started with a session sharing our thoughts on the market.
It is to discuss and decisions to make, so it is important that at least particularly helpful for the Executives to hear the Non-Executive once a year the Directors have some time to take stock, consider Directors thoughts and experiences from other businesses in which the wider environment in which the Company operates and review they are involved.
I said last year that one of the actions from the our strategic direction.
2016 Strategy Day was to continue to remain alert to the changing This year, to set the scene for our discussions, we started with environment and much of the discussion was around the macro a tour of big box warehouses in the logistics Golden Triangle and geopolitical uncertainty.
in the Midlands, to view some of our own assets, including Andy Gulliford and Phil Redding presented their thoughts on SEGRO Logistics Park East Midlands Gateway SLPEMG, and the occupational and investment markets.
We continue to carefully also those owned by some of our key competitors.
We met with monitor these markets although we recognise that we do not have the management team from Roxhill and heard first hand from perfect visibility.
them the prospects in the region and their vision for future After two days of tours, presentations, debate and discussion, developments.
This tour, especially the visit to SLPEMG, brought we left the meeting with agreement that the Groups strategy to life the scale of the development opportunities in this region and remains appropriate and that we have a robust plan for delivering also set the context for the investment decisions the Board will face meaningful growth and attractive shareholder returns over the over the next few years.
As usual, a comprehensive set of papers was circulated before GERALD CORBETT the two-day meeting to provide the background and context for the discussions.
Some were regular annual papers, such as the Medium Term Plan and the conclusions of the Asset Planning exercise while a number had been prepared on specific topics suchas target markets for urban warehousing.
73 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD COMMITTEES Induction training The Board has delegated a number of its Carol Fairweather joined the Board in January 2018 and a detailed induction programme responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and will take place in her first few months with the Company.
A flavour of her likely induction Remuneration Committees.
The Terms of isset out below: Reference of these Committees can be found at www.
Internal External Tours The Audit Committee monitors the Individual meetings with Meetings with: Tours of the Companys integrity of the Financial Statements, reviews other Directors.
assets in: the relationship with the auditor and CBRE valuation partner.
effectiveness of the internal control system, Meetings with certain Slough.
including internal audit, and is responsible for Business Unit Directors, Greater London.
overseeing the risk management process and Heads of Function and KPMG internal audit partner.
Further details of the othersenior managers.
The key relationship work of the Audit Committee can be found in directorsat the Companys Paris.
the Accountability section on page 77. corporate brokers, UBS The Nomination Committee ensures and BAML.
that the Board has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to operate Ongoing training is provided to all Directors either during Board or Committee meetings effectively and oversee delivery of the orthrough one-to-one meetings with senior managers.
The work of the Nomination Committee is detailed in the Effectiveness section on page 75.
The Remuneration Committee determines EVALUATION DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS the reward strategy for the Executive LIABILITY INSURANCE Directors to align their interests with those The Board has a policy of undertaking of shareholders.
Further information on this externally facilitated evaluations every three The Company maintains directors and Committee is set out in the Remuneration years and internal reviews in the intervening officers liability insurance, which gives section on page 84. two years.
Independent Audit are currently appropriate cover for legal action brought undertaking an external evaluation, the against its Directors.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND last one having taken place in 2014.
BOARD COMMITTEE MEETINGS The conclusions of Independent Audits review CONFLICTS were not available at the time of printing this During 2017, there were seven scheduled The Board operates a policy to identify and, Report, but a detailed summary of the review Board meetings.
A number of other when appropriate, manage actual or potential will be provided in the next Annual Report.
unscheduled Board meetings and telephone conflicts of interest affecting Directors.
conference calls were also held during the Directors are required to submit any actual or AVAILABILITY OF THE CHAIRMAN, year, as the need arose.
Each Director has potential conflicts of interest they may have THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND THE committed to attend all scheduled Board and with the Company to the Board for approval.
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY Committee meetings and would not do so Any conflicts of interest are recorded and only in exceptional circumstances.
Similarly, The Chairman, the Chief Executive and reviewed by the Board, at each meeting.
every effort is made by Directors to attend the Group Company Secretary are always Directors have a continuing duty to keep ad hoc meetings either in person or by using available for the Directors to discuss any issues the Board updated about any changes to conference facilities.
On the rare occasion concerning Board meetings or other matters.
that a Director cannot attend a meeting they All Directors have access to the advice and are still provided with the papers in advance services of the Group Company Secretary, of the meeting and are given an opportunity who is responsible for ensuring compliance to discuss them with the Chairman or the with Board procedures.
Directors also have Chief Executive.
the right to seek independent professional advice at the Companys reasonable expense.
74 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during 2017 is set out in the table below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Gerald Corbett 7 7 N A 2 2 N A Soumen Das 7 7 N A N A N A Christopher Fisher 7 7 3 3 2 2 2 2 Margaret Ford 7 7 3 3 2 2 2 2 Andy Gulliford 7 7 N A N A N A Martin Moore 7 7 3 3 2 2 2 2 Phil Redding 7 7 N A N A N A Mark Robertshaw 7 7 N A N A 2 2 David Sleath 7 7 N A 2 2 N A Doug Webb 7 7 3 3 1 2 N A Total number of meetings 7 3 2 2 ROLE OF THE EXECUTIVE AND The Executive Committee delegates EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES some of its responsibilities to a further three Committees: Responsibility for all operational matters, including the implementation of Group The Investment Committee: strategy, is delegated to the Chief Executive.
The Operations Committee: and The Executive Committee supports the Chief Executive in the delivery of strategy and The Risk Committee.
reviews operational and financial performance.
These Committees have their own Terms of The Committee carries out a pre-approval Reference and membership includes at least review of items requiring Board approval one member of the Executive Committee and and acts as a primary approval channel for some members of the Leadership team.
matters below Board approval level at each of its meetings.
It also considers any health and safety incidents.
The Executive Committee has its own Terms of Reference.
This Committee meets formally each month and during the year also met informally most weeks to consider day-to-day issues.
