com Annual report 2017 Beazley 81 Statement of corporate governance Compliance with Code provisions The board confirms that the company and the group have complied with the provisions set out in the 2014 version of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2017.
The company has not, however, tendered for audit services in the past ten years as explained on page 91.
An audit tender will be carried out in 2018 with a view to appointing a new external auditor for the 2019 accounting year.
The Code can be viewed on the www.
The governance section, together with the directors and remuneration reports, describes how we have applied the main principles of the Code and complied with its detailed provisions.
The board considers that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: and that they provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
The companys auditors have reviewed the companys compliance to the extent required by the UK listing rules for review by auditors of UK listed companies.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describe how the main principles identified in the Code have been applied by the group.
Governance framework The company operates through the main board, the managing agent board, the board of the Irish insurance company that accepts non-life reinsurance premiums ceded by the corporate member, Beazley Underwriting Limited and their board committees.
The group has established properly constituted audit and risk, remuneration and nomination committees of the board.
There are terms of reference for each committee and details of their main responsibilities and activities in 2017 are set out on pages 82 to 95.
The board has also appointed an executive committee that is chaired by Andrew Horton and acts under delegated authority from the board.
The executive committee meets on a monthly basis and is responsible for managing all activities of the operational group.
The governance framework of the main board and its committees is shown in the diagram on the following page.
The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate, with each having clearly defined responsibilities.
They maintain a close working relationship to ensure the integrity of the boards decision making process and the successful delivery of the groups strategy.
The board evaluates the membership of its individual board committees on an annual basis and the board committees are governed by terms of reference which detail the matters delegated to each committee and for which they have authority to make decisions.
The terms of reference for the board committees can be found on www.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Company secretary Shareholders Christine Oldridge Key responsibilities The company secretarys Chairman responsibilities include ensuring Dennis Holt good information flows within the board and its committees and Key responsibilities between senior management and The chairman leads the board, managing constructive non-executive directors, as well as dialogue between executive and non-executive directors.
advising the board through the He is responsible for ensuring that the board discharges Chairman on all governance matters.
The board Key responsibilities Leadership, strategic aims, risks, values and standards.
Chief executive Chairman Dennis Holt Andrew Horton Members Key responsibilities George Blunden Christine LaSala Robert Stuchbery The chief executive is responsible 2 Martin Bride Sir Andrew Likierman Clive Washbourn for the implementation and delivery Adrian Cox Neil Maidment Catherine Woods of the strategy agreed by the board 1 Angela Crawford-Ingle David Roberts and the day to day management of Andrew Horton John Sauerland the business.
Audit and risk committee Nomination committee Remuneration Executive committee committee Chairman Chairman Chairman Angela Crawford-Ingle Dennis Holt Andrew Horton Chairman Members Members Members Sir Andrew Likierman George Blunden George Blunden Mark Bernacki Members Christine LaSala Sir Andrew Likierman Martin Bride George Blunden Robert Stuchbery Adrian Cox Key responsibilities John Sauerland Catherine Woods Mike Donovan The nomination committee is Key responsibilities Ian Fantozzi Key responsibilities focused on evaluating the board of The remuneration committee Patrick Hartigan The audit and risk committee assists directors, ensuring an appropriate ensures that remuneration Anthony Hobkinson the board of directors in fulfilling its balance of skills, considering and arrangements support the strategic Dan Jones oversight responsibilities for the recommending board and committee aims of the business and enable Neil Maidment financial reporting process, the candidates and considering board the recruitment, motivation and Penny Malik system of internal control, the audit succession.
retention of senior executives while Andrew Pryde process and the companys process complying with the requirements of Christian Tolle for monitoring compliance with laws regulatory and governance bodies, Clive Washbourn and regulations and the Beazley code satisfying the expectations of of conduct.
It also ensures that Key responsibilities shareholders and remaining an effective risk management The executive committee manages consistent with the expectations process exists in the major regulated all operational activities of the group of the wider employee population.
subsidiaries and that the Beazley and acts under the powers delegated group has an effective framework by the board.
It has responsibility for and process for managing its risks.
proposing strategic initiatives and group syndicate business plans to the board as well as for reviewing the risk management framework and oversight of the groups sub-committees and business functions.
1 David Roberts was appointed to the Beazley plc board with effect from 1 November 2017.
2 Clive Washbourn resigned from the Beazley plc board with effect from 20 July 2017.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 83 The board The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
This includes inter alia: strategic matters: statutory matters intended to generate and preserve value over the longer term acquisitions: approval of financial statements and dividends: appointments and terminations of directors, officers and auditors: and appointments of committees and setting of their terms of reference.
It is responsible for: reviewing group performance against budgets: approving material contracts: determining authority levels within which management is required to operate: reviewing the groups annual forecasts: and approving the groups corporate business plans, including capital adequacy and the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment.
The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in pursuing its strategic objectives.
To this end, the board is responsible for the capital strategy, including the groups Solvency II internal model.
The board consists of a non-executive chairman, Dennis Holt, together with eight independent non-executive directors, of whom George Blunden is the senior independent non-executive director, and four executive directors, of whom Andrew Horton is chief executive.
The non-executive directors, who have been appointed for specified terms, are considered by the board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
George Blunden has served a term in excess of six years and continues to bring strong challenge and insight to the board and its committees.
His appointment was extended for a further three years at the 2016 AGM, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
The nomination committee carried out a rigorous assessment of George Blundens continuing independence, taking into account the length of his tenure on the boards of both Beazley plc and Beazley Furlonge Ltd, and concluded that he remained independent.
As senior independent director George will, if required, deputise for the chairman.
He is available to talk to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns or if there are any unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be brought to his attention.
David Roberts was appointed to the board as a non-executive director on 1 November 2017 and will replace Dennis Holt as non-executive chairman at the AGM in March 2018.
Dennis Holt will be stepping down from the board at that time, having served two full three-year terms as chairman.
Clive Washbourn resigned from the board on 20 July 2017.
In accordance with the Code, the board has recommended that all directors should submit themselves for election or re-election on an annual basis and as such all directors will stand for election or re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Biographies of current board members appear in the board of directors section of this report.
The biographies indicate the high level and wide range of business experience that are essential to manage a business of this size and complexity.
A well defined operational and management structure is in place and the roles and responsibilities of senior executives and key members of staff are clearly defined.
Board meeting attendance The full board meets at least five times each year and more frequently where business needs require.
In 2017, in addition to the five regular board meetings, there were further meetings to consider the Q3 2017 interim statement and director changes.
Attendance at the meetings was high.
All the directors also attend an annual strategy day.
The remuneration, nomination, and audit and risk committees had additional ad hoc meetings with full attendance.
The chairman holds meetings as required with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Attendance at the regular board and committee meetings is set out in the table below: Audit and risk Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee No.
Director meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended George P Blunden 5 5 6 6 5 5 5 5 Martin L Bride 5 5 Adrian P Cox 5 5 Angela D Crawford-Ingle 5 5 6 6 Dennis Holt 5 5 5 5 D Andrew Horton 5 5 Christine LaSala 5 5 6 6 Sir J Andrew Likierman 5 5 5 5 5 5 Neil P Maidment 5 5 John P Sauerland 5 5 5 5 1 Robert A Stuchbery 5 5 6 5 2 Clive A Washbourn 3 2 Catherine Woods 5 5 6 6 David Roberts 1 1 1 Robert Stuchbery was unable to attend the audit and risk committee meeting on 27 January 2017 due to a scheduling conflict.
2 Clive Washbourn was unable to attend the board meeting on 10 May 2017 due to illness.
Where a director joined or stood down from the board or board committee during the year only the number of meetings following appointment or before standing down are shown.
Board discussions during the year At each scheduled meeting the board receives reports from the chief executive and finance director on the performance and results of the group and also receives reports from the chief underwriting officer and the chief risk officer and any board committees following their meetings.
In addition the board receives updates from the group operating functions on major projects and corporate governance matters.
There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
Meetings are structured to ensure that there is sufficient time for consideration and debate of all matters.
During the year, the board has spent time particularly on: review of strategic initiatives: review of the competitive landscape: discussions over prioritisation of investment expenditure: Solvency II reporting: review of risk management framework, including risk appetite: continued monitoring of market conditions prior to and following the UK referendum and consideration of the implications of its result: understanding the General Data Protection Regulation and review of the project due for implementation in May 2018: review of the ORSA: discussion on capital position and dividends: cyber product development and cyber security: new acquisitions and the Beazley Insurance dac expansion plans for the UK, Spain, France and Germany: review of developments in corporate governance and receipt of key legal and regulatory updates including revisions to modern slavery legislation and the PRA FCA Senior Insurance Managers Regime: and discussion of the outcome of the board evaluation and effectiveness review and agreement of improvement opportunities.
In November 2017, Beazley signed up to HM Treasurys Women in Finance Charter.
The aim of the Charter is to help build a more balanced and fair financial services industry, by working together with other signatories to see gender balance at all levels across the sector.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 85 The Beazley diversity and inclusion steering group provides diversity and inclusion support for all employees and aims to foster open dialogue about gender, social, ethnicity, LGBT, disability and parental carer inclusion.
Two new networks were recently launched in 2017: the LGBT and young professionals networks.
Beazley also joined Stonewall and the Business Disability Forum in 2017.
Both organisations will work closely with Beazley to provide the best possible support for our colleagues in the LGBT community, and for those living with disabilities, to help Beazley become a more inclusive and supportive place to work.
Training, information and support New directors receive appropriate induction training when they join the board of Beazley plc.
They are asked to complete a skills and knowledge assessment and the company secretary, in conjunction with talent management, arranges and coordinates the appropriate training.
There are a number of modules available to the directors which are regularly reviewed to ensure they meet best practice.
Where appropriate, mentoring is provided to new directors by an external provider.
Annual training is provided for all directors.
The training sessions include business and industry specific topics and information on changes to director duties and responsibilities and to legal, accounting, information security and tax matters.
Bespoke training may also be provided if requested by any director.
To enable the board to function effectively and directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have access to an electronic information repository to support their activities.
During 2017 the board continued to support the maintenance and development of Beazleys information security programme to address changing and emerging cyber security threats.
All directors allocate sufficient time to the company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The terms and conditions of appointment for all the non-executive directors set out the expected time commitment and they agree that they have sufficient time to provide what is expected of them.
There is an agreed principle that directors may take independent professional advice if necessary at the companys expense, assuming that the expense is reasonable.
This is in addition to the access which every director has to the company secretary.
The company secretary is charged by the board with ensuring that board procedures are followed.
Board performance evaluation Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board is required to undertake formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors, and this should be externally facilitated every three years.
An externally facilitated assessment of the board and its committees will be conducted in 2018.
A self-assessment of the board and its committees was carried out in 2017, the results of which are described in the nomination committee report on page 94.
No significant issues were raised.
Audit and internal control The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the accounts are explained in the statement of directors responsibilities and the independent auditors report, together with the statement of the directors on going concern in the directors report.
The board confirms that there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant compliance issues and risks facing the group.
All significant known risks are captured in the Beazley risk register and monitored on a monthly basis.
The risk register and the related internal capital assessment process are subject to review, challenge and approval by the board.
The board agreed the 2017 risk appetite for the group at the end of 2016 and, throughout 2017, the board has considered and acted upon the information presented to it in order to make risk based decisions against the 2017 risk appetite.
Key components of the risk management framework include monthly control self assessments and six monthly risk assessments, with ad hoc risk assessments being conducted when required.
These matters have been considered by the executive risk and regulatory committee each month and the audit and risk committee and board quarterly.
In addition, the board has considered the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment report in the past year.
This risk management framework has provided the board with an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing the risks to the company, and accords with the UK Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Business Reporting document.
The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives within the risk appetite set by the board.
com Statement of corporate governance continued The key procedures that the board has established to ensure that internal controls are effective and commensurate with a group of Beazleys size include: day-to-day supervision of the business by the executive directors: review and analysis by the various group committees of standard monthly, quarterly and periodic reporting, as prescribed by the board: review of financial, operational and assurance reports from management: and review of any significant issues arising from internal and external audits.
The board therefore confirms that it has, during 2017, reviewed the effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, which have been in place throughout the year under review and continue to operate up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The chairman of the audit and risk committee also had regular contact with external and internal auditors during 2017 and members of the audit and risk committee met individually with the Central Bank of Ireland and the Prudential Regulation Authority.
Further information on the role of the audit and risk committee is set out on page 87 and further information on risk management at Beazley is set out in the risk management report.
Shareholder engagement The company places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The annual report and accounts and the interim report are available from www.
com and, where elected or on request, will be mailed to shareholders and to stakeholders who have an interest in the groups performance.
The company responds to individual letters from shareholders and maintains a separate investor relations centre within the existing www.
com website, as a repository for all investor relations matters.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, as well as general presentations attended by executive directors, after the preliminary and interim results.
The board is advised of any specific comments from institutional investors, to enable it to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions at the companys annual general meeting.
The company has the authority within its articles to communicate with its shareholders using electronic and website communication and to allow for electronic proxy voting.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 87 Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee Membership and attendance Attendance at full Appointment meetings during 2017 Angela Crawford-Ingle 27 March 2013 6 6 George Blunden 1 October 2010 6 6 Christine LaSala 1 July 2016 6 6 1 Robert Stuchbery 11 August 2016 5 6 Catherine Woods 11 March 2016 6 6 1 Robert Stuchbery was unable to attend the audit and risk committee meeting on 27 January 2017 due to a scheduling conflict.
Angela Crawford-Ingle The audit and risk committee is required The internal and external auditors attend The board has delegated to meet at least quarterly, with meetings committee meetings and regularly meet oversight of audit and risk scheduled at appropriate intervals in in private with the committee.
In addition matters to the audit and the reporting and audit cycle.
Additional the chairman of the audit and risk risk committee which currently meetings are held as required.
In 2017 committee has regular contact with the there were a total of six meetings, reflecting external and internal auditors throughout comprises Angela Crawfordthe workload of the committee during the year and members of the committee Ingle chairman, George the year.
met individually with the Central Bank Blunden, Catherine Woods, of Ireland and the Prudential Regulation Christine LaSala and Robert As part of the appointments process Authority during 2017. the nomination committee reviewed Stuchbery.
The members of the membership of the committee Responsibilities of the committee the committee are unchanged during the year.
Taken as a whole, the The committees main audit-related from 2016 which has aided us committee has an appropriate balance responsibilities are broadly unchanged in carrying out the full range of of skills specific to the industry within from the prior year and are detailed in which the group operates, including our responsibilities in a the section below.
recent and relevant financial experience, consistent manner.
as required by the UK Corporate The primary role of the audit and risk Governance Code.
Details of the committee in relation to financial The committees key overall responsibilities members financial, accounting and reporting is to monitor the integrity of are broadly unchanged from the prior other relevant financial experience are the financial statements of the group year.
The committees objective is to given in their biographies under board and any formal announcements relating assist the board of directors in fulfilling of directors on pages 78 to 79.
All to the groups financial performance, its oversight responsibilities for the committee members are independent and to review significant financial financial reporting process, the system non-executives.
The committee of internal control, the audit process and has continued to approach its review of the companys process for monitoring There is regular attendance by plc audit the annual report as a whole with focus compliance with laws and regulations and risk committee members at the on behalf of the board on considering and the code of conduct.
The committee groups regulated entity audit and or risk the concept of fair, balanced and receives information from, and makes committees, further demonstrating our understandable.
We have challenged enquiries of, numerous functions across proactive approach to understanding our ourselves to ensure the key messages the business with a view to ensuring control and risk environment at all levels about the performance of the business that the control and risk environment of the organisation.
are delivered in a manner consistent continues to be appropriate for the with our own understanding and group.
In particular, 2017 saw the Only members of the committee have interpretation of the information we committee consider a number of specific the right to attend meetings: however receive.
issues including our proposed external standing invitations are extended to the audit tender strategy, initial discussions chief executive officer, the group finance and presentations in respect of IFRS 17 director, the chief underwriting officer, including potential areas of impact, the the chief risk officer, the head of internal ongoing changes in the regulatory and audit and the head of compliance.
Other tax environments, and emerging risks.
non-members may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the committee.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee continued Specific committee responsibilities are Full details of the terms of reference c Compliance set out below: of the committee are available at review the arrangements by which www.
com employees of the company may, in a Financial and narrative reporting confidence, raise concerns about monitor the integrity of the companys Principal activities possible improprieties in matters financial statements and any other The principal activities undertaken of financial reporting or other areas: formal announcements relating to by the committee in discharging its review procedures and systems the companys financial performance: responsibilities in 2017 are described relating to fraud detection, prevention review the annual report before below: of bribery and money laundering: and submission to, and approval by, the review the regular reports from the board, and before clearance by the a Significant financial statement compliance officer and keep under external auditors.
This covers critical reportingissues review the adequacy and effectiveness accounting policies, significant The significant financial statement of the groups compliance function.
financial reporting judgements, reporting issues, along with the the going concern assumption, significant matters and accounting d Internal audit compliance with accounting judgements that the committee recommend the appointment or standards and other requirements considered during the year under termination of appointment of the under applicable law and regulations review, are set out below.
head of internal audit: and governance codes applicable monitor and review the effectiveness to the financial statements: and i Valuation of insurance liabilities of the companys internal audit advise the board on whether, taken As further explained in note 1 to the function: as a whole, the annual report is fair, financial statements, the groups policy receive a report on the results of balanced and understandable and is to hold sufficient provisions, including the internal auditors work, review provides the information necessary those to cover claims which have been internal audit reports and make for shareholders to assess the incurred but not reported IBNR to recommendations to the board on companys performance, business meet all liabilities as they fall due.
The a periodic basis: and model and strategy.
reserving for these claims represents review and approve the internal audit the most critical estimate in the groups plan, charter and ensure the function b Internal control and risk management financial statements.
During 2017, we has the necessary resources and systems observed a significant amount of natural access to information.
review the companys internal catastrophe activity which impacted financial controls and the companys many lines of business underwritten by e External audit internal control and risk management Beazley.
While there remains uncertainty recommend to the board, to be put systems: advise the board on the around the final cost of these events to to the shareholders for approval, companys risk management the company, the committee notes that the appointment, reappointment framework, which includes the risk Beazley continues to adopt a prudent and removal of the external auditors: management objectives, risk approach where uncertainty exists as oversee the relationship with the appetite, risk culture and assignment to the final cost of settlement.
external auditor including planning, of risk management responsibilities: reviewing of findings and assessing review risk reports and management The audit and risk committee receives overall effectiveness: information to enable a clear regular reports from both the internal approve auditors remuneration understanding of the key risks and group actuary and the external audit for audit, assurance and non-audit controls in the business: team, as the output of independent services.
review any breaches of risk appetite projections are reviewed at key reporting review and approve the annual audit and the adequacy of proposed action: quarters.
In the latter part of the year, plan to ensure that it is consistent review the identification of future the group actuary has reported both with the scope of the audit risks, including considering emerging informally and formally on the results engagement, having regard to the trends and future risk strategy: and of the third quarter reserving process, seniority, expertise and experience review the remit of the risk which the committee considers to be of the audit team: and management function and ensure a key control as this process provides a review the findings of the audit with it has adequate resources and level of informed independent challenge the external auditor.
appropriate access to information for the reserve position.
To support to enable it to perform its function the year end view, the committee has f Actuaries effectively.
received a detailed paper in support of recommend to the board the the level of margin held within technical appointment and termination of any reserves in the groups statement firm of consulting actuaries used for of financial position.
Management the provision of Syndicate Actuarial confirmed that they remain satisfied Opinions and or review of insurance that the outstanding claims reserves reserving: and included in the financial statements monitor performance, determine provide an appropriate margin over independence and approve fees.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 89 projected ultimate claims costs to allow controls, in respect of claims reserves, iv Recoverability of insurance receivables for the risks and uncertainties within premium income estimates and other During 2017, management noted, in part the portfolio, and the committee was key financial statement captions.
The due to the continued growth of the group, satisfied that there were no errors or committee was satisfied that, based a number of additional controls and data inconsistencies that were material in on the information provided to them, enhancements which could be made the context of the financial statements the estimates used in the financial close to aid the process of aged debt analysis, as a whole.
as well as the end to end processing and monitoring of debtor balances.
As with the prior years, the committee On the basis of the reporting received The committee noted the additional also considers the report of the external and reviewed during the last 12 months, efficiencies and the enhanced control auditor following its re-projection of the audit and risk committee remains environment expected to be delivered reserves using its own methodologies.
satisfied that the estimation and control as a result of these changes.
On the basis of the work the auditor processes deployed by the group are undertook, it reported no material appropriate.
Following a review of the groups year misstatements in respect of the level end debtor position, the committee is of reserves held by the group at the The committee also discussed the likely comfortable that the level of insurance balance sheet date.
impact of IFRS 17 and in particular the receivables on the groups balance sheet impact that this new standard would do not require adjustment.
On the basis of the information provided have on the current financial close by the group actuary throughout the process, including data flows and v Recoverability of reinsurance assets year and at the year end, the consistent controls.
The committee expects that The committee received confirmation application of Beazleys reserving this new standard will remain a key from management that the majority of philosophy, and the review work carried focus over the next 3-4 years.
The Beazleys reinsurance receivables are out by our external auditor, the committee committee notes managements due from highly rated institutions.
Based was satisfied that the reserves held on intention to undertake more detailed on previous experience, the committee the group statement of financial position impact analysis throughout 2018 and has not noted any instances where poor at 31 December 2017 are reasonable.
will monitor the progress of this analysis quality reinsurers have led to a material throughout the year.
financial loss and is comfortable with ii Financial close process the monitoring processes management The audit and risk committee continues iii Valuation of financial assets at have described and put in place to to focus on the groups close and fairvalue ensure this continues.
estimation processes generally, and The group reports its financial assets the related controls carried out by the at fair value.
The board is responsible Considering management updates business and specifically the finance for setting the investment strategy, and supported by the external auditors team.
The close process is particularly defining the risk appetite and overseeing report on the output of their work over important in the current environment the internal and outsourced providers assessing the recoverability of the where insurers are being required to via the chief investment officer.
The groups reinsurance assets, the committee adhere to increasingly tight regulatory committee notes that the overall was satisfied that the judgements reporting timelines and the audit and investment strategy is broadly unchanged applied by management in making risk committee remains committed to from prior periods.
The committee provision for bad debts are appropriate.
ensuring that the robust nature of our receives updates from the group finance control environment is not compromised director and or the chief investment vi Dividends, going concern and during this period of change.
officer and it has reported for 2017 that viability the investment portfolio is in line with During key reporting periods, During the year and at year end, we the board approved risk appetite, that management outlined to the committee received updates from management on carrying values of the portfolio as at in detail their support for the basis of the level of estimations used in our close 31 December 2017 are appropriate and preparation adopted in the financial process and the controls carried out to that the valuation methodologies applied statements and any statements around review these estimates retrospectively.
to each hierarchy level are consistent the future viability of the group.
In The main areas of estimation and with the accounting policies.
Committee addition, the committee considers judgement remain materially consistent members are invited to and regularly the appropriateness of managements with prior years, with IBNR representing attend the investment committee.
dividend strategy of growing the the most crucial estimate within the ordinary dividend each year and the groups financial statements.
The No misstatements that were material in appropriateness of applying this strategy committee also reviews the process the context of the financial statements in the current year.
and controls related to actuarial and as a whole were identified and the underwriting estimates of written committee was satisfied with the premium.
The committee continued to approach employed by management in receive periodic reporting from both the valuing the financial assets at fair value finance and actuarial functions on our on the balance sheet at 31 December estimation process, and the related 2017.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee continued The committee reviews detailed compliance, financial crime and risk profiles: The committee and the projections of future cash flows, profit assurance reporting including risk risk committees of the subsidiary forecasts and capital requirements incident information: boards have reviewed Beazleys under various scenarios, including the groups proposed audit tender risk profiles, which are focused risk scenarios stressed in terms of claims strategy discussed further below : assessments of specific topics.
In the current quarterly reserving and actuarial In 2017, the committee received year, we considered in particular the data: and a review of cyber risk aimed at impact of the natural catastrophe the consideration of strategic, ensuring our suite of realistic disaster activity during the second half of 2017. emerging and heightened risks scenarios are appropriate.
There was We also consider the appropriateness identified by management and the also a number of other operational of managements viability statement groups risk management team, along risk profiles presented which and the period over which this analysis side the processes and controls supported the committees oversight is performed.
The committee was in place to mitigate these risks.
of the on-going business processes: satisfied by the level of analysis emerging risk: The committee presented during the year, and the Committee meetings are scheduled to supported the identification of related approach taken and statements ensure that they support the financial strategic and emerging risks which made in the groups key external and regulatory reporting timetables were discussed at the board reporting.
and the internal audit and risk cycle.
meeting in May 2017 and have been subsequently monitored and reported vii Tax Function updates in the quarterly Own Risk and The committee continues to monitor The Beazley plc board has delegated Solvency Assessment ORSA : the evolving tax environment and in a number of oversight responsibilities to oversight of the control environment: particular considered managements the audit and risk committee in relation The committee has received a approach to Diverted Profits Tax in the to the risk management framework, quarterly consolidated assurance UK.
The committee is of the view that compliance, internal audit and external report which provides commentary on the approach taken by management, audit.
the status of the control environment as outlined in note 9 to the financial with perspective from the business, statements, is reasonable.
The work undertaken and key matters risk management, compliance and considered during the year in these internal audit.
It also includes viii Intangible asset valuation areas are set out below: entries from the risk incident log: The audit and risk committee received reverse stress testing: The committee an overview of managements valuation a Risk management has received the results of the of intangibles.
The committee reviewed To assist the board, the committee, reverse stress testing exercise, which and noted the approach in relation supported by the risk committees of the explores what would have to happen to the creation of an intangible asset subsidiary boards, receives and reviews for the group to be unviable and on the acquisition of Creechurch reports from the risk management has been able to provide assurance Underwriters, a managing general function focusing on the following areas: to the board that this work has been agency in Canada, and the amortisation risk appetite: The committee has performed with the appropriate period of 5 years.
The committee was monitored the actual risk profile level of depth and expertise: and satisfied that managements approach against risk appetite throughout 2017 oversight of the internal model: The in respect of this acquisition, and the and can confirm that Beazley plc has committee and the risk committees carrying value of all of the groups been operating within risk appetite of the subsidiary boards have intangible assets, is reasonable.
The reviewed regular reports associated committee has also reviewed the with the internal model.
These have b Other updates proposed 2018 risk appetite: included a standing report on internal During 2017, in addition to the financial risk assessment: The committee model output, and a validation reporting matters mentioned above has performed a review of the groups report featuring both internal and the following items were key topics risk profile to assess its coverage independent validation and themed of discussion for the committee: of the universe of risk and that major reviews, for example, on the approach oversight of the reporting and control underlying risks are visible and are used to aggregate risk in individual processes and procedures relating being monitored: entities which consolidate up to to the increased Solvency II reporting the group level.
These assessments requirements: have supported the boards use of overview of key reporting and the internal model: and regulatory updates, including updates quarterly ORSA: The committee has on accounting standards, changes in received a quarterly ORSA report and tax legislation, changes in regulatory has reviewed it as part of the quality requirements and the upcoming assurance process before commending General Data Protection Regulation it to the board.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 91 b Compliance c Internal audit d External audit The group head of compliance has direct The groups internal audit function i Audit tendering access to the committee members and reports directly, and is accountable to KPMG have been the groups auditors attends all committee meetings.
the committee, and the head of internal since its listing and, while KPMG were audit has direct access to the committee requested to submit a non-competitive To assist the board the committee chairman.
The committee has reviewed tender in 2016, the provision of external receives reports and updates from the the effectiveness of the function and audit services has not been subject to compliance function on various issues remains satisfied that the internal audit a formal tender process since 2002. including, but not limited to, regulatory function had sufficient resources during The current audit partner is Mr. Daniel developments, routine and non-routine the year to undertake its duties.
Cazeaux and the 2017 financial year was interactions with the groups regulators, his first year as Beazleys engagement any significant instances of nonDuring 2017, the committee: partner.
compliance with regulatory or internal considered the results of all internal compliance requirements.
audit reports, and the finding and As disclosed in the groups annual report themes emerging from them: for the year ended 31 December 2016, During 2017, the committee: monitored the implementation the board have committed to changing monitored the implementation of of the 2017 internal audit plan: group auditor no later than for the the 2017 compliance plan: reviewed and approved the basis for 2019 financial year.
In this regard, a reviewed and approved the 2018 internal audit planning.
This included comprehensive audit tender process will annual compliance plan, including the reviewing and approving the groups take place during 2018 and is expected compliance monitoring programme: risk-based audit universe and the to be a priority of the audit committee reviewed changes in the regulatory internal audit plan, and reviewing throughout the year.
environment applicable to Beazley: other business developments which received updates on relationships could also potentially be the subject To date, the committee has reviewed with key group regulators, and of internal audit work in the coming managements initial strategy for the oversight of regulatory requests: year.
This included challenging the tender process.
The audit committee provided oversight to regulatory frequency of audits in certain areas expects the tender process to involve responses to corporate developments: of the business, and challenging the three main steps being the creation reviewed updates from the money balance between thematic reviews of an initial list of potential firms that laundering reporting officer on the and full end-to-end audits: are willing to be involved in the tender adequacy and effectiveness of the reviewed and approved the internal process, narrowing this initial list down companys anti-money laundering audit charter: to two preferred service providers systems and controls: reviewed and approved the internal through a combination of information provided oversight of the progress of audit budget for 2018: requests and presentations, and the business in addressing identified received information relating to the finally making a recommendation to enhancements to compliance internal audit functions quality our shareholders following a final round requirements: assurance activities: of submissions and presentations to approved the group policies and reviewed how the internal audit, the committee.
Among our primary aims controls in respect of whistleblowing, risk management and compliance throughout this process will be ensuring anti-bribery and corruption, and functions contributed information that any incumbent external audit firm anti-fraud: and and assurance relating to the groups possesses an appropriate range of received updates on the structure control effectiveness: technical skills and expertise, while and effectiveness of the companys received and reviewed an overall demonstrating an understanding of compliance function.
summary assessment of 2017 the key markets in which we operate.
internal audit activity: and The committee will also engage with In reviewing the effectiveness of the monitored the timely implementation subsidiary audit committees with a view function the audit and risk committee of agreed management actions and to ensuring that each Public Interest remained satisfied that the compliance reviewing the status of the same.
Entity PIE is able to operate a function had sufficient resources during comprehensive audit tender process the year to undertake its duties.
During the course of 2017 a number of in its own right.
internal audit recommendations were In addition, the risk committees and made to management in relation to its ii Assessing the effectiveness of the or boards of the groups regulated systems of control which have been externalauditor subsidiaries receive more locally-focused subsequently implemented.
Overall the The committee places great emphasis compliance reports which are specific internal audit function was able to report on ensuring there are high standards of to those entities.
that for those areas it reviewed, the quality and effectiveness in the external design and operation of our risk audit process.
Audit quality is assessed management framework, controls and throughout the year, with a focus on processes have supported the group strong audit governance and the quality in operating within its risk appetite of the team.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee continued The effectiveness of the audit is assessed The committee reviews the terms of Fair, balanced and understandable through discussion throughout the year, such proposed services to ensure they assessment taking into account considerations such as: have been robustly justified.
It is a key compliance requirement of reviewing the quality and scope of the the groups financial statements to be audit planning and its responsiveness The committee receives a report from fair, balanced and understandable.
to changes in the business: the external auditors twice a year setting The annual report is prepared following monitoring of the auditors out all non-audit services undertaken, so a well documented process and is independence: that it can monitor the types of services performed in parallel with the formal considering the level of challenge being provided, and the fees incurred process undertaken by the external evidenced in discussions and for that work.
The aim is to limit the auditor.
The committee has reviewed reporting: and total spend on non-audit services to a report presenting the approach discussing the output of the FRCs a maximum of the annual audit fee, taken during the preparation of the Audit Quality Review AQR with our unless it is deemed that not doing so annual report.
is in shareholders interest from an the committee is satisfied that the efficiency and effectiveness point annual report is fair, balanced and During 2017, the FRCs AQR team of view.
understandable, and provides the reviewed our external auditors audit information necessary for shareholders of our 2016 financial statements.
The The split between audit and non-audit and other stakeholders to assess the committee has discussed this review fees for the year under review is companys position and performance, with the AQR team and the external disclosed in note 6 to the financial business model and strategy, and has auditor.
The review noted a small number statements.
In the year the audit fees for advised the board accordingly.
of observations, the implementation the statutory audit of the consolidated of which have not had a significant financial statements were $0.9m Furthermore, the audit committee notes impact on the audit approach of the 2016: $1.0m while fees paid for non the receipt of correspondence from the external auditor.
audit and assurance services were Financial Reporting Council FRC in $1.4m 2016: $1.2m.
Fees for non audit June 2017 in respect of the groups These considerations are taken in and assurance services include work annual report and accounts for the year to account by the committee when related to the accounts and regulatory ended 31 December 2016.
We note that determining whether to reappoint the reporting of the syndicates managed the FRC carried out a high level review external auditor.
Noting the intention to by Beazley, work which would commonly of the annual report and raised no run a comprehensive audit tender be carried out by the external auditor.
questions or queries requiring a process during 2018 with a view to response from the board or the audit appointing a new external auditor for KPMG is a panel member eligible to committee.
The FRC did make a small 2019 reporting year, the committee provide services under our cyber breach number of minor recommendations recommends that the board re-appoint response service to policy holders.
which could be included in future reports KPMG to perform the 2018 external audit.
To date KPMG has not been called to aid the users of the accounts, and upon to provide any services under the committee is pleased that these iii Non-audit services this arrangement and the committee recommendations have been The audit and risk committees receives regular updates to monitor the implemented in the 2017 annual report responsibility to monitor and review level of activity and to ensure conflicts and accounts.
We note that the review the objectivity and independence of the of interest do not occur.
carried out by the FRC was not a full external auditor is supported by a policy review and was based solely on the that we have developed in relation to None of the non-audit services provided groups report and accounts without the provision of non-audit services by are considered by the audit and risk the benefit of detailed knowledge of the auditor.
During 2017, our non-audit committee to affect the auditors the groups business or a detailed services policy was updated, enhanced independence or objectivity.
understanding of the underlying and reviewed by the committee.
transactions entered into during the Committee effectiveness year.
We remain committed to The objective is to ensure that the The committee considers its continuous improvement in the quality provision of such services does not effectiveness regularly.
An assessment and transparency of information impair the external auditors objectivity.
was externally facilitated in 2017 using included in the groups annual report.
The policy specifically disallows certain an online survey completed by members activities from being provided by the of the committee.
The review concluded Competition and Markets Authority auditor, such as bookkeeping and that the committee was operating Order 2014 statement of compliance accounting services, internal actuarial effectively and efficiently and there were The committee confirms that during services and executive remuneration no major issues highlighted for attention.
2017 the group complied with the services.
The policy requires mandatory audit processes and audit consideration and pre-approval for all committee responsibilities provisions of other material services such as due the Competition and Markets Authority diligence assistance, tax services and Statutory Audit Services Order 2014 advice on accounting and audit matters.
as presented in this report.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 93 Statement of corporate governance continued Remuneration committee Membership and attendance Attendance at scheduled Appointment meetings during 2017 Sir Andrew Likierman 25 March 2015 6 6 George Blunden 1 January 2011 6 6 John Sauerland 11 May 2016 6 6 Sir Andrew Likierman recommend the remuneration of ensured incentives continued to be Currently the membership the chief executive, the other appropriate and to align company of the remuneration executive directors, the direct reports and shareholders: committee comprises to the chief executive, the company approved the grant of share awards Sir Andrew Likierman secretary and such other members under the groups deferred, retention of the executive management as it and LTIP plans: chairman, George Blunden is designated to consider.
No director considered the salary and bonus and John Sauerland.
or manager shall be involved in awards for 2017 for executive any decisions as to his or her own directors, heads of control functions, Responsibilities of the committee remuneration: material risk takers and other officers: The committees main responsibilities obtain reliable, up-to-date information considered the actions required in are to, inter alia: about remuneration in other relation to gender pay gap reporting: set the remuneration policy for the companies: and approved the chairmans fees: and group for approval at the annual appoint and review the performance reviewed the executive director general meeting.
The objective of of remuneration committee employment contracts.
such policy shall be to ensure that consultants, currently Deloitte LLP.
members of the executive management Further information on the work of the of the company are provided with Key activities in 2017 remuneration committee is set out in appropriate incentives to encourage During 2017 the committee: the directors remuneration report.
enhanced performance and are, reviewed the key aspects of the in a fair and responsible manner, remuneration policy, and oversaw rewarded for their individual its implementation and application: contributions to the success of the satisfied itself that the current company: remuneration structure is appropriate r ecommend and where appropriate to attract and retain talented people: approve targets for performance considered the chief risk officers related pay schemes and seek report which confirmed that the shareholder approval for any long design of remuneration promotes term incentive arrangements: appropriate risk behaviour throughout recommend and approve the the organisation.
In addition, the remuneration of the chairman of analysis considered the performance the company: of the control environment, profit related pay targets, calculation of the bonus pool, share awards, a suite of risk metrics for each Solvency II member of staff and any individual who has created a higher than expected level of risk: 94 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Statement of corporate governance continued Nomination committee Membership and attendance Attendance at scheduled Appointment meetings during 2017 Dennis Holt 21 July 2011 5 5 George Blunden 1 January 2010 5 5 Sir Andrew Likierman 25 March 2015 5 5 Dennis Holt Responsibilities of the committee Policy on gender, diversity and inclusion The nomination committee The committees main responsibilities We believe having a diverse and is chaired by Dennis Holt are to, inter alia: inclusive workplace will support our and currently comprises regularly review the structure, size vision for growth and outperforming George Blunden and and composition including the skills, the market.
We continually review our knowledge, experience and diversity approach to diversity and our aim is to Sir Andrew Likierman.
required of the board compared to have nurtured diverse employees across its current and projected position: the business who are given the tools and The nomination committee meets at give full consideration to succession opportunities to progress their career least twice annually and at such other planning for executive and nonwithin Beazley.
We believe employing times during the year as is necessary to executive directors and in particular individuals with wider perspectives and discharge its duties.
In 2017 there were for the key roles of chairman and from a broader skill base will lead to five scheduled meetings, reflecting the chief executive, senior executives a more dynamic, innovative, responsive workload of the committee during the and any other member of the senior organisation in touch with changes year.
Only members of the committee management that it is relevant and developments in our business have the right to attend meetings: to consider: environment.
however other individuals, such as the ensure the directors have the chief executive and external advisers, required skills and competencies: We have a defined policy and strategy may be invited to attend for all or part review annually the time required that will enable us to: of any meeting.
from non-executive directors: n urture diverse individuals across all review the results of the board areas of the business and encourage The specific responsibilities and duties performance evaluation process them to grow into senior positions of the committee are set out in its terms that relate to the composition and with our organisation: of reference which were updated in July skills and competencies of the board d evelop plans on how to best support 2017 to include specific responsibility to and ensure an appropriate response diversity in a way that is both locally keep under review the leadership needs to development needs: relevant and globally impactful: of the organisation, both executive and recommend to the board s upport, mentor and encourage non-executive, with a view to ensuring appointments to the role of senior individuals from diverse backgrounds the continued ability of the organisation independent director and chairman to grow and develop within Beazley: to compete effectively in the marketplace.
as well as membership of board h ave leadership and sponsorship of The terms of reference are available to committees: and our vision at the most senior level download from the companys website.
recommend, if appropriate, all of our organisation: directors for re-election by regularly review our employment shareholders under the annual policies and practices.
We expect re-election provisions of the UK our people to work with us to further Corporate Governance Code.
enhance our diversity objectives: and ensure all employees receive equality of opportunity in recruitment, training, development, promotion and remuneration.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 95 The committee has agreed the Key activities in 2017 establishment of goals for gender Tasks which the committee carried diversity for both the board and the out in 2017 were to: broader organisation.
The board recommend the appointment of achieved its goals for gender diversity an additional non-executive director for the Beazley plc board of two female with a view to him or her taking on the members by AGM 2016, and a third chairmanship of the board following female member by AGM 2017.
Female the 2018 AGM, when the current representation on the board went from chairman retires.
This appointment zero to three in five years.
The was made on merit and against committee reviewed progress against objective criteria.
For the recruitment the groups 2020 goals for there being process the committee was assisted a minimum of 35% female senior by JCA Group, recruitment consultants: managers within the organisation by review the performance of 2020 and 33% female board members management by inviting all nonat group level by 2021. executive directors to attend a nomination committee meeting The 2017 board review was overseen to review the performance of the by the committee and was facilitated in executive management team: October November 2017 using a survey consider the board and committee completed by board and committee succession plans: members.
No material matters were assess the collective skills and identified and the committee will competency of the board and oversee the implementation of an action consider the proposed reappointment plan to strengthen the boards overall of directors: effectiveness in 2018. ensure that director development plans were implemented and that the board collectively received relevant training: ensure board members were able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively: and consider the wider executive management succession.
