comp Governance Page Our Board 51 Corporate governance 57 Report of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee 63 Report of the Group Audit Committee 65 Report of the Board Risk Committee 73 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee 81 Directors Remuneration Report 83 Compliance report 106 Report of the directors 109 Statement of directors responsibilities 116 50 Our Board Chairman Howard Davies External appointment s : Nationality: British Independent director of Prudential plc and Date of appointment: 14 July 2015 Board, chair of the Risk Committee 1 September 2015 Chairman Member of the Regulatory and Compliance Advisory Board of Millennium Management Experience: Howard was Deputy Governor of the LLC Bank of England from 1995 to 1997 and Chairman Chair of the International Advisory Council of the UK Financial Services Authority from 1997 of the China Securities Regulatory to 2003.
Howard was Director of the London Commission School of Economics and Political Science from Member of the International Advisory 2003 until May 2011.
He is also Professor of Council of the China Banking Regulatory Practice at the Paris Institute of Political Science Commission Sciences Po.
Committee membership s : Howard was chair of the UK Airports Commission Group Nominations and Governance between 2012 and 2015 and is also the author of Committee Chairman several books on financial subjects.
UBI DAC Board Oversight Committee Chairman Executive directors Chief Executive Ross McEwan External appointment s : Nationality: New Zealand None Date of appointment: 1 October 2013 Committee membership s : Experience: Ross became Chief Executive of The Executive Committee Chairman Royal Bank of Scotland Group in October 2013.
Between August 2012 and September 2013, he was Chief Executive Officer for UK Retail, joining from Commonwealth Bank of Australia where he was Group Executive for Retail Banking Services for five years.
Prior to this he was Executive General Manager with responsibility for the branch network, contact centres and third party mortgage brokers.
Ross has more than 25 years experience in the finance, insurance and investment industries.
Prior to Commonwealth Bank of Australia, he was Managing Director of First NZ Capital Securities.
He was also Chief Executive of National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Ltd AXA New Zealand Ltd. Chief Financial Officer Ewen Stevenson External appointment s : Nationality: British New Zealand None Date of appointment: 19 May 2014 Committee membership s : Experience: Prior to his current role, Ewen was at Executive Committee Credit Suisse for 25 years where he was latterly co-Head of the EMEA Investment Banking Division and co-Head of the Global Financial Institutions Group.
He has over 20 years of experience advising the banking sector while at Credit Suisse.
Ewen has a Bachelor of Commerce and Administration majoring in Accountancy and a Bachelor of Law from Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand.
51 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Frank Dangeard External appointment s : Nationality: French Non-executive director of the RPX Date of appointment: 16 May 2016 Corporation Non-executive director of Symantec Experience: Previously, Frank served as a nonCorporation executive director of Crdit Agricole CIB, EDF, Home Credit, Orange, Sonaecom SGPS, and as Committee membership s : Deputy Chairman and acting Chairman of Telenor Board Risk Committee ASA.
During his executive career he held various Technology and Innovation Committee roles at Thomson S. A. including Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and was Deputy Chief Executive Officer of France Telecom.
Prior to that he was Chairman of SG Warburg France and a Managing Director of SG Warburg.
Frank is a graduate of HEC and IEP in Paris and of the Harvard Law School in the US.
Alison Davis External appointment s : Nationality: British USA Non-executive director and member of Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 the audit and compensation committees of Unisys Corporation Experience: Previously, Alison served as a Non-executive director, and member of director of City National Bank, First Data the audit committee of Fiserv Inc Corporation, Xoom, Presidio Bank, Diamond Non-executive director and chair of the foods and a non-executive director and chair of audit committee of Ooma Inc the board of LECG Corporation.
She has also worked at McKinsey & Company, AT Kearney, as Committee membership s : Chief Financial Officer at Barclays Global Technology and Innovation Committee Investors now BlackRock and as managing Chairman partner of Belvedere Capital, a private equity firm Group Performance and Remuneration focused on buy-outs in the financial services Committee sector.
Sustainable Banking Committee Alison is a graduate of Cambridge University and Stanford Business School.
Morten Friis External appointment s : Nationality: Norwegian Member of the Board of Directors of The Date of appointment: 10 April 2014 Canadian Institute for Advanced Research Experience: Previously, Morten had a 34 year Member of the Board of Directors of the financial services career and held various roles at Harvard Business School Club of Royal Bank of Canada and its subsidiaries Toronto including Associate Director at Orion Royal Bank, Non-executive director of Jackson Vice President, Business Banking and Vice National Life Insurance Company President, Financial Institutions.
In 1997, he was appointed as Senior Vice President, Group Risk Committee membership s : Management and served as the Chief Credit Group Audit Committee Officer then Chief Risk Officer from 2004 to 2014.
Board Risk Committee He was also previously a Director of RBC Bank USA, Westbury Life Insurance Company, RBC Life Insurance Company and of RBC Dexia Investor Services Trust Company.
52 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Robert Gillespie External appointment s : Nationality: British Independent board director at Ashurst LLP Date of appointment: 2 December 2013 Chairman of Council at the University of Durham Experience: Robert began his career with Price Chairman of the Boat Race Company Waterhouse now  where Limited he qualified as a chartered accountant.
He then Director of Social Finance Limited moved into banking joining SG Warburg, specialising in corporate finance, and was appointed as Co-Head Committee membership s : and Managing Director of its US investment banking Group Nominations and Governance business in 1989.
Following the acquisition in 1995 Committee of Warburg by Swiss Bank Corporation which Group Performance and Remuneration subsequently merged with UBS, he then held the Committee Chairman roles of Head of UK Corporate Finance, Head of Sustainable Banking Committee European Corporate Finance and Co-Head of its GRG Board Oversight Committee global business and CEO of the EMEA region.
He relinquished his management roles at the end of 2005, and was appointed Vice Chairman of UBS Investment Bank.
Robert left UBS to join Evercore Partners, from where he was seconded to the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, as Director General, from 2010 to 2013.
Penny Hughes, CBE External appointment s : Nationality: British Non-executive Chairman of The Gym Date of appointment: 1 January 2010 Group plc.
Also chair of the nominations and member of the audit, risk and Experience: Previously a non-executive director and remuneration committees chairman of the corporate compliance and Non-executive director, chairman of the responsibility committee of Wm Morrison remuneration committee and member of Supermarkets plc.
Other former non-executive the audit and nomination committees of directorships include Skandinaviska Enskilda Superdry plc Banken AB, Home Retail Group plc, Vodafone Non-executive Chairman of IQSA Group Group plc, Reuters Group PLC, Cable & Wireless Limited Worldwide plc and The Gap Inc. Penny spent the majority of her executive career at Coca-Cola where Committee membership s : she held a number of leadership positions, latterly as Sustainable Banking Committee President, Coca-Cola Great Britain and Ireland.
Chairman Board Risk Committee GRG Board Oversight Committee Group Nominations and Governance Committee 53 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Yasmin Jetha External appointment s : Nationality: British Non-executive director of Guardian Media Date of appointment: 21 June 2017 Group plc Experience: Previously a non-executive director Non-executive director of Nation Media designate of Williams & Glyn.
During her Group East Africa executive career, Yasmin held Chief Information Officer roles at Bupa and the Financial Times, Independent panel member of the Cabinet where she became the Chief Operating Officer.
Office Major Projects Review Group She previously had a career spanning nearly 20 years at Abbey National PLC, latterly serving as Committee membership s : an Executive Director on the board.
Sustainable Banking Committee Technology and Innovation Committee Brendan Nelson External appointment s : Nationality: British Non-executive director and Chairman of Date of appointment: 1 April 2010 the audit committee and member of the remuneration and chairmans committees Experience: Brendan was global Chairman, of BP plc financial services for KPMG.
He previously held Member of the Financial Reporting Review senior leadership roles within KPMG including as Panel a member of the KPMG UK board from 1999 to 2006 and as vice-Chairman from 2006 until his Committee membership s : retirement in 2010.
He was Chairman of the Group Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee of the Institute of Chartered Group Nominations and Governance Accountants of Scotland from 2005 to 2008.
Committee President of the Institute of Chartered Board Risk Committee Accountants of Scotland 2013 14.
GRG Board Oversight Committee Chairman UBI DAC Board Oversight Committee Baroness Noakes, DBE External appointment s : Nationality: British Deputy Chairman, Ofcom Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 Committee membership s : Experience: Baroness Noakes is an experienced Board Risk Committee Chairman director on UK listed company boards with Group Audit Committee extensive and varied political and public sector GRG Board Oversight Committee experience.
A qualified chartered accountant, Group Nominations and Governance she previously headed KPMGs European and Committee International Government practices and has UBI DAC Board Oversight Committee been President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
She was appointed to the House of Lords in 2000 and has served on the Conservative front bench in various roles including as shadow treasury minister between 2003 and May 2010.
Previously held non-executive roles on the Court of the Bank of England, Hanson, ICI, Severn Trent, Carpetright, John Laing and SThree.
54 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Mike Rogers External appointment s : Nationality: British Non-executive Chairman of Aegon UK Date of appointment: 26 January 2016 Director of Experian plc and Chairmandesignate of its Remuneration Experience: Mike has extensive experience in Committee retail banking and financial services.
Mike joined Barclays in 1986 where he undertook a variety of Committee membership s : roles in the UK and overseas across business Group Performance and Remuneration Committee banking, wealth management and retail banking.
Mike was Managing Director of Small Business, Sustainable Banking Committee Premier Banking and UK Retail Banking and was latterly Chief Executive of Liverpool Victoria Group for 10 years.
Mark Seligman External appointment s : Senior Independent Director of Nationality: British Kingfisher plc Date of appointment: 1 April 2017 Senior Independent Director since Non-Executive Director and chairman of 1 January 2018 the audit committee of Smiths Group plc Committee membership s : Experience: Mark, is a former senior investment Group Nominations and Governance banker with broad financial services knowledge, Committee has substantial FTSE 100 Board experience Group Performance and Remuneration gained in various industry sectors, including as a Committee Committee Chair and Senior Independent UBI DAC Board Oversight Committee Director.
During his executive career, he held various senior roles at Credit Suisse BZW including Deputy Chairman, CSFB Europe and Chairman, UK Investment Banking, CSFB : and previously SG Warburg ultimately as Managing Director, Head of Advisory.
He has also previously served as a nonexecutive Director of BG Group plc and as Deputy Chairman of G4S plc.
Dr Lena Wilson, CBE External appointment s : Nationality: British Non-Executive Director of Intertek Group Date of appointment: 1 January 2018 plc, and member of its audit and nomination committees.
Experience: Experience: Lena is an experienced Non-Executive Director of Scottish CEO with an international career, who spent a Power Renewables Limited significant proportion of her executive career with Scottish Enterprise, latterly as Chief Executive Committee membership s : from 2009 until 2017.
Prior to that, Lena held the Sustainable Banking Committee role of Senior Investment Advisor to The World Bank in Washington DC.
Dr Wilson is a visiting Professor at the University of Strathclyde and has previously served as a member of Scotland's Financial Services Advisory Board and as Chair of Scotland's Energy Jobs Taskforce.
In June 2015 she received a CBE for services to economic development in Scotland.
55 Our Board Chief Governance & Regulatory Officer and Board Counsel Aileen Taylor Aileen is a fellow of the Chartered Institute Nationality: British of Bankers in Scotland and a member of Date of appointment: 1 May 2010 the European Corporate Governance Company Secretary Council.
She is also a member of the FCAs Listing Authority Advisory Panel.
Experience: A qualified solicitor, Aileen joined RBS in 2000.
She was appointed Deputy Group Secretary and Head of Group Secretariat in 2007, and prior to that held various legal, secretariat and risk roles including Head of External Risk Retail, Head of Regulatory Risk Retail Direct and Head of Legal and Compliance Direct Line Financial Services.
Executive Committee The Board is supported by the Executive Committee comprising the executive directors and other senior executives.
Details of the composition of the Executive Committee and biographies of its members can be found at rbs.
com about us board and governance ceo and board executive committee.
56 Corporate governance Chairmans introduction Board and committee changes The corporate governance report provides an overview of key A number of changes were made to Board and committee roles and responsibilities of the Board, how the Board spent its composition during 2017, as follows: time in 2017 and how we communicate with shareholders.
Board effectiveness and performance evaluation are also covered.
Mark Seligman was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 April 2017.
As mentioned in my Chairmans Statement on page 6, during Yasmin Jetha was appointed as a non-executive director on 2017 the Board has considered a number of key strategic, 21 June 2017, and became a member of the Sustainable financial, regulatory and risk matters together with Banking Committee with effect from 3 August 2017. legacy issues such as Williams & Glyn: Global Restructuring With effect from 3 August 2017 Baroness Noakes, Penny Group GRG : and various litigation matters including the 2008 Hughes and Mark Seligman were appointed members of the shareholders rights issue litigation.
The Board has also been Group Nominations & Governance Committee and Alison able to spend time focussing on forward-looking matters, Davis stepped down.
including ring-fencing preparations: innovation: technology: and On 1 September 2017 the Technology and Innovation culture.
The establishment of the Boards Technology and Committee was established with Alison Davis as Chairman Innovation Committee will further support our focus on the and Yasmin Jetha and Frank Dangeard as members.
John Hughes was also appointed as a non-executive director on During 2017 we made a number of changes to our Board and 21 June 2017, but unfortunately resigned on 1 September 2017 committee composition, to support our preparations for ringdue to health reasons.
fencing and to ensure orderly succession planning.
Further details are set out below under Board and committee changes.
Also, with effect from 1 January 2018: Sandy Crombie stepped down as a non-executive director On 28 July 2017, the Group Board Directors were appointed to of RBS, and as Senior Independent Director and Chairman the Board of Ulster Bank Limited UBL and the existing Directors of the Group Performance & Remuneration Committee: of UBL stepped down.
This common board and committee Mark Seligman assumed the role of Senior Independent structure with Group, RBS plc and NatWest promotes Director and became a member of the Group Performance simplification and efficiencies.
& Remuneration Committee: Robert Gillespie assumed the role of Chairman of the I and my fellow directors are committed to observing high Group Performance & Remuneration Committee: and standards of corporate governance, integrity and professionalism.
Dr Lena Wilson joined the board as a non-executive Our statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance director.
Code the Code can be found on page 106.
Dr Wilson became a member of the Sustainable Banking I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow Directors Committee with effect from 31 January 2018. for their continued commitment and dedication throughout 2017.
In addition, with effect from close of business of the 2018 Annual Howard Davies, Chairman of the Board General Meeting, Penny Hughes will step down as a nonexecutive director of RBS and Chairman of the Sustainable The Board Banking Committee.
Mike Rogers will assume the role of The Board has fourteen directors comprising the Chairman, two Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee.
executive directors and eleven independent non-executive directors, one of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
Roles and responsibilities The Board Biographies for each director and details of which Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of committees they are members of can be found on pages 51 to RBS and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
The Board considers that the Chairman was independent on reference include a formal schedule of matters specifically appointment and that all non-executive directors are independent reserved for the Boards decision and are reviewed at least for the purposes of the Code.
They are available at rbs.
A number of Board members are designated as Senior Managers under the PRA and FCAs Senior Managers Regime The role profiles of relevant directors reflect their regulatory responsibilities and they receive ongoing support to ensure they can demonstrate the reasonable steps they have taken to meet their responsibilities.
This support includes a practical handbook for non-executive directors on the Senior Managers Regime.
Chairman The role of Chairman is distinct and separate from that of the Chief Executive and there is a clear division of responsibilities with the Chairman leading the Board and the Chief Executive managing RBS business day to day.
57 Corporate governance The Chairmans key responsibilities are to: experience with independent and objective judgement and they provide strong and effective leadership to the Board: provide independent challenge to the executive directors and the ensure the Board is structured effectively, observes the leadership team.
The balance between non-executive and highest standards of integrity and corporate governance, executive directors enables the Board to provide clear and and sets the tone from the top in terms of culture and effective leadership across RBSs business activities.
values: The standard terms and conditions of appointment of nonbuild an effective and complementary Board with an executive directors are available on rbs.
com or from RBS appropriate balance of skills and personalities, and as Corporate Governance and Regulatory Affairs.
Chairman of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee consider succession planning for Board Board Committees appointments: In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the Board foster open and inclusive discussions at each Board has established a number of Board committees with particular Committee meeting which challenge executives, where responsibilities.
Refer to page 48 of the Strategic Report for more appropriate: details.
The terms of reference are available on rbs.
in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, ensure that members of the Board receive The GRG Board Oversight Committee was established in 2015 in accurate, timely and clear information to enable the Board to relation to the Financial Conduct Authority review of the treatment lead RBS, take sound decisions and monitor effectively the of SME customers and continued to meet during 2017.
The performance of executive management: Committee oversees and provides advice to the Board in relation ensure that the performance of individual directors and of to the review, the external independent review of GRG instigated the Board as a whole and its committees is evaluated by the Group and other matters generally related to GRG.
regularly: and The US Risk Committee was disbanded in May 2017 following ensure RBS maintains effective communication with the closure of the Connecticut branch.
A Board Oversight Committee was established in September Chief Executive 2017 in order to provide oversight of required enhancements to The Chief Executive has responsibility for all of RBSs business the governance and risk management practices within Ulster and acts in accordance with the authority delegated by the Board.
Bank Ireland DAC UBI DAC, reporting to the Board, as The Chief Executives key responsibilities are to: appropriate.
exercise executive accountability for the RBS businesses The NatWest Markets Working Group has continued to oversee delivering operational management and oversee the full the transition towards establishment of the board of NatWest range of activities of the customer businesses and functions: Markets Plc which will be stood up in 2018. develop, drive and deliver the strategy approved by the Board: Company Secretary drive and deliver performance against financial plans, acting Aileen Taylor is the Company Secretary.
Aileen also leads the in accordance with authority delegated by the Board: Banks Regulatory Affairs function.
consult regularly with the Chairman and Board on matters which may have a material impact on RBS: The key responsibilities of the Company Secretary include: lead the culture and values of RBS, creating an environment working closely with the Chairman to ensure effective where employees are engaged and committed to good functioning of the Board and appropriate alignment and customer outcomes: information flows between the Board and its committees, lead, manage and develop RBSs senior leadership team, including the Executive Committee.
This includes Board ensuring professional capability is developed and that succession planning, induction, and professional succession coverage meets the needs of RBS: development: ensure RBS has effective frameworks and structures to providing support and advice to the Board on a broad range identify, assess and mitigate risks: and of strategic, governance, legal and regulatory issues: in conjunction with the Chairman and Company Secretary, executive responsibility for Chairman non-executive director ensure the Board receives accurate, timely and clear search and appointment process: information.
management of RBSs profile with key stakeholders, including oversight of relations with key influencers and Senior Independent Director regulators: Throughout 2017 Sandy Crombie, as Senior Independent defining and delivering the corporate governance and Director, acted as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an regulatory affairs strategy across RBS: and intermediary for other directors when necessary.
He was also the provision of professional support to the Board and its available to shareholders to discuss any concerns they may committees and leading on implementation of have, as appropriate.
Mark Seligman assumed the role and recommendations from the annual Board evaluation.
responsibilities of Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 January 2018.
Non-executive directors Along with the Chairman and executive directors, the nonexecutive directors are responsible for ensuring the Board fulfils its responsibilities under its terms of reference.
The nonexecutive directors combine broad business and commercial 58 Corporate governance Conflicts of interests Principal areas of Board focus during 2017 RBS has procedures in place to ensure that the Boards In advance of each Board meeting, the directors are provided management of conflicts of interest and its powers for authorising with comprehensive papers.
certain conflicts are operating effectively.
On appointment, each director is provided with RBSs guidelines for referring conflicts of At each scheduled Board meeting the directors received reports interest to the Board.
Each director is required to notify the Board from the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, of any actual or potential situational or transactional conflict of Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Administration interest and to update the Board with any changes to the facts Officer, Franchise CEOs, General Counsel and the Board and circumstances surrounding such conflicts.
Other relevant senior executives attend Board meetings to present reports to the Board as appropriate.
Situational conflicts can be authorised by the Board in This provides the Board with an opportunity to engage directly accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the companys with management on key issues and supports the Boards Articles of Association.
The Board considers each request for succession planning activity.
authorisation on a case by case basis and has the power to impose conditions or limitations on any authorisation granted as An overview of the principal areas of Board focus during 2017 is part of the process.
Details of all directors conflicts of interest are recorded in a Customer & Culture register which is maintained by the Company Secretary and customer service reviewed annually by the Board.
open banking and innovation branch network strategy Board meetings payments strategy In 2017, 9 Board meetings were scheduled and individual customer metrics attendance by directors at these meetings is shown in the table branding, communications and marketing updates below.
overseeing culture and quarterly culture updates external fraud update In addition to the 9 scheduled meetings, 9 additional meetings Banking Standards Board assessments and committees of the Board were held, including meetings to consider and approve financial statements.
The Chairman and Finance the non-executive directors meet at least once per year without annual financial budget and plan executive directors present.
capital strategy and planning Attended Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process scheduled Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process Howard Davies 9 9 dividend planning and policy Ross McEwan 9 9 pension strategy Ewen Stevenson 9 9 tax strategy Frank Dangeard 9 9 mergers and acquisition strategy Alison Davis 9 9 recovery and resolution planning Morten Friis 9 9 results and analysts presentations Robert Gillespie 9 9 IFRS 9 accounting policies Penny Hughes 9 9 legal entity capability and plans Yasmin Jetha 1 5 5 Brendan Nelson 9 9 Baroness Noakes 9 9 Mike Rogers 9 9 Mark Seligman 2 6 6 Former Directors Sandy Crombie 3 9 9 John Hughes 4 2 2 Notes: 1 Appointed to the Board on 21 June 2017.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2017.
3 Stepped down from the Board with effect from 1 January 2018.
4 Appointed to the Board on 21 June 2017 and stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2017.
59 Corporate governance Strategy Board effectiveness annual Board strategy offsite and deep dives into each of Skills and experience of the Board the franchises The Board is structured to ensure that the directors provide RBS Brexit implications and response planning with the appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge structural reform, including ring-fencing and legal entity as well as independence.
Given the nature of RBSs businesses, transfers experience of banking and financial services is clearly of benefit, transformation programme and we have a number of directors with substantial experience in Williams & Glyn alternative remedies package and rethat area.
The Board also benefits from directors with experience integration in other fields.
The table below illustrates the breadth of skills and experience on Risk & Conduct the Board.
stress testing risk appetite governance and framework Retail banking Chief executive annual review of strategic risk appetite Broad financial services experience preventing the facilitation of tax evasion Commercial & Private Finance and Banking accountancy Legal, Regulatory & Governance Markets investment Risk Annual Report and Accounts Banking Technology AGM arrangements Government and regulatory infrastructure Board appointments Mergers and acquisitions Digital and innovation Board policies, including Board Appointments and Corporate restructuring Operations Boardroom Inclusion Stakeholder management Change management Board and Committee evaluations Consumer facing annual PRA presentation to the Board external auditor evaluation Board committees also comprise directors with a variety of skills Individual Accountability Regime: embedding and ringand experience so that no undue reliance is placed on any fencing implications individual.
internal audit evaluation Induction and professional development Modern Slavery Act Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the Board, which is co-ordinated by the Company Secretary.
This Human Resources includes visits to RBSs major businesses and functions and internal employee survey results meetings with directors and senior management.
Meetings with executive director remuneration proposals external auditors, counsel and stakeholders are also arranged as executive director performance and pay review appropriate.
An illustrative list of the meetings arranged during a executive succession planning new directors induction programme is set out below: health and safety Chairman Chief Human The Board also visited the RBS International RBSI business in Chief Executive Resources Jersey in September 2017.
The agenda included a deep dive on Chief Financial Officer Officer the RBSI business, strategy, risks and challenges, and directors Senior Independent Director Chief Administrative also met with key customers and local businesses.
Other non-executive Officer directors Head of Investor In October 2017, an event for subsidiary non-executive directors Company Secretary Relations provided a useful opportunity for subsidiary non-executive Chief Risk Officer Head of Public and directors to gain a broader knowledge of the Group and Chief Marketing Officer Consumer Affairs education on areas of interest as well as providing a deeper Chief Operating Officer Head of Recovery and understanding of their roles and responsibilities within the Group.
RBS Treasurer Resolution Planning A Board reception was also held at Gogarburn in October 2017, Chief Audit Executive Director of Strategy & during which directors were able to meet and spend time with Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Development RBS customers, stakeholders and other influencers.
General Counsel Director of Chairmen and CEOs of Transformation principal subsidiaries Head of Restructuring Franchise Chief Executive Chief Economist Officers External Auditors Deputy Chief Financial External Counsel Officer Regulators Chief Accountant Business visits UK and Head of RBS Tax overseas 60 Corporate governance The directors have access to a wide range of briefing and training Each director is required to advise RBS as early as possible and sessions and other professional development opportunities.
to seek the agreement of the Board before accepting additional Internal training relevant to the business of RBS is also provided.
commitments that might affect the time the director is able to Business visits are arranged as part of the Group Audit devote to his or her role as a non-executive director of RBS.
The Committee and Board Risk Committee schedule details of which Board monitors the other commitments of the Chairman and can be found on pages 67 and 74 and all non-executive directors and is satisfied that they are able to allocate sufficient directors are invited to attend.
Non-executive directors are also time to enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities welcome to attend the stakeholder engagement sessions run by effectively.
The time commitment currently required of our nonthe Sustainable Banking Committee further details of which are executive directors continues to be significant.
Election and re-election of directors Directors undertake the training they consider necessary to assist In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors stand them in carrying out their duties and responsibilities as directors.
for election or re-election by shareholders at the companys Directors may also request individual in-depth briefings from time Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the UK Listing to time on areas of particular interest.
Rules, the election or re-election of independent directors also requires approval by a majority of independent shareholders.
During 2017, the directors received updates on a range of subjects to enhance their knowledge, including: Performance evaluation In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation of the Board RBS customer service excellence programme training takes place every three years.
An internal evaluation takes place Financial Crime and anti-money laundering training, in the intervening years.
The most recent external evaluation of including Criminal Finances Act 2017 the Board was conducted in 2015.
Embracing Innovation and Disruption Diversity and inclusion Progress following the 2016 evaluation UK Corporate Governance Reform agenda A number of actions were progressed during 2017 in response to Stakeholder engagement the findings of the 2016 performance evaluation, overseen by the Remuneration developments Group Nominations & Governance Committee.
General Data Protection Regulation Reporting on Payment Practices and Performance These included further enhancement of the Boards composition Regulations 2017 with the appointments of Mark Seligman and Yasmin Jetha, and Structural Reform the introduction of a Board Appointment Policy to support succession planning.
Work continued on improving the quality of In addition, all directors have access to an online resources information provided to the directors and the 2017 Board agenda portal, which contains internal policy information and external reflected directors feedback on agenda balance and priorities.
briefing notes on topical subjects, to support their professional The Board continued to dedicate significant time to culture and development and competence.
customers, and this focus will continue into 2018.
In conclusion, the specific actions identified during the 2016 evaluation have The Company Secretary maintains continuing professional been appropriately addressed, and where high level themes development logs.
These are reviewed regularly between the remain relevant, these have been appropriately incorporated into Chairman and each director individually, to assist in identifying the 2017 action plan.
future training and development opportunities that are specific to the individual directors requirements.
2017 Performance evaluation process In 2017, the Board and committee evaluation process was Information conducted internally by the Deputy Secretary and Director, All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all Corporate Governance, and overseen by the Company relevant matters and have access to the advice and services of Secretary.
In addition, all directors are able, if necessary, to obtain independent professional advice at the The Deputy Secretary and Director, Corporate Governance companys expense.
undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation by: preparing surveys that were completed by each director and Time commitment holding interviews with each director: It is anticipated that non-executive directors will allocate sufficient discussing the key themes and recommendations for action time to RBS to discharge their responsibilities effectively and will with the Chairman: and devote such time as is necessary to fulfil their role.
Directors recommending the key themes and proposed actions to the have been briefed on the limits on the number of other Board.
directorships that they can hold under the requirements of the fourth Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV.
61 Corporate governance Outcomes of the 2017 performance evaluation Relations with investors The conclusion of the 2017 performance evaluation was that the The Chairman is responsible for ensuring effective Board operated effectively throughout the year and fulfilled its communication with shareholders.
The company communicates remit as set out in its terms of reference.
with shareholders through the Annual Report and Accounts and by providing information in advance of the Annual General Positive feedback was provided in relation to the operation of the Meeting.
Individual shareholders can raise matters relating to Board, including its composition, focus of the agenda, the their shareholdings and the business of RBS at any time Chairmans leadership, meeting dynamics and the support the throughout the year by letter, telephone or email via rbs.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions at the Annual General Meeting and any General Meetings held or can Key themes and findings arising from the evaluation included:- submit written questions in advance.
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Board committees are available Strategy to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
As legacy matters reach their conclusion, the Board has an opportunity to devote more of its time to discussing forward During 2017, RBS also held events in Edinburgh and London for looking strategy.
Further details can be found on page 28 of the Strategic Report.
Customers Acknowledging the work of the Sustainable Banking Committee Communication with the company's largest institutional in this area, the general consensus was that there is scope for shareholders is undertaken as part of the Investor Relations even greater focus on customers at Board level.
programme: the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet Risk regularly with UKFI, the organisation set up to manage the Noting the work of the Board Risk Committee, it was agreed that Governments investments in financial institutions, to continued Board focus on major strategic risks should remain a discuss the strategy and financial performance of the priority.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer also undertake an extensive annual programme of meetings Engagement with management with the companys largest institutional shareholders: It was agreed that the Board provides effective challenge and the Chairman independently meets with RBSs largest oversight to management and the importance of continuing to institutional shareholders annually to hear their feedback on balance the Boards challenge oversight role with providing management, strategy, business performance and corporate appropriate support to management was also highlighted.
Additionally, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director met with the governance Executive succession planning representatives of a number of institutional shareholders There is appetite at Board level for greater focus on Executive during the year: Committee succession and talent development.
the Senior Independent Director is available if any shareholder has concerns that they feel are not being Board information and time commitment addressed through the normal channels: and Acknowledging the progress made during 2017, it was noted that the Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration there remains room for improvement in length and timeliness of Committee consults with major shareholders in respect of papers.
The length of committee meetings was also raised in the the Groups remuneration policy.
context of directors time commitment.
Throughout the year, the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Next steps Financial Officer and Chairman of the Group Performance and A detailed action plan has been developed in response to the Remuneration Committee communicate shareholder feedback to themes and findings during the 2017 evaluation, and its the Board.
The directors also receive reports reviewing share implementation will be overseen by the Group Nominations & price movements and performance against the sector.
Detailed Governance Committee during 2018. market and shareholder feedback is provided to the Board after major public announcements such as a results release.
The Individual director and Chairman effectiveness reviews arrangements in place are to ensure that directors develop an The Chairman met with each director individually to discuss their understanding of the views of major shareholders.
own performance and ongoing professional development and also shared peer feedback provided as part of the evaluation The Investor Relations programme also includes communications process.
Separately, the Senior Independent Director sought aimed specifically at its fixed income debt investors.
The Chief feedback on the Chairmans performance from the non-executive Financial Officer and or the RBS Treasurer give regular directors, executive directors and key external stakeholders and presentations to fixed income investors to discuss strategy and discussed it with the Chairman.
There is also a separate section on the RBS website for fixed income investors which includes information on credit ratings, securitisation programmes and securities documentation.
Further information is available at rbs.
62 Report of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee Letter from Howard Davies The Committee has overseen the establishment of the Groups Chairman of the Group Nominations and Governance Technology and Innovation Committee, which was constituted on Committee 1 September 2017 with a remit to assist the Board in overseeing and monitoring execution of the Groups strategic direction in relation to technology and innovation.
Membership and meetings For most of 2017, the Group Nominations and Governance Committee comprised the Chairman of the Board and four independent non-executive directors.
In August 2017, the Committee composition was amended to include the Senior Independent Director, as well as the Chairmen of the Board Risk Committee, Group Audit Committee, Group Performance & Remuneration Committee and Sustainable Banking Committee.
Dear Shareholder, Alison Davis stood down from the Committee in August 2017, simultaneous with her appointment as Chairman of the As Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Group Technology and Innovation Committee.
Sandy Crombie stepped Nominations and Governance Committee I am pleased to down from the Committee with effect from 1 January 2018. present our report on the committee's activity during 2017.
The Committee holds at least four scheduled meetings per year Role and responsibilities and also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
In 2017, there The Group Nominations and Governance Committee was were seven meetings.
Individual attendance by directors at these constituted in January 2016 and assumed the responsibilities of meetings is shown in the tables below.
the previous Group Nominations Committee to review the structure, size and composition of the Board, and membership Attended and chairmanship of Board Committees.
In addition, the scheduled Committee monitors the Groups governance arrangements to Howard Davies Chairman 7 7 ensure that best corporate governance standards and practices Robert Gillespie 7 7 are upheld and considers developments relating to banking Penny Hughes 1 1 2 reform and analogous issues affecting the Group in the markets Brendan Nelson 7 7 where it operates.
The Committee makes recommendations to Baroness Noakes 2 2 2 the Board in respect of any consequential amendments to the Mark Seligman 3 2 2 Groups operating model.
Former Members Sandy Crombie 4 7 7 The Committee engages with external consultants, considers Alison Davis 5 4 4 potential candidates and recommends appointments of new 1 Became a member of the committee on 3 August 2017.
Did not attend meeting in directors to the Board.
September due to a clash with an external commitment in place prior to appointment.
2 Became a member of the committee on 3 August 2017 The terms of reference of the Group Nominations and 3 Became a member of the committee on 3 August 2017 Governance Committee are reviewed annually, approved by the 4 Stood down from the Board with effect from 1 January 2018.
5 Stood down from the committee on 3 August 2017 Board and are available at rbs.
Consideration of new non-executive directors Principal activity during 2017 Both JCA Group and Spencer Stuart have been engaged during As highlighted in the Boards 2016 performance review, the this year to support the search for new non-executive directors.
Committee acknowledges the tenure of a number of the current JCA Group and Spencer Stuart do not provide search services to Board directors and therefore made succession planning a any other part of RBS.
During 2017, the Committee considered a priority in 2017. number of potential candidates.
In April 2017, June 2017 and January 2018 respectively, Mark Seligman, Yasmin Jetha and Dr In addition to recruitment, the Committee continues to oversee Lena Wilson, were appointed to the Board as non-executive the process to reach agreement with the PRA in respect of a directors.
governance model that is compatible with ring-fencing legislation.
Ring-fencing also gives rise to a requirement to recruit additional Tenure of non-executive directors non-executive directors to the boards of our material regulated The tenure of non-executive directors is set out below.
subsidiaries, which the Committee has overseen.
Attended The Committee has spent time considering the Groups scheduled arrangements in respect of legal entity governance.
This work 0 3 years 46% continues and is complementary to the Groups preparations for 3 6 years 18% the implementation of ring-fencing legislation.
6 years 36% 100% 63 Report of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee Board and Committee membership The Policys objectives exist to ensure that the Board, and any As previously mentioned, Mark Seligman joined the board as a Committee to which it delegates nominations responsibilities, non-executive director on 1 April 2017 and was subsequently follows an inclusive process when making nomination decisions.
appointed to the Group Nominations and Governance Committee That includes ensuring that the nomination process is based on on 3 August 2017.
Mark brings broad financial services the principles of fairness, respect and inclusion, that all knowledge to the Board, having substantial FTSE 100 Board nominations and appointments are made on the basis of experience gained in various industry sectors.
Mark assumed the individual competence, skills and expertise measured against role of Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 January identified objective criteria and that searches for Board 2018.
Yasmin Jetha joined the Board as a non-executive director candidates are conducted with due regard to the benefits of on 21 June 2017 and was subsequently appointed to the diversity and inclusion.
Sustainable Banking Committee on 3 August 2017 and the Technology and Innovation Committee on 1 September 2017.
Targets and ambitions Yasmin brings a fresh skillset to the Board from her career as a The Board aims to meet the highest industry standards and Chief Information Officer in the consumer and media sectors recommendations wherever possible.
This includes, but is not coupled with extensive experience in financial services.
Dr Lena limited to, aspiring to meet the targets set by the HamptonWilson was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director Alexander Report: FTSE100 Women Leaders 33% female on 1 January 2018.
Lena brings strong commercial and public representation on the board and the Parker Report: Beyond 1 by sector experience to the Board, having previously served as 21 at least one director from an ethnic minority background on Chief Executive of Scottish Enterprise and Senior Investment the board by the recommended target dates, 2020 2021.
The Advisor to The World Bank.
policy supports our bank-wide ambition to aim for a 50 50 gender balance across all levels of the organisation by 2030.
Performance evaluation The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its senior Monitoring and reporting Committees, including the Group Nominations and Governance The Board currently meets the Parker target and, following the Committee, was conducted internally in 2017.
The Committee appointment of Dr Lena Wilson on 1 January 2018, now meets has considered and discussed the outcomes of the evaluation the Hampton-Alexander target with female representation on the and accepts the findings.
Overall the review concluded that the Board reaching 36%.
The Boards composition as at 31 Group Nominations and Governance Committee operated December 2017 against the stated targets is set out below: effectively.
However, certain recommendations for action were 2017 recognised including the need to: regularly engage with the Female 29% external search firm to provide clarity and guidance on RBSs Male 71% expectations of information to be provided to the Committee: and 100% rebalance the agenda of the Committee to ensure greater focus on strategic issues, including director performance and board and senior management succession.
Ethnic minority background 1 Non-ethnic minority background 13 The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board 14 and the Committee will track progress during the year.
Inclusion and diversity progress, including information about the Boardroom diversity and inclusion appointment process, will continue to be reported in the Group RBS values and promotes inclusion in all areas of recruitment Nominations and Governance Committees report in the RBS and employment.
Were proud to be building an inclusive bank.
The balance of skills, experience, independence, The Board understands the need for a diverse mix of talented knowledge and diversity on the Board, and how the Board directors to effective decision-making.
operates together as a unit is reviewed annually as part of the Boardroom Inclusion Policy Board evaluation.
Where appropriate, findings from the The Board approved a revised Boardroom Inclusion Policy in evaluation will be considered in the search, nomination and February 2018 which reflects the most recent industry targets appointment process.
and is aligned to the RBS Inclusion Policy and Principles applying Further details on RBSs approach to diversity can be found on to the wider bank.
This Policy provides a framework to ensure pages 111 and 112. that the Board attracts, motivates and retains the best talent and avoids limiting potential caused by bias, prejudice or discrimination.
The Boardroom Inclusion Policy currently applies Howard Davies to the most senior RBS boards: The Royal Bank of Scotland Chairman of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee Group plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, National Westminster 22 February 2018 Bank Plc and Ulster Bank Limited.
A copy of the Boardroom Inclusion Policy is available on rbs.
Objectives and targets The Boardroom Inclusion Policy contains a number of measurable objectives, targets and ambitions reflecting the Boards ongoing commitment to inclusion progress.
64 Report of the Group Audit Committee Letter from Brendan Nelson, In H2 2017 we then provided guidance on the drafting of the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee IFRS 9 Transition Report, which is published alongside this report, and explains the pillars of IFRS 9 compared with IAS 39 and the updated impact on RBS.
Our primary The ring-fencing programme was a crucial work stream for the focus is the bank in 2017 and, in Q3, the GAC considered the basis of integrity and preparation of the financial information included within the Ringquality of RBSs fencing Transfer Scheme that was ultimately presented to Court financial and recommended this to the Board for approval.
The GAC kept statements existing provisions for liabilities such as those in relation to PPI and GRG under close review throughout the year to ensure that they continued to be appropriate.
Additional litigation and conduct Dear Shareholder, charges were taken in Q4 2017 in relation to PPI, UBI DAC customer redress and RMBS US residential mortgage-backed The Group Audit Committee GAC has responsibility for securities matters with oversight from the GAC.
We also monitoring and reviewing RBSs financial reports and disclosures, considered the suitability of significant loan impairment charges its accounting policies and practices and standards of internal in Q3 and Q4 2017 and a revised strategy for Non-Performing control.
This report provides an overview of the issues Lending Assets in UBI DAC.
considered and debated by the GAC during 2017 and our expected priorities for 2018.
Systems of internal control RBS made substantial progress in improving its control Accounting and financial reporting environment during 2017.
The GAC, in conjunction with the The GACs primary focus is the integrity and quality of RBSs Board Risk Committee BRC, oversees RBSs control financial statements, comprising quarterly, interim and full year environment.
In particular, we monitor the systems of internal results announcements and supporting documentation, in control relating to financial management, financial reporting and addition to the 2017 annual report and accounts.
During the year we received bi-annual updates on the control environment certification process, Throughout 2017 the GAC received detailed reports from quarterly reports on internal controls over financial reporting plus management on the key assumptions and judgements updates from the internal and external auditors on the control underpinning RBSs financial results.
The GAC also received environment.
Most areas of the bank succeeded in obtaining an quarterly reports from both the internal and external auditors.
The improved control environment rating by the year end and the GAC provided robust challenge and detailed feedback on the GAC will continue to oversee this work over the coming months.
financial results and in my role as Chairman of the GAC I reported to the Board on the GACs discussions.
On behalf of the In order to support a robust control environment and to ensure GAC, I also confirmed the GACs recommendation of the that RBS promotes a culture of doing the right thing, an effective financial results to the Board for approval.
and accessible whistleblowing process is vital.
RBS has whistleblowing procedures in place and the GAC receives regular RBS resolved a number of significant legacy issues during 2017, updates on the whistleblowing framework.
As GAC chair, I act as in particular the settlement of the UK shareholder litigation and RBSs whistleblowing champion and met regularly with the the US Federal Housing Finance Agency litigation and reaching whistleblowing team to discuss developments, trends and agreement with the EC and HMT regarding the banks remaining proposed changes to RBSs whistleblowing framework.
In March state aid obligations.
The GAC was closely engaged on all of 2017, I issued a communication to all staff emphasising the these issues in order to ensure they were appropriately disclosed importance of this process and encouraging staff to participate.
An audit of the banks internal whistleblowing service was completed during the year which concluded that the process is The GAC also reviewed judgements in relation to asset and well controlled.
The value of goodwill, deferred tax and RBSs investments in subsidiaries were all key areas of focus during External audit 2017 and the impact of macro economic risks, including Having completed their first year as RBSs external auditors in developments in relation to Brexit, on the credit environment was 2016, Ernst & Young LLP EY have continued to build and a discussion topic throughout the year.
embed their knowledge of the bank during 2017.
EY attended each meeting of the GAC in 2017, providing quarterly audit The GAC invested considerable time during 2017 reviewing and reports and updates on various other bespoke topics.
EYs input discussing the key assumptions, judgements and processes has been invaluable in assisting the GACs deliberations behind RBSs IFRS 9 calculations, in anticipation of the throughout 2017 and the year-end audit period and I would like to accounting standard coming into effect on 1 January 2018. thank them for their contributions.
Significant work undertaken by management, together with close scrutiny from the GAC allowed RBS to disclose the estimated impact of IFRS 9 in its H1 2017 interim results announcement.
65 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key priorities for 2018 Looking forward to 2018, the GAC will continue to ensure the integrity of the financial statements of both RBS and its subsidiaries.
The changes that will be introduced to reporting structures as a result of the ring-fencing programme will be a key focus and we will continue to monitor the impact of the economic environment on RBSs credit portfolio and financial results.
The GAC will also review Internal Audits validation of control environment ratings and will strive to ensure that recent improvements in the control environment are sustained.
As ever, I would like to thank all GAC members and attendees for their continued support and dedication during 2017, in particular Sandy Crombie who stepped down from the Board at the end of the year.
I would personally like to thank Sandy for his extremely valuable contribution to the work of the GAC over the years.
Brendan Nelson Chairman of the Group Audit Committee 22 February 2018 66 Report of the Group Audit Committee Report of the Group Audit Committee Meetings and visits Membership The GAC held seven scheduled meetings during 2017, four of The Group Audit Committee is comprised of independent nonwhich were held shortly in advance of submission of the quarterly executive directors.
financial statements to the Board.
Attended scheduled During 2017, in conjunction with members of the BRC, members of the GAC took part in an annual programme of visits to Brendan Nelson Chairman 7 7 businesses and control functions in order to gain a deeper Morten Friis 7 7 understanding of the risks and issues they face.
This programme Baroness Noakes 7 7 comprised: two visits to Risk, Conduct and Restructuring: Former Member two visits to Internal Audit: Sandy Crombie 7 7 a visit to each of Services CAO and Services COO: a visit to Commercial & Private Banking: John Hughes was also a member of the GAC during his tenure a visit to NatWest Markets: and as a director from 21 June until 1 September 2017.
During this a visit to Finance.
period John Hughes attended one scheduled meeting of the GAC.
Sandy Crombie stepped down from the Committee with In addition to these business and functional visits, the GAC and effect from 1 January 2018.
BRC also undertook a teach-in session on IFRS 9 and visited the banks operations in Poland.
During the visit to Poland the GAC Brendan Nelson, Morten Friis and Baroness Noakes are also and BRC received updates on the control environment in the members of the BRC.
Sandy Crombie was Chairman of the Global Hub Europe, met with key leaders and talent and with the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee throughout external audit team in Poland.
Brendan Nelson and Sandy Crombie were also members of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee.
Baroness Allocation of Group Audit Committee agenda time during 2017 Noakes was also appointed as a member of the Group was as follows: Nominations and Governance Committee with effect from 1 September 2017.
This cross committee membership helps facilitate effective governance across all finance, risk and compensation issues.
It also helps to ensure that agendas are Financial affairs of the group 42% aligned and that overlap of responsibilities is avoided where Standards of internal control 19% possible.
Internal audit 18% External audit 13% The members of GAC are selected with a view to the expertise Regulatory relationships and and experience of the GAC as a whole and with proper regard for compliance 4% the key issues and challenges facing RBS.
Governance and procedural 4% Total 100% The Board is satisfied that all GAC members have recent and relevant financial experience and that each member of the GAC Performance evaluation is independent as defined in the SEC rules under the US The performance of the GAC is evaluated annually, and at least Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Exchange Act and once every three years is facilitated by an external party.
The Board has further determined that Brendan Following an externally facilitated evaluation in 2015, the Nelson, Committee Chairman, and Baroness Noakes are both evaluation of the GACs performance in 2017 was conducted financial experts for the purposes of compliance with the internally.
The evaluation process involved the completion of Exchange Act Rules and the requirements of the New York Stock questionnaires by both GAC members and members of Exchange, and that they have competence in accounting and management and follow up interviews to discuss the findings.
auditing as required under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Full biographical details of GAC members The Board and the GAC have considered and discussed the are set out on pages 51 to 56. outcomes of this evaluation.
Overall the evaluation concluded that the GAC operated effectively during 2017.
A small number of During 2017 GAC meetings were attended by: the Group recommendations for improvement were made in relation to the Chairman: the Chief Executive: the Chief Financial Officer: the length and timeliness of Committee papers, the length of Deputy Chief Financial Officer: the Chief Accountant: the Chief meetings and the schedule of visits, which were approved by the Legal Officer and General Counsel: and the Internal and External GAC and the Board.
Progress against these actions will be Auditors.
Other executives, subject matter experts and external tracked in 2018 and reported back to the GAC and the Board.
advisers were also invited to attend, as required, to present and advise on reports commissioned by the GAC.
The GAC also met The GAC conducts an annual evaluation of both the external privately with the external auditors and separately with Internal auditor and the Internal Audit function each year.
evaluations found that EY were performing the audit of RBS effectively and that Internal Audit continued to operate effectively Purpose of the Group Audit Committee during the year.
Further details are provided in the report below.
The GACs responsibilities are set out in more detail in its terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Committee and approved by the Board.
These are available on: rbs.
67 Report of the Group Audit Committee Matters considered by the Committee in 2017 Key area Matters considered and action taken by the Committee Accounting and financial reporting Accounting The Group Audit Committee focused on a number of salient judgements and reporting issues in the preparation of judgements and the financial results throughout 2017, including the quarterly, half year and full year results and the Annual Report reporting issues and Accounts.
In particular, the Committee considered, discussed and, where appropriate, challenged: considered in the preparation of provisions and disclosures relating to ongoing regulatory, litigation and conduct issues including: US RMBS financial reports investigations and litigation: the UK shareholder action: Payment Protection Insurance claims including whether changes were required as a result of FCA advertising campaigns: the FCAs investigation into RBS former Global Restructuring Group: and the CBIs review of Irish Tracker mortgages.
During 2017 RBS has recognised 1.3 billion of litigation and conduct provisions: the adequacy of loan impairment provisions, focusing in particular on judgements and methodology applied to provisions.
The Committee was satisfied that the overall loan impairment provisions and underlying assumptions and methodologies were reasonable and applied consistently: the key judgements made in interpreting IFRS 9, the key features of the IFRS 9 impairment process and the impact of IFRS 9 on the banks financial results, capital, stress testing and earnings volatility together with the IFRS 9 Transition Report, which is published alongside this report: valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial instruments carried at fair value including RBSs credit market exposures and own liabilities assessed at fair value: judgements made by management in relation to the carrying value of intangible assets including in particular goodwill, and RBSs investment in subsidiaries within the stand-alone parent company accounts.
managements assessment of the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting, and identified deficiencies.
The GAC noted significant deficiencies in relation to user-access to the general ledger system and the process around provisions for restructuring costs and action is being taken by management to improve these processes.
There were no Material Weaknesses reported in relation to RBS Group at the year-end: the quality and transparency of financial and risk disclosures: the viability statement in the 2017 report and accounts and the going concern basis of accounting including consideration of evidence of RBSs capital, liquidity and funding position.
The GAC considered the process to support the assessment of principal risks: assessed the companys prospects in the light of its current position and the identified principal risks: challenged the evidence to support some of the statements made: and reviewed the disclosure on behalf of the Board.
The GAC supported the viability statement and the directors going concern conclusion.
Refer to the Report of the Directors for further information : and the comprehensive review process which supports the GAC and the Board in reaching the conclusion that the disclosures in the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The review process included: central co-ordination of the annual report and accounts by the Finance function with guidance on requirements being provided to individual contributors: review of the annual report and accounts by the Executive Disclosure Committee prior to consideration by the GAC: and a management certification process which required members of the Executive Committee and other senior executives to provide confirmation following their review of the annual report and accounts that they considered them to be fair, balanced and understandable.
This process was also undertaken in respect of the half year and quarterly results announcements.
The External Auditor also considered the fair balanced and understandable statement as part of the audit process.
Having considered the above, the Committee recommended the quarterly, interim and full year results announcements and the Annual Report and Accounts, together with supporting documentation including Pillar 3 reports, financial supplements and investor presentations to the Board for approval.
Ring-fencing In Q3 2017, the Committee considered the basis of preparation and governance of the pro forma financial information, including the adjustments made, and forecast information that was included within the Ring-fencing Transfer Scheme and recommended this to the Board for approval.
68 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the Committee Systems of internal control Annual Risk and Considered the effectiveness of RBSs internal control system, including any significant failings or weaknesses.
Control report The GAC also considered RBSs disclosure on internal control matters in conjunction with the related guidance from the Financial Reporting Council subsequent to review by the Board Risk Committee.
Control Considered the outputs of bi-annual self-assessments of the robustness of the internal control environment for Environment RBSs customer-facing businesses, and its support and control functions.
This informs the control environment Certification disclosure in the annual report and accounts.
Most areas reported an improved Control Environment Certification rating by the year end and the remaining areas are expected to report an improved rating during 2018.
Managements plans to address certain control issues are covered in more detail in the report of the Board Risk Committee on page 75.
Three lines of Received a report on RBSs three lines of defence model, including accountabilities under each of the lines of Defence defence, the impact of ring-fencing governance and actions taken to improve the understanding and effectiveness of the model across RBS.
Whistleblowing Received updates on whistleblowing activity and the performance of RBSs whistleblowing service, monitored the effectiveness of the whistleblowing framework and enquired as to any trends or themes.
Also received updates on communications and awareness activity relating to whistleblowing and testing of the framework.
The GAC Chairman acts as RBSs Whistleblowing Champion, in line with PRA and FCA regulations.
This role carries the responsibility for ensuring and overseeing the integrity, independence and effectiveness of the firms whistleblowing arrangements.
As part of this role the GAC Chairman meets regularly with the internal whistleblowing team.
During 2017 he also met with RBSs external whistleblowing supplier and with the internal resourcing team responsible for the RBSs relationship with that external supplier.
An audit of RBSs internal whistleblowing service was completed during the year by Internal Audit which concluded that the process is well controlled and that management understand the risks they need to manage.
A small number of improvements were also recommended and management has committed to address these by 31 October 2018.
Complaints Updates were provided to the GAC on customer complaints, including the complaints process, compliance with complaints policy and any emerging themes.
The GAC is focused in particular on complaints relating to accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters: or submitted directly to the Chief Executive Officer, his executive team, or the Chairman.
Ledger Received updates in relation to the delivery of RBSs new general ledger which was implemented in August 2017.
Transformation The new ledger replaces previous legacy systems and supports new functionality such as discrete legal entity Programme views and multi-currency accounting on a single ledger platform.
The implementation of the new ledger was an important step in improving the Finance functions control environment.
Taxation Reviewed RBSs tax position, including a deep dive in October 2017 which covered: UK corporate tax compliance: tax provisions: the status of RBSs relationship with HMRC: deferred tax assets: the RBS Tax operating model: and external tax developments including making tax digital.
Legal Reports Considered quarterly reports on the most significant legal risks and developments affecting RBS, including the status of ongoing major litigation and investigations, privacy issues and relevant legislative and regulatory changes.
Notifiable Event Received bi-annual reports on control breaches which are captured by RBS notifiable event process.
Under this Process process all Board directors were alerted to the most significant breaches.
Sarbanes-Oxley Considered RBSs compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and was satisfied in this Act of 2002 respect.
The GAC noted Significant Deficiencies in relation to user-access to the general ledger system and the processes around provisions for restructuring costs and action being taken by management to improve these processes.
Remediation of a significant deficiency previously identified in relation to its subsidiary, NatWest Bank, in connection with legal entity recharge accounting was monitored during 2017 and downgraded in December 2017.
No Material Weaknesses were reported in RBS Group at the year-end.
Provided oversight of the drive to continue to improve SOX processes and received a number of updates in this regard.
Internal audit Reports and Received quarterly reports and opinions from Internal Audit throughout 2017.
These reports and opinions updated Opinions the GAC on Internal Audits view of the progress made in improving RBSs risk and control environment and risk and control awareness by reference to the relevant ratings for each business and function, and the risks which may impact the bank achieving its targets.
Internal Audit also provided updates on the audit plan and any anticipated changes to the plan and outlined material and emerging concerns identified through their audit work.
In addition, Internal Audit reported on items including: Pillar 3 reporting: RBSs Global Systemically Important Bank status: and the whistleblowing process.
69 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the Committee Internal audit continued Annual Plan and Considered and approved Internal Audits plan for 2017, which is focussed on RBSs highest risks.
An interim Budget update on performance against the plan was provided to GAC at the end of H1 2017.
The GAC also considered Internal Audits budget and was satisfied that this was sufficient to allow Internal Audit to deliver the plan.
Internal Audit Updates to Internal Audits charter were approved by GAC.
The updates aligned the charter with the language of Charter and the October 2016 revisions to the Institute of Internal Auditors International Professional Practice Framework and Independence the latest version of Internal Auditors methodology, which was updated in April 2017.
The GAC also confirmed the independence of Internal Audit.
Visits During two visits to Internal Audit in 2017, the GAC received updates on a variety of issues impacting the Internal Audit function, including: resourcing: bench strength: succession planning: quality assurance: strategic priorities: changes to the functions structure and opinion approach in anticipation of ring-fencing: and the 2018 Audit Plan.
Chief Audit The Chief Audit Executive continued to report to the Chairman of the GAC, with a secondary reporting line to the Executive Chief Executive for administrative purposes.
The GAC assessed the annual performance including risk performance of the Chief Audit Executive.
Annual The annual review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit was undertaken internally in 2017.
Feedback on Internal Evaluation Audit was provided by GAC members and attendees including the external auditors, chairmen of subsidiary audit committees, key members of franchise and function risk committees and other key members of management.
The evaluation concluded that Internal Audit had operated effectively during the year.
Certain recommendations were made to aid continuous improvement within the function including continuing to bolster succession planning and bench strength, increasing connectivity between Internal Audit teams and sharing best practice.
These recommendations will be implemented during 2018 and progress will be tracked by the GAC.
Relationship with regulators Regulatory Received regular reports on the status of RBSs relationships with its key regulators.
The GAC Chairman also Relationships attended continuous assessment meetings with the PRA and FCA, a trilateral meeting with the PRA, a meeting with the FRC as well as two meetings with UK Financial Investments Limited during 2017.
External audit External Audit Jonathan Bourne has been EYs lead audit partner for RBS since EY assumed the role of external auditor in Reports March 2016.
Jonathan Bourne attended each meeting of the GAC throughout 2017 and reported to the GAC each quarter on their audit work and related conclusions, including the appropriateness of judgements made by management and their compliance with international financial reporting standards.
Audit Plan and Received updates in relation to the external auditors 2017 plan and approved the 2017 audit fees including the fees fee for the 2017 interim results.
The GAC was authorised by shareholders at the last Annual General Meeting to fix the remuneration of the external auditors.
Annual Conducted an internal evaluation to assess the independence and objectivity of the External Auditor and the Evaluation effectiveness of the audit process during 2017.
Questionnaires were issued to the GAC members, attendees, the Finance Officers of the Franchises and Functions and key members of the Finance team.
The evaluation assessed in particular the external auditors mindset and culture, skills, character and knowledge, quality control and judgement.
The evaluation highlighted that the objectivity, independence and integrity of the lead audit partner and the audit team is highly rated by both the GAC and management and concluded that the external auditor was operating effectively.
A small number of recommendations for continuous improvement were identified including enhancements to reporting: adding value by analysis and suggested management actions: and the pre-planning of audits which will be reviewed by the external auditor.
Following the evaluation the GAC recommended that the Board seek the reappointment of EY as external auditor at the next annual general meeting.
CASS Opinions The external auditor presented the results of its assurance procedures on compliance with the FCAs Client Asset Rules for RBS regulated legal entities for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The GAC also considered the CASS Audit plan for 2018, the findings of which will be reported to the GAC once the audit is complete.
External Audit The GAC considered EYs 2016 report to the PRA under supervisory statement SS1 16 which set out the PRAs Report to the expectation for auditors to provide written reports to the PRA concerning the audits of major banks and building PRA societies, as set out in chapter 8 of the Auditors Part of the PRA rulebook.
The report responded to specific questions posed by the PRA relating broadly to credit impairment, hedge accounting, trading valuation, forecasting and conduct.
GAC also discussed the questions received from the PRA in relation to the report required for 2017.
Independence of As RBSs previous external auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte have an ongoing role to consent to the release of their the previous prior period audit opinions for US reporting purposes, the GAC considered the processes and procedures whereby external auditor Deloitte were able to re-establish their independence in order to do so.
70 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the Committee Audit and non-audit services Non-audit service In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the EU Audit Regulation, RBS has a policy in place policy in relation to the engagement of the external auditors to perform audit and non-audit services the policy.
The GAC reviews the policy at least annually to ensure it remains fit for purpose.
In accordance with the policy, all audit services and permitted non-audit services must be approved before the engagement commences.
Under the policy certain services are classed as Audit-Related Services and these may be approved by the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, on behalf of the GAC, up to a limit of 100,000 each financial quarter.
Engagements for Audit-Related Services in excess of this quarterly limit require the approval of the GAC Chairman.
All Audit-Related Services are reported to the GAC quarterly.
The GAC has also delegated authority to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer to approve the provision of services by the external auditor to non-consolidated subsidiaries of RBS within an annual cap and to approve engagements with the external auditor where RBS has limited or no influence in the selection process.
All such engagements are reported to the GAC each quarter.
For all other permitted non-audit service engagements, where the fee is below 5,000 approval by the Deputy Chief Financial Officer is required.
Where the fee is above 5,000 but below 100,000 approval by the GAC Chairman is required.
For engagements where the fee is expected to exceed 100,000 a competitive tender process must be held and approval of the full GAC is required.
In addition all engagements must be approved by the Deputy Chief Financial Officer and by Supply Chain Services.
All such ad hoc approvals of non-audit services are ratified by the GAC each quarter.
During 2017, the external auditors were approved under the policy to undertake the following significant engagements: to carry out i a review of RBSs OFAC compliance policies and procedures and their implementation for RBSs global business lines: and ii and appropriate risk focussed sampling of U. S. dollar payments, as required in connection with the 2013 Cease and Desist Order issued to RBS by the by Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve: the annual client money CASS audit as required by the FCA: the annual audit of the banks LIBOR submissions as agreed with the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the FCA: the audit of note issuance in Scotland and Northern Ireland and in respect of notes in circulation as requested by the Bank of England: work in respect of reporting for RBS NV in respect of COREP and FINREP returns performed over and above normal regulatory reporting: reporting to the PRA on matters related to the audit: the sustainability audit: and overseas regulatory reporting.
The decision to approve the engagement of the external auditor for the services noted above was due to factors including synergies and efficiencies relating to the audit work, their existing knowledge of RBS which allowed work to commence quickly and with minimal disruption and the benefits in maintaining consistency between similar engagements.
In each case the GAC was satisfied that the engagement did not impact the external auditors independence.
The total value of non-audit services fees during the year was 15.1% of the audit fee.
The policy also includes certain safeguards in relation to engagements with RBSs previous external auditor, Deloitte who have an ongoing role to consent to the release of their prior period audit opinions for US reporting purposes and may therefore require to re-establish their independence.
During 2017 Deloitte were approved under the policy to carry out the following significant engagements: setting of a framework for documentation review to be undertake in connection with an attestation made to the National Futures Association in relation to record keeping and reporting: provision of financial advice in relation to the disposal of a business in which RBS held a shareholding: 71 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the Committee Audit and non-audit services continued an independent review of UBI DAC compliance with the Code of Conduct Mortgage Arrears requested by the Central Bank of Ireland: provision of resource support to help support RBSs Technology teams with understanding and implementing an end to end technology delivery framework and embed these new ways of working within Technology teams: review of the financial position of a customer to allow Senior Lenders, including RBS, to work with the customer on a medium term restructuring solution: support to the businesses and Finance Central SOX team in documenting the end to end processes underlying statutory financial reporting, confirming the associated risk and mitigating suite of SOX controls : to build an iOS application for an Entrepreneurial Spark concept quality assurance services for RBSs customer due diligence remediation programme: development of an initial proposition and development roadmap for a new digital platform that will enable us to launch, test and refine innovative offerings for both customers and non-customers: development of a risk assessment process, control framework and review framework in relation to new corporate tax offences under the Criminal Finances Act: as the skilled person to continue to support the Banks ring-fencing programme under ICB: and to support the Bank in implementing new technologies to create excellent customer experiences, contribute to a strong cost:income ratio and simplify business processes.
Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited and permitted under the policy can be found on rbs.
Information on fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services carried out by the External Auditor can be found in Note 5 on the consolidated accounts.
Brendan Nelson Chairman of the Group Audit Committee 72 Report of the Board Risk Committee The Committee devoted considerable time this year to stress Letter from Baroness Noakes testing.
The 2017 Bank of England exercise incorporated a Chairman of the Board Risk Committee requirement to undertake two stress scenarios an Annual A key part of RBS Cyclical Scenario ACS and a Biennial Exploratory Scenario becoming a simpler, BES followed by a further two IFRS 9 exercises on non-credit safer and customer card and credit card exposures.
The BRC reviewed the various components and stages of these exercises and recommended focused bank is that the Board approve them.
excellent risk management We also conducted detailed reviews of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP returns for the Group.
In Dear Shareholder, preparation for ring-fencing, the Committee also oversaw the preparation of an ICAAP for the future ring-fenced bank and both an ICAAP and ILAAP for RBSs future NatWest Markets A key part of RBS becoming a simpler, safer and customer subsidiary which will sit outside the ring-fence.
focused bank is excellent risk management.
The Board Risk Committee BRC plays an important role in overseeing how well Other Work RBS manages its risks.
The purpose of this report is to describe Our detailed report sets out what we have done in other areas how the BRC discharged this responsibility during 2017. during the year.
The more material areas have been: 2017 has been another busy year for the BRC and our detailed Risk appetite: we continued the work of earlier years to report, which follows, sets out the detail of what we have done.
I oversee the extension and refinement of RBSs would like to focus on two key areas, both of which are driven by comprehensive risk appetite framework, including its regulatory requirements.
cascade to our key franchises and preparation for ringfencing.
Ring-fencing and Resolution Control environment: Strengthening the control environment RBS, in common with other large banks, is required to deliver both ring-fencing and key parts of its resolution plans by the has been a key part of the RBSs transformation beginning of 2019. programme.
Significant progress was made in almost all parts of RBS but not enough to get the overall control The separation of our core UK and European banking business environment to where it needs to be.
from activities that are required to be outside the ring-fence Transformation programme: we continued to oversee the involves many complex activities including: legal restructuring of complex programme of bank-wide initiatives.
This includes the RBS group: detailed analysis and transfer arrangements for the delivery of a number of key regulatory requirements.
In individual customers and products: and changes to the way in recognition of the improvements made to the effectiveness which we manage the business.
of the programme, we were able to reduce our detailed In parallel with this RBS needs to have plans acceptable to the involvement compared with prior years.
regulators which allow RBS to be dealt with effectively in the event of financial failure.
An important part of this is Operational Key Priorities for 2018 Continuity in Resolution OCIR which is aimed at ensuring that Successful delivery of ring-fencing and OCIR will continue to be a the ring-fence bank has all the systems and resources it needs to key focus area in 2018 given the regulatory deadline of 1 January operate.
This in turn requires much more formality and structure 2019.
Our focus will shift from legal compliance to ensuring that around the way that individual parts of RBS trade with each other we have the right risk management and oversight processes to through inter-group agreements and these agreements are a key underpin the new structures.
I expect that we will continue to part of how we deliver ring-fencing as well.
focus on the control environment in particular the parts of the business which still need to improve long term sustainability.
The BRC has responsibility for overseeing the delivery of these programmes and the management of the associated execution I would like to end by extending my gratitude to my fellow and delivery risks on behalf of the Board.
We reviewed the ringCommittee members and to the banks senior leadership team for fencing programme at every meeting and receive reports from an their support and dedication to the business of the Committee integrated assurance programme.
In H2 2017, the BRC during 2017. supported the incorporation of OCIR requirements within the ring-fencing programme in recognition of the interdependencies.
We will monitor closely the delivery of the residual elements of RBSs Resolution Planning separately.
Capital and Liquidity Baroness Noakes Capital and liquidity are important areas for risk management in any bank and the regulatory requirements are intensifying, Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 22 February 2018 particularly in the context of ring-fencing.
73 Report of the Board Risk Committee Report of the Board Risk Committee The Committee also held in-depth sessions on risk reporting and The role and responsibilities of the Board Risk Committee held a teach-in on both capital and IFRS 9 requirements.
A no The Board Risk Committee assumes responsibility on behalf of formal agenda session was held with members of the BRC to the Board to provide oversight of current and potential risk enable open discussion about the key risks and threats to the exposures and future risk strategy, including the determination of organisation independently of the issue management and risk appetite and tolerance, and to promote a culture of risk procedural matters which necessarily form a material component awareness within RBS.
A large part of the Board Risk of the BRC agenda.
Committees work is the review of reports and regulatory submissions on behalf of the Board and recommending them for Performance Evaluation approval.
Where this is the case, the Report below is annotated The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its senior with an asterix.
Committees, including the Board Risk Committee, was conducted internally in 2017.
The Committee has considered and discussed The Committees responsibilities are set out in more detail in its the outcomes of this evaluation and accepts the findings.
Overall terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the the review concluded that the Board Risk Committee continued to Committee and approved by the Board.
These are available on operate effectively.
However, certain recommendations for enhancing the operation Membership of the Committee were identified, including: increased legal entity The Board Risk Committee is comprised of independent nonfocus: devolving greater oversight to executive fora to reduce the executive directors.
Details of the skills and experience of each of pressure on Committee time: and further enhancement in the the Committee members are set out in their biographies on quality of information presented to the Committee to ensure it is pages 51 to 55. concise, with key matters of judgement clearly highlighted.
Attended Recognising that RBS has now addressed several legacy issues, scheduled it was agreed that the Committee should look to re-focus to be Baroness Noakes Chairman 9 9 more forward looking, and dedicate less time to remediation and 9 9 Frank Dangeard operational issues.
Morten Friis 9 9 Penny Hughes 9 9 The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board 9 9 Brendan Nelson and the Committee will track progress on its 2018 priorities during Brendan Nelson is chairman of the Group Audit Committee of the year.
which Baroness Noakes and Morten Friis are also members.
Penny Hughes is chairman of the Sustainable Banking Allocation of Board Risk Committee agenda time: Committee.
This common membership across Committees helps to ensure effective governance across the committees.
Current risk profile and issues 22% Change agenda and large projects 10% Committee meetings are also attended by the RBS Chairman, Process, policies and risk appetite 13% relevant executives, including the Chief Executive, Chief Regulatory returns and stress testing 14% Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer, Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel and Accountability and Remuneration 6% Governance & Procedural 7% Chief Audit Executive, and the lead partner of the External Risk, conduct and regulatory affairs focus Auditor.
External advice is sought by the Committee, where sessions 7% appropriate.
Franchise and function focus sessions 21% Total 100% Meetings and visits Nine scheduled meetings and six ad hoc meetings were held in 2017.
The ad hoc meetings were required to consider: the results of various phases of internal and external stress tests: review of ICAAP and ILAAPs and reverse stress testing results: and the processes supporting the formal documentation required for the Ring-fencing Transfer Scheme.
In 2017, members of the Committee undertook a programme of visits to various businesses and control functions including biannual visits to Risk, Conduct and Restructuring function in conjunction with members of the Group Audit Committee.
The purpose and scope of this programme is discussed in detail in the Report of the Group Audit Committee on page 67.
74 Report of the Board Risk Committee Matters considered by the Committee in 2017 Key area Matters considered and action taken by the BRC Risk Profile Reporting The Committee provided oversight of RBSs risk profile relative to RBSs strategy and risk appetite through the review of key emerging and identified top risks impacting RBSs businesses and operations as presented in the Risk & Conduct Management Quarterly Report, and supplemented by short form reports at all other meetings.
Received verbal updates from the Chief Risk Officer at each meeting highlighting the most current and material risks impacting RBS.
A focused session on enhancement of risk reporting was held in October 2017 which resulted in a number of recommendations on content and presentation in the Risk & Conduct Management Quarterly Report.
The Committee will monitor how the changes are being implemented through 2018.
Received updates from Executive Risk Forum ERF and Technical ERF and discussed any emerging risks and issues escalated, in particular those areas where BRC had devolved detailed oversight to those fora.
External Received reports from the Chief Risk Officer at each meeting highlighting external developments with developments the potential to affect the banks ability to meet its strategic objectives or continue its operations.
Particular focus was placed on political developments and stability, including Brexit preparedness and the potential impact of the UK and certain EU elections: prospective EU capital requirements: UK economic resilience - inflation, interest rates: unemployment and the level of consumer indebtedness: the UK base rate increase: and global sanctions.
BRC also received a report on new and emerging threats including established risks such as competition but also risks posed as a result of digitisation.
General Counsels The General Counsel reported to the Committee at each meeting on current and emerging key legal report developments and significant litigation risks affecting the bank.
RBSs plans to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation were kept under review.
Regulatory Affairs Introduced a new report during 2017 covering material regulatory interactions, communications and and Developments developments to ensure a stronger focus on the areas of key regulatory interest.
Reviewed the governance and assurance supporting material regulatory representations and attestations and considered RBSs strategic plans against the key themes in the FCA Risk Outlook and Business Plan.
A Board Oversight Committee BOC has been established to oversee required enhancements to the governance and risk management practices in UBI DAC and, where appropriate, the BRC will work in conjunction with the BOC to understand implications for RBS processes.
Control Environment Received bi-annual reports on the control environment of the franchises and functions and monitored the route and achievability of being within appetite by end of 2017.
Sought managements assurance that appropriate measures were in place to ensure that the businesses could continue to operate safely, where control weaknesses had been identified.
Particular focus has been placed on areas where the control environment requires enhancement.
The BRC has devolved detailed review and challenge of management plans to remediate and strengthen the conduct and control environment across the NatWest Markets franchise to Technical ERF.
We received reports on those discussions and actions being taken, paying particular attention to the robustness of issue closure and downgrade: interdependencies: and sustainability.
Technical ERF is also overseeing in detail, managements plans to return the control environment within UBIDAC to a within risk appetite position, ensuring identified best practices are applied as adopted and learned through Nat West Markets remediation.
BRC will receive regular updates on those discussions through 2018.
The Committee is also monitoring closely the programme to deliver required improvements to customer due diligence processes as well as remediation work.
We will review progress on a quarterly basis in 2018 given the programmes criticality to attaining a satisfactory control environment Bank-wide.
Business and Received quarterly reports from the Chairman of the US Risk Committee to the point of its retirement subsidiary risk in May 2017.
The US Risk Committee was established to provide oversight of the risk management committees framework of RBSs combined US operations.
Following closure of its Connecticut Branch, alternative governance processes, commensurate with the scale of RBSs residual US activity were established.
The BRC retains oversight of key regulatory submissions.
Received quarterly reports from the chairmen of franchise risk committees and those of certain principal subsidiaries outlining risk profile relative to risk appetite and any control weaknesses and remediation plans.
In 2018, this reporting mechanism will be extended to all material regulated subsidiaries.
75 Report of the Board Risk Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the BRC Major Programmes Transformation Kept the execution risk of the bank-wide transformation programme under review receiving regular updates from the programme team on progress, including independent opinions from Risk, Conduct and Restructuring function and Internal Audit.
BRC encouraged the development of a reporting dashboard to track outcomes more effectively.
Reviewed managements lessons learned from oversight of the programme in 2016 and actions being taken to address findings.
Transitioned reporting to quarterly, reflective of the progress made to clearly report and track deliverables: the improving status of the programme: and the increased alignment between management, Risk, Conduct and Restructuring function and Internal Audit.
Where underlying programmes were reported to be losing traction, BRC took specific reports on delivery.
Specifically, BRC received reports on the progress of RBS to achieve Merchant compliant position under the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS and considered challenges to delivery of the Future Clearing Model programme.
Williams & Glyn Following the announcement of the European Commissions decision to approve HMTs alternative remedy package in September 2017, the BRC considered implementation plans to establish the required schemes, including critical path dependencies progress towards operational readiness.
Reviewed plans to reintegrate the business previously described as Williams & Glyn into RBSs retail business including controls and safeguards to ensure appropriate oversight of the portfolio and the timing of transition.
Ring-fencing Developed a programme of detailed quarterly reporting on the ring-fencing implementation programme, supplemented by shorter updates at intervening meetings given the considerable volume of activity and criticality of the deliverable.
Considered the key execution risks in the programme and oversaw key regulatory deliverables.
Reviewed the Ring Fence Transfer Scheme documentation and Skilled Person Report, including the required management representation letter and regulatory attestation.
The Skilled Person also attended relevant meetings to update on its findings.
Latterly, the BRC supported the integration of Operational Continuity in Resolution delivery within the programme given the interdependencies with ring-fencing activity.
Throughout, the Committee sought to ensure the programme remained focussed on the delivery of ring-fencing over discretionary strategic deliverables.
Received opinions from Risk, Conduct and Restructuring function and Internal Audit on progress.
Oversaw the appointment of KPMG as independent third party assurance provider and received the outputs of the work undertaken.
An integrated assurance approach was adopted in the period, the scope of which was reviewed by the BRC to ensure effective assurance activity across Risk, Conduct and Restructuring function, Internal Audit and KPMG.
Recovery and The Committee increased its oversight of Resolution Planning to quarterly and requested that this be Resolution Planning classified as a major programme within risk reporting.
This was reflective of the requirement to ensure adequate legal entity focus: pan-bank engagement: regulatory scrutiny and interdependency of elements with the ring-fencing deliverables.
Latterly, the BRC supported managements decision to transfer OCIR elements to the ring-fencing programme so as to increase the pace of delivery and demonstrate congruence with ring-fencing.
The Committee reviewed outputs of a third party benchmarking review of RBSs progress as compared to peers and will monitor actions being taken in response.
A re-baselined plan will be reviewed in early 2018.
Reviewed the draft 2017 Recovery Plan in June 2017.
76 Report of the Board Risk Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the BRC Enterprise Wide Risk Risk appetite Reviewed the risk appetite governance framework: provided feedback on the mechanism for managing and escalating breaches of risk appetite and providing oversight of the cascade of risk appetite.
Considered an annual refresh of the Risk Appetite Framework and received an update on the guidance and support that would be provided to the business throughout 2017 to ensure that the Framework was consistently embedded across the organisation.
Following work undertaken in 2016 to transition to a position where the Board BRC played a greater role in the approval of risk appetite for RBSs most significant risks, it was agreed that this would take place on a phased basis.
The BRC reviewed qualitative risk appetite statements and certain quantitative risk appetite measures relating to Market Risk and Credit Risk, being those measures where the Board would wish to be informed if those limits were exceeded Board Risk Measures.
Considered a report on the approach to risk appetite under structural reform reflecting the future legal entity status of the Group.
The BRC reviewed the proposed cascade of strategic risk appetite limits for the legal entities within and outwith the future ring-fenced structure.
It was noted that process and limits would continue to be refined in 2018.
Reviewed escalated breaches of risk appetite and action being taken in response.
Reviewed the annual refresh of risk appetite for strategic risks and made suggestions for refinements.
Reviewed the cascade of risk appetite for strategic and material risks to franchises and functions and received a report on the alignment of risk appetite, top to bottom across the organisation.
Considered various detailed risk appetite statements and associated metrics for material risks.
Risk Culture Reviewed work being undertaken across RBS to improve risk culture including the status of the various ongoing bank-wide risk culture initiatives.
Considered the outputs of a PwC review of progress in strengthening and embedding risk culture and discussed the actions identified that would have the greatest impact on risk culture.
Reviewed managements proposed framework to measure risk culture maturity against target state and considered the outcome of the assessment of progress against agreed performance criteria.
Client Pricing for Undertook an annual review of the client pricing process against regulatory requirements to ensure Assets and Liabilities that the pricing of liabilities and assets takes into account the banks business model and risk strategy.
Three Lines of Received an update on the work being undertaken to improve the effectiveness of the three lines of Defence defence model within RBS, including actions being taken to improve understanding of roles and accountabilities under each of the lines of defence.
RDAR Monitored progress towards full compliance with the Basel Principles on Effective Risk Data Aggregation and Reporting RDAR and undertook an annual review of the RDAR framework.
Risk Assurance Received quarterly reports from the Risk Assurance team, on issues highlighted by reviews conducted in each of the franchises.
77 Report of the Board Risk Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the BRC Operational, Credit and Market Risk Credit, Market and Reviewed the banks risk profile relative to credit, market and operational risk, and examined detailed Operational risk MI management information MI within the quarterly Risk Management Report in this regard.
Operational Risk Change capacity - Discussed the change risk profile of the bank and the prioritisation and impact of mandatory change programmes and considered opinion as to whether RBS had the required resource, processes and systems to deliver its change portfolio within agreed timescales.
Reporting on change capacity has now been incorporated within routine quarterly risk reporting.
Risk and Control Assessments - monitored managements progress to complete and refresh these assessments which are intended to provide an end to end perspective of the risk and control profile across the businesses.
Considered scope of the exercise and impact of the outputs on risk profile.
Undertook a review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Risk Policy Framework and considered work being undertaken to reduce the volume of exceptions to policy and remediation in areas of noncompliance.
Reviewed the statutory Annual Risk and Control Disclosure regarding the internal control system in RBS prior to its review by the Group Audit Committee.
Received bi-annual reports on Resilience and Security which considered in particular, Cyber Risk: internal and external fraud and records management.
Considered the statement of risk appetite for operational risk together with a new suite of metrics.
Credit Risk Oversaw the Executive Credit Group ECG receiving a summary of the decisions made by the ECG in the period.
Reviewed the most material credit decisions made in 2017 and examined trends in the market.
The BRC requested more data on declined requests and explanation of risk return relative to each decision.
Reviewed a revised governance framework for large credit exposure decisions, designed to enhance the level of Committee and Board oversight.
Reviewed a suite of Credit Risk Board Risk Appetite Measures.
Undertook a deep dive on the mortgage portfolio with a focus on drivers of growth and controls and received a report on NonPerforming Loans and Provision Coverage.
Market Risk Held a teach-in on the impact of the Fundamental Review of the Trading Book and the impact of the new regulation.
Reviewed a suite of Market Risk Board Risk Appetite Measures.
78 Report of the Board Risk Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the BRC Conduct and Financial Crime Financial Crime Reviewed the annual Group Money Laundering Reporting Officers Annual Report.
Received regular updates on financial crime risk, with a particular focus on the customer due diligence remediation programme, including scope, accountability, the timescale to return to appetite and impact on bank-wide control environment.
Considered the Financial Crime risk appetite statement and associated limits and measures.
Conduct risk Assessed progress to meet the requirements of the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme and approved the required compliance statements for submission to the PRA.
Received a report on how RBS surveillance processes and controls operated, in particular how these benchmarked to peers, and considered required enhancements.
Received reports on Conduct Risk Appetite and performance, including action being taken to improve bank-wide conduct risk profile.
Reviewed a revised statement of risk appetite and metrics which concentrated on customer outcomes as the Committee had previously requested.
While a Board Oversight Committee BOC had been established to oversee required enhancements to the governance and risk management practices in UBI DAC, where appropriate, the BRC will work in conjunction with the BOC to understand the implications for RBS processes.
Reviewed reports relating to the 2015 US Cease & Desist Order.
Received an annual report on oversight of operational compliance of RBS and NatWest with FCA Client Asset Rules CASS and compliance with CASS resolution pack rules.
Capital and Liquidity Risk Stress Testing Considered the 2017 Bank of England Stress Tests, comprising, for the first time, two stress scenarios the Annual Cyclical Scenario ACS and the Biennial Exploratory Scenario BES.
The Committee reviewed the scenario expansion and expansion of market risk factors and considered key assumptions and judgements and reviewed the outputs and management actions.
Reviewed the Bank of England IFRS 9 stress tests on non-credit card and credit card exercises including the assurance provided by Internal Audit and confirmation that management had undertaken robust review.
Reviewed the 2017 budget and stress test results including IFRS 9 and 2017 ICAAP Stress Test Scenarios together with opinions from Risk and Internal Audit.
Considered 2018 budget and stress test results including Risk and Internal Audit opinions.
Reviewed reverse stress testing results.
Oversaw enhancements to the banks stress testing capability, in particular the remediation actions taken in response to the PRA review of stress testing capability.
Work being undertaken to strengthen and validate models and improve supporting governance was a key focus.
ICAAP and ILAAP Reviewed the RBS Group and pro forma NatWest Markets Plc ILAAP and ICAAP, with particular focus on assumptions and areas of judgement and considered associated Risk and Internal Audit opinions.
Reviewed the NatWest Markets ILAAP and ICAAP, and accompanying Internal Audit Report.
These are the first such regulatory submissions and the documents will continue to be refined and tailored during 2018.
Other capital and Reviewed the risk profile of the Treasury Function in a focus session held to understand better its liquidity coverage position relative to risk appetite, emerging trends, threats and regulatory developments over the following year.
Considered the banks usage of the Bank of England Term Funding Scheme, noting that the Monetary Policy Committee decision to close the drawdown period on 28 February 2018 had no material impact on the banks funding and liquidity plans.
Considered conduct liquidity stress scenario analysis in detail.
Undertook a teach-in on capital with a focus on legal entities including the operation of external and internal MREL, future RWA developments and capital headwinds Basel 3 amendments, PRA mortgage floors, IFRS 16.
Reviewed pension strategy and oversaw interactions with the Pension Trustees.
79 Report of the Board Risk Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the BRC Accountability and Remuneration Accountability and Continued to provide oversight over the risk dimension of performance and remuneration arrangements, Remuneration working closely with the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee.
The Report of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee on pages 83 to 105 includes further detail on how risk is taken into account in remuneration decisions.
Key matters considered by the Committee included: accountability recommendations in respect of significant material events and high earners: the risk and control objectives of members and attendees of the banks Executive Committee, with additional focus on underlying objectives for the Chief Risk Officer: an assessment of the risk conduct performance of members and attendees of the Banks Executive Committee, with recommendations made to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee as appropriate to inform its decision on pay and awards: an assessment of the risk conduct performance of the Bank and its businesses, with recommendations made to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee to inform its decision on adjustments to the annual bonus pools: performance conditions for the banks Long Term Incentive Plans and assessment of proposed vesting levels to ensure risk management conduct performance is fairly reflected in vesting outcomes: and the proposed Executive Director Future Remuneration Policy as detailed on pages 87 to 88 from a risk and control perspective.
Items that were reviewed by BRC prior to recommendation to the Board Baroness Noakes Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 80 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee Letter from Penny Hughes In August 2017 we were delighted to welcome Yasmin Jetha as a Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee member of the Committee.
Yasmin brings a fresh perspective and enthusiasm for the work that we do.
In January 2018 we then We remain welcomed Dr Lena Wilson as a member and with her strong committed to public sector and commercial background is a valuable addition building a to the Committee.
sustainable bank that is great for our The efforts to build a responsible and sustainable business are recognised through independent and external measures.
examples include: Culture Our own measurement surveys correlate with the progress being recognised by the Banking Standards Board culture Dear Shareholder, assessment.
We need to maintain momentum and be diligent in identifying and taking action in weaker areas.
I am pleased to report on the progress made by the Sustainable Banking Committee SBC during another busy year for RBS.
Customers With clearer customer segmentation in place, good progress The Committee has retained its forward looking, strategic outlook is being made in meeting the needs and expectations of focusing on its five priority areas: culture: customers: people: NatWest and RBS Premier customers and those customers brand & communications: and environmental, social and ethical looking to buy a home.
The significant trend to online is ESE issues.
supported by our leading mobile app and digital banking propositions for business and commercial customers.
The Sustainable Banking Committee plays an important role on People behalf of the Board in considering the long term challenges RBS It is pleasing that RBS is recognised for being an attractive will face, and how we can be proactive in tackling those as well employer and has been rated a Top Global Stonewall as meeting our ambition for customers.
With this remit, the areas Employer.
The Committee recognises the importance of the Committee focused its efforts on during 2017 were: making RBS a great place to work.
technology and open banking: building a healthy culture: Brand & Communications challenging management on progress towards reaching The Committee recognises the importance of the brand number one for customer service, trust and advocacy: and strategy.
It is pleasing to see the progress made in key converting doing the right thing into good customer metrics, with brand reputation of NatWest and Royal Bank of outcomes.
Scotland reaching a 5 year high in July 2017.
ESE Issues We have made good progress this year and below are some of While we saw a drop in our Dow Jones Sustainability Index the highlights of our achievements: rating this year we have retained our place in the an enhanced stakeholder engagement programme: FTSE4GOOD index and achieved a leadership category a dedicated session on Personal & Business Bankings plan listing in the Carbon Disclosure Project Index Afor the to improve Net Promoter Scores and reduce complaints: second year running.
continuing the integration of sustainable banking into our core businesses and enhancing disclosure of integrated My thanks go to the Committee members and attendees for their reporting elements in the Strategic Report: contribution and support throughout the year.
I am also delighted supporting and challenging management to make tangible that the proactive work being done by our Sustainable Banking progress on culture: team has been recognised externally, with the award of development of a sustainable banking dashboard to provide Sustainability Team of the Year at the Ethical Corporate the Committee with a consolidated view on RBSs Responsible Business Awards.
performance in respect of key priorities such as the As you will have seen earlier in the report, I intend to stand down customer, culture and our reputation, to monitor progress as a director of RBS in the coming months.
I have thoroughly against becoming a truly sustainable bank: enjoyed my time as Chairman of SBC and have been pleased by supporting management in setting more ambitious the progress and positive changes that are underway as we environmental targets given the excellent progress RBS remain committed to building a sustainable bank that is focused made in respect of previous targets set on carbon, paper on delivering for a diversity of stakeholders.
I look forward to and water: handing over the role of Committee Chairman to Mike Rogers encouraging management to consider and understand who has been an engaged and valuable member of SBC since external benchmarks, surveys and ratings and the insights 2016. those provide in terms of RBSs reputation and experience for customers: a focus on people, with the Committee holding a spotlight Penny Hughes session on the wellbeing agenda, being engaged on our Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee inclusion strategy and the employee value proposition: and 22 February 2018 being consulted on the Modern Slavery Act statement prior to it being published for the first time last year.
81 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee Meetings Performance evaluation The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its senior The Sustainable Banking Committee held six scheduled Committees, including the SBC, was conducted internally in Committee meetings in 2017 which were attended by the 2017.
The SBC has considered and discussed the outcomes of Chairman, senior representatives from the customer-facing this evaluation and accepts the findings.
Overall the review franchises as well as Human Resources, Sustainability, Risk, concluded that the SBC continued to operate effectively.
Conduct & Restructuring, Communications & Marketing, and the Chief Economist.
The feedback from both members and attendees was very Stakeholder engagement positive, although there was some room for improvement in the The Committee runs a proactive engagement programme and in information received by the SBC.
It was suggested that the scope 2017 met with twenty external stakeholders.
The purpose is to of SBC could be reviewed to ensure its role is clearly defined and listen and understand where RBS could do more.
understood as its remit has evolved over the last year.
In 2017 we held four such external engagement sessions The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board covering the following topics: and the Committee will track progress during the year.
how digital tools and programmes can enhance financial Role and responsibilities of the Sustainable Banking capability and the opportunity for RBS to take a leadership Committee role in this area: Authority is delegated to the SBC by the Board and the SBC housing affordability and the role RBS could play in helping reports and makes recommendations to the Board as required.
to address the housing crisis: The terms of reference of the SBC are available on rbs.
com and how RBS could develop its approach and strategies to these are reviewed annually and approved by the Board.
A manage climate change risk: and regular report on the activities of the SBC in fulfilling its the risks and opportunities that technological disruption responsibilities is provided to the Board.
The principal responsibilities of the SBC are shown below: We enhanced our engagement programme in 2017 gaining first Culture and People hand insight into digital and FinTech centred transformation and to receive a regular culture measurement report to monitor its impact on customer behaviour.
This was complemented by an progress of embedding the Board approved culture: additional session with management on open banking.
This is an to understand areas of the business where there is an increasing area of interest and focus for RBS and it is important opportunity to improve, supporting and challenging that SBC has a detailed understanding of the opportunities and management on their plans: issues this presents.
to receive updates on what RBS is doing in areas such as wellbeing and inclusion, which form part of how it feels to The Committee also recognises the importance of engaging with work here: a wide range of stakeholders so members visited Business Banking and Mortgages during 2017, providing valuable frontline Customer colleague and customer insight.
We also hosted a lunch with to oversee customer centricity priorities and how RBS is representatives from our Employee Led Networks.
This allowed supporting and engaging with key customer segments: the Committee to hear first hand what it feels like to work for to oversee progress being made to achieve the long term RBS.
The themes from this session were reported to the Board to target of being number one for customer service, trust and provide insight into the issues facing our employees.
advocacy in each of our chosen businesses: to receive updates on complaints including understanding Following the sessions opportunities for follow up, further how management is addressing the root causes and how engagement and challenge to management are identified.
In that impacts the customer experience: December, we welcomed back a number of our past stakeholders to share the progress made and to continue Brand & Communications engagement.
to oversee the brand strategy in embedding the bank of brands approach focusing on building equity in our customer Membership brands: During 2017 The Sustainable Banking Committee consisted of to oversee actions being taken by management to manage five independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman and RBSs reputation with reference to how RBS is viewed by members of the SBC, together with their attendance at our customers, consumers and related interest groups: scheduled meetings in 2017, are shown below.
ESE Issues Attended to consider RBSs environmental strategy and progress scheduled against its environmental targets: Penny Hughes Chairman 6 6 to understand what RBS is doing for financial capability and Alison Davis 6 6 how we operate in our communities: and Robert Gillespie 6 6 our wider sustainable banking strategy.
Mike Rogers 6 6 Yasmin Jetha 1 3 3 Notes: 1 Appointed to the Committee with effect from 3 August 2017.
82 Directors Remuneration Report Page Annual statement from the Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 84 At a glance summary of executive directors remuneration 86 Summary of the executive directors remuneration policy approved at the 2017 AGM 85 Policy implementation 2018 remuneration arrangements 86 Key features of the remuneration policy 87 Wider employee considerations Group-wide remuneration policy, fair pay and the views of employees 89 Remuneration process and adjustments for risk, malus and clawback 90 Annual report on remuneration Total remuneration paid to executive directors for 2017 91 Assessment of long-term incentive LTI awards 91 LTI awards granted during 2017 92 Performance assessment framework for 2018 LTI awards 93 Payments to past directors 95 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors for 2017 95 Implementation of policy in 2018 96 Directors interests in shares and shareholding requirements 97 Total Shareholder Return TSR performance 98 Pay comparisons 98 The Committee and its principal activities during 2017 99 Shareholder voting on the remuneration policy 100 Other Remuneration Disclosures Pay for employees below Board 101 Remuneration policy for all employees 102 Remuneration of Material Risk Takers 104 83 Directors Remuneration Report Annual statement from Robert Gillespie Financial performance and pay decisions for 2017 It is clear we have a strong underlying business capable of Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration generating profits and sustainable returns for shareholders.
Committee Income has risen, costs have fallen and our capital strength has improved further during the year.
A number of legacy issues were settled in 2017 including the rights issue litigation and the Federal the new policy Housing Finance Agency settlement relating to RMBS.
In creates a simpler addition, approval was obtained for the alternative remedies way of aligning the package for the business previously described as Williams & interests of Glyn.
Efforts continue to be made to resolve the outstanding executives with RMBS litigation though the timetable for resolution is outside of shareholders the control of management.
For executive directors, performance has been assessed for the long-term incentive plan granted in 2015 following the end of the performance period.
The vesting reflects improvements in the Dear Shareholder, Economic Profit, CET1 ratio and people measures, with adjustments in areas where performance did not meet targets This is my first report as Chairman of the Committee and I would over the three year period, such as total shareholder return.
like to start by thanking my predecessor, Sandy Crombie, for all his hard work.
Sandy joined the Committee in 2009 and served In terms of other pay decisions, the bonus pool for 2017 is as Chairman from 2014 until the end of 2017, helping to oversee 342m, which is 1m lower than 2016, reflecting our transition to a great number of positive changes in remuneration practices at simpler and more stable pay structures.
He was also instrumental in introducing a new directors amounts remain relatively modest with 68% of all bonuses remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM.
awarded amounting to 5,000 or less.
Immediate cash bonuses continue to be limited to 2,000.
Since 2010, the bonus pool has I would also like to thank shareholders for their feedback during reduced by around 75% as a result of decisions taken by the the development of the policy and for the high level of support Committee and the move towards a smaller bank with a culture received at the AGM.
It is right that RBS should continue to be at focused on service excellence rather than sales.
the forefront of pay reforms and I believe the new policy creates a simpler way of aligning the interests of executives with Broader pay policy shareholders.
It continues our restrained approach to executive The Committee also oversees the broader employee pay policy.
pay and is in line with the growing consensus for companies to We continue to make good progress in ensuring that employees develop more tailored remuneration arrangements.
are paid fairly and are supported by simple and transparent pay structures.
Over the last two years we have removed variable pay We have moved to a long-term incentive structure with much for frontline and clerical employees with increases to their fixed lower maximum potential awards and where the performance of pay instead, which provides greater certainty.
As a result, 26,500 our executives is assessed on what they reasonably should be employees are compensated solely by fixed pay and benefits.
expected to achieve, while operating within our risk appetite.
This Our rates of pay exceed the Living Wage and changes have helps to create more predictable outcomes and encourages safe been introduced so that people performing similar roles are paid and secure growth.
The policy also supports our cultural aim of making sure that We believe that having an engaged and inclusive workforce is a remuneration encourages the right behaviours.
Executives are key part of a successful business.
I am greatly encouraged by the required to build up larger shareholdings and retain them for latest employee engagement score which has risen significantly longer.
This creates stronger alignment with the experience of during 2017 and is now above the Global Financial Services shareholders both during and after employment.
We are confident that we pay our employees fairly.
We keep our HR policies and processes under review to ensure we Implementation of policy for executive directors in 2018 do so.
Gender Pay Gap information is also being included for the No changes are being made at this time to the fixed pay first time as part of the Strategic Report section, along with the arrangements for executive directors.
Variable pay continues to steps we are taking to address the position.
be delivered entirely in shares as long-term incentive LTI awards with no annual bonus.
Members of the Executive Looking ahead Committee are on a similar remuneration construct.
Arrangements will be put in place in 2018 to provide additional oversight of remuneration across key RBS entities post ringThe first LTI awards under the new policy will be granted in early fencing.
In addition, the governments proposed governance and 2018, following an assessment of performance over 2017.
The executive pay reforms are due to be finalised in the coming assessment determined that overall performance had been months.
We welcome the proposals and are currently considering strong, particularly in relation to financial and people & culture the most effective mechanisms to supplement our existing measures, but a modest downwards adjustment was considered channels for the employee voice to be heard at Board level.
appropriate as the desired risk and customer performance had not been achieved in full.
Details of the assessment against the We remain strong supporters of reforms aimed at improving the objectives and the award levels can be found in the report.
effectiveness and transparency of pay structures.
I look forward to working with the Committee in considering how we can A further assessment will be undertaken after three years to continue to develop remuneration practices at RBS.
ensure that sustainable performance has been delivered prior to vesting.
Subject to this assessment, the shares will vest in equal Robert Gillespie amounts over years three to seven from the date of grant, Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration followed by an additional 12 month retention period post vesting.
Committee 22 February 2018 84 Directors Remuneration Report Summary of the remuneration policy for executive directors approved at the 2017 AGM This page provides a summary of the key design features of the approved policy followed by an outline of how the policy will be implemented for executive directors in 2018.
Aligned with strategic thinking and building a strong simple and fair bank LTI awards released Aligns executives with over eight years with shareholders predominantly malus and clawback for through holding shares, both a long-term view of during and after performance employment Helps to ensure The maximum LTI award remuneration has been greatly reduced, A policy encourages good while shareholding designed for behaviours and embeds requirements have been RBS and its the right culture significantly increased circumstances Performance assessed on Underperformance or risk factors that executive directors failings would impact the would reasonably be expected vesting level or lead to a to achieve, encouraging safe cancellation in the case of and secure growth significant issues While offering reduced maximum pay, the construct is designed to be more highly valued by executives due to more predictable outcomes Change in maximum remuneration opportunity under the new policy Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive 6,000 6,000 5,246 c. 40% reduction in max.
variable pay c. 30% reduction in 5,000 5,000 max.
variable pay 4,126 4,211 4,000 4,000 2,870 3,506 1,750 2,305 3,000 3,000 1,600 2,000 2,000 1,000 1,000 800 800 376 376 1,000 1,000 306 306 1,000 1,000 800 800 0 0 Previous Policy New Policy Previous Policy New Policy Salary Pension & Benefits Fixed Share Allowance LTI Award maximum Salary Pension & Benefits Fixed Share Allowance LTI Award maximum 85 000s 000s Directors Remuneration Report Policy implementation 2018 remuneration arrangements The salary, benefits, pension and fixed share allowance arrangements remain unchanged from 2017.
The LTI award to be granted in 2018 is the first award under the new policy, with a significantly lower maximum award level and a pre-grant assessment based on performance during 2017.
A further assessment will also take place three years after grant to consider if sustainable performance has been delivered or if anything has come to light that would impact the vesting level or lead to a cancellation of the award.
2018 LTI award Salary Standard benefits Pension Fixed share allowance after pre-grant assessment set out below Ross McEwan 1,000,000 26,250 350,000 1,000,000 1,575,000 Ewen Stevenson 800,000 26,250 280,000 800,000 1,440,000 Pre-grant performance assessment for 2018 LTI awards A summary of the assessment is set out below and further details can be found in the annual report on remuneration.
The Committee assessed performance against pre-set objectives for 2017, across the core areas of Finance, Risk & Operations, Customers and People & Culture.
The Committee considered whether the executive directors had achieved what would reasonably have been expected over the period and then applied its judgement without reference to formulaic targets and weightings.
Financial Risk & Operations Customers People & Culture Strong financial performance Continued improvements in risk NPS performance during 2017 Employee engagement and with all of the pre-grant profile and culture.
There was was on-target in 4 of our 6 leadership scores increased objectives met for 2017. an increase in the number of chosen customer segments.
significantly in 2017, with RBS franchises and functions While progress had been above the Global Financial Cost savings of 810m were achieving the desired control made, there was still some Services norm.
Employee achieved against a target of rating of 2, although this hadnt room for improvement on NPS engagement was up 7 points 750m, the core franchises been reached across every scores in certain segments.
on 2016 and was our highest achieved adjusted RoTE that area.
met the target of at least 11% Customer Trust performance and the CET1 ratio was Work is well underway in was ahead of target in 2 out of Improvements were also made 15.9% against the target of readiness for ring-fencing and the 5 chosen segments with in the assessment of culture 13%.
the required legal entity improvements in 2 further under the Banking Standards changes.
Board survey together with remains on track with the satisfactory progress towards critical path still delivering to our target of 30% women in plan.
After considering all the factors above, and taking into account input provided by the Board Risk Committee and the Sustainable Banking Committee, the Committee determined that strong overall performance had been achieved in 2017.
All financial objectives had been met or exceeded along with significant improvement across people & culture measures.
However, while progress had been made across all areas, the Committee concluded that a modest reduction would be appropriate to recognise that the desired risk and customer performance had not been achieved in full.
As a result, the Committee determined that a 10% reduction should be applied under the pre-grant assessment for the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
Timing of remuneration payments pre-grant further 20% assessment LTI award assessment at 20% Variable based on granted in the end of three 20% vests over 2021 to 2025 pay performance 2018 years before 20% with a 12 month retention over 2017 vesting 20% period post vesting 33% Fixed share 33% shares released allowance 33% over three years Fixed Pension & pay benefits Salary Year 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 The percentage vesting boxes in the diagram above show when the share awards are released following the end of the applicable vesting and retention periods.
86 Directors Remuneration Policy Key features of the remuneration policy for executive directors The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 11 May 2017.
The policy will apply until the 2020 AGM unless changes are required which mandate a revised policy be submitted to shareholders for approval.
The table below summarises the key features of the policy for executive directors.
In the event of any conflict the approved policy, which can be found under the Board and Governance section of rbs.
com, takes precedence over the information set out below.
Element of pay Operation Maximum potential value Salary To provide a competitive Paid monthly in cash and reviewed annually.
Future salary increases will not normally be level of fixed cash greater than the average salary increase for remuneration and aid The rates for 2018 are unchanged: RBS employees over the period.
Other than recruitment and retention of Chief Executive - 1,000,000 in exceptional circumstances, the salary will high performing individuals.
Chief Financial Officer - 800,000 not increase by more than 15% over the course of this policy.
Fixed share allowance To provide fixed pay that A fixed allowance paid entirely in shares.
The shares vest An award of shares with an annual value of reflects the skills and immediately subject to any deductions for tax and are up to 100% of salary at the time of award.
experience required and released in equal tranches over a three year retention responsibilities for the role.
Benefits To provide a range of Executive directors can select from a range of standard Set level of funding for standard benefits flexible and market benefits including: company car: private medical cover: life currently 26,250 which is subject to competitive benefits that are assurance: and critical illness insurance.
valued and assist individuals are also entitled to travel assistance in connection with in carrying out their duties company business including the use of a car and driver.
The total value of benefits provided is effectively.
RBS will meet the cost of any tax due on the benefit.
Further disclosed each year in the annual report on benefits including relocation costs may be offered in line remuneration.
RBS may also put in place certain security arrangements for executive directors.
Pension To encourage planning for Provision of a monthly cash pension allowance based on a 35% of salary for current executive directors.
retirement and long-term percentage of salary.
Opportunity to use the cash to 25% of salary for new executive directors.
participate in a defined contribution pension scheme.
Variable pay award long-term incentive LTI awards are subject to: The maximum award for current directors is: To support a culture where a one year pre-grant performance period: individuals are rewarded for a pre-vest performance assessment at the end of a Chief Executive - 175% of salary.
the delivery of sustained three year period, with vesting taking place from years performance, taking into three to seven after grant: Chief Financial Officer - 200% of salary.
account RBSs strategic malus prior to vesting and clawback which applies for objectives.
seven and potentially up to ten years from the date of Prior performance will be taken into account award: and when determining the value of the award at Delivery in shares with the a 12 month post-vesting retention period.
ability to apply malus adjustments and clawback Performance will be assessed in the areas of Finance, Risk The vesting level of the award can vary further supports longer-term & Operations, Customers and People & Culture to between 0% and 100% dependent on the alignment with determine whether the executive has achieved what would delivery of sustained performance.
reasonably have been expected in the circumstances.
Risk & Control and Stakeholder Perception underpins will also apply which may lead to downwards adjustment.
Shareholding requirements To ensure executive Unvested shares from LTI awards will count on a net of tax Chief Executive - 400% of salary.
directors build and continue basis towards meeting the shareholding requirement once to hold a significant the pre-vest performance assessment has taken place.
Chief Financial Officer - 250% of salary.
shareholding over the long Directors can dispose of up to 25% of the net of tax shares term.
received until the shareholding requirement is met.
87 Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors Element of pay Operation Maximum potential value Fees Fees are paid monthly in cash and reviewed regularly.
Additional The rates for the year ahead are set out in the To reflect the fees may be paid for new Board Committees provided these are annual report on remuneration.
required skills, not greater than fees payable for the existing Board Committees.
experience and Other than in exceptional circumstances, fees time No variable pay is provided so that the Chairman and nonwill not increase by more than 15% over the commitment.
executive directors can maintain appropriate independence.
Benefits Reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.
The The value of the private medical cover To provide a Chairman and non-executive directors are entitled to travel provided to the Chairman and any other level of benefits assistance in connection with company business including the use benefits will be in line with market rates and in line with of a car and driver.
RBS will meet the cost of any tax due on the disclosed in the annual report on market practice.
Other benefits may be offered in line with market practice.
The Chairman receives private medical cover.
Other policy elements Provision Operation Recruitment The policy on the recruitment of new directors aims to be competitive and to structure pay in line with the framework policy applicable to current directors, based on the elements of pay detailed in the policy table, recognising that some adjustment to quantum within that framework may be necessary to secure the preferred candidate.
A buy-out policy exists to replace awards forfeited or payments foregone which is in line with regulatory requirements.
The Committee will minimise buy-outs wherever possible and ensure they are no more generous than, and on substantially similar terms to, the original awards or payments they are replacing.
Notice and Executive directors termination RBS or the executive director is required to give 12 months notice to the other party to terminate the executive provisions directors employment.
There is discretion for RBS to make a payment in lieu of notice based on salary only which is released in monthly instalments.
The executive director must take all reasonable steps to find alternative work and any remaining instalments will be reduced as appropriate to offset income from any such work.
Chairman and non-executive directors The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have service contracts, they have letters of appointment.
They do not have notice periods and no compensation would be paid in the event of termination of appointment, other than standard payments payable for the period served up to the termination date.
On an annual basis, all directors stand for election or re-election by shareholders at the companys AGM.
Nonexecutive directors appointed prior to 2017 do not have a set term as the letter of appointment operates on a rolling basis.
From 2017 onwards, new non-executive directors have been appointed for an initial term of three years, commencing from the first election by shareholders.
At the end of this period, further terms may be agreed, subject to an overall maximum tenure of nine years.
The non-executive directors with terms of appointment that will currently expire unless otherwise renewed at the end of three years are: Mark Seligman 2020 AGM, Yasmin Jetha 2021 AGM and Dr Lena Wilson 2021 AGM.
Legacy RBS can continue to honour any previous commitments or arrangements entered into with current or former arrangements directors that may have different terms, including terms agreed prior to appointment as an executive director.
Treatment of Share awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules as approved by shareholders.
In line with outstanding the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, LTI awards made in 2018 onwards will involve employee share a significant reduction in maximum opportunity and will not be subject to pro rating for time in good leaver plan awards on circumstances, for the reasons set out below.
termination RBS is unusual in having no annual bonus, and bonus awards would typically not be subject to pro rating for time.
In addition, the impact of regulatory requirements effectively constrains the granting of LTI awards in the year of joining.
The combination of these factors means that pro rating of time for good leavers results in executives potentially receiving no variable pay award either for the year of joining or in the final year of employment.
This is not consistent with our aim of driving shareholder alignment within our pay construct.
Removal of pro rating therefore helps to ensure that executive directors are motivated and retain an appropriate long-term focus up to the point of departure.
It also creates higher levels of shareholding for up to eight years post departure meaning executives can be held accountable for, and are financially exposed to, the long-term consequences of their actions.
Individuals will qualify for good leaver treatment if they leave due to ill-health, injury, disability, death, retirement as agreed with RBS, redundancy, the employing company ceasing to be a member of RBS, transfer of the employing business, or any other reason if and to the extent the Committee decides in any particular case.
88 Directors Remuneration Report Wider employee considerations The group-wide remuneration policy applies to all employees.
Consistent with our executive remuneration principles, the aim is to deliver a simple and transparent pay policy which promotes the long-term success of RBS.
The policy supports a culture where employees are rewarded for delivering sustained performance in line with our risk appetite and for demonstrating the right conduct and behaviours.
Further details on the group-wide policy can be found on page 102 to 103.
We are committed to building a motivated and inclusive workforce that is engaged and passionate about achieving our ambition.
A summary is set out below on some of the initiatives that have taken place to: simplify pay: ensure fair pay: take employees views into account: and deliver a great place to work.
Simplifying pay Fair pay Providing a simple pay structure supports employees in doing the RBS will only achieve its ambitions if employees believe the pay right thing for customers, allowing them to concentrate on they receive is appropriate for the work they do.
Steps we have taken to ensure fairness include: Steps we have taken to simplify pay since 2015 include: setting rates of pay that exceed the Living Wage Foundation the removal of incentives for frontline employees in UK PBB Benchmarks.
and Ulster Bank Republic of Ireland.
ensuring that people doing similar roles are paid consistently.
the removal of discretionary bonus for all Clerical employees implementing a more transparent approach by moving more in the UK and Republic of Ireland in 2017 and extending this employees to published salary ranges.
to equivalent roles in India and Poland from 1 January 2018. investing in pay levels in recent years, focusing mostly on our the removal of discretionary bonus for the vast majority of junior employees, while not increasing fixed pay for our Appointed employees in the UK and the Republic of Ireland executive directors.
from 1 January 2018. in all the above cases, an appropriate adjustment has been We are confident that we pay our employees fairly.
We keep our made to fixed pay instead.
HR policies and processes under review to ensure we do so.
reducing the number of salary ranges by around 50%.
Our Gender Pay Gap information has been published and can be removing the long-term incentive element of pay for found in the our colleagues section of the Strategic Report.
employees below Executive Committee level.
Great place to work Views of employees RBS provides a range of resources and supporting tools to make Our main listening tool is the biannual employee opinion survey sure individuals are capable and motivated to perform at their which collects views on a range of topics including pay, best.
engagement, wellbeing, inclusion and leadership.
Some of the elements of great place to work include: The 2017 results showed improvement in the majority of inclusion - employee led groups play a key role in influencing categories.
The number of employees who believe they are paid our inclusion strategy.
Over 70% of employees have been fairly for the work they do increased significantly during the year trained to tackle unconscious bias and the inclusion score and is above the Global Financial Services norm.
from our employee opinion survey is significantly above the Global Financial Services norm.
We also have a number of other mechanisms through which we flexible working - supporting a positive attitude to flexible communicate with employees such as: working patterns to reflect personal preferences where this regular engagement with employee representatives including can be accommodated.
Unite in Great Britain and Offshore, the Financial Services wellbeing - support for good physical, mental and financial Union in Ulster Bank and our European Employee Council.
question and answer sessions throughout the year to allow excellent training - support with learning, professional employees to hear from, and provide feedback to, members development and further qualifications.
of the Executive Committee and other senior staff.
good leadership - equipping managers to help their teams in November 2017, the Chief Executive held his first live flourish - including our Determined to lead programme which streaming question and answer session with employees won the Princess Royal training award in 2017. across RBS and over 150 questions were submitted.
RBSelect - employees can choose from a range of flexible visits by Board members to business areas to hear directly benefits to help with financial planning and lifestyle choices.
share ownership - opportunity in the UK and Republic of support for employee-led networks which helps raise Ireland to participate in employee share plans, with awareness and influence strategy in a number of areas.
Sharesave 2017 seeing a 26% increase in participation.
volunteering - employees are provided with time off to work Proposed reforms to the UK Corporate Governance Code build on with charities and local communities.
the theme of ensuring the employee voice is heard at Board level.
We are supportive of the proposals and are currently considering Further details on our employee initiatives and successes can be the most appropriate options to enhance our existing channels for found in the our colleagues section of the Strategic Report.
89 Directors Remuneration Report How risk is reflected in our remuneration process Accountability review process and malus clawback RBSs approach to remuneration and related policies promotes The accountability review process was introduced in 2012 to effective risk management through a clear distinction between identify any material risk management, control and general policy fixed remuneration, which reflects the role undertaken by an breach failures and ensure accountability for those events.
This individual, and variable remuneration, which is directly linked and allows RBS to respond in instances where new information would reflective of performance and can be risk-adjusted.
Fixed pay is change the variable pay decisions made in previous years and or set at an appropriate level to avoid incentives that are adverse to the decisions to be made in the current year.
Under the accountability review process RBS can apply: Focus on risk is achieved through clear risk input into objectives, Malus - to reduce to zero if appropriate the amount of any performance reviews, the determination of variable pay pools and unvested variable pay awards prior to payment: incentive plan design as well as the application of malus and Clawback - to recover awards that have already vested: and clawback.
The Committee is supported in this by the Board Risk In-year reductions - to adjust variable pay that would have Committee BRC and the RBS Risk, Conduct and Restructuring otherwise been awarded for the current year.
Any variable pay awarded to Material Risk Takers from 1 January A robust process is used to assess risk performance.
A range of 2015 onwards is subject to clawback for seven years from the measures are considered, specifically the overall Risk Profile: date of grant.
For awards made in respect of the 2016 Credit, Regulatory and Conduct Risk: Operational Risk: performance year onwards, this period has been extended to ten Enterprise Risk: and Market Risk.
Consideration is also given to years for executive directors and other Senior Managers under overall Risk Culture.
RBSs remuneration arrangements are in the Senior Managers Regime where there are outstanding accordance with regulatory requirements and the steps we take internal or regulatory investigations at the end of the normal to ensure appropriate and thorough risk adjustment are also fully seven year clawback period.
disclosed and discussed with the PRA and the FCA.
Circumstances in which RBS may apply malus, clawback or inVariable pay determination year reduction include: For the 2017 performance year, RBS operated a robust multithe individual being culpable, responsible or ultimately step process which is a control function led assessment to accountable for conduct which results in significant financial determine performance and therefore the appropriate bonus pool losses for RBS: by franchise and function.
At multiple points throughout the the individual failing to meet appropriate standards of fitness process, reference is made against Group-wide business and propriety: performance from both affordability and appropriateness reasonable evidence of an individuals misbehaviour or perspectives and the need to distinguish between go-forward material error: franchises and resolution activities.
RBS or the individuals relevant business unit suffering a material failure of risk management: and The process considers a balanced scorecard of performance for malus and in-year reduction only, circumstances where assessments at the level of each franchise or support function.
there has been a material downturn in financial The assessments are made across financial, customer and performance.
Risk and conduct assessments at the same franchise or functional level are then undertaken to ensure that The above list of circumstances is not exhaustive and RBS may performance achieved without appropriate consideration of risk consider any further circumstances that it feels appropriate.
culture and risk and conduct controls is not inappropriately rewarded.
During 2017 a number of issues and events were considered under the accountability review framework.
The outcomes BRC reviews any material risk and conduct events and, if covered a range of actions including: reduction and forfeiture of appropriate, an underpin may be applied to the individual unvested awards through malus: dismissal with forfeiture of business and function bonus pools or to the overall bonus pool.
unvested awards: and suspension of awards pending further BRC may recommend a reduction of a bonus pool if it considers investigation.
In addition, reductions have also been applied to that risk and conduct performance is unacceptable or that the current year variable pay awards.
impact of poor risk management has yet to be fully reflected in the respective inputs.
Following further review against overall performance and conduct, the Chief Executive will make a final recommendation to the Committee, informed by all the previous steps in the process and his strategic view of the business.
The Committee will then make an independent decision on the final bonus pool taking all of these earlier steps into account.
The assessment process for LTI awards to executive directors is founded on the balanced scorecard approach used for the multistep bonus pool process, reflecting a consistent risk management performance assessment.
90 Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration The sections audited by the company's auditors, Ernst and Young LLP, are as indicated.
Total remuneration paid to executive directors for 2017 audited Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson 2017 2016 2017 2016 000 000 000 000 Salary 1,000 1,000 800 800 Fixed share allowance 1 1,000 1,000 800 800 Benefits 2 113 127 26 26 Pension 3 350 350 280 280 Total fixed remuneration 2,463 2,477 1,906 1,906 n a n a n a n a Annual bonus 1,024 1,225 1,418 Long-term incentive award 4 Total remuneration 3,487 3,702 3,324 1,906 Notes: 1 The value of the fixed share allowance is based on 100% of salary and, as part of fixed remuneration, it is not subject to any performance conditions.
2 Includes standard benefit funding of 26,250 per annum with the remainder for Ross McEwan in 2017 being travel assistance in connection with company business 67,006, relocation expenses 17,065 consisting of a flight allowance and assistance with tax return preparation, and home security arrangements.
The 2016 benefits figure for Ross McEwan has been amended to include a value for tax return preparation and home security arrangements during that year.
3 The executive directors receive a monthly cash allowance to help fund pension arrangements but do not participate in the companys defined benefit pension schemes.
The executive directors can choose to participate in the companys defined contribution pension arrangements.
4 The 2017 value relates to an LTI award granted in 2015.
Performance has been assessed over the three year period to 31 December 2017 as set out below together with an estimate of the vesting value.
The award will vest in two equal tranches in March 2019 and March 2020.
The value for 2016 has been amended from the estimated value of 1,030,000 provided in the 2016 report to reflect the actual value on the vesting date in March 2017.
2015 LTI final assessment of performance measures audited An assessment of performance of each relevant element was provided by internal control functions and PwC assessed relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against a peer group of comparator banks.
Performance for Performance Measures Performance for minimum Vesting at maximum 100% Vesting Weighted and weightings vesting minimum vesting Actual Performance outcome Vesting % Economic Profit 500 million 25% 500 million 613 million 100% 25% 25% TSR at upper Relative TSR TSR at median 20% Below median 0% 0% 25% quartile Vesting between 0% - 100% Safe & Secure Bank can be qualified by Committee discretion CET1 ratio: 15.9% 25% 100% 25% CET1 ratio target: 13% or above CET1 ratio - 12.5% Cost:income ratio: 55% Cost:income ratio target go-forward bank basis : 56% Cost:income ratio 12.5% or below NPS Gap to number 1 Vesting between 0% - 100% Customers & People 0% of 15.5 25% can be qualified by Committee discretion Split across advocacy, trust and NPS target: Gap to number 1 of 6.0 NTS: NatWest 59 employee engagement 70% 68% 17% RBS 22 NTS target: NatWest 55, RBS 42 Net Promoter Score NPS 6.25% Net Trust Score NTS 6.25% EI target: within 2 points of Global Financial Services EI: 1 point above Engagement Index EI 12.5% 100% GFS norm GFS norm Initial vesting outcome 67% 60% Final vesting outcome post application of underpin Economic Profit was based on the go-forward basis and defined as operating profit after tax and preference share charges less tangible net asset value multiplied by the cost of equity.
The companies in the relative TSR group for this award were: Barclays, Lloyds Banking Group, HSBC, Standard Chartered, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Crdit Agricole, Credit Suisse Group, Deutsche Bank, Santander, Socit Gnrale, UBS, Unicredito.
For the Trust metric of the Customers & People section, the NatWest target was met while the RBS target had been missed.
The 70% vesting for this element was calculated in line with the weightings of the brands, split 70% 30% for NatWest RBS, based on the relative revenues of the respective brands.
In making its final judgement, the Committee considered the overall context of performance, noting positive progress on Economic Profit which had exceeded the stretch target and the strong CET1 ratio and took into account input received from the Board Risk Committee.
Significant improvement had also been achieved in employee engagement scores which again had exceeded target.
However, the Committee also noted that the NPS, Trust for the RBS brand and relative TSR targets had been missed.
Taking all circumstances into account, the Committee determined it would be appropriate to apply the underpin and reduce the final vesting outcome from 67% to 60%.
91 Annual report on remuneration 2015 LTI vesting amounts included in the total remuneration table audited The executive directors were granted an LTI award in March 2015.
The performance conditions ended on 31 December 2017 and have been assessed as set out on the previous page.
The average share price over the last three months of the financial year has been used to estimate the value.
While the performance conditions have been assessed, the shares will not vest until March 2019 and March 2020.
Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson Maximum Shares Estimated Maximum Shares Estimated Performance category % vesting shares 1 due to vest value 2 shares 1 due to vest value 2 Economic Profit 100% 154,624 154,624 214,121 214,121 Relative TSR 0% 154,624 214,121 Safe & Secure Bank 100% 154,624 154,624 214,121 214,121 Customers & People 68% 154,624 105,145 214,121 145,602 Maximum shares for performance assessment 618,496 856,484 Initial outcome following assessment 67% vesting 414,393 573,844 Final outcome post application of underpin 60% vesting 371,098 1,024,230 513,890 1,418,336 Notes: 1 The maximum number of shares is calculated in line with the underlying award structure.
Each performance category could vest up to 100% of the maximum number of shares subject to the approved policy and the regulatory cap.
For the 2015 award, the number of shares capped at grant was 417,486 for Ross McEwan and 578,128 shares for Ewen Stevenson.
In both cases the vesting outcomes fall within the respective cap.
2 Based on a RBS share price of 2.76, the average over the three month period from October to December 2017.
2016 and 2017 LTI awards to executive directors current assessment audited The table represents an early indication of potential vesting outcomes only based on the position at 31 December 2017.
Details of the final performance assessment at the end of the three year period and any use of discretion will be disclosed in the remuneration report for the relevant year.
The Committee may consider the proximity of legacy items to the executive directors when assessing the vesting level.
Performance for Vesting at Performance for Vesting at 2016 LTI award 2017 LTI award Performance measure Weighting minimum vesting minimum maximum vesting maximum current assessment current assessment Performance Minimum economic ahead of the 100% Currently tracking Currently favourable Economic Profit 25% 25% profit targets Strategic behind target to target Plan TSR at upper Below median Currently upper TSR at median of quartile of Relative TSR 25% 20% 100% performance for quartile performance comparator group comparator vesting for vesting group CET1 ratio is in CET1 ratio is in Target ranges set for: range for vesting.
CET1 ratio and Safe & Secure Bank 25% Vesting between 0% 100% Cost:income ratio Cost:income ratio Cost:income ratio qualified by Committee discretion currently tracking currently in range for taking into account the margin by behind target vesting which targets have been missed Customer or exceeded and any other measures Customers & People Target ranges set for: relevant factors currently behind measures broadly Net Promoter Score, Customers & People 25% Net Trust Score and target with People tracking in range for Employee Engagement measure in range vesting for vesting LTI awards granted during 2017 audited Face value of Number of shares % vesting at minimum and Performance Grant date award 000s awarded 1 maximum Requirements 2 Conditional share awards subject to Ross McEwan 7 March 2017 2,870 1,188,800 Between 0% - 100% performance conditions, as set out above, with minimum vesting measured over the three year period from as set out above Ewen Stevenson 7 March 2017 2,305 954,768 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019 Notes: 1 The number of shares awarded was calculated in line with the regulatory cap that limits variable pay to the level of fixed pay and for this award equated to approximately 287% of salary, The award price of 2.4142 was calculated based on the average share price over five business days prior to the grant date.
2 Subject to the achievement of performance conditions, the awards are eligible to vest in four tranches with 50% vesting in 2021 and the remaining 50% split over 2022 to 2024.
Malus provisions will apply up until vesting and clawback provisions will also apply for a period of seven years from the date of grant, extended to ten years if events are under investigation at the end of the seven year period.
92 Annual report on remuneration Performance assessment framework for LTI awards granted from 2018 onwards For each of the core performance areas, the Committee will consider whether the executive director has achieved what would reasonably have been expected over the relevant period.
The Committee will follow a robust process to review performance against pre-set objectives relevant to RBSs strategic aims, but will apply its judgement without reference to formulaic targets and weightings.
Performance will be assessed taking into account circumstances applying over the period.
Risk & Control and Stakeholder Perception underpins will also apply under which the Committee, with input from the Board Risk Committee and Sustainable Banking Committee, can consider if there are any other factors that would lead to a downwards adjustment for example if the achievements are not considered sustainable, or were achieved through excessive risk taking.
The majority of the performance variation will normally take place under the pre-grant assessment, with a further pre-vest assessment to check whether, taking all circumstances into account, a threshold level of sustainable performance has been delivered.
Overall, the achievement of reasonable or target performance expectations will deliver full, or nearly full, payout of the LTI awards, as long as executives deliver good, sustainable performance.
This approach reflects the significantly reduced level of awards compared to the previous policy, creating more predictable outcomes and encouraging safe and secure growth within risk appetite.
Each year, the performance factors will be determined in light of RBSs priorities for that year.
Pre-grant assessment for LTI awards to be made in 2018 Core area Objectives for 2017 Pre-grant assessment in January 2018 Achieve a cost reduction of at least 750 million.
Strong financial performance with all targets exceeded for 2017.
Reasonable performance against budget for the Year on year cost savings of 810 million were achieved, Financial core franchises with adjusted RoTE of at least adjusted RoTE was above the target and the CET1 ratio was 11%.
RBS blended risk profile of 2: Franchise Continued improvements in risk profile with an increase in the Function control environment rated within number of franchises and functions rated at 2.
While progress appetite at 2, or minimum 3 tracking to 2 within had been made, the ultimate desired control rating hadnt been 12 months.
reached across every franchise and function.
Risk & Risk Culture to be rated at 3 Proactive on a Risk Culture was assessed overall as Proactive with a small Operations blended basis, with strong tone from the top.
Strong oversight of ring-fencing, ensuring timely Work is well underway in readiness for ring-fencing and the remediation of issues and maintain delivery as required legal entity changes.
The programme remains in line planned.
NPS performance during 2017 was on-target in 4 out of 6 Increase or maintain number 1 for Net Promoter customer segments.
While progress had been made, there was Customers Scores and increase Trust Scores in our chosen still room for improvement on NPS scores and on closing the gap segments.
to number 1 in certain segments.
Trust was ahead of target in 2 out of the 5 segments with improvements in 2 further segments.
Engagement score increased 7 points and the leadership score Improvement in employee engagement and increased 5 points since 2016, with both above the Global leadership scores.
The employee opinion survey showed the best results for 10 years.
Scores from the BSB survey improved on all items compared to People & Year on year improvement from the Banking 2016, demonstrating an improved culture throughout the Culture Standards Board BSB assessment.
Satisfactory progress had been made.
The target population top Progress towards target of 30% women in three leadership layers had increased to 37%, representing an senior roles by 2020 8% increase since targets were introduced at the end of 2014.
Outcome of the assessment The Committee also received advice from the Board Risk Committee and the Sustainable Banking Committee in making its final assessment.
After considering all the factors above, the Committee determined that good performance and progress towards our longterm goals had been achieved in 2017.
Performance had been very strong in relation to financial and people & culture measures but, on balance, a 10% reduction was considered appropriate as risk and customer performance was not fully at the desired level.
The resulting award levels are set out below.
2018 LTI award level Maximum LTI award level after pre-grant assessment Chief Executive 1,750,000 1,575,000 Chief Financial Officer 1,600,000 1,440,000 93 Annual report on remuneration Pre-vest assessment for 2018 LTI awards In addition to the pre-grant assessment detailed on the previous page, a further assessment of performance will take place three years after grant, in 2021, prior to vesting.
It is intended to be a look-back at the performance year for which the LTI award was granted to consider whether anything has come to light that would impact the vesting level.
The over-arching principle is that delivery of a threshold level of sustainable performance will result in no further adjustment prior to vesting.
Once the vested amount has been approved, malus and clawback provisions will continue to apply.
The pre-vest assessment allows the Committee to make a balanced assessment of performance in the round rather than relying on formulaic adjustments.
It is to provide comfort that sustainable performance has been delivered since the award, and that nothing new has come to light which might call into question the original award.
Adjustments will also be made in the event of underperformance or required risk adjustment.
Factors considered in assessing pre-vest performance Four core questions will be considered as part of the pre-vest assessment under the themes of Finance: Customers: People: and Risk & Control.
When assessing the performance of the year for which the award was made, knowing what we know now and taking into account all circumstances, has RBS: 1 Remained safe and secure, taking into account our financial results and capital position?
2 Been a good bank for customers taking into account our customer and advocacy performance?
3 Operated in an environment in which risk is seen as part of the way we work and think?
4 Operated in a way that reflects our stated values?
In addition, the Committee will consider the potential application of Risk & Control and Stakeholder Perception underpins following advice from the Board Risk Committee and Sustainable Banking Committee.
This provides scope to consider significant risk, stakeholder or reputational matters not already captured in the performance assessment.
In determining the final vesting level of the award, the Committee will consider both individual and collective performance which means that there may be different vesting levels by participant.
If a threshold level of sustainable performance has been delivered then no further assessment is required and the award vests in full.
Objectives for Performance Year 2018 for the pre-grant assessment of LTI awards to be made in 2019 The table below forms the basis of the pre-grant assessment for LTI awards to be made in early 2019.
Further details on the 2018 objectives and targets and the assessment of performance against these will be set out in the 2018 Directors Remuneration Report.
Core area Description of 2018 Objectives Measures for assessing pre-grant performance for 2019 LTI awards Achieve planned reduction in operating expenses Run a safe and secure bank Reasonable performance against budget and RoTE target Financial & Business Delivery Achieve CET1 ratio target Delivery of ring-fencing requirements to satisfy the 1 January 2019 Implement ring-fencing implementation, ensuring timely remediation of issues throughout.
Franchise and function control environment Improve governance and control environment to meet the required rating within appetite Risk & Control Material progress towards Achieve the desired Risk Culture rating with strong tone from the top our desired risk culture Achieve planned progress towards becoming Customer & number 1 for customer service, trust and Net Promoter Score to evidence progress towards or maintaining the Stakeholder advocacy by 2020 in chosen customer number 1 position in our chosen segments and brands segments and brands Provide clarity, build capability and Year on year improvement in scores from employee engagement motivate our people and leadership indices Culture measured against position in Culture index People & Progress towards 2020 target of number of women in senior roles Culture at least 30% for each franchise and function Build up and strengthen a healthy culture Progress towards 2025 target of number of Black Asian Minority Ethnic BAME UK employees in the top four layers of RBS at least 14% for each franchise and function 94 Annual report on remuneration Payments for loss of office audited No payments for loss of office were made to directors during 2017.
Payments to past directors audited There are no payments to past directors to disclose for 2017.
Total remuneration paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors for 2017 audited The US Risk Committee was stood down in May 2017.
The Board established a Technology and Innovation Committee with effect from 1 September 2017.
This demonstrates the importance the Board places on overseeing and monitoring RBS's strategic direction in relation to technology and innovation.
Fees for non-executive directors sitting on the NatWest Markets Working Group, which considers transitional arrangements in preparation for the establishment of the NatWest Markets Board, were brought into line with the other main Board Committees.
A Board Oversight Committee was established in September 2017 in order to provide oversight of required enhancements to the governance and risk management practices within Ulster Bank Ireland DAC reporting to the Board, as appropriate.
Fees were payable for this Committee with effect from 1 October 2017.
The total fees paid during 2017 are set out below.
2 In line with market practice, non-executive directors are reimbursed expenses incurred in connection with travel and attendance at Board meetings.
HMRC has confirmed that it deems these expenses as taxable where the Board meetings take place at the companys main offices in London and Edinburgh.
The value in the benefits column above, including restated amounts for 2016, is the value of the assistance provided together with the associated tax liability which RBS settles on behalf of the non-executive directors.
3 Under the Other column, Sandy Crombie received fees as the Senior Independent Director.
Morten Friis and Baroness Noakes received fees in respect of the US Risk Committee until it was stood down on 11 May 2017.
4 Alison Davis stepped down from the Nominations and Governance Committee and Penny Hughes, Baroness Noakes and Mark Seligman were appointed to the Nominations and Governance Committee during the year.
5 Mark Seligman joined the Board on 1 April 2017 and Yasmin Jetha joined the Board on 21 June 2017.
John Hughes joined the Board on 21 June 2017 but stepped down with effect from 1 September 2017 due to health reasons.
Mr Hughes made a voluntary decision to repay the fees that he received for this period.
Key to table: Noms & Gov Group Nominations and Governance Committee GAC Group Audit Committee RemCo Group Performance and Remuneration Committee BRC Board Risk Committee SBC Sustainable Banking Committee TIC Technology and Innovation Committee NWM NatWest Markets Working Group GRG BOC Board Oversight Committee for the GRG business areas UBI DAC BOC Board Oversight Committee for the Ulster Bank Ireland business 95 Annual report on remuneration Implementation of remuneration policy in 2018 Details of remuneration to be awarded in 2018 to executive directors are set out below.
The salary, benefits, pension and fixed share allowance arrangements are unchanged from 2017.
The LTI award is due to be granted in March 2018 following the pre-grant assessment of performance over 2017.
Details of the assessment are set out on page 93.
Subject to a further pre-vest assessment of performance at the end of three years, the award will vest in equal amounts between years three to seven from the date of grant.
LTI awards are also subject to malus during the vesting period and clawback provisions for a period of seven years from the date of grant, extended to ten years if events are under investigation at the end of the normal seven-year clawback period.
Executive directors remuneration to be awarded in 2018 Pension Fixed share allowance LTI award following Salary Standard benefits 35% of salary 100% of salary 1 pre-grant assessment Chief Executive 1,000,000 26,250 2 350,000 1,000,000 1,575,000 Chief Financial Officer 800,000 26,250.
280,000 800,000 1,440,000 Notes: 1 Fixed share allowance will be payable broadly in arrears, currently in two instalments per year, and the shares will be released in equal tranches over a three year period.
2 Amount shown relates to standard benefit funding.
Executive directors are also entitled to benefits in line with the stated policy including assistance with travel and security arrangements and the Chief Executive is entitled to a flight allowance and assistance with tax return preparation as part of his relocation arrangements.
The value of benefits will be disclosed each year in the total remuneration table.
Chairman and non-executive directors fees for 2018 The level of fees for attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings remains unchanged from 2017.
A summary of the annual fees payable for 2018 is set out below.
Chairman composite fee 750,000 Non-executive director basic fee 80,000 Senior Independent Director 30,000 Board Risk Committee Group Audit Committee Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Member 30,000 Sustainable Banking Committee Chairman 60,000 Technology and Innovation Committee NatWest Markets Working Group Member 15,000 GRG Board Oversight Committee Chairman 30,000 Ulster Bank Ireland DAC Board Oversight Committee Member 15,000 Group Nominations and Governance Committee Member 15,000 Other directorships Agreement from the Board must be sought before directors accept any additional roles outside of RBS.
Procedures are in place to make sure that regulatory limits on the number of directorships held are complied with.
The Board would also consider whether it was appropriate for executive directors to retain any remuneration receivable in respect of any external directorships, taking into account the nature of the appointment.
Neither of the executive directors holds a non-executive director role at any other company at this time.
Details of the directorships held by other directors can be found in the biographies section of the corporate governance report.
96 Annual report on remuneration Directors interests in RBS shares and shareholding requirements The shareholding requirement is to hold shares to the value of 400% of salary for the Chief Executive and 250% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
Unvested shares from LTI awards will count on a net of tax basis towards meeting the shareholding requirement once the pre-vest performance assessment has taken place, at the end of the three year period.
Once the respective retention periods have passed, directors are permitted to dispose of up to 25% of the shares received until the shareholding requirement is met.
As set out below, the executive directors exceeded the shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2017.
There are no shareholding requirements for non-executive directors.
Shareholding requirements for executive directors 5,145,791 3,068,953 Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson 4,000,000 2,000,000 0 2,000,000 4,000,000 6,000,000 0 2,000,000 4,000,000 Value of shares held Current requirement Value of shares held Current requirement Notes: 1 Ross McEwan holds 201,189 shares from his 2015 and 2016 fixed share allowances that are included in the total shares beneficially owned below but these have been excluded from the shareholding requirements calculation as he will transfer these shares to charity at the end of the retention period.
2 Value of shares held is based on the share price of 2.78 as at 31 December 2017.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, the share price ranged from 2.15 to 2.86.
Share interests held by directors audited Shares owned at 31 December 2017 Unvested long-term incentive awards or date of cessation if earlier subject to performance conditions Ross McEwan 2,052,193 2,793,493 Ewen Stevenson 1,103,940 2,485,320 Howard Davies 41,000 Sandy Crombie 20,000 Frank Dangeard - Alison Davis 20,000 Morten Friis 20,000 Robert Gillespie 25,000 John Hughes - Penny Hughes 562 Yasmin Jetha - Brendan Nelson 12,001 Baroness Noakes 41,000 Mike Rogers - Mark Seligman 20,000 The interests shown above include shares held by persons closely associated with the directors.
As at 22 February 2018, there were no changes to the directors' interests in shares shown above.
John Hughes stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2017 and did not hold any RBS shares at the date of cessation.
Sandy Crombie stepped down from the Board with effect from 1 January 2018.
Dr Lena Wilson joined the Board with effect from 1 January 2018 and as at 22 February 2018 she did not hold any RBS shares.
97 Annual report on remuneration Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The graph below shows the performance of RBS over the past nine years in terms of TSR compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index.
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
The TSR for FTSE UK banks for the same period has been added for comparison.
Source: Datastream 300 250 200 FTSE100 150 FTSEUKBanks RBS 100 50 0 2008YE 2009YE 2010YE 2011YE 2012YE 2013YE 2014YE 2015YE 2016YE 2017YE Chief Executive pay over same period 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 393 RM 1,878 3,492 3,702 3,487 Total remuneration 000s 1,647 3,687 1,646 1,646 1,235 SH Annual bonus against 0% 85% 0% 0% 0% n a n a n a n a maximum opportunity LTI vesting rates against 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 73% 62% 56% 89% maximum opportunity Notes: 1 2013 remuneration includes Stephen Hester SH as Chief Executive for the period to 30 September and Ross McEwan RM for the period from 1 October to 31 December.
2 Figures have been amended where appropriate to reflect any restatement of prior year amounts, for example, to reflect the actual rather than estimated value of LTI vestings as part of the total remuneration figure and any revisions to the value of benefits provided.
3 The maximum opportunity is set according to the approved policy and, for LTI awards granted in 2015 and onwards, the regulatory cap.
Change in Chief Executive pay compared with employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration for the Chief Executive between 2016 and 2017 compared with the percentage change in the average remuneration of RBS employees based in the UK.
In each case, remuneration is based on salary, benefits and annual bonus.
The Chief Executive also receives a fixed share allowance as part of his fixed pay and this remains unchanged over the period.
Salary Benefits Annual Bonus 2016 to 2017 change 2016 to 2017 change 2016 to 2017 change Chief Executive 1 0% 0% n a UK employees 2 3.91% 3.32% 10.69% Notes: 1 Executive directors are not eligible for an annual bonus.
Standard benefit funding for executive directors remained unchanged between 2016 and 2017.
The benefits for the Chief Executive excludes other benefits such as travel assistance in connection with company business and relocation benefits, the value of which is disclosed each year in the total remuneration table.
2 The data represents full year average salary costs of the UK based employee population, which covers the majority of RBS employees and is considered to be the most representative comparator group.
The increase in the average annual bonus is driven in part by the one time impact of the removal of LTI eligibility for employees below the Executive Committee in 2017, with these employees now eligible for an annual discretionary bonus award only.
98 Annual report on remuneration Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows a comparison of remuneration expenditure against other distributions and charges.
2017 2016 m m change Remuneration paid to all employees 1 4,217 4,670 10% Distributions to holders of ordinary shares Distributions to holders of preference shares and paid-in equity 2 628 1,697 63% Taxation and other charges recognised in the income statement: - Social security, Bank levy and Corporation tax 1,100 747 47% - Irrecoverable VAT and other indirect taxes incurred by RBS 3 533 697 24% Notes: 1 Remuneration paid to all employees represents total staff expenses per Note 3 to the Financial Statements, exclusive of social security and other staff costs.
2 Includes final payment relating to the Dividend Access Share of 1,193 million in 2016.
3 Input VAT and other indirect taxes not recoverable by RBS due to it being partially exempt.
The items above have been included as they reflect the key stakeholders for RBS and the major categories of distributions and charges made by RBS.
Summary of the principal activity of the Committee in 2017 Consideration of matters relating to directors remuneration In addition to its usual business activities, in 2017 the Committee Membership of the Group Performance and Remuneration was actively involved in developing the new directors Committee remuneration policy with key stakeholders.
Set out below is a All members of the Committee are independent non-executive summary of the Committees other key considerations throughout directors.
The Committee held seven scheduled meetings in the year.
2017 and a further three ad hoc meetings.
First half of 2017 Attended scheduled 2016 performance reviews and remuneration arrangements Alison Davis 7 7 for executive directors, Executive Committee members and Robert Gillespie 7 7 attendees, and high earners.
Mike Rogers 6 7 Executive Committee members 2017 objectives.
Development of the future pay construct for Executive Former member Committee members.
Sandy Crombie Chairman 7 7 Approval of variable pay allocations and the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
Mike Rogers was unable to attend one of the meetings due to Review of the vesting levels for LTI awards granted in 2014 personal reasons.
Sandy Crombie stepped down from the and the interim assessment of 2015 16 LTI awards.
Committee and the Board with effect from 1 January 2018.
At the Updates on changes in regulation and the regulatory same time, Robert Gillespie assumed the role of Chairman of the attestation process.
Committee and Mark Seligman became a member of the Review of domestic and international peer group pay and Committee.
Progress update on the Committees performance evaluation.
The role and responsibilities of the Committee Review of pay outcomes for 2016.
The Committee is responsible for: approving the remuneration policy for all employees and Second half of 2017 reviewing the effectiveness of its implementation: Half-year and year end performance reviews for executive reviewing performance and making recommendations to the directors, Executive Committee members and attendees.
Board on remuneration arrangements for executive directors: Executive Committee members annual common objectives approving remuneration arrangements for members and for 2018. formal attendees of the Executive Committee including Simplification of the pay construct for individuals below control function heads and employees with total annual Executive Committee level.
compensation which exceeds an amount determined by the Review of retirement and leaver policies.
Committee, currently 1 million: and Annual review of external advisers to the Committee.
setting the remuneration framework and principles for Remuneration governance across legal entities, international employees identified as Material Risk Takers falling within the locations and the impact of ring-fencing.
scope of UK regulatory requirements.
Approval of the 2017 employee Sharesave offer.
In mitigating potential conflicts of interest, directors are not Review of draft Directors Remuneration Report for 2017. involved in decisions regarding their own remuneration and Risk remuneration process review.
remuneration advisers are appointed by the Committee rather The annual evaluation of the Committees performance.
The terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed annually and available on rbs.
99 Annual report on remuneration Performance evaluation process PwC also provides professional services in the ordinary course of The Committee has considered the findings of the annual review business including assurance, advisory, tax and legal advice to of the effectiveness of the Committee.
This year the evaluation RBS subsidiaries.
There are processes in place to ensure the process was conducted internally by the Deputy Secretary and advice received by the Committee is independent of any support overseen by the Company Secretary.
The feedback was very positive with most issues being rated The fees paid to PwC for advising the Committee in relation to either excellent or good.
Positive comments were received on the directors remuneration were charged on a time cost basis until Committees composition and how effective the Committee had September 2017.
A fixed fee structure has operated from been on focusing on big picture issues as well as external October 2017 onwards to cover standard services with any themes and developments.
The new executive director pay exceptional items charged on a time cost basis.
The fees for construct was seen as a good example of the Committee being 2017 in relation to directors remuneration amounted to 170,476 forward thinking and innovative.
While the quality of information was generally considered to be Statement of shareholder voting good, some responses indicated there was scope for better The tables below set out the voting by shareholders on the comparative data and context.
A number of Committee members resolutions to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration and and attendees suggested that, while the right things were on the the Directors Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 11 May 2017. agenda and meetings were well run, further consideration should be given to the number of meetings during the year.
Annual Report on Remuneration 2017 AGM For Against Total votes cast Withheld The overall conclusion was that the Committee operated 43,612,488,456 173,420,916 43,785,909,372 14,256,744 effectively during 2017 and fulfilled its remit as set out in its terms 99.60% 0.40% of reference.
Actions were agreed as part of the evaluation and progress will be tracked and reported to the Committee Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 AGM biannually.
For Against Total votes cast Withheld 42,143,861,332 1,603,968,780 43,747,830,112 40,411,396 96.33% 3.67% Advisers to the Committee  LLP PwC was appointed as the Committees remuneration advisers on 14 September 2010.
A Shareholder dilution formal review of potential advisers was undertaken in 2017.
This The company meets its employee share plan obligations through considered the ability of the providers to offer high quality advice a combination of new issue shares and market purchase shares.
and strategic thinking, the strength and depth of the personnel In line with the Investment Associations Principles of and the associated level of fees.
Following the review, the Remuneration, RBSs employee share plans contain monitored Committee agreed to retain the services of PwC.
The Committee limits that govern the number of shares that may be issued to will continue to review the performance of its advisers each year.
PwC is a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct in relation to remuneration consulting in the UK.
Robert Gillespie Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration As well as receiving advice from PwC in 2017, the Committee Committee took account at meetings of the views of the Chairman: the Chief 22 February 2018 Executive: the Chief Financial Officer: the Chief HR Officer: the Director of Reward, Pension & Benefits: the Company Secretary: and the Chief Risk Officer.
The Committee also received input from the Board Risk Committee, the Group Audit Committee and the Sustainable Banking Committee.
100 Other Remuneration Disclosures This section contains a number of voluntary disclosures on remuneration as well as disclosures which are required in accordance with Article 450 of the Capital Requirements Regulation.
This section should be read in conjunction with both the Directors Remuneration Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration pages 84 to 100.
Remuneration of the eight highest paid senior executives below Board 1 Executive 1 Executive 2 Executive 3 Executive 4 Executive 5 Executive 6 Executive 7 Executive 8 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Fixed pay cash 650 700 738 800 800 600 450 381 650 700 738 800 800 600 225 166 Fixed allowances Annual bonus Long-term incentive awards vested value 638 437 346 109 109 365 73 Total remuneration 2 1,938 1,837 1,822 1,709 1,709 1,565 675 620 Notes: 1 Remuneration earned in 2017 for eight members of the Executive Committee.
2 Disclosure includes prior year long-term incentive awards which vested during 2017.
The amounts shown reflect the value of vested awards using the share price on the day the awards vested.
Employees that earned total remuneration of over 1 million in All staff total remuneration 2017 represent just 0.1% of our employees.
This number reduces to 68 employees if we exclude pension and benefit funding.
the average salary for all employees is 32,785 These employees include those who manage major businesses 12,445 employees earn between 50,000 and 100,000 and functions with responsibility for significant assets, earnings or 5,025 employees earn between 100,000 and 250,000 areas of strategic activity and can be grouped as follows: 934 employees earn total remuneration over 250,000 The Chief Executives responsible for each area and their direct reports.
Employees managing large businesses within a franchise.
Total remuneration by band for all employees earning 1 Income generators responsible for high levels of income million including those involved in managing trading activity and supporting clients with more complex financial transactions, Number of including financial restructuring.
employees 2017 Those responsible for managing our balance sheet and liquidity and funding positions across the business.
1.0m - 1.5m 50 Employees who managed the successful disposal of assets 1.5m - 2.0m 18 in Capital Resolution, reducing RBSs capital requirements.
2 Executive directors are not included.
The table is based on an exchange rate where applicable of 1.141 to 1 as at 31 December 2017.
101 Other Remuneration Disclosures Our remuneration policy for all employees The remuneration policy supports the business strategy and is designed to promote the long-term success of RBS.
It aims to reward employees for delivering good performance provided this is achieved in a manner consistent with our values and within acceptable risk parameters.
The remuneration policy applies the same principles to all employees, including Material Risk Takers MRTs, with some minor adjustments to the policy where necessary to comply with local regulatory requirements.
The key elements of the policy are set out below.
Element of pay Objective Operation Base salary To provide a competitive level Base salaries are reviewed annually and should reflect the talents, skills and of fixed cash remuneration.
competencies that the individual brings to the business.
Role-based To provide fixed pay that Role-based allowances are a fixed allowance which form an element of the allowance reflects the skills and employees overall fixed remuneration for regulatory requirements and are based experience required for the on the role the individual performs.
The allowances are pre-determined, permanent, and can only be adjusted or cancelled if an employee relinquishes the role or responsibilities which made them eligible for the allowance.
They are not intended to be adjusted other than where there is a change of role.
They are delivered in cash and or shares depending on the level of the allowance and the seniority of the recipient.
Shares are subject to an appropriate retention period, not less than six months.
Benefits To provide a range of flexible In most jurisdictions, employee benefits or a cash equivalent are provided from a and pension and competitive benefits.
Pension forms part of fixed remuneration and RBS does not as a rule award discretionary pension benefits.
Annual bonus To support a culture where The annual bonus pool is based on a balanced scorecard of measures including employees recognise the Financial, Customers, People and Risk & Conduct measures.
Allocation from the importance of serving pool depends on performance of the franchise or function and the individual.
customers well and are rewarded for superior Individual performance assessment is supported by a structured performance performance.
This is designed to assess performance against longer term business requirements across a range of financial and non-financial metrics as well as an evaluation of adherence to internal controls and risk management.
The performance measures are set in line with the business strategy and typically include: financial measures such as return on equity: cost:income ratio: expenses and headcount dependent on the franchise function : net promoter score and or customer satisfaction to assess customer advocacy: and internal survey results to assess progress in employee engagement.
Risk and conduct performance is also taken into account.
Control functions are assessed independently of the business units that they oversee.
For awards made in respect of the 2017 performance year, immediate cash awards continue to be limited to a maximum of 2,000.
In line with regulatory requirements, a significant proportion of annual bonus awards for our more senior employees is deferred and includes partial delivery in shares.
The deferral period varies from three years for standard MRTs, rising to five years for individuals identified as Risk Manager MRTs and seven years for Senior Managers under the UKs Senior Managers Regime.
All awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
For MRTs, a minimum of 50% of any annual bonus is delivered in shares and a twelve month retention period will apply post vesting in line with regulatory requirements.
102 Other Remuneration Disclosures Element of pay Objective Operation Long-term To support a culture where RBS provides certain employees in senior roles with long-term incentive awards.
incentive good performance against a For awards made in respect of the 2017 performance year, the population awards full range of measures will be receiving long-term incentive awards will be limited to executive directors and rewarded.
To encourage the members of the RBS Executive Committee.
creation of value over the long term and to align Awards will be subject to pre-grant and pre-vest performance assessments that rewards with the returns to consider progress against Financial, Risk & Operations, Customers and People & shareholders.
Culture measures, aligned with RBSs strategic aims.
Vesting will take place over a three to seven year period following grant.
The number of shares that vest under the award may vary between 0% -100% depending on the performance achieved.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions and a twelve month retention period applies post vesting.
Shareholding To promote long-term Executive directors and members of the Executive Committee are required to requirements alignment between senior build up and hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of salary.
There is a executives and shareholders.
restriction on the number of shares that individuals can sell until the requirement is met.
Other share To offer employees in certain Employees in certain countries are eligible to contribute to share plans which are plans jurisdictions the opportunity to not subject to performance conditions.
Criteria for identifying MRTs The European Banking Authority has issued criteria for identifying MRT roles, those staff whose professional activities have a material influence over RBSs performance or risk profile.
The criteria are both qualitative based on the nature of the role and quantitative for example those who exceed the stipulated total remuneration threshold based on the previous years total remuneration.
The qualitative criteria can be summarised as: staff within the management body: senior management: other staff with key functional or managerial responsibilities: staff, individually or as part of a Committee, with authority to approve new business products or to commit to credit risk exposures and market risk transactions above certain levels.
The quantitative criteria are: individuals earning 500,000 or more in the previous year: individuals in the top 0.3% of earners in the previous year: individuals who earned more than the lowest paid identified staff per the qualitative criteria, subject to specific exceptions in the criteria.
In addition to the qualitative and quantitative criteria, RBS has applied its own minimum standards to identify roles that are considered to have a material influence over its risk profile.
Personal hedging strategies In accordance with UK regulatory requirements and internal dealing rules that apply to employees, the conditions attached to discretionary share-based awards prohibit the use of any personal hedging strategies to lessen the impact of a reduction in value of such awards.
These conditions are explicitly acknowledged and accepted by employees when any share-based awards are granted.
103 Other Remuneration Disclosures Remuneration of MRTs Variable remuneration awarded for 2017 performance The quantitative disclosures below are made in accordance with Variable remuneration consisted of a combination of annual Article 450 of the EU Capital Requirements Regulation in relation bonus and long-term incentive awards, deferred over a three to to 637 employees who have been identified as MRTs.
seven year period in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Under the RBS bonus deferral structure, immediate cash awards 1.
Number of MRTs by business area are limited to 2,000 per employee.
Senior Other Number of beneficiaries management MRTs Total Long-term incentive awards vest subject to the extent to which Board Executive Directors 202 performance conditions are met and can result in zero payment.
Board Non-Executive Directors 01212 NatWest Markets Senior Other 1 248 249 Annual bonus management MRTs Total Personal & Business Banking 17172 Number of beneficiaries 515 515 Commercial & Private Banking 19192 Corporate Functions 29698 Internal Control Functions m m 17374 Board Executive Directors All Other Business Areas 23638 Board Non-Executive Directors Total 10627637 NatWest Markets Variable remuneration cash 0.44 0.44 2.
Aggregate remuneration expenditure Deferred remuneration bonds 5.02 5.02 Aggregate remuneration expenditure in respect of 2017 Deferred remuneration shares 60.15 60.15 performance was as follows: 65.61 65.61 Senior Other Personal & Business Banking management MRTs Total Variable remuneration cash 0.19 0.19 Number of beneficiaries 10 627 637 Deferred remuneration bonds 1.11 1.11 Deferred remuneration shares 4.26 4.26 5.55 5.55 m m m Commercial & Private Banking Board Executive Directors 7.3 7.3 Variable remuneration cash 0.14 0.14 Deferred remuneration bonds 1.52 1.52 Board Non-Executive Directors 2.7 2.7 Deferred remuneration shares 10.61 10.61 NatWest Markets 3.4 166.7 170.1 12.27 12.27 Personal & Business Banking 2.5 21.3 23.8 Corporate Functions Variable remuneration cash 0.29 0.29 Commercial & Private Banking 3.1 34.2 37.3 Deferred remuneration bonds 1.85 1.85 Corporate Functions 2.7 37.8 40.5 Deferred remuneration shares 10.02 10.02 Internal Control Functions 1.7 23.4 25.1 12.16 12.16 Internal Control Functions All Other Business Areas 5.9 20.0 25.9 Variable remuneration cash 0.11 0.11 Total 26.5 306.1 332.6 Deferred remuneration bonds 1.18 1.18 Deferred remuneration shares 4.88 4.88 3.
Amounts and form of fixed and variable remuneration 6.17 6.17 All Other Business Areas Fixed remuneration consisted of salaries, allowances, pension Variable remuneration cash 0.06 0.06 and benefit funding.
Deferred remuneration bonds 0.74 0.74 Deferred remuneration shares 6.34 6.34 Senior Other 7.14 7.14 Fixed remuneration management MRTs Total Total 108.90 108.90 Number of beneficiaries 10 627 637 Senior Other m m m Long-term incentives management MRTs Total Number of beneficiaries Board Executive Directors 9 9 4.3 4.3 Board Non-Executive Directors 2.7 2.7 m m NatWest Markets 1.9 101.1 103.0 Board Executive Directors Personal & Business Banking 1.4 15.7 17.2 3.02 3.02 Commercial & Private Banking Board Non-Executive Directors 1.8 22.0 23.7 Corporate Functions NatWest Markets 1.6 25.6 27.2 1.50 1.50 Internal Control Functions Personal & Business Banking 1.05 1.05 1.7 17.3 18.9 All Other Business Areas Commercial & Private Banking 3.5 12.9 16.3 1.30 1.30 Corporate Functions Total 1.15 1.15 16.1 197.2 213.3 Internal Control Functions All Other Business Areas 2.40 2.40 Total 10.42 10.42 104 Other Remuneration Disclosures 4.
Ratio between fixed and variable remuneration The table below includes deferred remuneration awarded or paid The variable component of total remuneration for MRTs at RBS out in 2017 in respect of prior performance years.
Deferred shall not exceed 100% of the fixed component.
Based on the remuneration reduced during the year relates to long-term information disclosed below, the average ratio between fixed and incentives lapsed when performance conditions are not met, variable remuneration for 2017 is approximately 1 to 0.56.
The long-term incentives and deferred awards forfeited on leaving majority of MRTs are based in the UK.
and malus adjustments of prior year deferred awards and longSenior Other term incentives.
Ratio of fixed to variable Management MRTs Total Senior Other Number of beneficiaries Category of deferred 9 515 524 Management MRTs Total remuneration m m m ratio ratio ratio Board Executive Directors Unvested from prior year 36.5 159.3 195.8 1 to 0.7 1 to 0.7 Awarded during year 16.2 122.5 138.7 Board Non-Executive Directors 1 to 0 1 to 0 Paid out 7.1 97.8 104.9 NatWest Markets 1 to 0.79 1 to 0.65 1 to 0.65 Reduced from prior years 3.9 16.5 20.4 Personal & Business Banking 1 to 0.73 1 to 0.35 1 to 0.38 Unvested at year end 41.7 167.5 209.2 Commercial & Private Banking 1 to 0.74 1 to 0.56 1 to 0.57 Corporate Functions 1 to 0.74 1 to 0.48 1 to 0.49 5.
Guaranteed Awards including Sign-on awards and Internal Control Functions 1 to 0 1 to 0.36 1 to 0.33 Severance Payments All Other Business Areas RBS does not offer Sign-on awards.
Guaranteed awards may 1 to 0.69 1 to 0.55 1 to 0.58 only be granted to new hires in exceptional circumstances in Consolidated 1 to 0.65 1 to 0.55 1 to 0.56 compensation for awards foregone in their previous company and are limited to the first year of service.
Discount Rate 2017 were made in respect of the 2017 performance year.
Under CRD IV regulations, a notional discount is available which allows variable pay to be awarded at a level that would otherwise Severance payments and or arrangements can be made to exceed the 1:1 ratio, provided that at least 25% of variable pay is employees who leave RBS in certain situations, including delivered in instruments shares and deferred over five years.
Such payments are determined by a preThe discount rate was not used for remuneration awarded in determined formula set out within the relevant social plans, respect of the 2017 performance year.
policies, agreements or local laws.
Where local laws permit, there is a cap on the maximum amount that can be awarded.
No severance payments were made during the financial year in excess of contractual payments, local policies, standards or statutory amounts, other than two exceptions.
One payment of 45,500 was made to a former employee in Corporate Functions as a payment in lieu of contractual pension entitlements and one payment of 3,600 was made to a former employee in Commercial & Private Banking as a small variation of standard terms.
Where required, remuneration is constrained within the limit of variable to fixed remuneration in accordance with EBA rules.
105 Compliance report Statement of compliance These processes include the semi-annual Control Environment RBS is committed to high standards of corporate governance, Certification process which requires senior members of the business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
executive and management to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of their internal control frameworks and certify that Throughout the year ended 31 December 2017, RBS has their business or function is compliant with the requirements of complied with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and the UK Corporate Governance Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council Code Section C2.
The policies that govern these processes dated April 2016 the Code except in relation to provision and reports on internal controls arising from them are reviewed D. 2.2 that the Group Performance and Remuneration by the Board and meet the requirements of the Financial Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting Reporting Councils Guidance On Risk Management Internal remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors.
RBS Control & Related Financial & Business Reporting issued in considers that this is a matter which should rightly be reserved for September 2014. the Board and this is an approach RBS has adopted for a number of years.
Remuneration for the executive directors is first RBS operates a three lines of defence model, which provides a considered by the Group Performance and Remuneration framework for responsibilities and accountabilities across the Committee which then makes recommendations to the Board for organisation.
As part of its second line of defence role, the Risk consideration.
This approach allows all non-executive directors, function oversees and challenges the firm-wide management of and not just those who are members of the Group Performance risk and the efficacy of the related controls.
In addition, the Risk and Remuneration Committee, to participate in decisions on the function is responsible for developing material risk policies and executive directors and the Chairmans remuneration and also strategic frameworks for the business to use.
allows the executive directors to input to the decision on the Chairmans remuneration.
The Board believes this approach is The effectiveness of RBSs internal controls is reviewed regularly very much in line with the spirit of the Code and no director is by the Board, the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk involved in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
Internal Audit undertakes independent assurance do not anticipate any changes to our approach on this aspect of activities and provides reports to the Board and executive the Code.
Information on how RBS has applied the main management on the quality and effectiveness of governance, risk principles of the Code can be found in the Corporate governance management and internal controls to monitor, manage and report on pages 50 to 105.
A copy of the Code can be found at mitigate risks in achieving the banks objectives.
Board receives a risk management report at each scheduled Board meeting.
Executive management committees in each of RBS has also implemented the recommendations arising from the RBS businesses also receive regular reports on significant the Walker Review and complied in all material respects with the risks facing their business and how they are being controlled.
Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees Details of the banks approach to risk management are given in issued in September 2012 and April 2016. the Capital & Risk Management section.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, specific standards of In recent years, RBS has made progress in strengthening its corporate governance and business and financial disclosures and control environment.
Throughout 2017, there was a sustained controls apply to companies with securities registered in the US.
focus on consolidating progress and driving further improvements RBS complies with all applicable sections of the US Sarbanesacross each of the franchises and functions.
In particular, this Oxley Act of 2002, subject to a number of exceptions available to resulted in measurable improvement in the Personal & Business foreign private issuers.
Banking PBB franchise and the Chief Administration Office CAO among others.
Work also continued to develop and Internal control enhance both the risk appetite framework and the operational risk The Board of Directors is responsible for the system of internal management framework in support of a robust and holistic control controls that is designed to maintain effective and efficient approach.
In parallel with this, further progress was made in operations, compliant with applicable laws and regulations.
The embedding a consistent end-to-end risk and control assessment system of internal controls is designed to manage, or mitigate, process.
While more work is required, and the journey of risk to an acceptable residual level rather than eliminate it improvement will continue, significant steps forward have been entirely.
Systems of internal control can only provide reasonable made in terms of developing, enhancing and embedding a strong and not absolute assurance against material misstatement, fraud and dynamic risk culture across RBS.
The remediation of known control issues remained an important Ongoing processes for the identification, evaluation and focus of the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk management of the principal risks faced by RBS operated Committee during 2017.
For further information on their oversight throughout the period from 1 January 2017 to 22 February 2018, of remediation of the most significant issues, please refer to the the date the directors approved the Annual Report & Accounts.
Report of the Group Audit Committee and the Report of the Board Risk Committee.
106 Compliance report The Group Audit Committee has received confirmation that The New York Stock Exchange management has taken, or is taking, action to remedy significant As a foreign private issuer with American Depository Shares failings or weaknesses identified through RBSs control representing ordinary shares, preference shares and debt framework.
The Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange the NYSE, Committee will continue to focus on such remediation activity, RBS is not required to comply with all of the NYSE standards particularly in view of the transformation agenda.
applicable to US domestic companies the NYSE Standards provided that it follows home country practice in lieu of the NYSE While not being part of the banks system of internal control, the Standards and discloses any significant ways in which its banks independent auditors present to the Group Audit corporate governance practices differ from the NYSE Standards.
Committee reports that include details of any significant internal RBS is also required to provide an Annual Written Affirmation to control deficiencies they have identified.
Further, the system of the NYSE of its compliance with the mandatory applicable NYSE internal controls is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK Standards.
Additional details of regulatory oversight are given in the Capital & Risk Management section.
The Group Audit Committee fully complies with the mandatory provisions of the NYSE Standards including by reference to the Internal control over financial reporting rules of the Exchange Act that relate to the composition, RBS is required to comply with Section 404 of the US  and operation of audit committees.
In April 2017 Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control RBS submitted its required annual written affirmation to the over financial reporting as of 31 December 2017.
NYSE confirming its full compliance with those and other applicable provisions.
More detailed information about the Group RBS has assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over Audit Committee and its work during 2017 is set out in the Group financial reporting as of 31 December 2017 based on the criteria Audit Committee report on pages 65 to 72. set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in the 2013 publication of Internal Control RBS has reviewed its corporate governance arrangements and is - Integrated Framework'.
satisfied that these are consistent with the NYSE Standards, subject to the following departures: i NYSE Standards require Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of the majority of the Board to be independent.
The NYSE 31 December 2017, RBSs internal control over financial Standards contain different tests from the Code for determining reporting is effective.
RBS follows the Codes requirements in determining the independence of its directors RBSs auditors have audited the effectiveness of RBSs internal and currently has 9 independent non-executive directors, one of control over financial reporting and have given an unqualified whom is the senior independent director ii The NYSE opinion.
Standards require non-management directors to hold regular sessions without management present and that independent Management's report on RBSs internal control over financial directors meet at least once a year.
The Code requires the reporting will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Chairman to hold meetings with non-executive directors without Commission as part of the 2017 Annual Report on Form 20-F. the executives present and non-executive directors are to meet without the Chairman present at least once a year to appraise the Disclosure controls and procedures Chairmans performance and RBS complies with the As required by US regulations, management including the Chief requirements of the Code.
iii The NYSE Standards require that Executive and Chief Financial Officer have conducted an the nominating corporate governance committee of a listed evaluation of the effectiveness and design of RBSs disclosure company be composed entirely of independent directors.
controls and procedures as defined in the Exchange Act rules as at 31 December 2017.
Based on this evaluation, management including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer concluded that RBSs disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.
Changes in internal control There was no change in RBSs internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, RBSs internal control over financial reporting.
107 Compliance report The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the Group As stated at the start of this Compliance Report, in the case of Nominations and Governance Committee, which is permitted RBS, the Board, rather than the Group Performance and under the Code since the Chairman was considered Remuneration Committee, reserves the authority to make the independent on appointment.
The terms of reference of the final determination of the remuneration of the Chief Executive v Group Nominations and Governance Committee differ in certain The NYSE Standards require listed companies to adopt and limited respects from the requirements set out in the NYSE disclose corporate governance guidelines.
Throughout the year Standards, including because the Group Nominations and ended 31 December 2017, RBS has complied with all of the Governance Committee does not have responsibility for provisions of the Code subject to the exception described above overseeing the evaluation of management iv The NYSE and the Code does not require RBS to disclose the full range of standards require that the compensation committee of a listed corporate governance guidelines with which it complies vi The company be composed of entirely of independent directors.
NYSE Standards require listed companies to adopt and disclose Although the members of the Group Performance and a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and Remuneration Committee are deemed independent in employees, and promptly disclose any waivers of the code for compliance with the provisions of the Code, the Board has not directors or executive officers.
RBS has adopted a code of assessed the independence of the members of the Group conduct which is supplemented by a number of key policies and Performance and Remuneration Committee and the Group guidance dealing with matters including, among others, antiPerformance and Remuneration Committee has not assessed bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, sanctions, the independence of any compensation consultant, legal counsel confidentiality, inside information, health, safety and environment, or other adviser, in each case, in accordance with the conflicts of interest, market conduct and management records.
independence tests prescribed by the NYSE Standards.
This code of conduct applies to all officers and employees and is fully aligned to the PRA and FCA Conduct Rules which apply to The NYSE Standards require that the compensation committee all directors.
The Code of Conduct is available to view on RBSs must have direct responsibility to review and approve the Chief website at rbs.
This Compliance report forms part of the Corporate governance report and the Report of the directors.
108 Report of the directors November 2017 The directors present their report together with the audited On 21 November 2017, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017. plc applied to the Court of Session in Edinburgh the Court to initiate a Ring-Fencing Transfer Scheme RFTS under the Group structure Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, including: The company is a holding company owning the entire issued ordinary share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the Transfer its UK retail & commercial banking business to principal direct operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
Adam & Company PLC Adam : Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of the company Transfer its covered bonds in issue and Mentor business to are shown in Note 7 on page 340.
A full list of subsidiary National Westminster Bank Plc NatWest : and undertakings of the company is shown in Note 15 on pages 344 Transfer branches and other properties to either NatWest or to 356.
Following placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April The RFTS is expected to take effect over the weekend of 28-30 2009, HM Treasury HMT owned approximately 70.3% of the April 2018.
At the same time, RBS plc will be renamed NatWest enlarged ordinary share capital of the company.
In December Markets Plc, Adam will be renamed The Royal Bank of Scotland 2009, the company issued a further 25.5 billion of new capital to plc and assume banknote-issuing responsibility.
HMT in the form of B shares.
HMT sold 630 million of its holding of the companys ordinary shares in August 2015.
In October May 2018 2015 HMT converted its entire holding of 51 billion B shares into In May 2018, RBS intends to commence, in the Court, a second 5.1 billion new ordinary shares of 1 each in the company.
RFTS to transfer certain derivatives from NatWest to NatWest Markets Plc former RBS plc.
If approved by the Court, the At 31 December 2017, HMTs holding in the companys ordinary transfers are expected to be implemented in August 2018. shares was 70.5%.
July 2018 RBS Group ring-fencing In July 2018, RBS plans to restructure the NatWest Markets Plc The UK ring-fencing legislation requiring the separation of former RBS plc capital structure via a Court approved capital essential banking services from investment banking services will reduction.
As part of this restructure, the shares in NatWest take effect from 1 January 2019.
Holdings Limited, which owns the ring-fenced sub-group, will be distributed to RBSG.
This will separate the ring-fenced sub-group To comply with these requirements it is RBSs intention to place from the non-ring-fenced entities, as required by the ring-fencing the majority of the UK and Western European banking business legislation.
in ring-fenced banking entities under an intermediate holding company.
NatWest Markets Plc NatWest Markets will be a January 2019 separate non ring-fenced bank and The Royal Bank of Scotland Once the RFTS, other restructuring and the ring-fencing International Holdings Limited RBSI Holdings will also be legislation is in force: placed outside the ring-fence, both as direct subsidiaries of Ring-fenced activities RBSG.
RBS plc former Adam will manage the RBS branded The final ring-fenced legal structure and the actions to be taken banking business in its UK branch network: to achieve it, remain subject to, amongst other factors, additional NatWest will continue to manage NatWest branded banking regulatory, Board and other approvals as well as employee business and its branch network in the UK and Western information and consultation procedures.
All such actions and Europe: their respective timings may be subject to change, or additional NatWest will operate as the shared service provider to the actions may be required, including as a result of external and rest of the Group and will act as the market-facing arm for internal factors including further regulatory, corporate or other the ring-fenced banking groups payments and hedging developments.
activities: Adam will continue to be a trading name of RBS plc former On 1 January 2017, RBS made a number of key changes to the Adam and will continue to operate its private banking and legal hierarchy of its subsidiaries to support the move towards a wealth management activities: ring-fenced structure.
As part of continuing preparation to deliver Coutts & Company will continue its private banking and a fully compliant ring-fencing structure by 1 January 2019, it wealth management activities: and plans to undertake a further series of actions as follows: Ulster Bank Limited and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC will continue to operate in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland respectively.
109 Report of the directors Personal & Business Banking PBB comprises two reportable Non-ring-fenced activities segments: UK Personal & Business Banking UK PBB and NatWest Markets Plc former RBS plc will continue to Ulster Bank RoI.
UK PBB serves individuals and mass affluent undertake RBSs trading and investment banking activities: customers in the UK together with small businesses generally up and to 2 million turnover.
UK PBB includes Ulster Bank customers RBS International Limited RBSI, along with Isle of Man in Northern Ireland.
Ulster Bank RoI serves individuals and Bank, will continue to serve the markets and customers it businesses in the Republic of Ireland RoI.
In addition, RBSI becomes the focal point for funds banking activity through its recently opened London Commercial & Private Banking CPB comprises two reportable branch.
segments: Commercial Banking and Private Banking.
Commercial Banking serves commercial and corporate Segmental reporting customers in the UK and Western Europe.
Private Banking Segmental reorganisation and business transfers serves UK connected high net worth individuals.
RBS continues to deliver on its plan to build a strong, simple and fair bank for both customers and shareholders.
To support this, RBS International RBSI serves retail, commercial, corporate and in preparation for the UK ring-fencing regime, the previously and financial institution customers in Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of reported operating segments were realigned in Q4 2017 and a Man and Gibraltar and financial institution customers in number of business transfers completed.
Segmental reorganisation NatWest Markets offers corporate and institutional customers The previously reported operating segments are now realigned global market access, providing them with trading, risk and comparatives have been re-presented as follows: management and financing solutions through its trading and The former Williams & Glyn reportable operating segment sales operations in London, Singapore and Stamford and sales has been integrated into the UK PBB reportable segment: offices in Dublin, Hong Kong and Tokyo.
The former Capital Resolution reportable operating segment Central items & other includes corporate functions, such as RBS has been integrated into the NatWest Markets reportable treasury, finance, risk management, compliance, legal, segment, with the exception of the costs in relation to the communications and human resources.
Central functions RMBS claims, which have been transferred to the Central & manages RBS capital resources and RBS-wide regulatory Other items reportable segment: and projects and provides services to the reportable segments.
The RBSI reportable operating segment is no longer Balances in relation to legacy litigation issues and the presented within the CPB franchise.
international private banking business are included in the relevant Business transfers periods.
On 1 October 2017 the following changes were made to RBSs Allocation of central balance sheet items businesses, which impacts its financial reporting but where RBS allocates all central costs relating to Services and Functions comparatives have not been re-presented: to the business using appropriate drivers, these are reported as Shipping and other activities, which were formerly in Capital indirect costs in the segmental income statements.
Assets and Resolution, were transferred from the NatWest Markets risk-weighted assets held centrally, mainly relating to RBS reportable segment to the Commercial Banking reportable Treasury, are allocated to the business using appropriate drivers.
UK PBB Collective Investment Funds CIFL business was Results and dividends transferred to the Private Banking reportable segment in The profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Group order to better serve customers.
for the year ended 31 December 2017 amounted to 752 million The RBS International RBSI reportable operating segment compared with a loss of 6,955 million for the year ended 31 was aligned to the legal entity The Royal Bank of Scotland December 2016, as set out in the consolidated income statement International Holdings Limited.
This predominantly involved on page 244. transfers from Private Banking, and Services and Functions within Central items & other in preparation for the The company did not pay a dividend on ordinary shares in 2015, implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime.
Commercial Banking whole business securitisations and relevant financial institutions RFI were transferred to In the context of prior macro-prudential policy discussions, the NatWest Markets during December 2017.
RFIs are Board decided to partially neutralise any impact on Core Tier 1 prohibited from being within the ring-fence due to their capital of coupon and dividend payments in respect of 2016 and nature and exposure to global financial markets.
The move 2017 Group hybrid capital instruments through equity issuances is in preparation for the implementation of the UK ringof c. 300 million.
Consequently, approximately 300 million was fencing regime.
raised each year in 2016 and 2017 through the issue of new ordinary shares and the Board has decided a further 300 million Reportable operating segments of new equity will be issued during the course of 2018 to again Following the changes detailed the reportable operating partially neutralise the CET1 impact of coupon and dividend segments are as follows: payments.
110 Report of the directors Business review HMT is establishing an Independent Body to administer the Activities Capability and Innovation fund and oversee and control the RBS is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking incentivised switching scheme.
Once established the and other financial services.
Further details of the organisational Independent Body, HMT and RBS will enter into the Framework structure and business overview of RBS, including the products Agreement Deed and fund the remedies.
and services provided by each of its operating segments and the Employees markets in which they operate are contained in the Business Our colleagues review on pages 117 to 148.
Details of the strategy for delivering As at 31 December 2017, RBS employed 71,200 people full-time the companys objectives can be found in the Strategic report.
equivalent basis, including temporary workers throughout the world.
Details of related costs are included in Note 3 on the Risk factors consolidated accounts.
The Board has considered ring-fencing RBSs future performance and results could be materially preparations during the year and in advance of the legislation different from expected results depending on the outcome of taking effect on 1 January 2019. certain potential risks and uncertainties.
Full details of these and other risk factors are set out on pages 372 to 402.
Engaging our colleagues is critical to delivering on our strategy and ambition as a bank.
Further details on our approach can be The reported results of RBS are also sensitive to the accounting found on page 33 and 34 of the strategic report.
policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation Building a healthy culture of its financial statements.
Details of RBSs critical accounting Building a healthy culture that embodies Our Values is one of policies and key sources of accounting judgments are included in RBSs core priorities.
Accounting policies on pages 251 to 263.
Our Values guide the way RBS identify the right people to serve RBSs approach to risk management, including its financial risk our customers well, and how RBS manage, engage and reward management objectives and policies and information on RBSs colleagues.
They are at the heart of both Our Standards the exposure to market, credit, liquidity and funding risk, is bank wide behavioural framework and Our Code the bank wide discussed in the Capital and risk management section.
Financial performance Engaging our colleagues A review of RBSs performance during the year ended 31 RBS know that building an engaged, healthy and inclusive December 2017, including details of each operating segment, workforce is crucial to achieving our ambition.
Every year RBS and RBSs financial position as at that date is contained in the asks colleagues to share their thoughts on what its like to work Business review on pages 117to 148!Syntax Error, #.
here via our annual colleague survey.
RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO Holding N. V. The 2017 results were the most positive weve seen in recent In 2017 NatWest Markets announced its plan to repurpose the times.
Key measures of engagement, leadership and our culture existing licence in the Netherlands.
This proposed approach have improved significantly, and RBS are now above the global should minimise disruption to the business and allow it to financial services norm in the majority of our survey categories.
continue to serve customers in the event of any loss of EU passporting, as a result of the UK's departure from the EU.
Rewarding our colleagues NatWest Markets and RBS N. V are working together to ensure RBSs approach to performance management provides clarity for the banking licence is maintained and the entity is made our colleagues about how their contribution links to our ambition.
In parallel, work continues to decrease the It recognises behaviour that supports our values and holds RBS N. V. legacy assets and liabilities further.
individuals to account for behaviour and performance that does not.
Business divestments Following the change of terms in respect of the business RBS have a focus on paying the right wage to colleagues and the previously described as Williams & Glyn and agreed with the RBS rates of pay continue to exceed the Living Wage Foundation European Commission in September 2017, RBS will make a Benchmarks.
425 million contribution to a Capability and Innovation Fund to be established to support competition in UK SME banking.
The Developing our colleagues agreed alternative remedy package also requires a 350 million RBS continued to deliver Determined to Lead, which is the core Incentivised Switching Scheme which will provide funding for management system for the bank.
It provides consistent tools to eligible challenger bodies to help them incentivise SME lead and engage colleagues.
This programme has continued in customers to switch their accounts and loans from RBS.
Should 2017 with over 3,000 leaders participating.
the uptake within the Incentivised Switching Scheme not be sufficient, RBS may be required to make a further contribution, In 2017 we launched the next stage in Service Excellence capped at 50 million.
training, our customer service programme and had over 16,000 colleagues complete Level one.
111 Report of the directors Professionalising colleagues is important to RBS.
We continue to The RBS disability plan for training, career development and work closely with the Chartered Banker Institute CBI and promotion of disabled persons employed by the company will Chartered Banker Professional Standards Board CB:PSB to support us becoming a disability smart organisation, with upper offer RBS colleagues professional qualifications.
In 2017 over quartile performance, by 2018.
3,000 of colleagues completed their CBI qualification and 94% achieved the CB:PSB Foundation Standard.
We continue to focus on building an ethnically diverse RBS.
We will introduce explicit targets for BAME representation at senior RBS also offer a wide range of additional learning opportunities.
Youth Employment Our LGBTQ agenda continues to deliver a better experience for In 2017, we welcomed 471 people across the RBS Graduate and our LGBTQ colleagues and customers.
RBS have processes in Apprenticeship schemes as well as around 150 Summer Interns.
place to support updating gender and title on customers banking records and to support colleagues undergoing gender transition.
Health and wellbeing of our colleagues Wellbeing is a strong foundation for making RBS a great place to RBS have been recognised for our work on Equality, Diversity work.
For the third year running RBS participated in the Global and Inclusion by retaining our Platinum ranking from Opportunity Challenge formerly GCC and with 34,000 colleagues taking part Now gender, retaining our Gold ranking for Race for we won the Global Challenge 1st Most Active Organisation Opportunity race : retaining a position in the Times Top 50 Financial Industry.
Building on this success, we embraced the Employers for Women: becoming a Top Global Employer in rapid acceleration of digital wellbeing and are one of the few Stonewalls Global Equality Index LGBT, Silver Status from The large organisations to pilot a digital wellbeing platform.
Business Disability Forum and being rated a Top 10 Employer by Working Families.
In 2017 we were proud to be named Diverse During 2017 RBS has continued to support Time to Change Company of the Year at the National Diversity Awards and removing the stigma of mental health and actively encouraged winning Workplace Adjustments Innovation of the Year at the open dialogue across the bank to support Mental Health in the Disability Smart Awards.
RBS continue to support our c. 20,000 Workplace.
RBS were successful in running bankwide major strong employee-led networks.
online campaigns to support Mental Health Awareness Week and World Mental Health Day.
Sustainability The Sustainable Banking Committees role is to support the As RBS continue to support our colleagues through change we Board in overseeing, supporting and challenging actions being have fully utilised the services of our Employee Assistance taken by management to run RBS as a sustainable business.
For more information on our approach and progress please read Employee consultation the RBS Strategic Report.
Further information is available on RBS recognise employee representatives such as trade unions rbs.
and work councils in a number of businesses and countries.
There has been ongoing engagement and discussion with those Greenhouse gas emissions bodies given the scale of change taking place across RBS.
Disclosures relating to greenhouse gas emissions are included in Management have continued to meet regularly with our European the Strategic Report.
These form part of the metrics and targets Employee Council to discuss developments and update on the of the RBS climate change strategy.
This is reported in progress of our strategic plans.
accordance with the recommendations from the Financial Stability Boards Task Force on Climate-related Financial Inclusion Disclosures TCFD on page 403.
The RBS climate change Building a more inclusive RBS is essential for our customers and strategy is driven by a range of external and internal drivers with colleagues.
Our inclusion policy standard applies to all oversight of climate related risks and opportunities through the colleagues globally.
During 2017, RBS continued to roll out unconscious bias learning Going concern to all colleagues over 70,000 trained, to date to create a solid RBSs business activities and financial position, the factors likely platform for the wider inclusion agenda.
to affect its future development and performance and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it RBS continue to work towards our goal of having at least 30% is exposed and its capital are discussed in the Business review.
senior women in our top three leadership layers across each The risk factors which could materially affect RBSs future results Franchise and Function by 2020 and to be fully gender balanced are set out on pages 372 to 402.
We have a positive action approach in place, resources and significant developments in 2017 and anticipated tailored by business, according to the specific challenges they future developments are detailed in the Capital, liquidity and face.
funding section on pages 161 to 176.
This section also describes RBSs funding and liquidity profile, including changes in key metrics and the build up of liquidity reserves.
112 Report of the directors Having reviewed RBSs forecasts, projections and other relevant The shares were allotted to UBS AG at the subscription prices evidence, the directors have a reasonable expectation that RBS determined by reference to the average market prices during the and the company will continue in operational existence for the sale periods set out below.
Accordingly, the financial statements of RBS Number of Subscription Share price and of the company have been prepared on a going concern shares sold price Sale period Gross proceeds on allotment basis.
33,376,695 239.6882 24 2 17 - 24 4 17 80 million 249.3p 29,000,000 259.0457 28 4 17 30 6 17 75 million 247.2p Viability statement 56,634,740 256.0266 04 8 17 27 9 17 145 million 270.8p Under the revised UK Corporate Governance Code the directors are required to confirm that they have carried out a robust In the three years to 31 December 2017, the percentage increase assessment of the RBSs principal risks and make a longer term in issued share capital due to non-pre-emptive issuance viability statement.
This is set out in the Strategic Report on excluding employee share schemes for cash was 2.94%.
In addition the company issued 22 million new ordinary shares in connection with employee share schemes in 2017.
BBA disclosure code RBSs 2017 financial statements have been prepared in In October 2015, HMT converted its entire holding of 51 billion B compliance with the principles set out in the Code for Financial shares into 5.1 billion new ordinary shares of 1 each.
Reporting Disclosure published by the British Bankers' Association in 2010.
The Code sets out five disclosure principles In March 2016, the company paid a final dividend of 1.2 billion in together with supporting guidance.
The principles are that RBS respect of the Dividend Access Share DAS held by HMT, and other major UK banks will provide high quality, meaningful effecting the immediate retirement of the DAS which was and decision-useful disclosures: review and enhance their redesignated as a single B share and subsequently cancelled.
financial instrument disclosures for key areas of interest to market participants: assess the applicability and relevance of Authority to repurchase shares good practice recommendations to their disclosures At the Annual General Meeting in 2017 shareholders authorised acknowledging the importance of such guidance: seek to the company to make market purchases of up to 1,184,237,107 enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures ordinary shares.
The directors have not exercised this authority to across the UK banking sector: and clearly differentiate in their date.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authorisation at annual reports between information that is audited and the Annual General Meeting in 2018. information that is unaudited.
Additional information Enhanced Disclosure Task Force EDTF Where not provided elsewhere in the Report of the directors, the The EDTF established by the Financial Stability Board, published following additional information is required to be disclosed by Part its report Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks in October 6 of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 2012.
All EDTF recommendations are reflected in the 2017 Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Annual Report and Accounts and Pillar 3 Report.
The rights and obligations attached to the companys ordinary Corporate governance shares and preference shares are set out in the companys The company is committed to high standards of corporate Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from governance.
Details are given in the Corporate governance Companies House in the UK or can be found at report on pages 57 to 105.
The Corporate governance report and rbs.
compliance report pages 106 to 108 form part of this Report of the directors.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder of ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares Share capital present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one Details of the ordinary and preference share capital at 31 vote.
On a poll, every holder of ordinary shares or cumulative December 2017 and movements during the year are shown in preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to Note 25 on the consolidated accounts.
vote shall have four votes for every share held.
The notices of Annual General Meetings and General Meetings specify the During 2017, the company allotted and issued a total of 119 deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or million new ordinary shares of 1 each for the purposes of proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the ensuring 2017 coupon payments on discretionary hybrid capital meeting.
securities were partly neutralised from a Core Tier 1 capital perspective.
The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.008% of the total voting rights of the company, the remainder being represented by the ordinary shares.
113 Report of the directors There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Directors company other than certain restrictions which may from time to The names and brief biographical details of the current directors time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider are shown on pages 51 to 56. trading laws.
Howard Davies, Frank Dangeard, Alison Davis, Morten Friis, Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA, certain employees of Robert Gillespie, Penny Hughes, Ross McEwan, Brendan the company require the approval of the company to deal in the Nelson, Baroness Noakes, Mike Rogers and Ewen Stevenson all companys shares.
served throughout the year and to the date of signing of the financial statements.
The rules governing the powers of directors, including in relation to issuing or buying back shares and their appointment are set Mark Seligman was appointed on 1 April 2017.
Yasmin Jetha out in the companys Articles of Association.
It will be proposed at was appointed 21 June 2017 and Dr Lena Wilson was appointed the 2018 Annual General Meeting that the directors be granted on 1 January 2018. authorities to allot shares under the Companies Act 2006.
The companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a All directors of the company are required to stand for election or special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
re-election annually by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and, in accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the The rights and obligations of holders of non-cumulative election or re-election of independent directors requires approval preference shares are set out in Note 25 on the consolidated by all shareholders and also by independent shareholders.
Directors interests The company is not aware of any agreements between The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at 31 shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of December 2017 are shown on page 97.
None of the directors securities and or voting rights.
There are no persons holding held an interest in the loan capital of the company or in the securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the shares or loan capital of any of the subsidiary undertakings of the company.
A number of the companys employee share plans company, during the period from 1 January 2017 to 22 February include restrictions on transfers of shares while shares are 2018. subject to the plans or the terms under which the shares were awarded.
Directors indemnities In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the Under the rules of certain employee share plans, eligible Companies Act, Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company, and have been issued by the company to its directors, members of shares are held in trust for participants by The Royal Bank of the RBS Executive Committee, individuals authorised by the Scotland plc as Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the PRA FCA and certain directors and or officers of RBS Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
does not submit an instruction to the Trustee no vote is registered.
In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act, Qualifying Pension Scheme Indemnity Provisions have been issued to all trustees of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share RBS pension schemes.
Trust and The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2007 US Employee Share Trust hold shares on behalf of RBSs employee Post balance sheet events share plans.
The voting rights are exercisable by the Trustees, Other than the matter disclosed on page 347, there have been no however, in accordance with investor protection guidelines, the significant events between the year end and the date of approval Trustees abstain from voting.
The Trustees would take of these accounts which would require a change to or disclosure independent advice before accepting any offer in respect of their in the accounts.
shareholdings for the company in a takeover bid situation.
Controlling shareholder Awards granted under the companys employee share plans may In accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the company has be met through a combination of newly issued shares and shares entered into an agreement with HM Treasury the Controlling acquired in the market by the companys employee benefit trusts.
Shareholder which is intended to ensure that the Controlling Shareholder complies with the independence provisions set out A change of control of the company following a takeover bid may in the UK Listing Rules.
The company has complied with the cause a number of agreements to which the company is party to independence provisions in the relationship agreement and as far take effect, alter or terminate.
All of the companys employee as the company is aware the independence and procurement share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
provisions in the relationship agreement have been complied with Outstanding awards and options may vest and become in the period by the controlling shareholder.
exercisable on change of control, subject where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to be significant.
114 Report of the directors Shareholdings Directors disclosure to auditors The table below shows shareholders that have notified RBS that Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report they hold more than 3% of the total voting rights of the company confirms that: at 31 December 2017. a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Solicitor For The Affairs of Her % of total Majestys Treasury as Nominee Number of shares % of share class voting rights information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and for Her Majestys Treasury millions held held Ordinary shares 8,434 70.5 70.5 b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant As at 22 February 2018, there were no changes to the audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are shareholdings shown in the table above.
4 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Rules the information to be included in the Annual Report and Act.
4, is set out in this Directors report with the exception of details of contracts of significance under LR Auditors 9.8.
10 and 11 given in Additional Information on pages 370 EY LLP are the auditors.
The auditors, EY LLP, have indicated and 371. their willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to re-appoint EY LLP as the companys auditors will be proposed at the Political donations forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2017, shareholders gave authority under Part 14 of the Companies Act, for a period of one By order of the Board year, for the company and its subsidiaries to make political donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 100,000.
This authorisation was taken as a precaution only, as the company has a longstanding policy of not making political donations or incurring political expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words.
During 2017, RBS made no Aileen Taylor political donations, nor incurred any political expenditure in the Company Secretary UK or EU and it is not proposed that RBSs longstanding policy of 22 February 2018 not making contributions to any political party be changed.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authorisation at the The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Annual General Meeting in 2018. is registered in Scotland No.
SC45551 115 Statement of directors responsibilities This statement should be read in conjunction with the responsibilities of the auditor set out in their report on pages 230 to 243.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The directors are required by Article 4 of the IAS Regulation European Commission Regulation No 1606 2002 to prepare Group accounts, and as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 have elected to prepare company accounts, for each financial year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
They are responsible for preparing accounts that present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and the company.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report and Directors report incorporating the Business review include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In addition, the directors are of the opinion that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Howard Davies Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 22 February 2018 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors Howard Davies Ross McEwan Frank Dangeard Ewen Stevenson Alison Davis Morten Friis Robert Gillespie Penny Hughes Yasmin Jetha Brendan Nelson Baroness Noakes Mike Rogers Mark Seligman Dr Lena Wilson 116
